Phishing is one of those things that will, it seems, always be with us: indeed, the more secure we make our systems, the more likely the bad guys are to go for the "social engineering" approach.The usual approach to phishing is to create a copy of the target web page, which is usually the log-on page, then lure people to sign in to it. This can be done by emailing them an obfuscated URL (web address) or by getting a friend's inbox to mail it to them. After all, we trust our friends to send us good links…After the unfortunate mark has signed in to the fake page, it's simple to collect their ID and password for re-use later.A couple of examples cropped up today. The first was on Twitter, where (machine-generated) "fake followers" tried to lure people to a fake Twitter log-in page that was actually at a site address with two instances of the letter v instead of one w. That's not a bad trick.Graham Cluley from SophosandRik Ferguson from Trend Microboth covered the attack.Later, I got a message from a friend on Facebook to check Areps.at, which looks a lot like a Facebook log-on page.Facebook is now aware of the problem, since it prevented me from using the address in a status update warning people not to use that page.In this case, it seems the scam "will automatically switch your password and block you from the site," according toAllFacebook. This will make it hard for a fair few people to undo their mistake, so the solution is for victims to change their own password immediately.I'll assume Facebook will also get the phishing site removed -- it appears to be registered to a man in Moscow -- but this can take time. I saw a similar Facebook phishing attack recently that used 151.im, and there must be dozens of attacks I don't see.Things are not going to get better as long as antiquated web-based log-on systems are used. And the overhyped OpenID system, which is vulnerable to phishing attacks, doesn't look like the answer, as Ben Laurie keeps pointing out (OpenID: Phishing heaven;OpenID and Phishing: Episode II). This is one reason he's been working onOAuth, whichTwitter might eventually adopt.In the meantime, all of us have to be vigilant enough to avoid being phished. There's someConsumer Advice: How to Avoid Phishing Scams.
I used to likeJetPac, which was released for the Spectrum in 1983 by Ultimate Play The Game -- the company that turned into Rare. I'm not sure aboutJetpack, however, which is "a Mozilla Labs project to explore new ways to extend &amp; personalize the Web."There's nothing new about the idea of adding extensions and/or plug-ins to the browser, and Greasemonkey already does it for Firefox. The two points about Jetpack are that it allows people to use Web technologies they already know -- such as HTML, CSS and JavaScript -- and that it lets people mess with the "browser chrome". Mozilla's introduction says the "initial Jetpack APIs" provide support for "statusbars, tabs, content-scripts, animations, and more."Three things make me wonder if this is a sensible project.First, it's all very well to allow web designers to write browser plug-ins, and there may well be more web designers than real programmers. On the other hand, the number of web designers who are competent to design a usable web site is, by observation, statistically rather small, and the thought of letting the average web bozo write extensions sounds like a recipe for disaster.Second, I've spent more than a decade using add-ons and plug-ins to prevent web design bozos from messing about with my browser. I absolutely want the browser under my control rather than theirs, especially in an age where half-baked web-based applications are tending to replace more powerful and more capable desktop apps.Third, Mozilla got lots of security benefits (and paid the price in incompatibility) by refusing to support Microsoft's ActiveX in Firefox. It remains to be seen whether Jetpack will open it up to ActiveX-style risks. Given the number of security holes in Firefox (which are survivable, given the speed with which they are fixed), and the earliercrisis in Greasemonkey, I think it's fair to assume that Jetpack could be vulnerable, and might even be worse.Jetpack does, of course, have a security model, and in theory, any web sites I visit will not be able to mess with the browser without my say-so. But there's no obvious reason why I should take the risk.Of course, this is only v0.1 of a speculative project, and it's far too soon to know how it will turn out. But I won't be at the head of the queue to try it.
Social networking websites are fast becoming the biggest repository of photographs on the internet - but people who store their pictures online may not be getting what they bargained for.Users who decide against publishing photos to the rest of the internet usually go through a quick process to delete them: click a button, the picture is gone. But according to research from the University of Cambridge's computer science lab, your deleted photos may continue to exist inside a social network- even when you think they've been erased.The study,which is detailed here, found that many networks failed to fully delete images: they just hide them away from the user, which makes it appear that the photo had been removed from the system.One of the paper's authors, Joseph Bonneau, said it showed that many websites were "lazy" when thinking about their users' rights."This demonstrates how social networking sites often take a lazy approach to user privacy, doing what's simpler rather than what is correct. It's imperative to view privacy as a design constraint, not a legal add-on."In an experiment designed to find out how long pictures remained online, the worst culprits were Facebook, MySpace, Bebo, hi5 and LiveJournal - which all failed to fully revoke the images even when a user has deleted them.A Facebook spokesman said that although the files are erased from the company's servers when a user deletes them, they do not necessarily disappear."When a user deletes a photograph from Facebook it is removed from our servers immediately," he said in a statement. "However, URLs to photographs may continue to exist on the Content Delivery Network after users delete them from Facebook, until they are overwritten. Overwriting usually happens after a short period of time, which is why ourStatement of Rights and Responsibilitiescontains the language that it does."What does this mean? Facebook, and many other large websites, use a so-called Content Delivery Network (CDN) called Akamai that acts as a middle man to send data out across the internet. Although the website might delete the copy of the data it has, removing it from Akamai takes longer. So your photograph exists - and is potentially viewable by the entire internet - until the third party servers update.However, despite this excuse, not everybody has the same problem. Among the best performing websites Flickr, Photobucket and Google's social networking site Orkut, which all revoked images completely and immediately. Flickr, as far as I know, uses Akamai and Photobucket is owned by Fox (which also owns MySpace).So why the discrepancy? Deleting images is possible, even if instant deletion isn't cheap. But those who get it right are really thinking about these issues carefully, and working to protect users."This experiment is a litmus test of which online services actually believe that you own your personal data," said Jonathan Anderson, one of the paper's other authors.
Though you may think that Twitter gets, oh,fartoo much attention, the reality is that this is something that is growing fast. Damn fast. So fast that it has recently left not only the New York Times but also Digg - remember Digg? - and social networks Bebo and LinkedIn in its rear-view mirror.Ally that to the falloff in page views at MySpace, which has fallen behind Facebook, and you start to get the sense of the guard changing. Facebook has no problems - quite the opposite - but the screengrabs above from Alexa show how things are changing, and not for the better in the case of MySpace.First of all, what's happening with MySpace? Seems it's lost its mojo. As TechCrunchnoted recently,We have also spoken with a couple of very large application developers who confirm that activity on MySpace is decreasing at a dramatic rate, as high as "half a percent a week."What's more,In about a year from now MySpace will receive their last welfare payment from Google, and they'll be on their own. They'll have a social network that costs half a billion dollars a year to run. With page views decreasing and the Google money gone there is a strong likelihood that the News Corp. subsidiary will be unprofitable a year from now. Revenue of $800+ million last year could easily decrease to well below half a billion dollars, and likely will.And into all that comes Twitter. It has shot ahead of the New York Times and LinkedIn and Bebo (two other properties you might have heard of): the inflection point seems to have been in January, and simply built from there - soOprah joining it with much noise in Aprilwasnotimportant to its growth; that was already happening. (If, of course, we take Alexa's numbers as correct; they do seem to correlate with those of Comscore, which aren't public, but TechCrunch has used.)Bebo (see above) is showing a similar downward trend as MySpace. Alarm bells for AOL, whichbought it for $850min March 2008?However, Twitter is still a relative minnow in page views compared to the big two social networks (although it has now passed Bebo.com as well as Linkedin; and Bebo is showing a similar downward trend). However, there's a time for everything. There was a time when Digg first passed Slashdot.Perhaps the comparisons between Twitter and social networks aren't entirely fair - but then again, since it's a form of real-time messaging and linking and photo-sharing (through services such as Twitpic), it feels (no more than that) like there's something important happening. And the decline of MySpace and Bebo merits some hard questions on their own. Facebook is still on the upward swing: but given that Mark Zuckerberg has ruled out a stock market flotation, what are the options if things gravity suddenly reasserts itself.Oh, and if you're wondering how Twitter compared to Guardian.co.uk... well, anyway.What do you think? Is MySpace a busted flush? Is Bebo? And how long can Facebook keep rising? Is Twitter's rise the conquering of social networks with a social network that - by passing on links - sends you away, as Google does, thus making itself the key property online?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Hulu has already made waves in the US asthe place to watch TV shows online(well, some TV shows, anyway). But according to the Telegraph,Channel 4 and ITV are in negotiations with the American video sitefor a deal that could see a UK version of Hulu launch as early as September.&bull; Turns out that the British government doesn't have the sole rights to losing people's data - now CNet is reporting that the National Archives in Washington hasmislaid a hard drive containing personal infobelonging to former Clinton administration staff. The current reward is $50,000.&bull; Thursday - as always - marks the appearance of the Guardian's technology supplement, which looks at everything from whether you can actuallymake any money with Amazon's Mechanical Turk, to thecourt case over DVD ripping softwareand the growth ofmobile phone gaming. See your newsagent for more details, orread it here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I have a PowerPoint presentation about my family history. I would like to copy it to CD or DVD to show it on a TV.Tony ThompsonThere must be half a dozen ways of doing this, including paid-for conversion software that seems to originate from China. There's a good discussion at theVideo Helpsite that suggests two approaches that could suit you. The first is to run the presentation on your PC and record it directly to a DVD recorder via an S-Video "TV out" connection. The second is to capture the presentation usingTechsmith's $299 Camtasia Studioor a similar program. CamStudio is a free, open source alternative for Windows. AviScreen may also do the job. Doing it as a "screencast" will enable you to control the timing.
My computer has a small hard drive – nominally 20GB, which is 16.2GB – and I only have a few hundred megabytes of free space. When I add up all the files and programs, I can only find 12.43GB. The computer is now painfully slow to start up. It used to start up very quickly.Gerry BradyStart by running what used to be calledCrap Cleanerto clear out temporary and unwanted files. Then runDisktective 5.0.1, a free utility that does not need installing. The left pane shows the size of each directory, while the right pane shows the relative space consumed. This should enable you to target the directories where archiving files can make a useful difference.Bear in mind that each file on a disk must occupy at least one sector, even if the file is tiny. This wastes space, as is obvious from the links that make up Internet Explorer bookmarks. In my case, there are 1,460 files in Favorites, which nominally take up 866K but actually consume 6MB of drive space.As you have found, Windows' performance can decline dramatically as it runs short of disk space. I recommend never going below 1GB free, if you are using the NTFS disk format. If you are not, you should be.Web extra: Of course, there may also be a recovery partition, storing a copy of XP for reinstallation purposes....
Mobile phone sales fell by 8.6% to 269.1 million units in the first quarter of 2009, according toGartner, but smartphone sales grew by 12.7% to 36.4 million units.This was "the biggest quarter-on-quarter contraction since Gartner began monitoring the market on a quarterly basis in 2001," said Carolina Milanesi, research director for mobile devices at Gartner, based in Egham in the UK.Nokia continued to dominate the handset business with a 36.2% market share. However, it lost 3 percentage points on sales that slipped from 115.2m to 97.4m units for the quarter, compared with last year. Nokia was followed by Samsung (51.4m units), LG (26.5m), Motorola (16.6m) and Sony Ericsson (14.5m).Nokia was also dominant in smartphones, selling 15.0 million units for a market share of 41.2%. However, it lost 4 percentage points as sales increased only slightly from 14.6m units in the same quarter last year.Nokia was followed by Research in Motion (7.2m units), Apple (3.9m), HTC (2.0m) and Fujitsu (1.4m). Apple's market share more than doubled, from 5.3% to 10.8%, gaining 5.5 percentage points. RIM gained 6.6 percentage points. The number for HTC is only for HTC-branded devices.Smartphone sales represented 13.5% of all mobile device sales, up from 11% in the first quarter of last year.Apple's smartphone sales gave it 1.5% of the total mobile phone market.Gartner said: "Symbian accounted for 49.3% of worldwide smartphone operating systems (OS) market share in the first quarter of 2009, down from 56.9% share in the first quarter of 2008. RIM's smartphone OS market share reached 19.9% in the first quarter of 2009, up from 13.3% share in the first quarter of last year. The iPhone OS accounted for 10.8% of the market, up from 5.3% market share in the first quarter of 2008."
Under Chrome, Gmail will show ­incoming messages in HTML mode, but not send, or do much of anything else. A variety of error messages suggest lack of connection to Google's ­servers, but I have no probs with any other ­website. Looking around, this seems to be a widespread problem. Should I go back to Yahoo?Tom PorterThere's a new version 2 ofChrome, which might help. As a workaround, you can set up a desktop mail program to work with Gmail – Thunderbird, Windows Live Mail, Outlook, etc – and these usually work even when the web-based service is having problems. You will also still have copies of your emails even if Google has a major disaster. If you go to Gmail's Settings and select the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab, you can use Forwarding to copy some or all of your incoming email to your old Yahoo account, and use either.
My Asus netbook runs Linux, which has lots of difficulties for the non-expert. My biggest problem is that I cannot copy documents on to a USB drive: it steadfastly refuses because I do not have the requisite permissions.Ian LockerbieThis question has come up on theAsus support forum, where one user, lungo, says "you are probably missing '/media' folder under root home directory" and provides a command-line solution.
In 2006 the world's largest games company, Electronic Arts, signed its biggest-ever deal and acquired the mobile games company Jamdat for $680m (then &pound;395m).For mobile games companies it represented credibility in the face of ongoing derision from the traditional console and games industry. Small screens, limited processing power and clunky games meant mobile had suffered in comparison with the all-conquering consoles, whose hefty development budgets delivered some beautiful games.But with the acquisition of Jamdat,  swiftly renamed EA Mobile, all that was all going to change - wasn't it?Finding the start button"Mobile gaming has had to contend with a number of issues including complex and lengthy purchasing mechanisms, consumer fears of overcharging, and limited opportunity for people to 'try before they buy'," says Adam Sussman, vice-president of worldwide publishing at EA Mobile."But the kind of enhanced platforms we are now seeing with the iPhone, Nokia's N-Gage platform, Windows Mobile, Symbian devices and [Google's] Android offer great merchandising with gaming experiences that have never been seen before in mobile," he says.According to Screen Digest, the global mobile games industries was worth $5bn in 2008, but juxtapose that number with recent figures from a mobile analyst, M:Metrics - only 5% of mobile customers have downloaded a mobile game - and maybe all is not as it could be.The market is dominated by EA Mobile, the French company Gameloft and Glu Mobile, a company that went public two years ago and has consequently seen its market capitalisation sink to record-low levels. Other ex-giants such as Hands-On Mobile have seen their business split and the relic of its European arm struggle to make any impact in its reincarnation as Connect2Media.Established companies such as THQ Wireless have pulled back from mobile games altogether, while publishers such as Player X, recently acquired by the mobile content company Zed, have moved their businesses into distribution and shop-front portal management, leaving a dearth of independent publishers.Other impediments to the growth of mobile games have been the cost of development and porting the games to other handsets as well as the widely held view that the operators could have done more to market their games.But according to Stuart Dredge, editor of the industry websitepocketgamer.biz, it isn't the lack of operator marketing that has been to blame, but the over-promotion of genre-centric mobile games."The market was held back by the many poor-quality branded games that were heavily promoted by operators - people who got stung for &pound;5 for a dodgy movie game wouldn't come back for a second time. Also, the industry was too focused on male console owners for a long time."The iPhone has changed all this by making it easy to find and buy games - it's leagues ahead of the operator portals in their current form. However, the fact that it's more open and gives developers a better revenue share has also ensured a flood of original games from the indie developers who've been squeezed out of the operator decks," he says.Understandably the operators deny accusations of poor marketing and that they've been more concerned with data tariffs than pushing mobile games."The mobile operator acts as a shop retailer and buys in the products for its shops in the same way Tesco does. There have been more than 70m mobile game downloads in the UK alone in the last four years and OrangeUK generated more than 3m mobile game downloads in 2008," says Neil Holroyd, head of gaming partnerships and services at Orange UK.When asked if a market led by EA Mobile, Gameloft and Glu Mobile is holding back innovation, he doesn't mince his words: "The 'triopoly' works for the industry in that it caters for the masses. Smaller developers just simply do not have the financial backing to do that."But the advent of the iPhone and Google's G1 handset has been great news for smaller developers and is driving mobile games to the next level."The iPhone and the G1 have been the catalyst for change in our industry. They have given the power back to the developers because Apple and Google have set up distribution the right way. It is a 70/30 revenue split - more revenue to the content owner," says Michael Chang, chief executive of Greystripe, an ad-supported mobile game distribution platform.Going for gold"With the launch of the iPhone App Store, recent release of Google's Android, and renewed competition between BlackBerry, Windows Mobile and Nokia for smartphone supremacy this is a golden age for mobile games," he says.Mark Ollila, director of games publishing at Nokia, understandably agrees:"The introduction of on-device stores, such as N-Gage and our upcoming Ovi Store, have definitely provided a mechanism for easy discovery, billing choice and a process to get new and fresh content from the developer through easy submissions," he says.Recent figures from iPhone downloads showing updates from mobile gamers of almost 50% of users would seem to bear this out and the preponderance of similar offerings from other handset makers augurs well - for Graffiti Games, the iPhone has come at exactly the right time.It has developed GoGo DJ, a DJ role-playing game to be launched on 1 June, and it is the marketing freedom that excites its managing director, Warrick Buchanan: "It enables us to control the marketing rather than leaving it to the mobile operators. We're free to strike our own marketing deals with dance music brands and we can insert product ads in the game as well as create integrated Facebook applications to drive traffic and game uptake."And this type of product may be the future in a mobile world gone gaga on applications. Factor in the opportunities offered by mobile social networking gaming, more flexible billing platforms and an operator-independent environment and the mobile games industry may finally be going mainstream.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 22 May 2009In the article below we said demand for electricity was expected by 2030 to rise "from 4,100 terawatts a year to 5,400 terawatts". As readers noted, a terawatt is a measure of power, and wrong in this context. We were measuring energy, so we needed to express it as terawatt-hours per year.For more than 40 years, US utilities have been delivering electricity to industry and homes over an aged, one-way electrical grid. It lacks an automated feedback loop, which means that utility operators aren't aware of power cuts unless a customer calls in the problem. Just imagine how poorly our nervous systems would function without automated responses.This grid is beginning a much-needed and expensive upgrade so it can obtain the automated brain it needs. But it's a complex transformation that involves other elements besides technology, innovation and money: alterations in political will, industry standards and consumers' use of electricity.A greater gridThe US demand for electricity is expected to rise by 30% (from 4,100 terawatts a year to 5,400 terawatts a year) by 2030. That's one big reason industry players and some politicians are calling for a more reliable and efficient grid. Add to that electric vehicles and renewable energy from solar and wind - both have the ability to disrupt the delicate balance of supply and demand required for grid operation."People think, 'a smart grid is going to immediately lower my energy bill' - it might be true in some cases. The real benefits will be for the greater society with better intelligence on the state of the grid," says Thomas Basso, technology manager at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Boulder, Colorado.With little or no intelligence in today's grid, utility operators face big challenges in balancing loads and monitoring power flows. The bottom line is that lots of electricity is wasted. An IBM study has estimated that if the US grid were 5% more efficient, it would be the equivalent of permanently eliminating the fuel and greenhouse gas emissions from 53m cars.The good news is US government investment in a smart grid has been increased as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 - a multibillion-dollar stimulus package. It allocated 13% ($104bn) of the total stimulus package to green technology, of which smart grid technology received $4.5bn. Utilities in North America are also spending a combined $10bn annually on smart technologies to transform the grid into a digital, self-monitoring and adaptive system.That's still only a partial down payment on the estimated $800bn cost. Some of this, however, is expected to be offset by the reduction of annual losses from power cuts and wasted electricity.There remain several hurdles in making the smart grid a reality, including technical barriers, business practices and regulatory challenges. Among these is the lack of open standards for engineering applications to work in it."A lot of the high-level players such as IBM, Intel, Siemens, GE and Westinghouse will be involved in the IEEE [Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers] standards efforts," says Basso. A meeting in June will finalise the smart grid interoperability standards. There's also the need for better integration, with sensors, real-time databases and self-healing functions."When we look at the challenges in the smart grid area, technology is not the challenge. The really big challenge involves customer behaviour," says Arshad Mansoor, vice-president of the power delivery and utilisation sector at the Electric Power Research Institute, a utility-funded research organisation.The first big step in making the grid smarter involves the installation of metering systems at homes and businesses. Already, there have been big deployments of smart meters in several US states, with more to come.Pacific Gas &amp; Electric has installed 2.3m meters in Northern California and plans to have 10m by end of 2011; Southern California Edison has plans to install 5.3m smart meters by 2012, enabling it to reduce energy demand by about 5%, roughly 1,000 megawatts; in Austin, Texas, the so-called Pecan Street Project - which includes Cisco, Dell, GE, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, and Oracle - is in place to create a next-gen grid.Embracing electricity"We are at the very beginning of realising how to take advantage of the smart grid," said Dan Reicher, director of climate and energy initiatives atGoogle.org. Google recently introduced PowerMeter software, which provides consumers with access to detailed home energy data and real-time grid data.Reicher said it's less likely that customers will be monitoring real-time usage of electricity. Instead, they may sign up for a plan that sets thresholds for prices, so potentially smart appliances such as clothes driers shut off when the limit is reached.More than 90% of US residential consumers have a flat price for electricity, Mansoor says. He believes people need to embrace varying charges for electricity use in the same way they've embraced mobile phone plans that have different charges at different times.Venture capitalists in Silicon Valley have also been bullish about the smart grid and made it one of its latest darlings. Some of the prime investment opportunities are in smart meters, sensors and software to help run the systems."The challenge for companies is how to get to critical mass," says Andrew Williamson, director of Physic Ventures in San Francisco. "Utilities are very conservative and used to making 30-year investments. They're not in the business of trying new technologies," he adds.Over the next 12 to 18 months, there will be more modelling, simulation, and demonstration projects of the smart grid.However, without a solid set of standards and government policy to support it, the smart grid will not be fully realised as an interoperable system in which meters and appliances can talk to the grid and act more like a nervous system.
Society has a neat way of neutralising the advantages that technology brings us. Take working from home. In the 1990s, early adopters found that working from home could be a joyous, productive experience. As ever, though, industry and society are collaborating to create new ways of neutralising these quality-of-life gains.As the scope of work we can do at home broadens, companies are using technology to outsource more and more tasks. Sometimes they'll exploit the knowledge of enthusiasts, AKA crowdsourcing. And other times they'll trade on the expertise of part-time homeworkers, assigning them mini-jobs and paying them by the minute. Which could be called crudsourcing. But can these micropayments be aggregated into macroeconomic wages? Or are these peanut payments turning us homeworkers into monkeys?Answers at your fingertipsThe text information service AQA 63336 (Any Question Answered) routes all its incoming questions to homeworkers to look up and answer. For every pound charged to the mobile phone user, the homeworker gets 30p. As part-time jobs go, this is pretty cerebral. You need initiative, fast fingers and an impressive mental map of cyberspace.AQA insists on keeping up the quality of its answers, so it's quite a discipline. Answers can't be more than 153 characters, but they shouldn't be too long. Even daft queries such as: "Is Mike Riley biased towards Man Utd?" have to be answered with some factual basis. (Knowing who Mike Riley is being a starting point.)Questions about science or a company's trading performance are a lot harder to do justice to.  There is a trend, says Paul Cockerton, AQA's co-founder and communications director, for companies to use AQA as a research arm. "You can tell when ad agencies pitch for new business, because we get very specific queries about companies." The bulk of the questions, however, are less serious, says AQA's senior researcher manager, Helen Wright, who quality controls the other researchers' answers. "The peak times for questions are the evenings, when people are presumably out in bars and restaurants, asking us if there's starch in olives or how fattening wine is," says Wright. Presumably they need the answer before the waiter returns.Questionable rateAfter having a go at a dozen questions in a typical recruitment test, I can confirm that it's not that easy to make money. Despite Wright's assertion that people can earn up to &pound;20 an hour, and maintain high-quality answers, it doesn't seem that easy. The time it took me to answer 12 questions (and earn &pound;3.60) would have put me on a pay rate below the minimum wage. "The best people are those who can organise all their sources of information," says Wright. One third of all the answers are now stored on AQA's own database. The more you do the job, the quicker you become at finding the answers, she insists.Possibly so, but the company admits it has a high staff turnover. "Some people go into it to earn big money, and they burn out," says Wright. Whether or not AQA (or indeed its rival Texperts, now owned by 118 118) can provide a decent, steady income is a moot point. But at least the picking aren't as slim as they appear on Amazon's Mechanical Turk system.This is a web service that uses "outworkers" on micro projects, for micro money. The original mechanical Turk, from the late 18th century, was a "machine" that could beat anyone at chess, which was revealed to be a chess grandmaster hidden inside a box. The concept of humans doing the jobs that computers can't was updated by Amazon in 2005, when it offered payment to people to trawl through its site for duplicate pages. Fast forward to 2009 and the system, still in its beta state, has been broadened to include any task. Anyone can advertise. Currently the service advertises 31,000 human intelligence tasks (HITs) for humans to get involved in.At the time of writing, Colin Bruce is advertising this job: "From a provided URL, write a short unique description of the business. The description should be a minimum of 400 characters. The description MUST be unique and cannot be copied in any way." The pay? Fifteen cents (10p) per description. So, is grubbing around for small change the future for homeworkers? "As people find regular work harder [to come by], they're more likely to settle for this sort of work," says Rob Bamforth, a principal analyst with Quocirca, an IT analysis company. "In the current climate, freelance workers often find themselves doing more projects for less money."If that sounds grim, the long-term trend is more encouraging. Yes, the microscopic nature of much online work will be demoralising for many people, says John Eldred, a business and law lecturer at Kingston University. But a new model for e-commerce is emerging, where consumers sell to consumers. "We've had business to consumer and business to business," he says."As long as there's a way of validating the quality of an adviser, people will be able to sell their expertise online. The smallness of the transactions won't matter, because the costs are so low." Health professionals, life coaches and language tutors could all offer valuable lessons online, Eldred argues.The model for validating the quality of any online vendor will be based on crowdsourcing. Amazon and eBay-type online feedback and ratings systems will quickly establish which vendors are reliable.What does the future hold?One early pioneer of this system is Angelica Leitha, a tarot card reader, who gives online readings, using instant messaging, for about 50p a time. Small amounts are transferred using PayPal accounts. It's a cheaper model, for the consumer, than premium-rate phone lines, but more profitable for the service provider. "It works very well for me; it meant I could fit in work when I got pregnant," says Leitha.John Wood, managing director of C3, the micro-billing company that makes the cheaper tariffs possible, says that the technology has always been there. "We've done this for years, but during the economic downturn we've seen a real surge in interest."But will knowledge workers enjoy the new flexibility of the labour market? Or will we spend more time hunting tiddly assignments?Let's pay &pound;1 and ask AQA's experts what the future holds for homeworkers such as myself: "There will be work for you in five years' time as you're a talented writer. Much of the work in journalism will transfer online."Yes, but what sort of work? They didn't say. I think they were making it up.
The dark corners of libraries, government files and science labs around the world, apparently - with a little bit of human quirk thrown in for good measure.Wolfram Alpha, the so-called "computational knowledge engine" that launched this week, claims to have access to a vast repository of information from trusted sources around the world: 10tn pieces of data filtered through 50,000 models and algorithms. Those numbers represent an enormous catalogue of information, but while the stats are impressive, it's easy to be bamboozled: what do they really mean?At the heart of Alpha lies Mathematica, a piece of software that's wildly popular with engineers and scientists. It was designed by Alpha's author, the British physicist Stephen Wolfram, and crunches data from its users that Alpha is then able to spit back out again to web searchers. As well as their computational relationship, both systems can also pull answers from a range of approved references, databases and documents.To give you a taste of where Wolfram Alpha gets its facts from, a few searches threw up the CIA's World Factbook, the United States Geological Survey, a Cornell University Library publication called All About Birds, Chambers Biographical Dictionary, Dow Jones, the Catalogue of Life and the ever-present "Wolfram Alpha curated data".Some of the references come, Google-style, from ordinary websites but most of the information is drawn from the texts and databases that are pulled into Mathematica, which performs most of the numerical calculations. This means Alpha is strong on science and maths but struggles with some other fact-based disciplines (such as history) and seems nonplussed by social sciences and popular culture. There are plenty of queries that result in the weary (and wearying) refrain of "Wolfram Alpha isn't sure what to do with your input".However, the search engine is not just pulling information from academic data: it has its fair share of oddball references too - injected by the site's staff in an attempt to draw a smile from users and build up early-adopter credibility.What else can explain the decision to express speed in terms of Back to the Future? Anyone searching for the top speed of a cheetah is presented with the fact that it can run at three quarters of the speed required for the Doc's DeLorean to achieve time travel.Still, the laborious task of examining and approving every possible source cannot carry on forever. The site has already said it will encourage users to vote on what they think is best in an ad hoc, crowdsourced set of eyes that informs the site's programmers.In the end, that's not necessarily much different or better than the information returned from a search on Google or Wikipedia. Perhaps Wolfram Alpha isn't quite so revolutionary after all.
And what about a club remix?Rather than showing technology and humans, how about humans imitating technology? Here's Julia Dales, human beatboxer extraordinaire, and the sounds you hear are entirely hers.Number of employees as shownIn 1939 Chrysler went to the World's Fair, and showed off this film about a car being built by "invisible workers". And 70 years later it has narrowly managed to evade having zero workers. Progress?And next, a kiss from a princessYou'll believe a frog can levitate, painlessly - given a 16-tesla magnetic field, 320,000 times stronger than the Earth's.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Asus USB snagMy Asus netbook runs Linux, which has lots of difficulties for the non-expert. My biggest problem is that I cannot copy documents on to a USB drive: it steadfastly refuses because I do not have the requisite permissions.Ian LockerbieJS:This question has come up on the Asus support forum, where one user, lungo, says "you are probably missing '/media' folder under root home directory" andprovides a command-line solution.Vanishing spaceMy computer has a small hard drive – nominally 20GB, which is 16.2GB – and I only have a few hundred megabytes of free space. When I add up all the files and programs, I can only find 12.43GB. The computer is now painfully slowto start up. It used to start up very quickly.Gerry BradyJS:Start by running what used to be calledCrap Cleanerto clear out temporary and unwanted files. Then runDisktective 5.0.1, a free utility that does not need installing. The left pane shows the size of each directory, while the right pane shows the relative space consumed. This should enable you to target the directories where archiving files can make a useful difference.Bear in mind that each file on a disk must occupy at least one sector, even if the file is tiny. This wastes space, as is obvious from the links that make up Internet Explorer bookmarks. In my case, there are 1,460 files in Favorites, which nominally take up 866K but actually consume 6MB of drive space.I recommend never going below 1GB free, if you are using the NTFS disk format. If you are not, you should be.Gmail problemsUnder Chrome, Gmail will show ­incoming messages in HTML mode, but not send, or do much of anything else. A variety of error messages suggest lack of connection to Google's ­servers, but I have no probs with any other ­website. Looking around, this seems to be a widespread problem.Should I go back to&nbsp;Yahoo?Tom PorterJS:You can set up a desktop mail program to work with Gmail – Thunderbird, Windows Live Mail, Outlook, etc – and these usually work even when the web-based service is having problems. You will also still have copies of your emails even if Google has a major disaster. If you go to Gmail's Settings and select the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab, you can use Forwarding to copy some or all of your incoming email to your old Yahoo account, and use either.Screencasting for TVI have a PowerPoint presentation about my family history. I would like to copy it to CD or DVD to show it on a TV.Tony ThompsonJS:There must be half a dozen ways of doing this, including paid-for conversion software that seems to originate from China. There'sa good discussion at the Video Help sitethat suggests two approaches that could suit you. The first is to run the presentation on your PC and record it directly to a DVD recorder via an S-Video "TV out" connection. The second is to capture the presentation usingTechsmith's $299 Camtasia Studioor a similar program.CamStudiois a free, open source alternative for Windows.AviScreenmay also do the job. Doing it as a "screencast" will enable you to control the timing.Backchat• Joe Donegan wanted to read his PDF books on the move, and I suggested the Sony Reader for use in the UK. Peter Sinclair says: "the iRex ebook reader allows you to maximise PDFs by turning them sideways to expand the width of pages to the height of the screen". However, it's more expensive.Ian Clark says you can use theLib2Gowebsite to convert files to Sony's LRF format, or to the standard EPUB format. Brian Robertson points out that ebooks can't display colours, so he uses a touch-screen satnav with a QVGA colour screen, running Windows CE5. Thanks to all the readers who wrote in.
Cease and desist, the corporate battlecry in this age of wanton copyright violation, has been sounding out again. Last week, lawyers acting on behalf of the publisher Square Enix slappeda C&amp;D orderon a group of amateur "homebrew" coders who have spent the past four years crafting a fanmade sequel to the classic role-playing game Chrono Trigger. They've been told to destroy their work or face prosecution. The community behindChrono Trigger: Crimson Echoesimmediately complied.The video­game industry has spent the past five years flirting with the web 2.0 ethos, embracing the concept of user-generated content. Titles such as Unreal, Boom Blox and LittleBigPlanet all allow gamers to customise, create and share. But start playing about with the core intellectual property and you're not a fan producing marketable game content for nothing, you're a criminal.The music and movie industries have been losing the copyright protection battle for years, though the film business has proved benevolent to fan creativity. The Star Trek parodyStar Wreckhas received a DVD release without a whiff of legal intervention whileRaiders of the Lost Ark: The Adaptationhas been shown at film festivals and praised by George Lucas and Steven Spielberg.Fan projects – when allowed to flourish – have contributed to the "legitimate" game industry. The excellent first-person shooters Counter-Strike and Day of Defeat started out as fan modifications of the PC classic Half-Life and were later officially adopted. If nothing else, there's good PR to be had here: Vivendi allowed a fan-created title in its long-running King's Quest series to be released after an online campaign – and wallowed in the resulting goodwill. The game, now entitledThe Silver Liningwill be released this summer.The difference here is that Crimson Echoes is based on a Rom hack: the development team modified the source code of the original title, which places this into a trickier area of copy protection law. But if Square Enix had allowed the game to be released, the commercial impact would have been infinitesimal. It's being released as an IPS patch, not a complete Rom image; and if you're not sure what I'm talking about, that's the point – getting these things to run is for the homebrew community only.Conversely, think of the marketing benefits of embracing this passion, of inviting the creators to port the project over to the DS or on to WiiWare. It would be a radical departure from standard tactics but it would surely be more useful and forward-thinking than kicking the lawyers into action. How about a new mantra: embrace and assist?
One of the classic two-dimensional computer games involves bubbles that hang in long chains from a ceiling. The player has a gun that shoots more bubbles, and if she can manage to stick together three of the same colour, all pop and the chain falls and vanishes. I like it because it's nonsense that makes intuitive sense. It appeals to an appreciation of symmetry, and has a mechanics that could never be found in nature. Like many of the perfect puzzle games it could only exist on a computer: it's not a translation of something that belongs in another medium. Also, the way in which all of an elaborate chain of bubbles can be destroyed with a single, well-placed pop is hugely satisfying. It reminds me of business models.The history of personal computers is full of well-launched bubbles that ricochet to the top of the screen and suddenly destroy an enormous chain of other businesses, from desktop publishing to Craigslist. But there is one that has never quite had the devastating effect that it might, and that's adblocking. Now, you may argue that this is because there isn't much to devastate. There are very few ad-supported sites that make any money at all, and none that have made substantial fortunes; those all come from brokering the ads, not displaying them.None the less, almost the whole of the modern media business is based on the idea that advertising on the web will some day make money for the people who display it. Only Rupert Murdoch has announced that he doesn't think it will and that he is considering charging for News Corp content. Adblocking software, simple and widely available, removes even the hope that the ad-supported model will pay. In its most common form, an invisible extension to Firefox, it blocks all images from known lists of ad servers, and the good content on the page closes silently over them. (I have written about this before for the Guardian.)Yet it is very little used. I don't quite understand why. One theory I have seen online is that advertising carries information about a site as well as having an intrinsic entertainment value: you can judge the quality and reliability of someone trying to sell you something, as most people on the web are trying to do, by the quality and reliability of the other sellers they associate with.This is true and important, but an adblock will give you the same information if it is selectively applied to kill all cheesy ads: a page that seems to consist entirely of white space is obviously, then, not trustworthy.My own guess is that the real answer is a mixture of inertia and fatalism. Ordinary users will install software to be able to do something fun and worthwhile. But they won't change software just to make computers less annoying. That would be like trying to make your car fly to avoid traffic jams. Annoying and inadequate is what computers are, just as driving means spending time in traffic jams. Only a nerd would think it possible or worthwhile to make them less annoying.But nerds do, and nerds use Adblock, and they also tend to run NoScript, another Firefox extension, that disables JavaScript and Flash on selected websites. Both of these are downloaded by the million and funded by donations, which means that their authors make essentially nothing from them. The author of Adblock Plus, Wladimir Palant, seems relaxed about this situation. The author of NoScript, Giorgio Maone, is not. His software updates as often as once a week, and every time it does so, it displays a page on his site full of self-advertisement, and paid ads for other people.Earlier this month he released an update whose chief feature was not obvious: it blocked Adblock from working on his site. People who went there would have to see the ads he was selling. There followed an enormous geekstorm and a grovelling apology, along with yet another update that undid the effects of the earlier one.The big lesson of this is the extraordinary insecurity of Firefox extensions. It turns out that any extension can interfere, if it chooses, with any other: it's all just bubbles in a chain. But it's not business.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
When Apple announced the newest generation iPod shuffle in March, it sounded like a well-rehearsed parody: an iPod half the size of its predecessor with absolutely no buttons (well, almost), and a device so wearable that it's practically unnoticeable. In this case, however it's no parody: simply the latest wearable MP3 player from the Cupertino giant – the third-generation iPod shuffle.It's true that the new shuffle is minuscule, even compared with the previously tiny generation. A little thinner, and half the width of the previous version, the shuffle is supremely wearable – maybe too much so, as more than once it nearly ended up in the wash clipped to a T-shirt. In order to shrink it to its new size, all the controls, bar the on/off switch, have been moved to the headphones. Found inline on the right-hand earphone cable, they control every aspect of playback: volume control, next/previous track and also the ability to switch between playlists. More on the headphones shortly.Previously, the iPod shuffle only synced one playlist from iTunes; however, with the inline clicker offering a way to switch playlists, and 4GB of space for "up to 1,000 songs", this new generation does allow you to have more than one playlist on the go. You're probably wondering how you're able to cycle through playlists, given that there's no display. That's where its "VoiceOver" feature comes into play, which tells you playlists and song names and you then click on the desired option.Whenever you transfer playlists or songs over from your computer, iTunes generates voiceovers for the tracks and includes them on the iPod to guide you through the playlists. It should be noted that the voiceovers, whilst pretty accurate even on non-English-titled songs, will vary. iTunes uses its own voiceover on all operating systems except Mac OS X Leopard where it uses a far better voiceover included in the latest release of OS X.The shuffle offers 10 hours of battery life – which, combined with multiple playlist support, means you may spend far less time with the shuffle plugged into the computer managing the music on it than before. In my week of testing, the claimed 10 hours was pretty much spot-on, with just over an hour's use every day before needing to recharge the device.There is one major drawback. Changing the volume or playlist requires using the clicker on supplied headphones (or Apple's own in-ear headphones for a further £54 on top of the shuffle's £59 selling price). Even existing Apple and third-party iPhone earphones which ship with inline clickers lose any ability to progress tracks. This consumer-unfriendly practice seems to be a ploy on Apple's part to extract licensing fees from headphone manufacturers, whose products must have a "control chip" that identifies the headphone's clicker to the iPod. As the shuffle is unlikely to be your primary music player and it's highly probable that you'll already have a favourite pair of headphones, the headphone lock-in does nothing but shoot the ­shuffle in the foot and hugely irritate those who might otherwise fall in love with the tiny wonder.One other minor gripe with the shuffle is that, in a bid to reduce the manufacturing costs of the device, Apple no longer ships a dock and 2ft-long USB cable with it. Instead, you're provided with a ludicrously short 2in-long USB-to-headphone jack adapter to connect the iPod to your computer. I'm happy to forgo the dock, however the short USB cable is particularly annoying.The iPod shuffle has always been a superb piece of kit for the gym, and on first appearances this new generation is no different – even if the £59 price is a slightly higher entry price than before. Wearable, and designed to be used without a screen, it seems to scream for use when you're exercising, except for the fact it is at the mercy of its own headphones – ones that refuse to stay in my ears when walking, let alone working out. If you're happy or indifferent with the Apple-supplied ones then the shuffle is the ideal workout companion. But if you're wanting to use any other earphones you'll be sorely disappointed with the shameful support for other headphones in the shuffle, and probably wise to look at something else (Apple's next iPod, the Nano, starts at £107 for an 8GB model).Pros:Multiple playlists, longer ­battery life, VoiceOver featureCons:Have to use supplied earphones to change volume or playlistapple.com/uk/ipodshuffle
Michael PollittFollowing action by the Norwegian authorities this week, the porn popup biller Platte International has found itself without a bank account or paid-for sponsored links in Google search results.The move by Norway's consumer ombudsman (Forbrukerombudet) comes after nearly 200 complaints from consumers finding popup bills for 698 kroner (£70) on their computers.Frode Elton Haug, head of internet-related issues for the ombudsman, says Platte's business practices are "unfair and illegal" under Norwegian consumer laws. After Platte said it would not stop, he contacted Google and DnB NOR (Norway's largest bank) instead. Action was taken within two days of his request to stop Platte's advertising and close its bank account."Since the company is located in the British Virgin Islands, it is difficult for us to intervene with sanctions. We are very pleased that Google and DnB NOR see the urgency of the matter and have denied Platte use of their services," says Haug. He admits that Platte may still use other advertising channels and banks; "nevertheless, it helps make it more difficult for Platte to hit Norwegian consumers with their consumer-hostile practices".Platte relies on search engines presenting users with sponsored links to websites offering three-day free trials to view pornographic movies. If the trial is not cancelled within the period, hidden software repeatedly pops up bills. Many consumers emphatically deny signing up.The Norwegian action against Platte comes 14 months after the UK's Office of Fair Trading drew back from a ban and accepted undertakings limiting the company's practices instead.At the time, Mike Haley, the OFT's head of consumer protection, said: "We believe that they achieve the right balance between protecting consumer interests without stifling innovation in the online marketplace."The Guardian has reported on popup billing since February 2007, operated initially by Micro Bill Systems, which was acquired by Platte International.Popup billing has generated more than 3,500 "contacts" by consumers to the Trading Standards Institute, nearly 20 times the level of Norwegian complaints. An internet forum,mbsvictims.org.uk, has campaigned for action against Platte.AlthoughPlatte has shut down in the UK, debt collection activities by Oriel Collections of Cheltenham have continued on its behalf.Platte has defended its business model in the past, but did not respond to our request for comment on this occassion.
Within half an hour of Andrew Stott being named as the government's first "digital engagement" director, I had a message from a fellow watcher of the Whitehall IT scene: "Twitter's borked again - has Andrew broken it already?"Andrew Stott, the new director of digital engagement for the UKMy friend was jesting, of course, but he touched an important truth. Officially, the role of the head of digital engagement is "to work across government departments to encourage, support and challenge them in moving from communicating to citizens on the web to collaborating with them through digital technology". Unofficially, as Gordon Brown's Mr Web 2.0, Stott is going to get the blame for a great many things going wrong - whether they're his responsibility or not.Colleagues agree the 53-year-old civil servant is the perfect choice for a difficult job. As deputy chief information officer in the cabinet office and a former "e-champion" at a major department, Stott has spent most of the past decade immersed in government IT programmes. He's also endearingly geeky - whenever he opens his trademark daypack, a computer magazine generally drops out. He's also genuinely passionate about the "Power of Information" agenda - the government's ambition to embrace social networking, blogs and wikis.Perhaps more importantly, from Downing Street's point of view, Stott is a safe pair of hands. In the aftermath of the Red Rag scandal (remember that?) and with a general election looming, any electronic collaboration between government and citizens will have to be played with an impeccably straight bat. Stott's experience under five prime ministers is highly respected and should help the digital engagement programme steer clear of elephant traps.Which leaves the question of what the programme can actually hope to achieve. The current big ideas are to encourage the use of public sector information (the free data agenda), and encouraging the civil service to make more use of web 2.0 tools to share knowledge. Stott has already been instrumental in creating a service called CivilWiki, on the government's secure intranet. However, while both ideas are close to Technology Guardian's heart, we can't claim that either is going to set the world on fire.No doubt bolder ambitions will emerge when a promised advisory group made up of the "leading experts on digital engagement" is convened. (In the meantime, join the debate with @DirDigEng on Twitter.)We're also waiting for another piece on the chessboard. Under a government-wide strategy published last November, a digital inclusion chief was supposed to be appointed last month to encourage excluded citizens to get online. Latest soundings from Whitehall suggest an individual has been picked, but that there have been delays over the contract. With the civil service now going into purdah for the European and English county council elections, an announcement isn't expected until next month.So, with any luck, by mid-summer we'll have a Downing Street-backed initiative to get all Britons engaging with their government and public services online. Remind you of anything? To me, it sounds remarkably like the role of the old e-envoy, created in 1999 in Tony Blair's first term. The targets then were to make Britain the best place in the world for e-commerce, end the digital divide and make all government services available online. The first two targets at least could be revived - though Brown's e-envoys may have months, rather than years, to achieve them.
Warning: the 20-year-old Global Positioning System (GPS) that makes your car satnav work could soon fail. GPS devices calculate your position using signals from four different orbiting satellites, and a minimum of 24 satellites is required to keep the network running. There are currently 31 in operation, but several are well past their life expectancy and a US Air Force programme to replace them is way behind schedule. This time next year, we might have to revert to old-fashioned maps to find our way - only some younger drivers will have no experience of this ancient method of navigation. So how do maps work? Space does not permit full written instructions, but here are some Frequently Asked Questions to get you started:How do I turn it on?An atlas operates much like a book, while a map unfolds, accordion-style, to form a large sheet. This should be held in front of you so that any writing is right side up.Now I can't see anything!Stop driving. Never attempt to operate a map and a motor vehicle at the same time.I need to get to Redditch. What do I press?Locate "Redditch" on your map and press it with one finger. Find your current location and press it with your other finger. Now find an unbroken line that connects the two fingers. That is your "route". You are ready to begin your journey.I've been driving for 40 minutes and it still hasn't said anything. Should I just keep going straight?The map will not issue instructions. It is up to you to compare the route on the map with information gleaned from your surroundings, and drive accordingly.Sorry?For example - what does the sign you are passing now say?"Croeso i Gymru." Is that good?You're on the Welsh border. Try to find yourself on the map.I'm right near the edge of the paper! Is it trying to tell me to drive off a cliff?Don't be silly. If your satnav told you to drive off a cliff, would you?I've got quite a funny story about that, actually.Oh, pull over and ask someone.OK. How do I turn this thing off?It's a map. Just fold it up the same way you unfolded it, only backwards. Any other questions?Yes. How do I make it sound like Joanna Lumley?Let's save that one for next time.
Laptops in bedA quarter of UK employees are so work-obsessed they use a mobile device such as a laptop in bed, claims a Credant Technologies survey of 300 workers.Netbooks in classDell has introduced the Latitude 2100 netbook (&pound;259 excluding VAT) in bright colours, purpose-made for education.British Library tries ebooksReaders are now being given the chance to try three ebooks at the British Library in St Pancras, London.Mirrors in spaceThe European Space Agency has launched the Herschel telescope, with the largest single mirror in space, to collect long-wavelength radiation from the most distant objects in the universe.Hindus upset over Sony gameSome Hindus are boycotting Sony over its Hanuman: Boy Warrior videogame, for "reimagining Hindu scriptures and deities" for commercial use.Comes with shortsSeagate is offering free short film downloads from Future Shorts with its FreeAgent Go portable hard drive.Peak rate phone callsNepal Telecom says it plans to extend its mobile phone coverage to Everest by the middle of June.AOL spawns another celeb babyFollowing the successful launch of its US Parent Dish website a year ago, AOL now has a UK version.
You don't really own your DVDs. If you watch them quietly at home, you may never realise that the 12cm plastic discs on your shelves are actually shiny little outposts of Hollywood, fortified by a shadowy legion of regulations. Break any of them - by showing a film at a youth club, lending discs to a B&amp;B guest or simply transferring a movie to your iPhone - and you risk the full weight of the studios' legal muscle.Just ask RealNetworks. Last year, this Seattle-based company developed a piece of software called RealDVD, which enables consumers to make a digital copy of their DVDs, as iTunes or Windows Media Player do with music CDs. Unlike those programs, however, RealDVD leaves the original copy protection intact, restricts playback of the digital file and doesn't let users burn fresh discs.Hollywood went ballistic. The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) dubbed the software "StealDVD" and obtained a temporary restraining order on sales of the software. Seven months later, Bill Way, vice-president of RealNetworks, is still dazed by the ferocity of the MPAA's attacks. "We have had a long relationship with the studios," he says. "We anticipated some lively business discussions but I don't think that any of us imagined it would turn into a battle royale."Star warsThe battle has come to a head in a court case that is expected to end today, with seven film studios and the DVD Copy Control Association (DCCA) alleging that RealDVD infringes the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). "Here's the interesting thing," says Way. "They have not brought a copyright infringement case against us. They have not brought the classic Universal v Sony VCR case, I presume because they knew they would lose it."Ironically, the company that won that case in 1984, clearing the use of its Betamax video recorders for "time-shifting" television programmes, now finds itself on the other side of the "fair use" debate. Sony and the other studios deny that consumers have any right to back up or transfer physical DVDs, relying on the DMCA's prohibition of technology that circumvents copy prevention.A San Francisco judge is now considering a ruling that could legitimise domestic DVD copying or ban the sale of RealDVD - and similar technologies - for ever. Whatever the outcome of the case, everyone agrees that one thing it won't do is stop people illegally copying DVDs."DVD-ripping products have already achieved saturation of the mainstream," says Way. "You can find them in 30 seconds on Google and they're free. You can take any DVD and do anything you want with it. You can spit out five copies on discs or email them to your friends."In court, the studios have tried to associate RealNetworks with piracy, saying that RealDVD enables consumers to "rent, rip and return" DVDs, and suggesting that RealNetworks could disable copy protection on its digital files at the flick of a switch. They even submitted emails apparently showing that RealNetworks' chief executive, Rob Glaser, accidentally pirated a film while road-testing a similar DVD back-up system called Kaleidescape.Way admits that RealDVD has loopholes: "In a world where it's so easy to do piracy, yes, you could use our product to do that, but why would you? Our target market is people who spend money on things. People who want to get stuff for free are never going to get our product."Way suspects Hollywood's motivation for fighting the case is not just to control piracy but also to stifle competition: "They see RealDVD as a direct competitor to their Digital Copy product, which also provides a file you can use on your PC. But they want to sell you that second copy, whether on iTunes or with a premium-priced DVD. In the six months since the restraining order on RealDVD sales, the marketing for Digital Copy has kicked up a notch."Although RealDVD creates digital copies of DVDs with several layers of copy protection, the process involves unscrambling and rescrambling the audiovisual data - and it's on this technical detail the case hinges. The studios claim RealNetworks is circumventing both DVD's standard CSS encryption and more advanced copy protection technologies such as Sony's Arccos and Macrovision's RipGuard.An MPAA spokesman says: "The DMCA prohibits the manufacturing or trafficking of any technology or product, service or device designed for the purpose of circumventing measures that protect copyrighted titles. In manufacturing and selling RealDVD, RealNetworks, a CSS licensee, has attempted to leverage its licence improperly."But on the CSS issue, Way is adamant that RealNetworks is in the clear: "We can't be circumventing CSS because we are a licensee of it. The circumvention statute can only be used against people who have picked the lock. You can't use it against someone who has the keys to the lock."Another Facet to the caseWhen it comes to Arccos and RipGuard - third-party software that introduces artificial errors to confuse copying software - the issues are, Way admits, "murkier". He claims: "Our guys were able to get around them without really knowing what they were." This could exempt RealNetworks from DMCA violation on the grounds that Arccos and RipGuard were not effective copy control measures in the first place. But from evidence submitted by the studios, it seems that RealNetworks struggled with Arccos and RipGuard for some time, even contracting a Ukrainian software firm to help overcome them.For RealNetworks, there's more at stake here than software sales and the $6m (&pound;4m) the company has already spent on legal fees. RealNetworks has embedded its software inside a new generation of recording DVD players, codenamed Facet. "Facet is RealDVD running on a dedicated hardware box you can put next to your TV," says Way. "You would have seen these in the shops already if there hadn't been the temporary restraining order."With DVD sales declining by 20% a year in the US, RealNetworks is also eyeing high-definition video. "There are all kind of cool things we could do in the future with this product, but they would require licences from the studios," says Way.For, despite their courtroom showdown, Way is confident that RealNetworks and the studios can work together again: "My perception is that Hollywood is the kind of place where you can be suing each other one day and be business partners the next. Our hope is that should we win this case, we would be able to go back to our normal mode of operation with our business partners in Hollywood."And should they lose? Way refuses to consider defeat. However, he does confess: "This is a sufficiently complex case that I don't predict with great certainty that the decision will be a binary yes or no." This particular battle royale may be nearly over but, as is often the case with Hollywood, a sequel is already on the cards.Just days before the closing arguments, RealNetworks filed new antitrust counterclaims against the DCCA. It alleges that the studios formed an illegal cartel to fix prices, stifle competition and enforce a group boycott against RealNetworks. While the surprise move may seem like a plot twist from a courtroom thriller, the studios shouldn't count on a happy ending. The last time RealNetworks took on an industry leader in an antitrust case, in 2005, it won. The settlement - from Microsoft - was worth around &pound;500m.
The price of piracyThat was an interesting piece (Stormy seas for software pirates, 14 May). But it skated over an interesting fact that it offered. If "LLL" balked at paying the $2,499 retail price, what about their equivalent in the UK when asked to cough up £2,264? I have news for Adobe, it is a long time since we had an exchange rate of 1.1. Adobe always does this, rips off Brits. Is it any wonder that "furriners" feel tempted to return the compliment?Michael Kenward,StaplefieldIf LLL is such a savvy user why is he not following basic computer security, you know, antivirus, anti-spyware and firewall? The tagline for the article is IMO a bit of blatant scaremongering propaganda, courtesy of FAST. If you read as many computer magazines as I do, you get used to the industry line. But it's never OTT. Things must be getting desperate if they're fostering such pseudo-technical tosh on to otherwise respectable newspapers.praxis22.livejournal.comSensible and well-balanced article on software piracyhttp://twitter.com/Chris4man/status/1794159296Is the cloud the answer to piracy?twitter.com/whereisabYahoo's hack daySocial networking would not be the phenomenon it is today without the hard work of people like these guys who do magical things with data then turn it into something simple for the masses (Taking an open-minded approach, 14 May). Hard to get your brain around some of these innovations but worth the effort to see the future potential.digitaladman.comOh my. Awesome. Cited in Grauniad over GeoCities comments – as an "academic" too (sadly not true, yet).twitter.com/tommorrisLOL over GeoCities: "They are destroying the cave paintings of the web"http://twitter.com/ernstjanhamelIn loving memory …Duke Nukem not quite forevertwitter.com/andyh2oOverturn the troughMapping makes it much easier to find and compare data from a huge file (The MPs' trough is emptied, 14 May). But its real power comes when one set of data is overlaid on another. For example, if a pig farm was thought to be responsible for polluting a watercourse, a reporter might overlay a map showing pig farms with another of watercourse pollution incidents. This would immediately show if there was a correlation. If there was, it would be a much bigger story.If I remember rightly this kind of technique was used by the Miami Herald in winning its 1999 Pulitzer prize for exposing voter fraud in a mayoral election.Mapping has become one of the most powerful tools for investigative reporters in the US. In the UK it is much harder to obtain databases, but there is also a lack of skill in using the techniques.wordblog.co.ukI liked this: Charles Arthur on XML and public sector info/data – the principle as much as the specific. Open up, HMG!twitter.com/jdaygloThis is a smart idea ... a bit of XML could spawn a thousand mashups &amp; help the public monitor MPs' expenses.twitter.com/jonmulhollandWhy stop with MPs? Plenty of places in UK public sector that could do with a light being shone inside!twitter.com/josswinnFree dataNice article, except it's been done ;) and it would cost bugger all with Google Maps implementation (Free Our Data, 14 May). Yet another example of people making money for nothing. Head tomaptasm.comAndrew Smith,Edgehill UniversityMaptasm uses the Ordnance Survey OpenSpace API, which is not available for full commercial use – Tech ed.Less linkageMaybe it pays to complain. I grumbled (Letters,9 Apriland30 April) about excessive URLs rendering Bruce ­Schneier's column almost unreadable. His "Read me first" of 14 May, with only two URLs, was much clearer. If this was to do with me, thanks for listening.Bob Rotheram,WoodthorpeEmail us attech@guardian.co.uk
Classified advertising website Craigslist has responded to accusations of criminal activity by suing the attorney general of South Carolina.The San Francisco-based website said that it was taking the action after the state's attorney general, Henry McMaster, said that he was considering a criminal investigation into the actions of its chief executive, Jim Buckmaster.It is the latest escalation in a growing war of words between the classified advert website and its detractors, who claim it aids prostitution and encourages illegal activity by allowing people to freely post advertisements online.According to Buckmaster, the lawsuit is an attempt to gain what is called "declaratory relief" - an attempt to get a judge to decide whether one set of rights unfairly infringes upon another. The system is often used to resolve legal issues before they escalate further - and in this case, he said, the threat of criminal investigation conflicts with the right to free speech.Buckmaster argued that Craigslist has the US Constitution on its side."In addition to being unwarranted by the facts, legal experts agree that the charges threatened represent an unconstitutional prior restraint on free speech, and are clearly barred by federal law," he said in aposting on the company blog."Mr McMaster's repeated threats of criminal prosecution should we refuse to shut down Craigslist for South Carolina have left us little choice but to seek declaratory relief before the court."In a statement, McMaster said that the decision to sue by Craigslist was a victory for his office, because it showed that the website "is taking the matter seriously for the first time"."More importantly, overnight they have removed the erotic services section from their website, as we asked them to do. And they are now taking responsibility for the content of their future advertisements. If they keep their word, this is a victory for law enforcement and for the people of South Carolina.""Unfortunately, we had to inform them of possible state criminal violations concerning their past practices to produce a serious response. We trust they will now adhere to the higher standards they have promised. This office and the law enforcement agencies of South Carolina will continue to monitor the site to make certain that our laws are respected."However, despite the claim by McMaster that his action forced to shut down its erotic services category, the move hadalready been announced last week, after Craigslist came to an agreement with attorneys general from Connecticut, Illinois and Missouri.The controversy erupted after a period of concerted pressure on Craigslist, which has been accused in recent months of profiting from prostitution.One senior sheriff in Chicago claimed that the site is the country's "single largest source of prostitution", an accusation rejected by the site - which points out that it often works closely with law enforcement.The situation gained momentum last month, however, after a man in Massachusetts murdered a masseuse he found through an advert on the site. The perpetrator quickly became known as the "Craigslist killer", and Phil Markoff, a 22-year old student from Boston, has been charged over the death of Julissa Brisman.
Two of Hollywood's most powerful studios are suing European web video startupZattoo, amid claims that it is illegally profiting from broadcasting their movies online.Lawyers for Universal and Warner Bros claim that the Swiss website - which rebroadcasts a number of television stations live online - is adding advertising to films that are shown on German TV via its peer-to-peer online service.Zattoo has responded by saying that the adverts in question are merely those shown on TV by the German broadcasters ARD and ZDF, and that it is operating legally under a licensing deal with the two companies. However, a court in Hamburg has ordered Zattoo to stop showing streams for the two stations until the case is resolved.The site, which launched in , rebroadcasts a number of  stations live online - either from stations with public service funding, or through licensing deals. It currently shows channels from broadcasters including the BBC, Eurosport, MTV Germany and Al Jazeera and boasts more than 4m users worldwide.Although it does show its own advertising, the spots are only displayed when users switch between channels - using the time to buffer a new channel to show a short advertisement. This model encouraged German marketing company Schober Group to take a stake in the company earlier this month.The company did not respond to a request for comment from the Guardian, but Zattoo's chief executive Beat Knechttold Broadband TV Newsthat the company has been "very careful" to make sure it does not fall foul of the law."Last December we blocked five Hitchcock movies from Universal at their request. We monitor very closely the broadcast schedules for any programme changes in order to comply with such requests."It is not the first time the company has stopped showing some television streams. In March the companyceased its transmissions of Belgian television.Whatever the outcome of the case, it has potential ramifications for the online TV industry worldwide. While services like the BBC's iPlayer and US television site Hulu are trying to make more broadcast content available online, some producers are pushing back against the prospect of other companies commercialising their content.Project Kangaroo, an advertising-supported equivalent to iPlayer, wasshut down by British regulatorsamid fears that it would distort the market - potentially opening the way for Hulu to move in andlaunch an international version.
The first panel at themedia140conference looked at how Twitter and micro-blogging were affecting journalism – the questions that Pat Kane raised about how real-time information services and platforms such as Twitter were providing challenges to news.Jon Gripton, online news editor at Sky News, defended appointing a Twitter correspondent. He said that Twitter had already changed how they gather news. But, he added, "There is no mystery or mystique for us."For us, it is effectively another news feed. It helps us source eyewitnesses and photos and other people who are on the scene of an event.He compared it to the Press Association.Fellow panelistMike Butcher from TechCrunch Europechallenged Gripton on that point. "The difference to PA and Twitter is the difference to looking at a newspaper front page and the ocean," he said.Technology writer Bill Thompson and Butcher also took issue with the idea that Twitter was just another news wire. "Twitter is not about journalism," said Thompson, comparing journalists to parasites who viewed Twitter as "just there to serve our needs". Thompson said that this wasn't really about Twitter but about real-time news.And Butcher said that five years ago, they would have been talking about Technorati, at the time a pioneering blog search engine. It was a reality check that in the web 2.0 world, trends and companies come and go.The panel also discussed how to maintain standards in this age of real-time news, as time pressures increase and staffing levels decrease.Butcher said that the community would quickly call him out if he reported something inaccurately, but BBC technology correspondent Darren Waters was uncomfortable with what he saw as simply turning over fact checking to the audience. He said it was the old "don't be wrong for long" model of rolling television news.The BBC was still struggling with how to deal with Twitter, Facebook and other forms of social media, Waters said. The BBC does have a  user-generated content hub, which assesses not only comments and photos that come into the BBC but also information on Twitter and elsewhere on the web. However, Waters said that the BBC is still struggling with the editorial policy implications of social media. "We aren't sure the audience is ready to see a BBC journalist's personal Twitter feed," he said. And when tweets are sent out under professional auspices, he said, they must be seen by a second pair of eyes.Thompson said that staff using Twitter personally must raise all kinds of issues for the BBC, and he asked whether social networking platforms – which blur the personal and the professional – affect audiences' sense of journalistic objectivity. It was like pulling back the curtain and seeing the wizard, he said.That raised a question as to whether journalists had to maintain distance to maintain a sense of objectivity, or whether journalists building a connection with audiences actually increases a sense of possibly not objectivity but at least authority and trust.Waters also was concerned that news organisations shouldn't be overly dependent on one platform, like Twitter, especially as Twitter was still struggling to develop a business model.The first question from the audience was about what Twitter would do to make money. Butcher pointed to reports that Twitter was planning on selling tools to businesses, and panelist Nick Halstead ofTweetmemesaid that Twitter would also charge businesses for tools that allowed them to monitor how they were being discussed on the service.One of the questions that keeps bubbling up at this conference is how journalists would make a living in this future. The specific question for this panel was how journalists would be trained.Butcher said that the BBC was starting to groom rock star correspondents like itsbusiness editor Robert Peston. He said that journalists needed to move to a model that he called entrepreneurial journalism, where they actively developed their own profile and name recognition. If editors are choosing between two job candidates – one with a little experience and no blog or social media profile, and another with slightly less experience but a large following because of their blog – they will choose the blogging journalist.
Ande Gregson came up with the idea for themedia140conference in London when he was wondering whether Twitter in particular, and micro-blogging in general, was a valid platform for news coverage. The event started off small, but interest grew, and I've ended up both reporting and speaking at it.Pat Kane kicked things off by looking at the media future from the past with Dick Tracy talking into his wristwatch radio.In the future, we will have personally tailored, portable information devices."I know old media. I've done old media. I did a lot of it in the 1990s," he said, talking about his work in radio and newspapers. But he quickly realised that there connections and the disconnections between new media and traditional media, He wrote a book called thePlay Ethic, which explored how the culture of information was swamping the organisations that looked to make sense of information. After working in traditional media, he decided that he had to move to where the innovation was, which wasn't at a newspaper.Now he's exploring the space of innovation using tools such as Twitter andAudioBoo, mobile audio uploading service.On 24 March, he was running around Regents Park:Just shared my jobbing track with five Met Pol riot police, full kit with shields. Training for a hot, recessionary summer?!Two weeks before the G20 protests, Kane had the means and the technology to publish his observations to the community that was following him. He got responses from his followers on Twitter, who thanked him for alerting them to what might be coming.In his talk, Pat Kane also highlighted some obvious uses of Twitter for trraditional journalism.Beat reporting, including geo-location where the tweets can be mapped.Early earning, communities deciding what is newsReal-time content, photos, videos and one line descriptionTraceable sources, interviews and leads. He described it as @punter."Can you help?" Do you have anymore information on this matter?It can be a promottional tool for titles, individuals and journalists or pieces that they do.It can be an expertise archive. "It's a folksonomy of knowledge on the move." This used to be called desk research. This enriches and adds to the toolbox of the traditional journalist.However, there are some tough questions that have to be asked.Who verifies these sources of information? Is it the traditional media or the 'truth community'? He talked about the 'balkanisation of truth'. Who sorts through the chaos? Who has the authority?Can we break out of 140 characters as a design limitation for real-time media? There is value in both the real-time output plus the traditional longer form output.How distributed and collaborative are journalists prepared to be about their work process? He talked abouta memo from the Wall Street Journal to its journalistsnot to have discussions about sources or leads in the open on Twitter or social networks, because The Journal could lose exclusive stories. Pat Kane was much more interested inJeff Jarvis' view that it misses the point that journalists can improve their work through collaboration.Pat is keen to get away from "churnalism" which he said was 50% of the journalism he saw in the 1990s. Will the 'Darwinian acid' that new media is throwing on traditional media add more authenticity? Will fewer journalists be better journalists?"Use what is ubiquitous to drive people to what is scarce," he said. In music, live performance is becoming more important. In news, Google makes news ubiquitous. News isn't scarce, but authority might be.
Facebook's founder says the company is in no rush to launch on the stock market – despite pressure to cash in while the site's standing is high.Speaking yesterday, Mark Zuckerberg said that the social networking site would not push for an initial public offering for several years, although this is the traditional route for large technology companies to cash in and provide a return for their investors.But he did not rule out the idea that the company could take further funding in the meantime."If there's an investment to be done on very good terms, we will consider it – if for no other reason than to have more buffer if we want to do something in the future," he said.The comments came after a rash of reports about Facebook's financial standing, which suggest the company is in negotiations with several investors to raise further funds.Over the past week, reports from leading Silicon Valley blogs have suggested that the site is in advanced negotiations about a further injection of funds.Venturebeat claimed Facebook was close to a $150m round of financing, whileTechcrunch reported yesterday that it had turned down an offer of $200m.Further details of either potential deal have not materialised as yet, but although the company says it has a healthy income it is spending heavily to keep up with its rapid expansion.Earlier this year, the departure of Facebook's chief financial officer, Gideon Yu – and subsequent indication that was looking for a replacement with "public company experience" –led to speculation in some quarters that Facebook might be preparing to float.However, the recession has flattened the potential for stock market flotations in the hi-tech industry, leading to the worst IPO drought for Silicon Valley in almost 40 years.Without a chance for employees to cash out through a public offering, a thriving private trade in Facebook stock has started, with staff so keen to cash in on their holdings thatNew York venture capitalist Fred Wilson claims the secondary market in Facebook now values the company at around $3.5bn.Speaking at the Reuters Global Technology Summit in New York, Zuckerberg – who turned 25 earlier this week – also gave his views on a number of social networking rivals, including Twitter.He called the San Francisco messaging service a "great company", but said that he did not view it as competition – despite recent changes that echo some of Twitter's features."I think Twitter's focus is markedly different from Facebook's," he said. "They are not really at all about a user's identity … they are more about real-time communication."His comments came as the Google co-founder Larry Page admitted that his company had fallen behind Twitter in providing up-to-the-second information to internet users."People really want to do stuff real time, and I think they have done a great job about it,"Page said at Google's Zeitgeist conference. "I think we have done a relatively poor job of creating things that work on a per-second basis."
One of the most amusing sights in the world – apart, possibly, from a toddler falling over, or a dog running into a window – is that of a short-sighted man hunting for his glasses. The irony of it! If only the poor fellow had his glasses then his task would be so easy, but also totally redundant. It really is a wonderful thing to behold.Today I got a tiny glimpse into the frustration that man must feel when, sitting down to write, I found that the letter " " on my keyboard had suddenly stopped working. Without the letter " ", I'm unable to explain the problem properly and apologise if this week's NSFW instalment reads a little oddly. And yet if it were working, I wouldn't need to. It's something of a ath-22, as a man with no " " on his keyboard might put it.Even worse, I wanted to start this week by mentioning a book I've just finished reading, about a genius stand-up performer of the 50s and 60s. It's titled "The Trials Of Lenny Bru_e" but without the letter " ", I'm unable even to write his name properly, let alone talk about the book itself. Lenny, as you probably know, was frequently hauled before the authorities for the "highly offensive" language he used in his stand-up gigs. Most of the words that got him into trouble involved the letter " " so quoting any of the material in question is impossible – save possibly for his bit about "Eleanor Roosevelt's Tits", but even that needs a bit of – er – kontext. You see my dilemma.The reason I wanted to bring up Lenny has to do with the stark parallels between his story and the hoo-hah we've seen over the past few days over a popular site that, thanks to my keyboard, I'll have to dub "Raigslist". The trouble for Raigslist (and its eponymous founder, Raig Newmark) began last month when Philip Markoff, a student at Boston University,allegedly murderedJulissa Brisman, a masseuse who he had met through the site. Despite the story having nothing to do with prostitution and everything to do with the dangers of offering massages online to strangers, various US attorneys generaldemandedthat something must be done. Namely they demanded that Raig immediately stop taking ads for sexy masseuses, nude maids and all that good stuff. Keen to be seen as a law-abiding ad platform, the sitereworked its ruleson posting, removing the offending sex-worker area of the site and swapped it for a new paid-for "adult" area requiring verified billing details and posters' agreement to updated terms of use.Most of the attorneys general were quite happy with the new arrangement, but one – the annoyingly-for-my-keyboard-namedHenry M_Masterfrom the great state of South _arolina –still wasn't happy. And his was a very loud, attention-seeking type of unhappiness that surely had naught to do with hisrunning for Governorof that same highly-religious state and all to do with him thinking of the kids. And their mums who work as hookers.Henry's threat was simple and to the point: unless the site agreed to take down every single post that he took issue with, the Attorney General would gladly see Newmark and his fellow board members in jail. This despite a2006 statutethat gives an absolute "defense" under US federal law to site owners whose users post unlawful material. Under that statute, hookers and pimps are still jailable, but the third parties who host their thinly disguised ads are not.Impressively, Newmark and the rest of the board have refused to take the Attorney General's threats lying down. Instead they've demanded an apology. Meanwhile, several high profile web pundits – most notablyMike Arrington– have suggested that Raigslist simply quit the Palmetto State altogether.With Lenny B's story fresh in my mind, the parallels between him and Newmark aren't hard to see. Like Newmark, Lenny was hounded throughout his working life by state busybodies who believed his work threatened morality, despite hisFirst Amendmentright to do just that. Like Newmark, Lenny sometimes agreed to make small tweaks to his material to avoid jail – removing banned words and instead talking about, say, roosters or people who had intimate relations with their mothers. He highlighted the nonsense at the heart of this kind of bullshit innuendo in one of his most famous bits: "Las Vegas Tits and Ass" (and at the same time gave the world the phrase 'T&amp;A'). And yet, when pushed too far Lenny would stand his ground, frequently going straight from jail to the theatre to perform the same material and duly being re-arrested moments later. These fights took their toll on Lenny both emotionally and professionally, ending with him finally being given jail time in New York – time that he avoided by dying of an overdose at the age of 40.But even though Lenny was eventually beaten, his work and his fights had opened Pandora's box, paving the way for anewgenerationof stand-ups determined to push the envelope further and further, until adult nightspots evolved into first amendment hotspots, with everyone free to say anything, without fear of arrest or harassment. The final hold-out against the first amendment – a ban on the right to transmit offensive material (the "seven dirty words", most boasting the letter " ") – finally met its end with the arrival of the internet. Suddenly, anyone of any age was able to read about Eleanor Roosevelt's tits from the safety of their bedrooms, without The Man being able to do a damn thing about it. Sure, The Man tried his best – amusingly, the same 1996 statute that Raigslist is now relying on originally had a provision banning the dissemination of offensive material to under-18s via the internet. But the provision was soonoverruledby lawmakers as being too vague and unworkable, leaving behind a set of laws today that prevent site owners from being held liable for user generated illegality and give them the legal right to be offensive to all and sundry.And yet, it seems that for some the lessons of Lenny still haven't quite sunk in. Still to this day, ambitious attorneys general try to win popular support by stamping down on any material that Joe Voter and his wife might find offensive (even if Joe Voter is generating that same material himself). And still those attorneys general fail to realise that, as Lenny inspired a thousand imitators, so Raigslist, if it's driven from one state, will immediately inspire a thousand other sites to spring up to fill the gap in the market. Until eventually the law realises, as it eventually did with stand-up after Lenny, that it's fighting an ultimately unwinnable fight.The truth is, in the age of the internet, trying to ban things we find offensive – but that aren't illegal – has only one possible result: to turn the outrageous into the devious. Sex ads will never vanish from the web, not even in the Palmetto State. Whatever the result of this legal nonsense, hookers will still post on Raigslist, and on a whole host of other sites – they'll just be a tiny bit smarter in the wording they use to keep one step ahead of the law.It's a bit like trying to avoid using the letter " " in an olumn about raigslist, Lenny Brue, South arolina and the onstitution. Sure it's a pain in the arse, but it's also the mother of invention.After all, how else would I get away with urging an over-ambitious Attorney General to read and digest the story of Lenny B – or risk going down in history, not as the man who saved Joe Voter from himself, but as a sad, self-aggrandising, irrelevant little unt.• Paul arr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True onfessions Of A New Media Whore. He blogs atpaul arr. om.
Hewlett-Packard, the world's largest PC manufacturer, says revenues from its personal systems group fell by 19% to $8.2 billion in thelatest quarterly results. Revenues from desktops were down by 24% while laptops came in 13% lower. The group made an operating profit of $374 million, down by 31% from $544 million in the same quarter last year.The printer division's sales fell by 23% to $5.9 billion, with an operating profit of $1.1 billion.Total revenues were down by only 3% to $27.4 billion (or, in fact, up by 3% in local currency terms), but net income fell by 17% to $1.7 billion.According toBloomberg: "We knew PCs would be horrible, we knew printers would be horrible," said Brent Bracelin, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Oregon, with a "sector perform" rating on the stock. "A tough quarter but the company did a good job executing and protecting its EPS." Earnings per share were just a cent lower at $0.86.HP is cutting costs and plans to cut about 6,400 jobs -- roughly 2% -- in the next year. It has already cut salaries.The results were in line with expectations, and chief executive Mark Hurd said in a conference call: "I'm not ready to call it better. It's roughly going to be the same the rest of the year." But he said it was "a more predictable environment than we had. Our guidance is meant to be sort of 'steady as she goes'."HP's share price was down, but The Financial Times took a more upbeat view of the results. Under the headlineHP beats profit predictions, it said:Hewlett-Packard said that stronger than expected Chinese and US consumer markets helped it beat Wall Street profit projections for the second quarter, and the world's leading computer company by revenue struck a note of cautious optimism on the economy as a whole.HP's size and the breadth of its IT businesses make it an indicator of the state of the market, but it's hard to draw any conclusions from the quarter. Times are hard, but we knew that already.However, the IT industry isn't in crisis, and should pull through in reasonable shape. Whether things will be back to "business as usual" in another quarter or two is open to speculation. HP isn't betting on it.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Intel may still be reeling from the€1bn it was fined by the European Commission last week, but the chip giant's troubles may not be over yet. The chief executive ofNVidia has accused its rival of unfair pricing, according to Reuters. Why? Because an Intel Atom chip actually costs $45 - but the company sells a set of three chips for just $25 to block the competition.&bull; With Apple's WWDC just a few weeks away, we're starting to hear stronger rumours about the next iPhone model. Rob at Apple iPhone Appshas a compelling - but anonymous - reportthat the new model will be released on July 17 and include an FM radio, up to 32GB of memory, a built-in compass and double the processing power. Take such rumours with a pinch of salt, as always, but the company will certainly be hoping to stealPalm's thunder.&bull; I don't need too many words to explain this one: anautomated washing machine for dogs. There's nothing like a great gadget, and this is nothing like a... .You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Struggling electric vehicle pioneerTeslahas found a potential solution to its recent financial troubles - by turning to one of the giants of the car industry.It wasannounced on Tuesdaythat 120-year-old German automotive titanDaimlerwould be taking a 10% stake in the young Californian company for a sum thought to be around $50m (£32m).The deal cements an existing partnership between the two companies, which had already been working together on rolling out battery technology - and was immediately hailed as a win-win situation by both sides.Daimler, which owns Mercedes Benz and makes the Smart car, said the move is an "important step to accelerate the commercialisation of electric drives globally"."These guys are going completely unconventional ways. That's what we need in the future," said board member Thomas Weber. "Tesla gained the know-how fast and efficiently thanks to its lean and powerful organisation."Tesla's chief executiveElon Musk, meanwhile, called it "an honour and a powerful endorsement of our technology".In fact, it provides a necessary fix for both companies. Daimler is working hard to develop and spread electric battery technology in an attempt to guarantee future success in s struggling sector. Tesla, meanwhile, will see the agreement as a way to raise much-needed capital - and achieve a degree of stability after a tumultuous year.The company, which is run by former dotcom entrepreneur Musk, has been heralded as a pioneer of the electric car movement - and garnered plenty of attention with its £63,000 sports car,the Roadster.But as the financial crisis stymied attempts to raise $100m in capital, the high cost of car development hasadded to financial pressures at the company.Last autumn Musk, the former dotcom entrepreneur who had been the company's chairman and an investor, removed previous chief executive Ze'ev Drori and took over the role himself, cut around a quarter of staff and pleaded for a "special forces attitude" from the remaining employees. He also said that development of the company's second vehicle, a high-end saloon car called the Model S, would be delayed.Musk said yesterday that the deal would improve the prospects for the new vehicle."We are looking forward to a strategic cooperation in a number of areas including leveraging Daimler's engineering, production and supply chain expertise," Musk said. "This will accelerate bringing our Tesla Model S to production and ensure that it is a superlative vehicle on all levels."Reaction to the news has been mixed.AutoNewspoints out that the German company is keen on electric vehicles and has beentesting electric Smart cars for some time. However, environmental technology blogEarth2Techsaid itdoes not mean Tesla has an automatic agreement for supplying Daimler's batteries.MeanwhileWired- which has championed Tesla in the past - said it would be a "boon" for the Californian company, since it "needs cash in a big way".
The original netbook -- the Asus Eee PC701 -- was launched in the UK for the schools market, where it was called the RM Minibook. Now Dell is targeting school children (or K-12, in US terms) with theLatitude 2100. This is a somewhat ruggedised (or rubberised) design with a 10.1 inch screen, a nice strap, and comes in a range of bright colours: School Bus Gold, Chalkboard Black, Ball Field Green, Blue Ribbon and Schoolhouse Red.The UK version has the same colours, and presumably kids will associate the names with things they've seen on Sesame Street or South Park rather than personal experience.There's a "Network Activity Light" on the lid so the teacher can see if kids are surfing the net when they should be doing something else. The system also has classroom software, and schools will be able to get carts for storing and recharging up to 24 netbooks.Although clearly designed for the schools market, the systems will also be available to businesses who want them.The spec is standard netbook (see below), with a choice of operating systems: XP Home, Vista Home Basic, and Ubuntu Linux. However, I suspect most will ship with Windows 7.One variation is that the Latitude 2100 also offers an optional touchscreen, though it's not a convertible like Intel Classmate 2-style designs.The US-based Dell siteEdu4Uhas more info, as doesDirect2Dell.Dell had a UK launch at the Sacred Heart High School in Hammersmith, London, to discuss how it is "working with education establishments in the UK". (Sorry, I didn't go.) It does seem to show that Dell is taking the education market seriously.Dell says the Latitude 2100 is available now, with prices starting at £259 plus VAT and delivery.Quick spec:Intel Atom N270 processorUp to 1GB fixed RAM; plus memory slot to accommodate up to 2GB RAM totalDisplay: 1024 x 576 LED screen, optional touch screenStorage options: standard hard drive options up to 250GB; SSD drive up to 16GBBattery: 3 and 6-cell battery optionsWired Connectivity: 10/100/1000Mb Gigabit EthernetWireless Connectivity: 802.11g standard, option 802.11nPorts: 3 USB, VGA, headphone/speaker out, micExpansion slot: SD/MMC card reader
As I wrote this morning, a recent US congressional report says that the GPS system thatcould be on the verge of breakdown, thanks to a lack of proper investment.It's a worrying possibility - not just for thePentagon, which is having its ability to manage a complex service like GPS called into question, but for the companies that have built businesses on the solidity of the global positioning system.GPS data is made free to use by the US government, which helped foster the growth of the system and adoption by a wide range of companies - from the makers of in-car satellite navigation systems to high-end mobile phones and evenchild-locating wristwatches.But what do they think about the possibility that GPS could fail?Among the companies that could be seriously affected isTomTom, the Dutch satnav maker that was founded in the early 1990s - around the same time as GPS went live.A spokeswoman for the company told me that they remained confident in the future of the system."GPS is, and remains, an excellent technology for all who use it," she told me. "We are not concerned about this changing, and there is no reason to believe it will. Quite the contrary, the US government has pledged full support for GPS since 2000."Instead, the suggestion is that the worries over GPS are merely the push and pull of Washington politics - and that the problem isn't really a serious one."It is a good thing that organisations are appointed to monitor the development of GPS, and it is a good thing that the US government is looking ahead to ensure GPS continues to deliver the great quality it has to so many people."Judging by the contents of the report from the government accountability office -which is available here- that's a rosy outlook on the situation. That study suggests that the reliability of GPS will begin to drop drastically, with at least five years of deterioration before things might get better."Based on the most recent satellite reliability and launch schedule data approved in March 2009,  the estimated long-term probability of maintaining a constellation of at least 24 operational satellites falls below 95% during fiscal year 2010 and remains below 95% until the end of fiscal year 2014, at times falling to about 80%."That torrid period is demonstrated neatly in their graph:GAO graph showing projected reliability for GPS satellite constellationAll of the feedback I've had from people on this story amounts to much the same line - 'we know it's had problems, but GPS is too important for anyone to let it get messed up'. If the past six months has taught us anything, I'd suggest it was that we should be very concerned if we hear the phrase "too big to fail".
Capcom is releasing the UK version of Japanese PSP smash,Monster Hunter: Freedom Unite, on June 26th and is determined to help generate a similarly frenzied scene in the West. As you may well be aware, this addictive take on the Pokemon phenomenon mixes monster collection with impressively deep RPG elements. Players become junior monster hunters, taking on dozens of quests to defeat various hideous creatures, before using the body parts of vanquished beasts to craft new weapons and armour.Importantly, the game is designed to be played cooperatively via the PSP's ad-hoc networking system, which means fans have to gather together to take part. "Players in Japan congregate everywhere, from parks to cafes to amusement arcades to on public transport," says Capcom. "It's not unusual to see large huddles of kids in parks, all sitting together playing the game; it's very rare to take the subway in Tokyo without seeing a few dozen people playing Monster Hunter together as they commute."To kick things off, the former site of the Lazarides gallery in central London will be converted into a Monster Hunter play zone. From the press release:From July 1st to September 1st, across the whole school holidays, the space is being transformed into a haven for Monster Hunter players to congregate, socialise and, of course, play Monster Hunter, with hundreds of fans expected to descend each day.Three floors will be available for players - featuring comfortable seating, free soft drinks and amazing graffiti art, and enough space for several hundred enthusiasts to come together and play. Open from 10am to 8pm, 7 days a week, and from 10am to 10pm on Thursdays, the space, called The Gathering Hall, will open its doors to everyone who wants to experience Monster Hunter at its best - played with other people - and to meet fellow fans. Admission is only allowed with a PSP - so don't forget your console and a copy of Monster Hunter!It's a nice idea, and it'll be interesting to see how much of Capcom's apparently multi-million pound promotional campaign is channeled into pushing this social element. Will UK gamers be as willing to gather in public places in this way? I thought we'd be seeing loads of people on buses and trains battling each other via Bluetooth mobile games and/or ad-hoc PSP titles by now, but it hasn't really happened. I think maybe there hasn't been a killer co-op title on PSP - and also, not enough people own the handheld here.Though actually, not enough people own it in Japan - or at least they didn't when Capcom first decided to take its original PS2 title and create a PSP exclusive follow-up. Monster Hunter went on to become a national obsession - the third title in the series shifted over 500,000 copies last year in Japan alone.Another thing is, the concept would benefit from a decent Google Latitude-esque spotting system that finds PSP owners in your area and alerts you to where they are and what they want to play. I'm not sure that, over here, portable gaming is as culturally embedded as it is in Japan, so people probably need to be nudged. Perhaps the expected release of Sony'sAd-Hoc Party app, which allows users to indulge in global online gaming via connection to a PS3, may provide a more comfortable alternative to going out on the streets, pan-handling for gaming chums.Hopefully, though, the tentative gathering of hardcore British fans in a chic art gallery could be the beginning of something much larger. I love the idea of spontaneous public gaming, like flash mobs but less Nathan Barley-esque.
Hollywood supremo Steven Spielberg speaks with Bobbie Johnson about his transition from the big screen to the small – the movie giant's second computer game is out soon, and we find out if he's planning to turn his camera in for a controller on this week's show.We also look at the technologies that get us to and fro, from the chips that give us accurate bus times to the mobile phones that feed back about traffic jams on the motorway.We also look at this week's top stories which include the launch of Wolfram Alpha and the French government passing a "three strikes" law, and we rifle through your feedback.Finally, take note that Tech Weekly will be visiting Bristol this Friday – find out more and come tell us about your great projects...Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Palm has announced that its latest smartphone, the Pre, will go on sale from US mobile phone carrier Sprint-Nextel on 6 June. And it's possible that the company's future may hinge on its success.The new Palm Pre smartphone at the 2009 CES in January. Photograph: Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesSprint announced on Monday that the the Prewill cost $199.99 with a two-year service agreement and after a $100 mail-in rebate. The Pre also has an inductive charging kit called the Touchstone, which will allow a user to charge the phone simply by placing it on the charger instead of having to plug it in. The Touchstone charging system will cost $70.Expectations for thePalm Pre might be higher than the iPhone, writes Dianne See Morrison at MocoNews, because its success is critical to both Palm and to carrier Sprint-Nextel. Buzz has been high around the launch with reviewers gushing about the phone anddevelopers also praising its ease of use, but while Palm has been struggling to remake itself and renew the shine on its technology, new competitors have come to market including Apple and Google. Bonnie Cha at CNET's News.com notes that the Pre will be released two days before Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference where industry watchers expect a new iPhone to be unveiled. She wonders whether buyers will hold off until they see what the newiPhone has to offer before considering the Pre.While expectations are high, the stakes couldn't be higher for Palm and Sprint. Despite creating the handheld market and having the Treo, one of the most popular early smartphones in the US, Palm has struggled in recent years from competition from major mobile companies, Microsoft's mobile efforts the mobile insurgent, Apple. The Pre is a make or break product for the company, and early reviews are positive both from technology journalists and developers writing applications for the new phone and platform. The Pre marks a complete break with Palm's past boasting a totally new operating system.But more than that, Palm's financial problems threaten to overwhelm it. In March it announced that itsthird-quarter revenues had fallen by 73%compared to the previous year, and that it had burned through $100m of cash in three months, leaving it with just $220m. If the Pre flops, Palm could be in dire straits.Sprint has its own problems: it has struggled as an also-ran in the US mobile market and also stumbled afterits acquisition of Nextel, announced in 2004. Though the third largest carrier in the US, it also suffers from ahigh rate of subscriber turnover.Paradoxically, success could be a mixed blessing for Sprint. If the device is too successful,it might strain its network and sour usersas the crush of early users of the iPhone strained AT&amp;Ts data network. But that will certainly be a problem that both companies will be only too glad to cope with.
The Labour MP and former minister Frank Field has put the scanned – though redacted – details of his parliamentary expenses online, as the fury over MPs' allowances continues.On his personal website atfrankfield.co.ukhe offers scans of the receipts, on which "sensitive" information such as bank account numbers, addresses and telephone numbers have been blacked out.That redaction, though, would make it impossible to know whether Field had "flipped" his main and second homes – which is the technique that has brought a number of MPs, including Hazel Blears, into disrepute.The form of the publication matches what had first been expected from the Commons fees office following a successful Freedom of Information demand last October, but which had been delayed without explanation until July.However, before that could be implemented, the full details of the expenses were leaked to the Daily Telegraph, which has published a series of damaging revelations over the past two weeks.Field is understood to be one of a number of MPs who are keen to have their expenses published. His expenses are unlikely to provoke a storm among his constituents: for the financial year from April 2007 to March 2008, his second home claim came to just £608.68 in mortgage payments. Overall, Field's total expense claim for 2008, of around £136,000, puts him below-average in costs.Field's release of his scanned versions – of which the Daily Telegraph will almost certainly have copies, without the redactions – also gives the public a glimpse of the complicated forms required to claim for expenses. In all, his "additional costs allowance" claim form takes 47 pages, his communications claim 23 pages, and the "incidental expenses provision" comprises 130 pages.The Tories have also begun publishing the ongoing expenditure by shadow cabinet members on the Conservative party website. However, none has so far published retrospective details of their accounts.Field, who has been the member for Birkenhead since 1979, served as minister for welfare reform in Tony Blair's first government, but was sacked after his ideas on pension and other reform proved too commercial.
If politicians want to effect economic recovery, national competitiveness, good public health and high civic engagement, they have a duty to keep the internet free and open. But politicians around the world seem willing to sacrifice their national interest to keep a few powerful phone and telcoms companies happy.Take the Telcoms Package now before the EU: among other things, the package paves the way for ISPs and Quangos to block or slow access to websites and services on an arbitrary basis. At the same time, ISPs are instituting and enforcing strict bandwidth limits on their customers, citing shocking statistics about the bandwidth hogs who consume vastly more resources than the average punter.Between filtering, fiddling connection speeds and capping usage, ISPs are pulling the rug out from under the nations that have sustained them with generous subsidies and regulation.Take filtering: by allowing ISPs to silently block access to sites that displease them, we invite all the ills that accompany censorship – Telus, a Canadian telcom that blocked access to a site established by its striking workers where they were airing their grievances. Around the world, ISPs co-operate with censorious governments in their mission to keep their citizens in the dark: for example, ISPs in the United Arab Emirates are blocking access to stories about a UAE royal family member who was video-recorded torturing a merchant with whom he had a business dispute. As a matter of policy, Transport for London isn't allowed to block us from riding the tube to a rally in support of striking transit workers; British Gas doesn't turn our heat off if they suspect we're housing a benefits cheat; and BT doesn't divert our phone calls if we're ringing up a competitor to change carriers. Giving an ISP censorship powers — and then layering censorship in secrecy and arbitrariness — we make the internet a less trustworthy and less useful place to be.ISPs would also like to be able to arbitrarily slow or degrade our network connections depending on what we're doing and with whom. In the classic "traffic shaping" scenario, a company like Virgin Media strikes a deal with Yahoo to serve its videos on a preferential basis, and then slows its customers' connections to Google, Hulu, and other videohosting sites to ensure that Virgin's videos are the quickest to load. As the Craigslist founder, Craig Newmark, said, this is like the phone company putting you on hold when your ring your local pizzeria, with a message inviting you to press one to be immediately connected to Domino's, its "preferred pizza partner".But the real action in network fiddling isn't the battle between giants such as Yahoo and Google. Both well-established, have armies of otherwise unoccupied "business development" people lying around, and are handily capable of fanning out across the globe and buying lunch for their opposite numbers at every telcoms operator on the planet. The real victims of network discrimination are the nimble little startups, the firms that are in the same position today that Google was in 10 years ago when it consisted of a few marginally funded hackers and some taped-together hardware under a desk.Google needn't be the last Google. It needn't be the last firm to emerge from the fevered imagination of two bright kids and turn the world on its ear. And it need not always come from Silicon Valley. Just as Research in Motion was able to take the world by storm from Waterloo, Ontario; just as Moo.com was able to conquer the world's business-card needs from Clerkenwell, so, too could the next remarkable startup emerge from the UK.Unless, that is, the cost of entry into the market goes up by four or five orders of magnitude, growing to encompass the cost of a horde of gladhanding negotiators who must first secure the permission of gatekeepers at the telcoms giants. In that case, only the least experimental, safest, lowest-risk/lowest-return firms will be capitalized, because no one wants to take a big plunge on a risky proposition that could be stopped dead in its tracks by a phone company that's already given pole position to an incumbent.Finally, there's the question of metered billing for ISP customers. The logic goes like this: "You have a 20Mbs connection, but if you use that connection as though it were unmetered, you will saturate our bandwidth and everyone will suffer." ISPs like to claim that their caps are "fair" and that the majority of users fit comfortably beneath them, and that only a tiny fraction of extraordinary bandwidth hogs reach the ceiling.The reality is that network usage follows a standard statistical distribution, the "Pareto Distribution," a power-law curve in which the most active users are exponentially more active than the next-most-active group, who are exponentially more active than the next group, and so on. This means that even if you kick off the 2% at the far right-hand side of the curve, the new top 2% will continue to be exponentially more active than the remainder. Think of it this way: there will always be a group of users in the "top 2%" of bandwidth consumption. If you kick those users off, the next-most-active group will then be at the top. You can't have a population that doesn't have a ninety-eighth percentile.But the real problem of per-usage billing is that no one – not even the most experienced internet user – can determine in advance how much bandwidth they're about to consume before they consume it. Before you clicked on this article, you had no way of knowing how many bytes your computer would consume before clicking on it. And now that you've clicked on it, chances are that you still don't know how many bytes you've consumed. Imagine if a restaurant billed you by the number of air-molecules you displaced during your meal, or if your phone-bills varied on the total number of syllables you uttered at 2dB or higher.Even ISPs aren't good at figuring this stuff out. Users have no intuition about their bandwidth consumption and precious little control over it.Metering usage discourages experimentation. If you don't know whether your next click will cost you 10p or £2, you will become very conservative about your clicks. Just look at the old AOL, which charged by the minute for access, and saw that very few punters were willing to poke around the many offerings its partners had assembled on its platform. Rather, these people logged in for as short a period as possible and logged off when they were done, always hearing the clock ticking away in the background as they worked.This is good news for incumbents who have already established their value propositions for their customers, but it's a death sentence for anything new emerging on the net.Between these three factors – reducing the perceived value of the net, reducing the ability of new entrants to disrupt incumbents, and penalizing those who explore new services on the net – we are at risk of scaring people away from the network, of giving competitive advantage to firms in better-regulated nations, of making it harder for people to use the net to weather disasters, to talk to their government and to each other.Telcoms companies argue that their responsibility is to their shareholders, not the public interest, and that they are only taking the course of maximum profitability. It's not their business to ensure that the Googles of tomorrow attain liftoff from the garages in which they are born.But telcoms firms are all recipients of invaluable public subsidy in the form of rights of way and other grants that allow them to string their wires over and under our streets and through our homes. You and I can't go spelunking in the sewers with a spool of cable to wire up our own alternative network. And if the phone companies had to negotiate for every pole, every sewer, every punch-down, every junction box, every road they get to tear up, they'd go broke. All the money in the world couldn't pay for the access they get for free every day.If they don't like it, they don't have to do it. But we don't have to give them our sewers and streets and walls, either. Governments and regulators are in a position to demand that these recipients of public subsidy adhere to a minimum standard of public interest. If they don't like it, let them get into another line of work – give them 60 days to get their wires out of our dirt and then sell the franchise to provide network services to a competitor who will promise to give us a solid digital future in exchange for our generosity.
It has taken Capcom 20 years to update this much-loved arcade game, and while it has retained the emphasis on shooting and using the grapple built into Nathan Spencer's bionic arm to swing around, it has ditched the side-scrolling, unsurprisingly, in favour of full 3D.This time around, there's an Escape From New York vibe, as Spencer is sent into Ascension City, which has been impressively decimated by a phenomenally powerful terrorist weapon. The environment is Bionic Commando's most impressive aspect – Ascension City is full of irradiated no-go areas and swaths of it are flooded (bad news when you have a heavy bionic arm), so you have to use ingenuity to get to your waypoints. Spencer's arm has some good moves, too – especially a grapple-kick, which is invaluable as ammo is in short supply and the shooting engine, frankly, is crap.It looks good, too, but feels generally soulless and generic. Hardcore gamers will like the advanced difficulty level, but novices will find it infuriating. A damp squib of a revival.
With the movie just out, Coraline the game is more a case of disappointment than delight. Visually striking and with atmospheric sound, once you get down to gameplay things head downhill at a frightening pace.It's your basic adventure game, built around collecting buttons and solving puzzles with occasional tests of aim or memory. These mini games make bizarre use of the Nunchuk and are more of a distraction than essential to completing the game. The button collecting, meanwhile, serves no purpose at all, leaving you with a load of stylised locations, frustratingly random AI and an instantly forgettable game. Even kids who loved the movie will be bored to tears.
Cheap but definitely not cheerful, Rock Revolution is a shoddy cash-in on the Guitar Hero/Rock Band genre. As with those games, you plug in your plastic instrument and strum/whack/sing away.Except you can't sing in this game. In fact, the only bright spot for Rock Revolution is that you can use most of your Guitar Hero/Rock Band instruments with the game. But don't get too excited. This is a mess of a game that screws up what makes the genre such fun. Weak cover versions instead of licenced tracks and lack of online options (tracks are only available to download on the Wii version) are one thing.But the biggest issue is the on-screen action. The flat on, rather than angled, view of the notes makes it very tricky to anticipate what is coming and, consequently, far more frustrating to play. Shoddy visuals don't help either, and if there were an actual revolution this game would be the first up against the wall.
Twitter has shown phenomenal growth recently but as user numbers and (presumably) costs increase, this merely highlights the old problem: How can Twitter make money?According to co-founder Biz Stone, Twitter is looking to offer "tools and services" rather than adverts. But "I'm not exactly sure what it's going to look like," he told Reuters Global Technology Summit in New York via a video feed from San Francisco (video). It could be "simple stuff" like verified accounts and "lightweight analytics" but "everything is going to remain free and open to everyone".Advertising is not the preferred option. "There are no people at Twitter who know anything about advertising or work in advertising. So we don't have anyone there to make or take those calls," said Stone.The Reuters story,Twitter sees tools, not ads, for revenue, says Twitter turned down "a $500 million acquisition offer from … Facebook last year", butStone said the company was not under any pressure by its investors to earn a profit in the near future. He also dismissed the notion of an initial public offering soon, saying the company was only two years old.Twitter has venture capital backing and has reportedly raised $35 million this year.As a Twitter user, I can think of lots of useful tools and services, but there are already dozens of applications and well over a hundred web sites offering them. Frankly, I'd rather Twitter solved some of its basic problems, such as the lack of validation, lack of support for open authentication (coming!), lack of a decent directory, lack of even the most primitive threading, lack of configurability (why only 20 messages per screen?), and all-round performance problems, to name but a few. But the fact that Twitter remains compelling for millions of people is a testament to the way it has tapped into the power of conversation….Trivia point: Reuters asked Biz where the nickname came from.The blog says: "Christopher Isaac Stone said his parents first began calling him Biz when he mispronounced Christopher, saying 'Biz-ah-bah' instead." It can cause problems when travelling because his passport is still in his real name.
It has become one of the staples of modern, hi-tech life: using satellite navigation tools built into your car or mobile phone to find your way from A to B. But experts have warned that the system may be close to breakdown.US government officials are concerned that the quality of the Global Positioning System (GPS) could begin to deteriorate as early as next year, resulting in regular blackouts and failures – or even dishing out inaccurate directions to millions of people worldwide.The warning centres on the network of GPS satellites that constantly orbit the planet and beam signals back to the ground that help pinpoint your position on the Earth's surface.The satellites are overseen by the US Air Force, which has maintained the GPS network since the early 1990s. According to a study by the US government accountability office (GAO), mismanagement and a lack of investment means that some of the crucial GPS satellites could begin to fail as early as next year."It is uncertain whether the Air Force will be able to acquire new satellites in time to maintain current GPS service without interruption," said the report, presented to Congress. "If not, some military operations and some civilian users could be adversely affected."The report says that Air Force officials have failed to execute the necessary steps to keep the system running smoothly.Although it is currently spending nearly $2bn (£1.3bn) to bring the 20-year-old system up to date, the GAO – which is the equivalent of Britain's National Audit Office – says that delays and overspending are putting the entire system in jeopardy."In recent years, the Air Force has struggled to successfully build GPS satellites within cost and schedule goals," said the report. "It encountered significant technical problems … [and] struggled with a different contractor."The first replacement GPS satellite was due to launch at the beginning of 2007, but has been delayed several times and is now scheduled to go into orbit in November this year – almost three years late.The impact on ordinary users could be significant, with millions of satnav users potential victims of bad directions or failed services. There would also be similar side effects on the military, which uses GPS for mapping, reconnaissance and for tracking hostile targets.Some suggest that it could also have an impact on the proliferation of so-called location applications on mobile handsets – just as applications on the iPhone and other GPS-enabled smartphones are starting to get more popular.Tom Coates, the head of Yahoo's Fire Eagle system – which lets users share their location data from their mobile – said he was sceptical that US officials would let the system fall into total disrepair because it was important to so many people and companies."I'd be surprised if anyone in the US government was actually OK with letting it fail – it's too useful," he told the Guardian."It sounds like something that could be very serious in a whole range of areas if it were to actually happen. It probably wouldn't damage many locative services applications now, but potentially it would retard their development and mainstreaming if it were to come to pass."The failings of GPS could also play into the hands of other countries – including opening the door to Galileo, the European-funded attempt to rival America's satellite navigation system, which is scheduled to start rolling out later next year.Russia, India and China have developed their own satellite navigation technologies that are currently being expanded.
The early week edition of the gaming news we've handpicked from around the web.• EU Proposal Could Stifle Developer Creativity &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• Take-Two Sues Duke Nukem Maker: adding insult to injury &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• And Yet It Moves Developer Claims 95.5% Piracy Rate &gt;&gt;indiegames.com• 41% of all PC software is pirated &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Showcase Lowdown: Academic papers on games and web from AHRC-BBC &gt;&gt;bbc.co.uk• Metaplace is now in open beta &gt;&gt;raphkoster.com• Game Studies - Issue 0901, 2009: EverQuest 10 years later &gt;&gt;gamestudies.org• How David Beats Goliath — a lesson in game design: Raph argues that Malcom Gladwell's article be applied for gamers &gt;&gt;raphkoster.com• LOGIN 2009 keynote: gaming in the world of 2030 (SciFi author Charles Stross predicts the future) &gt;&gt;antipope.orgFollow us ondelicious.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
