"I have icefire in my veins."Anna Anthropy tells me this as we sit down for an interview at the Game Developers' Conference in San Francisco. Such a declaration is not out of character for the prolific video game designer and author. Most of her games, such as Mighty Jill Off, Sex Cops of Tickle City, Encyclopaedia FuckMe and Lesbian Spider-Queens From Mars explore the intersection of sadism, gender and sex, subjects usually avoided by mainstream games. After I interview her, she will go to theMad As Hell: Hothead Developers Rant Back session, where her fire-cleansing riffs on my poem Romero's Wives will leave me shaken and emotional and the Moscone Centre all but burnt down.And yet, Anna is not always the fierce dominatrix some people paint her: she is warm, loyal and supportive to those people she believes in. A transgender woman herself, she is quick to take the underdogs under her wing, be they queer, a woman, a person of colour - I have even seen her embrace the occasional bearded male indie game developer. Before she read my poem – a listing of the injustices against women in the games industry – to the crowds at GDC, she addressed me as her friend, and I have only met her in person twice. It's an honour to be accepted by someone I consider such a revolutionary mind.Anna's bookThe Rise of the Videogame Zinestersis a call to arms for people who have never tried to express themselves through the video game medium before. Part autobiographical and part information-disseminating, it takes the reader through various different ways to approach game making and game design, and encourages people to express their unique voice through games, just like Anna does in her work. Anna the provocateur looks at me with that wry twinkle in her eye. "The reason I wrote that book is because I feel like video games need more voices and more people creating them. Video games are... very homogenous, and they are very alienating, and very hard to look at without... vomiting?" She grins mischievously at me. "And so I absolutely think that queer people and people of colour, and people who are outside the nerd status quo need to be involved in making games."Much of Anna's work has been done in the freeware versions ofGame Makerand the html text adventure generatorTwine. They have brought hope and power to those who have felt alienated or bored by the explosions, dudebros and gun violence of the triple A scene, encouraging diverse people to make games about themselves for themselves.I ask if the tools available for game making these days are helping her vision along, bringing more voices into the fold. "Definitely. This last year since the book has been out, people have really adopted Twine, which is a free tool for making text games. And aside from being free, it's really not programming at all – if you can write a story, you can make a Twine game. A lot of people have been making all this weird amazing stuff. Someone made a Twine game, In Memoriam, for his dead brother. Someone made a Twine game about what it's like to come out as bi in a lesbian community and be re-closeted. Someone made a game about what it's like to sacrifice to the devil and receive a strange new pneumatic body with which you take over the world. Twine is this amazing queer and woman-orientated game-making community that didn't even exist a year ago."But are there strong artistic reasons for using Twine as a game making tool? Twine often has the author's voice come through very strongly because the working machinery of it is entirely constructed by one person and their words, whereas larger games such as the newly released Bioshock: Infinite have hundreds working on the game's thematic message to the player. "The problem with games in general," Anna says, "is that mainstream games are really depersonalised. They don't really tell us a lot about the human condition. I mean, they can tell us about a small slice of the human condition, which is shooting aliens in the face… Or shooting other people in the face. But really I don't… even in that area I feel like they don't really tell us that much. I think that what I want to see more of in games is the personal – games that speak to me as a human being, that are relatable, which is the opposite of the big publisher games that I see. People who are creating personal games aren't hundred-person teams, they are people working at home, making games with free software of their own experiences."Of note this year at GDC was one such person,Richard Hofmeier, who spent years developing his personal masterpieceCart Life. This year Anna's autobiographical game about hormone therapy,Dys4ia, was nominated for theIndependent Games Festival's 'Excellence in Narrative' and 'Nuovo' awards, though Cart Life ended up sweeping through the ceremony like a tidal wave. Afterwards, Hofmeier graffitied his own stand at the IGF Pavilion with 'Howling Dogs', the title of a critically lauded Twine text game from indiegam.es curator, Porpentine. He feltHowling Dogshadn't received enough exposure. It was a punk rock act of community support, a rock and roll passing of the guitar, a call for indie to help indie. People could play Howling Dogs at the Cart Life stand for the rest of GDC.Money is a big issue when it comes to developing games. Anna sees Twine as part of redressing a balance that was tipping towards expensive software only available to large companies. "It's a big deal that Twine is free," she deliberates, slowing down slightly. "Any obstacle, however small, to making games will put off a lot of people. If you look at something like Game Maker, which is another tool for making games, that tool now costs a hundred bucks. And in the past there have always been free versions available, and the new free version of that puts a watermark on every game made unless you pay the hundred dollars."And I guess that's so sad, that they've taken what could have been a life-changing tool for a lot of people, and denied them access to it. Gatekeeping is a big problem. On one hand we have a game industry where budgets for games are often in the millions and billions of dollars, which essentially guarantees that marketers have the last say over everything that is allowed. On the other hand, we have people who are making free games on their own time, but who are barred access from basic means of getting things out there because they simply can't afford to. I mean I wouldn't have been in the IGF this year if a friend hadn't been able to pay the $95 for me. Because I simply can't afford to spend $95 on a gamble."Merritt Kopas, a writer and Twine developer, joins us briefly. "For most of my adult life I had assumed that first of all there were no games being made by individual people, and specifically that there were no games being made by queer people for queer people. So finding out that that was something people could do and were doing was incredibly exciting. I suddenly saw a space for myself to do a thing that I'd wanted to since I was a kid. Someone can just make a game like they would make a poem or a sketch… A game that's a sketch. That's really powerful."  Are Anna and Merritt planning to collaborate, I ask?  They burst into laughter. "We're dating!" Anna says. "So I guess sort of…"My final question is one of culpability. I ask Anna if she feels responsible for the so-called 'Twine Revolution', for how popular it has become? She smiles. "I don't… want to be a leader. I'd rather have a movement in which everyone is the leader. Somehow I have ended up being a really visible representation of some marginalised people in games. But I would really, really love to not have to be the most visible person for those groups in games. This GDC feels really tremendously different… Because I don't feel like I really am the only one. Watching Porpentine speak was really incredible."Though Anna seems reluctant to take the mantle of protagonist in this sense, it seems that her most important role in the games industry is her belief in community, auteurship, and her selfless support for marginalised perspectives. With her help, the games industry can look forward to a whole host of exciting new voices to embrace in future.Anna's new work, Star Wench – a choose your own adventure book about various spectacular ways to die – has just been released. You can find out about her other gameshere. Merritt has awebsite full of Twine games and musings, and Porpentine's Twine games can be foundhere.
There is an increasingly valid question emerging from the more experimental fringes of the interactive entertainment sector: what exactly is a video game? What are the essential components? And where does gaming meet simple social interaction – or even theatre? With experimental 'social gaming' projects such asJohann Sebastian Joustand physical interaction concepts like Bennett Foddy's climbing simulator,Mega Girp, the display is fading into the background, or even being removed altogether. So when does a video game become, well, a game?London-based studioHide&amp;Seekhas always pushed and prodded at this question. Its output has ranged from live urban gaming events to treasure hunts to Facebook titles, and it has won various awards in the process. It has also happily taken up interesting commercial and client projects, one of which,99 Tiny Games, placed the rules for a series of playful social participations around London as part of the city's 2012 festival. Now the team has expanded that project – into what could be one the most interesting smartphone gaming concepts ever devised. That's as long as their Kickstarter campaign, which finishes on Friday, makes its target – which is a familiar refrain in today's games industry where increasing numbers of small studios are turning to crown funding sites for financial backing.So okay, here's the concept. Tiny Games is essentially a huge collection of, erm, tiny games, provided on an iPhone app and designed to be played in a variety of social situations. They're not actually games as such, but rule systems, which facilitate play. So if you're in a pub, one game named Chip Stew challenges players to construct the most revolting dish possible out of words on the menu. Whoever comes up with the least appetising concept wins. "The 'baby' in 'baby carrots' lends all kinds of possibilities," says studio director Alex Fleetwood, as we chat about the project in the pub next to his office in Farringdon. "Salad with mashed baby, for example. But there are more cerebral games as well"Participants work out their own scoring systems, the smartphone application (and you only ever need one phone to play) merely provides the ideas. It's like carrying around a collection of Victorian parlour games – except the Tiny Games take advantage of modern social settings and contexts. They're amusing, raucous and inventive and the concept was heartily embraced by attendees at the recent Game developers Concept in San Francisco - so much so that the team has been able to call on a series of veteran designers such as Robin Hunickie (the producer of Journey) and Broken Sword creator Charles Cecil to contribute their own concepts to the collection.So how did the idea come about? Fleetwood sees it as a natural continuation of the team's work so far: "We've designed video games for the browser and for iOS, we've also designed tons of real-world events and festivals, and the studio is now merging those elements together into interesting and hopefully commercially sustainable ways. The problem with real-world events is, if you can't be there at the right time, you miss out. The 99 Tiny Games format was a way to address that. It was an invitation to real-world social play, it was about combining the words on our posters and the place to create a game."Transfering the concept to smartphone seemed like an obvious evolution. "We're super aware that your smartphone is 'in the world'," says Fleetwood. "The heritage of video game design tends to assume an intimate relationship between person and phone screen and that everything beyond that is irrelevant to the design. But we're interested in the fact that you can hand your phone around, you can run with it, and it knows what time of day it is and it knows where you are. There's a ton of stuff these devices are doing that are affordances for designers. And we wanted to make use of them."And why Kickstarter as a funding model? The site, which allows users to fund creative projects with donations, has produced some huge success stories, but studios now seem to be finding it harder to attract a committed base of paying fans. "We really want to combine client work with games written directly for an audience," says Fleetwood. "The advantage of crowd funding over investor funding is that we can take more risks, there's no one pressuring us to deliver a return on investment, it allows us to be open and discursive in considering what the game is. Tiny Games is based around some hard lessons we've learned about what it is we're best suited to making – it is about real-world play, it's distinctive, and there's not a lot of  competition in the real-world smartphone gaming market."In a somewhat symbolic gesture, we then spend the next few minutes attempting to come up with an acronym for this new genre. "SMERGAP?" attempts Fleetwood. "Smartphone Enabled Real-World Game… the 'W' is a problem… wait, Reality Game! There you go, SPERG!" But he checks himself almost immediately. "No forget all that, we've only just got away from ARGs, let's not bring in a new gaming acronym – it's death to a wider audience."So we chat about the commercial plans for the game. If it hits its Kickstarter fund, it's likely the concept will launch with around 300 games, and if that works out, it will be followed by a series of themed packages: Tiny Games for the Home, Tiny Games for Public Transport, Tiny Games for the Pub… "Some will be chosen by our backers," says Fleetwood. "Current favourites are Tiny Games for Waiting Rooms and Tiny Games for In Bed. But I also really want to do Tiny Games for Kids, Tiny Games for Weddings, Tiny Games for the Beach… that all plays to our strengths as a studio: not all of us can write code, but we can all design tiny games. It's become part of our culture over the last year - we've designed hundreds and we pretty much design a new one every day. And you've got to have an endless content strategy to maintain interest and awareness; you've always got to be reaching out to new audiences."The current format is also open to modification and renewal. "There's a giant roadmap of features we'd like to put in Tiny Games," says Fleetwood. "I'd like to pull in different APIs, so we could have music games that use Sound Cloud and picture games that pull in stuff from Flickr, and social games that use your Facebook account. Once you start thinking about the smartphone not just as a purveyor of on-screen information but as something that's hooked up to the internet, lots of fun stuff starts to become possible. We're really interested in [co-operative party game]SpaceTeam, we're interested in networking devices together and the play opportunities manifested there. There's a bunch of stuff around local networking, leagues and social groups; maybe unlocking a range of games that are darker or more challenging that you have to play your way towards. The idea of being able to customise the experience is really interesting."I love the idea of video games as facilitators of social fun; as almost theatrical things. We've seen glimpses of this in the past; Dance Dance Revolution in the arcades, Sing and Guitar Hero at home – and we've also seen the ability of smartphone games to unite social media users and gamers: the explosions of popularity with titles like Scrabulous and Draw Something, for example. There is a sense that creativity, friendship and competition can all be combined by video games, or at least game-capable devices, into engaging new forms of entertainment, which don't necessarily rely on everyone constantly watching a screen – we're just notquitethere yet."The idea of video games as escapism is only one part of it all," says Fleetwood. "It's an important idea - I love getting lost in something like Red Dead Redemption, that's never going to go away. But at the same time, the history of games before the video game era was about these situated social experiences with your family or your kids or your Bridge club, it was about the whole package. It's exciting that as video game design goes mobile, it starts to break down into civic space and real-world games. You can't pull those two things apart as easily as you once could. I believe that spending five years doing interesting things with games in public spaces is going to turn out to be really useful for the next 5-10 years of mainstream video games."There's something truly fascinating in that. Sometimes I wonder whether the next big idea in game design won't be about a better form of representation on screen, but about games as a means of facilitation: the game as tool rather than focus. Perhaps the designer's role, which was always about creating this sense of a magic circle within the simulated world, will be to broaden that circle to encapsulate whole social spaces. For a while it looked like Johann Sebastian Joust may be a conceptual one-off, but then we had SpaceTeam and at the Launch conference in Birmingham on Tuesday, I also saw a new physical game named QuickDraw byGreenfly Studios, a sort of cowboy duel simulator in which groups of friends use PlayStation Move controllers as six-shooters, walking away from each other then turning and 'shooting' to see who has the fastest arm. The fun isn't so much in the game system as in the participation and theatre of it all.In the future, everything is going to be about the player rather than the designer. Game design is becoming more attuned to the emergent relationship between systems and participants; it will be more improvisational – and more 'social' in the truest sense of the word. I think maybe Tiny Games points us in that rather fascinating direction.The Tiny Games Kickstarter page ishere.
Audioboofounder Mark Rock is to leave the company on the 1 May, the Guardian has learned, after being increasingly sidelined as investors and a new chief executive took over day-to-day management of the social audio service.Several core users of the site have raised concern over the recent treatment of Rock, who officially launched the company in 2009 with funding from Channel 4's now defunct 4ip digital innovation fund.Investors brought in former Adify and Reality Digital executive Rob Proctor as chief executive in October 2012, when Rock was shunted to the role of president and asked not to work from company premises.In an email to staff late yesterday, Rock used a rambling analogy about shipbuilding to describe how Audioboo had begun as little more than a prototype, and become an increasingly polished product."I've spent four years crafting this vessel with you, piloting it away from the inhospitable shores from which it launched. We've nearly hit open seas. A time for a captain to take over. I have, after all, other ships to give shape to that are waiting for me."Rock said he would remain on the board of Audioboo and is still a significant shareholder. He is working on several other startup ideas, he said.Proctor clarified that he was brought in by Rock himself in consultation with the board and had asked the company to approve his suggested road map before accepting the job. He said he did not agree that Rock had been pushed aside, and that the founder himself had suggested the move to president."Mark founded the relationships with partners including the BBC and the Guardian but the feedback there had been around reliability and deliverability which organisations rely on," he said.He added that Rock had pushed the company through difficult early days with very limited funding, but that the board had been forced to limit his role."It was part of his ambassadorial role, signed off at board level, that we had a road map and product map to follow. Mark felt unable to fit into that structure and kept going directly to developers to get other work done, so the decision was taken that he should not be able to do that because it was slowing everything down."One colleague told the Guardian Rock's enthusiasm would be a loss to the company, while others hinted that the board and wanted to replace him with a more corporate and less volatile figure.Actor and presenterRobert Llewellynsaid he had used Audioboo to successfully launch two books. "Mark has always been helpful, unquestionably funny and occasionally very rude. He has the ability to make computery app things work very easily and the ability to talk to human being directly – two skills that rarely go hand in hand."Digital storymakerChristian Payne, who has used Audioboo intensively since it launched and posted around 1,500 audio stories, said Rock could be unconventional and even unprofessional. "All the best innovators are quirky and unconventional, and Mark would burn bridges and say what he thinks. But Mark was passionate and he listened to the community that helped make Audioboo what it is."Payne complained that the new management did not listen to users' requirements when creating the latest app and released an inferior update, and said he hoped that the service would be able to keep its soul in the rush to monetise its content. "These stories aren't just business assets, they are heartfelt stories, and if that creates the soul of a community then Audioboo has one of the biggest hearts on the internet. But how do you put ads on a story about someone's dad dying of cancer?"In ablog postPayne described Audioboo as "an ecosystem hanging in the balance".Audioboo, whose partners include the Guardian, the BBC and the Wall Street Journal, is accessible through a website and apps for multiple mobile platforms. Investors includeUBC Media, which has a 40.3% stake, as well as Simon Fuller's XIX Group, AudioGo and the angel investor Sir Don Cruickshank.
North Korea was behind the cyber attack in March that wiped hard drives on more than 30,000 PCs in TV stations and disrupted banks in south Korea, a spokesman for its internet security agency said on Wednesday, ratcheting up the tension between the two sides another notch.The agency said six computers in the north accessed computer servers in the south using more than a thousand access points on the internet, called IP addresses, based overseas. Those were then used toset up the attack.A spokesman told the Associated Press that the attack, planned up to eight months earlier, had similarities to past North Korean hacking attempts, which he said were carried out by an espionage agency run by the military there.That will raise concerns that even a minor conflict between the two nations could be presaged by a cyber attack aimed at critical infrastructure in the south, which is one of the most networked nations in the world – in stark contrast to the north, which is one of the least networked.North Korea has been using increasingly aggressive language in public statements: on Tuesday it warned foreigners to leave South Korea for "safe places", implying a nuclear war was imminent. The two nations have never signed a peace treaty; the three-year-long Korean war ended in a ceasefire, but not a peace treaty. They have thus remained at war despite the peace that has reigned since July 1953.The online realm has become the most active frontier in what is so far a phoney war between the two nations. North Korea's Twitter feed washacked last week, apparently by hackers from the Anonymous collective.The cyber attack in March was quickly linked to IP addresses in China by authorities in Seoul, who were already suspicious that North Korea was behind the attacks. PCs in broadcasters YTN, MBC and KBS had their hard drives wiped, while cash machines across the country were disabled and about 32,000 computers at two major commercial banks, Shinhan Bank and NongHyup Bank, were affected, according to South Korea's state-run Korea Internet Security.Soon after the attack security companies pointed to North Korea as the likely culprit, saying that the tools used for the incursion were outdated by modern hacking standards, and that the targets were not the kind that unaffiliated "hacktivists" would target.
A selection of gaming links hand-picked by the Guardian's games writers.Batman: Arkham Origins announced for PC, PS3, Wii U and Xbox 360 | EurogamerWarner Bros. has announced Batman: Arkham Origins for the PC, PlayStation 3, Wii U and Xbox 360. Next-generation consoles were not mentioned.Origins is the next game in the Arkham series, and follows the release of Arkham Asylum and Arkham City, according to a report by GameFocus.Those games were developed by Rocksteady. Origins is made by WB Games Montreal. Origins is set several years before the previous Arkham games, and sees the player assume the role of a younger Batman who meets many of the series' iconic characters for the first time.Also in development is a Nintendo 3DS and PlayStation Vita spin-off called Batman: Arkham Origins Blackgate. Both Arkham Origins and Blackgate will launch on 25th October 2013.Tearaway to release on Vita in October | VG247Sony has announced an October release date for Media Molecule's Tearaway, and it will release with adorable, reversible box art.Tearaway will be available at retail in and through PSN in North America on October 23, in Europe on October 23, in Australia &amp; New Zealand October 24, and in the UK on October 25.The Japanese video games market actually GREW in the last 12 months | MCVBen Parfitt:The Japanese video games market actually GREW in the last 12 monthsThe Japanese video games market grew by 1.2 per cent year-on-year for the 12 months ending March 31st.No, that is not a typo. It's the first annual growth the Japanese industry has reported in five years.Tech In Asia reports that the region's games market hit $4.6bn in the period. Software sells were still down, however, falling by 1.2 per cent to $2.8bn. It was a better story for hardware, though, which grew a whopping five per cent to $1.8bn.Certainly the likes of 3DS and to a lesser extent the Vita and PS3 have enjoyed a boom period over the last 12 months.The numbers are a welcome surprise and could offer hope to the struggling western markets.Asher Vollmer: Going IndependentVollmer's blog post explains his decision to leave ThatGameCompany and includes this enticing snippet:In addition to the emotional baggage, the New Game they're making isn't just something that you can casually abandon. Obviously I can't divulge any details about it, but… It's going to be huge. And I don't mean it's going to be a long sprawling game, I mean it's going to be an IMPORTANT game. I genuinely believe it's going to change the industry in a really positive way.EA Named 'Worst Company in America' Again | IGNEA has been named the "Worst Company in America" by Consumerist for the second year in a row. The publisher beat Bank of America with 78% of the vote to claim the title, which Consumerist refers to as the Golden Poo.Worst company in the US? I wonder whether the voters have seenthis?7 things Metal Gear Solid 5 should learn from MGS 4 | Official PlayStation MagazineSome fun Metal Gear chat from Official PlayStation, including a request for more interactivity in the narrative sections:Bioshock Infinite has recently shown you can wrap a game's narrative up in satisfying style without wrestling control away from the player. Booker and Elizabeth's tale plays out with the gamer firmly in control of Dewitt's actions, making the finale feel pleasingly interactive. Valve used to be the masters of unloading exposition while still allowing the player to move around freely. Kojima's camerawork may be stellar, but players will be much less restless if he throws the Foxhound among the chickens and hands over some degree of control during the 40 minute tearful reunions over a stogey.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
It's Wednesday.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Street View Hyperlapse &gt;&gt; Teehan+Lax LabsATeehan+Lax Labsexperiment for creating interactive Google Street View hyper-lapse animations.Learn more about this project.Simply fantastic. Like being a superhero who can fly.The tablet market Is fragmenting Into subcategories &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsJP Gownder:the automotive metaphor seems to have some value for a discussion of tablets. But does this similarity between the automotive industry and the tablet computing market mean that mean that the hardware space is destined to look like the automotive industry? That is, will it break into sub-markets (with "semi-nonsubstitutable" products) in which (for instance) "Sub-Compact Category Captures Almost 5% of Industry Sales" is a key headline? Following an automotive industry pattern, will tablets devolve into micro-niche categories instead of today's discrete form factors?The Empire acquires the rebel alliance: Mendeley users revolt against Elsevier takeover &gt;&gt; paidContentMathew Ingram:While the founders of the network maintain that they are committed to the "open access" movement, and argue that having Elsevier's resources will allow them toexpand their work and make it even more accessible, a number of high-profile users have said they aren't convinced that Elsevier has changed its stripes, and they are taking their work elsewhere.Watching brief on this one.How a trickle of BYOD costs can turn into a deluge &gt;&gt; CITEworldInvariably, the carriers give bigger discounts to these larger companies than what they grant to a single customer. They also offer different types of plans that allow the business users to roam internationally at greatly reduced rates -- sometimes even at a fixed rate. This compares to the $1-per-minute voice costs and $10 per 10MB that many individual users pay for when abroad. These numbers vary based on the size of the company, but it represents significant savings over what many companies are paying for today for personally liable devices.As each person who participates in BYOD does his or her own expenses, the cost difference doesn't seem like a lot. It's a slow leak, $10 or $20 a month. If an employee travels overseas only occasionally, you never really notice the $100 bill for roaming that he or she submits. It didn't seem like an issue; after all, the employee had to get business accomplished.Wouldn't businesses set up its own numbers (using virtual numbers) for the phones, and control the costs there?Why game developers are flocking to Sony and fleeing from Microsoft &gt;&gt; Wired.comThere's a war brewing for the hearts and minds of the videogame industry's independent developers. The weird thing is, Xbox doesn't seem interested in fighting it.Indies were once a fringe group of rogue developers who were often happy to get any sort of attention from a console manufacturer like Sony or Microsoft, but today they're an industry force that will help shape the next generation of games and gaming machines.A recent survey showed that 53% of developers self-identify as independent, and Sony is angling to get as many of them on PlayStation devices as possible.Windows Phone 8 will support 1080p displays by the end of the year &gt;&gt; The VergeTom Warren:Microsoft is planning to update Windows Phone 8 to support 1080p resolutions. Sources familiar with Microsoft's Windows Phone plans have revealed to The Verge that the company will issue an update later this year that brings support for the 1080p resolution and new 5-inch and higher devices. Windows Phone 8 currently supports WVGA, WXGA, and 720p resolutions.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Email client popularity &gt;&gt; Campaign MonitorEach time a subscriber opens an email sent with Campaign Monitor, we keep track of which email client they're using. Since 2009, we've measured email client popularity across many billions of emails and occasionally collate that data to show interesting trends in email client usage.Mobile email now in the lead Earlier this year, our friends at Return Path predicted that mobile was to surpass web and desktop client usage by July, 2012. We found that this event happened as early as February, when mobile overtook webmail client usage.The mail clients being used are surprising too. (Campaign Monitor says of its clients that "Today more than 700,000 designers, agencies and amazing companies of all shapes and sizes rely on Campaign Monitor to manage their email marketing. On any given week, we're lucky enough to add more than 5,000 new customers to this list.")TOPEKA: Apple Is going to release the iPhone 5S in 'at least' two screen sizes &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHowever, today, Brian White at Topeka Capital is injecting some life into the iPhone rumor mill. He says Apple could release a new iPhone with multiple screen sizes this year."After our meeting with a tech-supply chain company, we walked away with the view that Apple will release the iPhone 5S in at least two screen sizes this summer and possibly three," says White. He's on the seventh day of a tour of technology suppliers in China and Taiwan.Apple has been criticized for not making the iPhone's screen bigger. It made it taller last year, expanding the screen to 4in, up from 3.5in, but it's not enough. Compared to Samsung and HTC which make phones with 5in, and 4.7in screens, the iPhone feels pretty tiny.For some people, that's great. For other people, it would be nice to have a big iPhone.Apple already makes the iPhone in two screen sizes. Or does he mean three sizes?China complaining about Microsoft Surface warranty while Surface still well under warranty &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIn a Monday broadcast, China National Radio, a mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party, called on Microsoft to adjust its warranty on Surface to reflect local practices. The company currently offers a one-year parts-and-repair warranty on the tablet; Beijing believes it should also provide an additional two-year warranty on major parts.Things I won't work with: dioxygen difluoride &gt;&gt; In the Pipeline:A diversion into experimental inorganic chemistry. The scary sort:FOOF [dioxygen difluoride] is only stable at low temperatures; you'll never get close to RT [room temperature] with the stuff without it tearing itself to pieces. I've seen one reference to storing it as a solid at 90 Kelvin for later use, but that paper, a 1962 effort from A. G. Streng of Temple University, is deeply alarming in several ways. Not only did Streng prepare multiple batches of dioxygen difluoride and keep it around, he was apparently charged with finding out what it did to things. All sorts of things. One damn thing after another, actually.The things he added it to are terrifying. Also, why?? (Via XKCD.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google has reportedly had a $1bn bid to buy the smartphone messaging system WhatsApp rebuffed as it tries to expand its grasp of the chat market.The search giant said it would not comment on speculation, but Digital Trendsreportedsources saying both parties have been in discussions for weeks and the current offer is "close to $1bn".WhatsApp did not respond to requests for comment from the Guardian, though its business development chief Neeraj Arora toldAll Things Digitalthat the company is not holding sales talks with Google.But the denial will not quash the rumours. Arora was the former mergers and acquisitions chief at Google in 2010 when itmade an unsuccessful $6bn bidfor the then red-hot coupon company Groupon – only to be rebuffed. Groupon later went public. Arora's denial to All Things Digital did not say that sales talks between WhatsApp and Google had never taken place.The messaging service isreckoned to have more than 250m users worldwide, and sends more than 10bn messages daily. It works on all the smartphone platforms, where it provides a cross-platform messaging service that has proved hugely popular with teenagers. Its annual revenues from app sales and subscriptions are estimated at around $100m annually, and the pace of its growth would make a $1bn price tag comparatively cheap.Like Skype, which broke the mould by offering desktop-based internet telephony for free, Whatsapp lets smartphone users send messages, photos and videos over data connections rather than as paid-for texts. That "OTT" ("over the top" of the price barrier) nature has made it hugely popular with people on pay-as-you-go ("prepay") phones where text messages may be comparatively expensive but data allowances are relatively cheap.For Google, buying WhatsApp would give it access to huge amounts of data about who was talking to who – and could accelerate its Facebook-like Google+ service by adding a message-like element that was already extremely popular.The app costs £0.69p ($0.99) on the iPhone and is the most downloaded app in dozens of countries, threatening to undermine not just the telecoms companies which charge for texts, but also Facebook, which is currentlytesting a new charging systemfor messaging people outside a user's circle of friends.The rise of smartphone ownership globally is already making texting obsolete with users opting for free email or social media apps to communicate with friends and business colleagues.Whatsapp has been downloaded more than 100m times on Google Play and is one of the top apps on Apple's app store in several countries.It is one of a growing breed of apps offering instant messaging, including Snapchat, another popular service which allows users to send photos, which disappear once they are opened, for free.Founded in Silicon Valley by Jan Kuom and Brian Acton in 2009, Whatsapp has largely stayed out of the limelight with the word spreading virally about its merits.In 2011, the duo who met at Yahoo, reportedly secured $8m funding from Sequoia Capital, one of the Valley's top tech investors and backers of Dropbox and YouTube. Shortly after the company announced that it had hit the one billion messages a day barrier.Unlike Blackberry, which proved a hit with parents of teenagers because of its free BlackBerry Messenger instant messaging, Whatsapp is not preloaded onto phones. But its cross-platform nature makes it hugely useful for people using otherwise incompatible mobile operating systems.
Three British members of the hacktivist group LulzSec have pleaded guilty to carrying out cyber-attacks on the NHS, Sony and News International.Ryan Ackroyd, a 26-year-old from Mexborough in South Yorkshire, admitted plotting to hack into a string of websites, including those of 20th Century Fox and Arizona state police in the United States, as part of an eight-month campaign in 2011.He pleaded guilty to one computer hacking-related charge alongside fellow LulzSec members Jake Davis, 20, and 18-year-old Mustafa al-Bassam at Southwark crown court in London on Tuesday.Davis, from Shetland, and Bassam, a student from Peckham, south London, admitted conspiring to bring down the websites of law enforcement authorities in Britain and the US, including the CIA and the Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) between 1 February and 2 September 2011. They also pleaded guilty to attempting to break into computers run by the NHS, media giants Sony, 20th Century Fox and News International.The trio will be sentenced on 14 May along with a fourth hacker, Ryan Cleary, a 21-year-old from Wickford in Essex, who earlier pleaded guilty to six connected charges.Southwark crown court heard on Tuesday that Ackroyd adopted the persona of a 16-year-old girl, named "Kayla", in the hacking group LulzSec.Prosecutor Sandip Patel told the court: "He was the hacker, so to speak, they turned to him for his expertise as a hacker."Wearing blue Adidas tracksuit bottoms and a blue T-shirt, Ackroyd appeared alongside Davis in the glass-encased dock before Judge Deborah Taylor.Bassam, a student who turned 18 in January, was named for the first time as admitting his role in the computer hacking attacks, where he is believed to have used the name "Tflow". The teenager is reckoned to be the youngest to date to admit charges linked to LulzSec.The allegations each relate to an eight-month period in 2011 when the loose-knit hacktivist group targeted a number of websites run by well-known companies and police authorities across the world. The trio were arrested after the group's apparent leader,Hector Monsegur – known online as "Sabu"– was caught by the FBI and persuaded to turn informant.In the UK, each of the hackers charged by police in connection with attacks by LulzSec and original group Anonymous have now been convicted. Four Anonymous hackers, including a student and a church volunteer, weresentenced in January for their part in the online assaults.American prosecutors are pursuing charges against a number of people allegedly connected to the hacking groups, includingthe Reuters journalist Matthew Keys. Keys was indicted in California last month for allegedly conspiring with Anonymous members to hack into a website run by the publisher Tribune Company.
According to Microsoft, the great leap forward about Windows 8 is its ability to be used with a touchscreen. Where Windows 7 could be squeezed into touch devices, the onscreen targets became too small. With Windows 8, you have big "tiles" to aim for.But research due to be published soon suggests that users of touchscreen laptops may be at risk of developing health problems, because the hybrid devices can cause strain to the shoulder.While the rise in tablets and smartphones means that touchscreens have become almost ubiquitous, it's only recently that they've appeared on laptops, where the screen is generally used in a raised position beyond arm's length. But they're taking off fast: in the US, touchscreen models account for a quarter of current Windows 8 laptop sales, says NPD, and Windows 8 boss Julie Larson-Green has said she expects virtually all laptops to have touchscreens soon.Yet this is not the first time vendors have marketed vertical touchscreens. Back in 1983, HP launched the 150 Touchscreen desktop, saying it hoped to gain up to 22% of the US PC market with the machine. It didn't – partly, perhaps, because it was ahead of its time, but also because customers complained it was painful to use.In fact, according to many experts, using a touchscreen in a vertical position is very risky ergonomically. With touchscreen notebooks comparatively new, most research relates to desktops. But while the problems with notebooks may not be as extreme, they still apply.Indeed, Apple's Steve Jobs – not usually one to dismiss a pretty gadget on the grounds of uselessness – once said he'd never launch a touchscreen laptop because of what he called "gorilla arm"."We've done tons of user testing on this,"he said back in 2010, "and it turns out it doesn't work. Touch surfaces don't want to be vertical. It gives great demo, but after a short period of time you start to fatigue, and after an extended period of time, your arm wants to fall off."Studies have shown that users of desktop touchscreensreporta "significant increase of discomfort in the shoulder, neck and fingers; and that the electric signals from shoulder musclestell the same story."We concluded that the more frequent use of their hands and fingers in unsupported – arms were off the chair armrests – and stretched arm postures, which was necessary to perform touch gestures on the display, could be the main cause of their greater body discomforts," says Gwanseob Shin ofthe Urban National Institute of Science and Technologyin Korea.Indeed, health and safety regulations detail what's a safe weight to lift at various heights – and when the arm is raised to shoulder height, it's almost zero. "It depends on the weight of your arm, but just holding your arm up is tiring," says James Stewart, founder of ergonomics consultancy System Concepts.It is possible, of course, to position a laptop so that the screen is reachable without lifting the elbows from the desk; but this means bringing it much closer than most people find comfortable visually."The issue with the new tablets is that the visual and touch interface are integrated, so there is a tradeoff between visual access and reaching and touching the device," says Professor Jack Dennerlein of the Harvard School of Public Health, whose research on the subject is shortly to appear in the journalWork. "The vertical screen does increase the load on the shoulder when we reach out to interact with the touch."But there's little guidance for users from vendors. Microsoft's online advice on using a PC safely doesn't mention touchscreens at all – and, ironically, instructs users to avoid just those movements that a touchscreen notebook demands."To minimize reaching and to promote comfortable shoulder and arm postures, try the following: place your keyboard and mouse or trackball at the same height; these should be at about elbow level. Your upper arms should fall relaxed at your sides,"it reads.A company spokesperson said Microsoft had no advice for users about safe use of the Surface touchscreen, and no comment about possible health issues.Most experts agree that problems shouldn't become too severe as long as users are using a mixture of input devices – keyboard, touchscreen, trackpad and mouse – without relying on the touchscreen too heavily.And this is the advice given by HP, which describes its HP Envy x2 as a hybrid PC. "As people will be alternating the usage between the touch pad and keyboard we don't envisage any posture problem," says Udi Nachman, the company's UK &amp; Ireland consumer PCs category manager. He adds: "Our view is that the keyboard is still the primary interface method on laptops right now."However, says Avi Greengart, research director for consumer devices at analyst firm Current Analysis, some user interfaces make switching between input devices easier than others."Microsoft's Windows 8 can be used with both a mouse and a touchscreen," he says, "but the problem there is that Microsoft has not quite finished the user interface – some things can only be selected with a mouse, and some were clearly designed for finger navigation."His preference is Google's Chromebook Pixel, which is 'trackpad-first', but which still allows the user to scroll web pages or select tabs with their finger. "You can use the Chromebook Pixel without ever touching the screen," he says.But that, of course, rather defeats the object of buying a touchscreen machine in the first place...
Tiger Woods recently regained the world number one spot after years of golfing underperformance and the emergence of serious challengers such as Rory McIlroy. EA's gaming series, whoever, has largely escaped the performance dips of its namesake. Last year's iteration disappointed some with its lack of new features, but its central playing experience remained unrivalled. This year builds on that quiet evolution but also brings a wealth of new and exciting additions, with its Legends of the Majors mode alone making it a worthwhile purchase.The change that makes the most immediate impact on play is shot shaping. By pushing and pulling the right stick diagonally you can now commit fades and draws, significantly enhancing control. It's a tough skill to master, but do so and it will enable you to manoeuvre out of the trickiest of tree-ridden spots. It also ties in with a wider attempt to tailor individual golfers to different playing styles. If you're the type to power the ball down the fairway with a low trajectory, you can now do precisely that, taking the hit to accuracy that inevitably accrues.Otherwise, the core driving mechanics remain largely unaltered, with your shot's quality largely determined by the speed and accuracy with which the left stick is pulled back and pushed forward. Should you want it – and every aid can be disabled if you're a masochist – there's a wealth of instant feedback on this to help you improve, so you have nobody to blame but yourself should you continue to shank it into the bunkers.Putting is a different story. Whereas sinking the ball was almost too easy in 2012, here it's an initially frustrating experience. Getting a lie of the green is tricky and you almost always need to apply more power to the putt than your meter suggests. Simple practice overcomes these irritations, but the long game's intuitiveness only underlines the flaws when you reach the green.Thankfully, there are a lot of outstanding courses to practice on. The 20 on offer are all rendered in sumptuous detail – the game looks better than ever – and for the first time they are also available at night. Playing with a glowing ball under a full moon on a still night at Augusta is an unparalleled experience, eerily but brilliantly different to a daytime jaunt. You can also opt to play courses "live", offering the opportunity to experience a Californian downpour or sunrise without actually going there. Should you still exhaust every course, there's plenty more available for download at a price.Tiger Woods PGA Tour 14: includes LPGA golfers such as Lexi ThompsonThe online marketplace can equally play a role in your career progression, although here it feels a tad more oppressive. Creating an avatar from scratch and watching them rise through the ranks remains a joy – with LPGA careers a welcome addition – but levelling up can be slow. When combined with the fact that even basic clothing is locked at the outset, the temptation to financially dope with real world cash is all too pressing. But persevere, as improving your swing and unlocking new features are ultimately the most rewarding aspect of what the game has to offer.Nowhere is this more apparent than in the Legends of the Majors mode, which offers a series of historical challenges dating back to 1873 and the first championship at St Andrews, complete with period clothing and sepia-coloured presentation. It provides a glorious history of the game as you progress up to the present day, teeing off against the likes of an uncannily (re)animated Seve Ballesteros along the way. Sometimes the scenarios are a little incongruous, such as when playing with McIlroy before he was born, but the tone is good-natured and it's amusing to see him performing better with ancient clubs than he has with his new Nikes. The only disappointment is the lack of era-appropriate commentary, with introductions to each challenge from Jim Nantz and David Feherty the best you get.Tiger Woods PGA Tour 14: you too can tee off against Seve BallesterosThe commentary in the game is generally one of its weakest points, with contributions both rare and repetitive, while the music is unobtrusive to the point of irrelevance. If there's an aspect to the series that continues to drag then it's undoubtedly audio, but it says much for the rest of its qualities that I'm picking on it.Mostly, it's a case of subtle improvements across the board. This is best seen online, where country club memberships have been expanded to 100 players and you can now face up to 24 opponents at a time, with each shot represented in a ghostly arc, ensuring there's no need to wait your turn. Another year of such refinements, rather than significant development in playing style, and fans will justifiably start to get restless. But for now they add up to a richly rewarding gaming experience and, together with the variety of modes on offer, they make Tiger Woods PGA Tour the undisputed world number one.• Reviewed on a PlayStation 3
Channel 4's recent Dogging Tales documentary was a word-of-mouth hit in the UK, thanks partly to word-of-mouth recommendations on Twitter as it aired.Twitter's head of broadcast partnerships in the UK, Dan Biddle, used the show as a key example of how television can benefit from Twitter buzz in his speech at the MIPCube conference in Cannes, urging broadcasters to "think about programming Twitter as you programme your channel".Biddle showed tweets from celebrities and normal viewers alike to show how they had reacted to Dogging Tales as it aired. "Twitter went mad," he said. "People were turning over because the stuff coming out of Twitter was so amusing."Biddle also praised deodorant brand Lynx for its swift reaction to one of the characters in the documentary's claim that Lynx was his fragrance of choice when out dogging.Rather than panicking about the negative publicity, the official Lynx Effect Twitter accounttweeted"Good choice of fragrance over on @Channel4 - guaranteed to get a bit more attention, whatever the situation..! #DoggingTales"It then followed up the next morning with a spoof photo of Lynx's social media team holding "crisis meetings" wearing masks similar to the doggers in the documentary.‘Crisis meetings’ all morning thanks to Les in#DoggingTaleslast night… We’ve concluded there is no crisistwitter.com/lynxeffect/sta…&mdash; The Lynx Effect (@lynxeffect)April 5, 2013"The key was Lynx was here [on Twitter] and Lynx also found the jokes after the show, and saw this is something we can make something out of," said Biddle. "Twitter provides that opportunity to reach out and join your audience."Mobile has been an important part of the Twitter activity around TV shows. Biddle noted that 60% of Twitter's 200m active users access the service by mobile, but that this percentage stands at 80% in the UK."40% of tweets in the UK during peak-time television hours are about television. Twitter is the room that we're watching television in," said Biddle, who cited chief executive Dick Costolo's previous claims thatTwitter is a reinvention of the town square."If you imagine that town square, when you're watching television, Twitter has rolled up the biggest sofa you can imagine, and everyone is sitting on it together."Much of Biddle's presentation focused on examples of how British broadcasters and producers have incorporated Twitter into their shows.They spanned the BBC's Question time launching a second @BBCExtraGuest Twitter account for an offscreen guest to livetweet each episode; ITV2 quoting fans' tweets during the ad breaks for The Only Way is Essex; and Ant and Dec getting followers to suggest their opening poses for each episode of Saturday Night Takeaway."They get the audience to do stuff before the show, and get people talking about the show before the show, because they see the value in that," said Biddle. "It's a really great way of engaging with the audience."Biddle also suggested broadcasters should display the Twitter username for a show alongside its hashtag on-air – "you don't see the username as often, it's very strange. If you can get someone to follow you, you can take them across the week, the month…" – but said the hashtag remains "the campfire around which everybody tells stories".There is, needless to say, a certain amount of self-interest here. Twitter isn't the only online destination broadcasters are promoting to their viewers – think Facebook pages, official websites, catch-up TV services and more.Biddle's talk unsurprisingly didn't give advice on how broadcasters can juggle these different messages, or what kind of interaction works best on the various platforms.Biddle did praise Channel 4 show Hugh's Fish Fight, a documentary starring Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall which aimed to change the way supermarkets source their fish, and the awareness of their customers.He showed a clip of Fearnley-Whittingstall encouraging his audience to tweet at Tesco, Morrisons and The Co-operative Food using the hashtag #fishfight during an advertising break ("If they won't talk to me, maybe they'll talk to you… Let's get #fishfight trending in this commercial break").Biddle said that this single call to action sparked 16,139 tweets in that commercial break, as part of more than 40k over the course of the day the programme aired."The show was made more active, and given more sense of 'this is what people are doing, people care about this, people are passionate about this'," he said.Biddle also showed an example of a broadcaster making money from its tweets. ESPN tweets out clips of key moments from college American football games as they air, and partnered with Ford to run short pre-roll ads, with Ford then also paying Twitter to promote the tweets."This key moment is shareable and spreadable. They [ESPN] know somebody else is going to do it if they don't, so they might as well be first to market, and have their brand attached to it," said Biddle.He finished by suggesting that for TV shows that aren't live, producers and broadcasters should be aware of the moments that may be most popular on Twitter, and plan accordingly.He stressed that this doesn't involve changing the show itself, but more preparing photos or video clips that can be tweeted as that moment airs."That's the sweet spot. That's the tweet spot," said Biddle, citing a tweet from the BBC Nature account about an elephant refusing to abandon her dead baby – a pivotal moment in one episode in the recent Africa wildlife series."She won't abandon her baby."#Africatwitter.com/BBCNature/stat…&mdash; BBC Nature (@BBCNature)January 9, 2013"Think about programming Twitter as you programme your channel," he concluded. "There are patterns of activity around it."This article was amended on 10 April to reflect the fact that Tesco, not Sainsbury's, was one of the three supermarkets targeted by the Hugh's Fish Fight show.
Google's provision of its Android operating system for free is anti-competitive "predatory pricing", according to a complaint filed with European regulators by Fairsearch Europe, a group whose members include bitter rival Microsoft.The groupsaysAndroid is "a deceptive way to build advantages" which aims to "dominate the mobile marketplace and cement its control over consumer internet data for online advertising as usage shifts to mobile".The complaint comes as the European commission's antitrust chief, Joaquín Almunia, continues an investigation into Google's dominance in search that has ground on for more than two years without any clear action. The EC competition group has raised four principal objections to Google's activities in Europe – normally a precursor to regulatory action.The Guardian understands that Almunia's team has also been considering whether to include Android in any settlement with Google, but had not reached any definitive answer. Almunia declined to comment on Monday about the complaint but said that he would be receiving proposals this week from Google on how to settle the EC's objections.Android-powered phones make up about 70% of those shipped in Europe at present, though a smaller amount of the installed base. Microsoft's Windows Phone makes up around 5%.Predatory pricing complaints accuse a company of providing a product at below cost in order to drive rivals out of the market. Only Google and Microsoft provide licensed mobile OSs; the other principal players, Apple and BlackBerry, do not license theirs. Nokia has ceased licensing its Symbian operating system.In the Fairsearch complaint, Thomas Vinje, a lawyer acting for the group, says: "Google is using its Android mobile operating system as a 'Trojan horse' to deceive partners, monopolise the mobile marketplace, and control consumer data. We are asking the commission to move quickly and decisively to protect competition and innovation in this critical market. Failure to act will only embolden Google to repeat its desktop abuses of dominance as consumers increasingly turn to a mobile platform dominated by Google's Android operating system."A Google spokesman responded: "We continue to work co-operatively with the European commission."Fairsearch Europe includes 17 companies, including Microsoft, Expedia, Nokia, Oracle and TripAdvisor – all rivals in some way to Google's position, or who have seen their positions eroded by its growth.Google provides Android for free, undercutting Microsoft's paid-for Windows Phone mobile software that companies including Microsoft, HTC and Samsung use. To achieve "registration" with Google, the phonemaker must include Google apps, such as its Play store, YouTube video and Mail app. But that is not obligatory, and around a quarter of all Android-based phones shipped every quarter are not registered with Google; almost all of those are sold in China, where Google's search engine is not licensed by the government.Handset makers who sign up to provide Google-approved apps face certain restrictions on how they can offer Android without Google services. In September 2012 it blocked Acer from offering a smartphone with China's Alibaba service on the basis that the OS being offered on the phone was an "incomplete" version of Android that would fragment the system.
EE is to double the speed of its 4G network in 10 cities this summer, giving the UK one of the fastest mobile internet services in the world.Smartphones will be able to transmit high-definition video as fast as fibre optic wires when EE turns up the dial, with the theoretical speed rising to 130Mbps, leading to a top rate of 80Mbps outside of the laboratory, faster than any current application requires.The move, made possible by doubling the amount of airwaves used to carry 4G, will put the UK well ahead of the US and on a level pegging with Japan."We are ensuring that the UK remains at the forefront of the digital revolution," said the EE chief executive, Olaf Swantee. "Having already pioneered 4G here, we're now advancing the country's infrastructure again."The improved service will initially be available in Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester and Sheffield.Existing 4G speeds already allow three-dimensional map images to appear instantly as the user scrolls around the cityscape, video calls with crisp pictures and no sound delay, high-definition video to be sent back to the studio by broadcasters, and the London air ambulance service to transmit vital data on patients back to the hospital before the helicopter lands.Doubling the speeds would make all these activities faster, but developers have yet to come up with an application that would need all 80Mbps. "We don't know what the next killer app is, but our network is ready for it," said Swantee.The national obsession with smartphones and tablets appears to be firing demand for EE's faster service, despite its premium price. Its parent company owns three networks: Orange and T-Mobile, which offer slower 3G speeds, and EE, which uses 4G.A quarter of all customers joining the group are opting for 4G, the company said. In the 50 towns and cities where the service is available, one third of all new customers are subscribing to the faster service.The numbers suggest many more will upgrade when O2, Vodafone and Three switch on their 4G services in late spring, particularly if increased competition brings prices down.Although headline speeds for existing EE customers will double at no extra cost, the carrier will be hoping its faster network will allow it to continue charging a premium.EE was able to launch 4G a six months ahead of rivals by using spectrum it already owned rather than having to wait for February's auction, and has now set a target of 1m customers by Christmas. The group declined to say how many had signed up so far, but 1m customers would represent 8% of its contract subscribers – almost 13m – over a 14-month period. EE said the most successful 4G operators around the world had been able to convert about 10% of their contract customers within two years."In the UK, people use more internet compared to other markets, people have more smartphones than other markets, so the UK is the ideal market to have a benchmark network and that is the ambition," said Swantee.When France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom merged their Orange and T-Mobile networks in the UK in 2010, they created the country's largest mobile group. With the 4G auction complete, EE's owners are now looking to sell all or part of the company, through a stockmarket listing or a sale to another owner.Private equity firms including America's KKR and Europe's CVC Capital Partners are understood to be trying to raise debt financing for a £10bn buyout, while France Telecom has appointed Morgan Stanley to oversee the process."The reason there is so much noise about potential IPOs and private equity is because we have changed this company," said Swantee. "This company is now leading the UK industry from a network perspective, and from a total size perspective."EE speeds will eventually double again, with tests before the end of this year for a service that could reach a theoretical peak of 300 Mbps. The trial will be to combine EE's existing 1800MHz spectrum with the large amount of 2600MHz it bought at auction.The group now owns 36% of all the mobile spectrum in use in Britain, more than any other single operator, and it predicts that by 2016, traffic on its own network will have grown 750%.By this summer, mobile internet in the UK will be on a par with Japan, where 4G speeds currently reach about 75Mbps. Vodafone has announced it will bring fast 4G, with theoretical speeds of 150Mbps, to Australia this June.The US networks claim theoretical speeds of more than 100Mbps, but deliver on average just under 10Mbps, according toa recent study by network testing firm OpenSignal.Sweden topped the global chart with more than 22Mbps, and EE's average speed is likely to match that, making it twice as fast as the 12Mbps available on the average UK home broadband connection.
A selection of links from the Guardian's games writersMicrosoft planning Xbox event for May | The VergeMicrosoft had originally been planning to unveil its next-generation Xbox details at an event in April, but The Verge has learned that the company has pushed this back to May. Windows watcher Paul Thurrott revealed recently that Microsoft is planning an Xbox event for May 21st, and we understand this date is accurate. This is the tentative date for a next-generation Xbox announcement, but Microsoft had originally planned an April 24th event.BioShock Infinite VP of development Rod Fergusson leaving Irrational Games | PolygonRod Fergusson, the former Gears of War producer who joined Irrational Games to help wrap up BioShock Infinite, is in the process of leaving the company, Fergusson confirmed to Polygon today.Fergusson says that while he is still at the company he is in the process of working through the transition and hasn't yet determined where he will go next."During my departure from Epic, I learned that Irrational was in need of a 'closer' to help finish BioShock Infinite," he wrote to Polygon. "I've been striving for better storytelling in the games I've worked on and I saw this as a great opportunity to learn from Ken and his team on how to build a truly story-driven game."I am very proud of the work that I did and of the team and what they were able to accomplish on Infinite. Now with the game shipped successfully, I've done what I set out to do here and now I'm looking forward to the next chapter in my life and career."Mobile "just too scary" for indies, says Spelunky dev | GamesIndustry InternationalDerek Yu talking about smartphone game development:"I think it's tough because that market does have so many games that are there to be cheap entertainment and make a lot of money," Yu said. "That's just a difficult place to be for a developer who wants to make essentially a non-mobile style game for a mobile platform. It's just kind of intimidating. It's a very finicky business, too, in terms of what succeeds and what doesn't. For a lot of developers, putting games on iOS and mobile feels like a lottery, and that's a real unstable feeling that's hard for developers."Ouya responds to negative reviews | GamesIndustry InternationalWhen Android console manufacturer Ouya started sending out early models of the machine, the result was a smattering of negative reviews. Now the company has come out to defend its intriguing platform:"We will be making Ouya review units available in early to mid-May so that you are able to review the more complete consumer experience and prepare your coverage in time for the June 4th retail launch," a representative said. "To clarify for you--Ouya has sent no review units out to press. Any reviews you have seen online are a result from individuals who received early backer units from supporting our Kickstarter."Street Fighter TV series takes to Kickstarter | MCVBen Parfitt:A new Kickstarter campaign has been launched that hopes to create a real-life Street Fighter themed TV series.Unlike the '90s movie, however, this looks like it might actually be good. It's being made by the creators of web video hit Street Fighter: Legacy (which can be seen below). So popular was legacy that Capcom was convinced to sell rights to a TV series to Legacy producer Jacqueline Quella.It's called Street Fighter: Assassin's Fist and is being co-written and directed by British actor and martial artist Joey Ansah, whose has starred in the likes of The Bourne Ultimatum and Snow White and the Huntsman.What could possibly go wrong?The 25 easiest games to boost your Xbox 360 Gamerscore - CVG UKGamerscore looking a little forlorn? Trophy count rather lacklustre? If you're fed up with struggling through ridiculous achievement or award requirements, help is at hand.We've all been there. You tried everything, but you just can't jump through that one achievement's bizarre hoops. But it doesn't have to be that way. Here are 25 games that'll get you back on top, and without even breaking a sweat. They may not be the best games, some of them are proper stinkers, but even stinkers have some use.I have some sympathy with people who feel they need this feature.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
It's Tuesday. How was your Monday evening? Pleasant?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOpen season &gt;&gt; Apple OutsiderMatt Drance:Now we get to see how true to its ethos Google and Android stay. How long will Home remain on the Google Play store? How often, and how mysteriously, will it have "compatibility issues" with new releases? How long before launchers in general start to get buried under convenient categorization?At the least, I expect an increased emphasis from Google on the virtues of "stock" Android, and an increased push to make that consistent for consumers. This is already underway on both OEM and developer fronts, but Facebook's lurking presence will force the issue that much harder.Has implications for Apple too.January sales show continued rough tides for the Wii U &gt;&gt; GamasutraWhile the NPD no longer provides specific sales numbers for hardware, a representative does tell us that sales of the Wii U hardware for its first three months on the market are down 38% from what the Wii's numbers were at that same point.We're told by someone with access to the NPD's data that sales for January were "well under" 100,000 units. By our estimates, sales were somewhere between 45,000 and 59,000 units for the month, which is lower than any of the three previous-generation home consoles sold in their worst months, with the possible exception of a recent performance by the original Wii.If you have a Wii, there's no particular reason to buy a Wii U. If you don't have a Wii, there's no particular reason to buy a Wii U. Nintendo's full-year results in a week or two are likely to be ugly.Samsung expected to launch 6.3in phablet in June &gt;&gt; Korean ET NewsSamsung Electronics will launch a 6.3in phablet, a smartphone that doubles as a smart pad, as early as June. Samsung Electronics seems to create a niche market by targeting consumer groups that have been dissatisfied with the sizes of smart phones (in the 5in range) and smart pad (in the 7in range).This will do nothing for those who find 5in too small and 6.3in too big. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)Bitcoin mining malware spreads on Skype as price rises &gt;&gt; ZDNetCriminals are using Skype to spread malware in the hope of building a botnet with enough computer power to mine Bitcoins.Researchers at Russian security firm Kaspersky Lab discovered the Bitcoin malware campaign last week, which had been targeting would-be victims in Russia, Poland, Costa Rica, Spain, Germany, Ukraine and other countries.Potential victims are encouraged to install a file that is included with messages like "this my favourite picture of you". If the malicious file is installed, one of its features is to turn the machine into a Bitcoin mining slave.Does it pay better than spam? One has to assume so.Google Maps, Windows Phone, and an avoidable mess | Ars TechnicaJanuary 2013:At least, [Google Maps is] what you see [on visiting maps.google.com] if you're using Safari on iOS, or Chrome, Android Browser, or Firefox on Android. Fire up Internet Explorer on Windows Phone, however, and you'll just get redirected to Google's mobile search page. This happens regardless of whether you have the browser configured to prefer desktop versions or mobile versions of sites.Windows Phone users have noticed this, and they're not very happy. Widespread complaining around the Web reached a climax at the tail end of last week.For those who'd forgotten that browser-specific sites can and do exist. Apple has done it with sites too in the past, sniffing for Safari and blocking access without the correct User-Agent. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Dear Google: please fork WebKit &gt;&gt; Haarvard MoenMay 2010:My wish for this year is for Google to fork WebKit. They should take the WebKit code, give it a new name, and create a separate browser engine based on that. This, I argue, would be in both Google's own interest, and in the interest of the open Web.Moen is an Opera developer. (He's no fan of Apple.) His reasons are clearly set out: "fragmentation should not only be a coincidence, but actually a strategy [for security]", for example. Wonder if it will play out as he forecasts. Opera joined Google in the fork. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Mozilla and Samsung collaborate on next generation web browser engine &gt;&gt; The Mozilla BlogMozilla's mission is about advancing the Web as a platform for all. At Mozilla Research, we're supporting this mission by experimenting with what's next when it comes to the core technology powering the Web browser. We need to be prepared to take advantage of tomorrow's faster, multi-core, heterogeneous computing architectures. That's why we've recently begun collaborating with Samsung on an advanced technology Web browser engine called Servo.Servo is an attempt to rebuild the Web browser from the ground up on modern hardware, rethinking old assumptions along the way.This happened while all the Google/Apple/WebKit forking was happening. Samsung and Mozilla is an intriguing combination: why would each want to work with the other?How ICIJ's project team analysed the offshore files &gt;&gt; International Consortium of Investigative JournalistsYou've read the exposés, now find out how it was done:The project team's attempts to use encrypted e-mail systems such as PGP ("Pretty Good Privacy") were abandoned because of complexity and unreliability that slowed down information sharing. Studies have shown that police and government agents – and even terrorists – also struggle to use secure e-mail systems effectively.  Other complex cryptographic systems popular with computer hackers were not considered for the same reasons.  While many team members had sophisticated computer knowledge and could use such tools well, many more did not.Plus much more.How a banner ad for H&amp;R Block appeared on apple.com — without Apple's OK &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRobert Silvie returned to his parents' home for a Mardi Gras visit this year and immediately noticed something strange: common websites like those beloning to Apple, Walmart, Target, Bing, and eBay were displaying unusual ads. Silvie knew that Bing, for instance, didn't run commodity banner ads along the bottom of its pristine home page — and yet, there they were. Somewhere between Silvie's computer and the Bing servers, something was injecting ads into the data passing through the tubes. Were his parents suffering from some kind of ad-serving malware infection? And if so, what else might the malware be watching — or stealing?Not malware, but certainly an ISP whose reputation just took a hit.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC may become an acquisition target after making an operating profitof just NT$43m (£0.9m) in the quarter to Marchon revenues down 37% year on year to NT$42.8bn (£950m) as manufacturing problems hit its hopes of a comeback.Ashortage of cameras for its new flagship HTC One phonemeant that by the end of the quarter it launched in only three countries, rather than the 80 it had aimed for – and also means that during the current quarter it will be struggling for attention with Samsung's new Galaxy S4, due to go on sale in the next few weeks.The results will put renewed pressure on chief executive Peter Chou, who reportedly told the company board that he would step down if the new phone is not a success. Some analysts think the company could become an acquisition target as its cashflow suffers and the market polarises towards expensive phones from Apple and Samsung, and cheaper Chinese ones.The quarterly figures fell short of HTC's own modest forecasts made in February, when itsaidit expected revenues of between NT$50bn and NT$60bn. Those would have been substantially down on the year-ago figures.Benedict Evans, telecoms and technology analyst at Enders Analysis, estimated that the company had shipped between 3.5m and 4.5m phones during the quarter. Carolina Milanesi, smartphone analyst at research group Gartner, suggested a higher figure for shipments, of 7m to 7.5m. The company did not give any figure itself.A higher shipment figure would point to a lower selling price for the phone, and so lower profits."HTC has a scale problem," Evans told the Guardian. "Last year at this time both it and Sony launched great new products, and they went nowhere. Everybody is saying that the HTC One looks nicer than the Samsung Galaxy S4, but without the marketing and sales and commission budget, it can't reach enough people. Making lovely bits of hardware is a necessary, but insufficient, condition in this business. Now it's getting into a vicious circle where it has to cut back its marketing budget to get its cashflow under control." A likely scenario is that the company might be acquired by a Chinese company such as Lenovo in the next 18 months.The company has now seen its quarterly revenues more than half since their NT$104.1bn peak in the third quarter of 2011, and profits crash by 98% from a year ago. Net profits before tax were NT$103m, and after tax NT$85m.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 6 April 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (31)PC (5)22 (2)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (44)PC (4)53 (–)Defiance (18+)Xbox 360 (76)PS3 (18)PC (6)14 (4)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (28)Wii (6)VITA (6)285 (5)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)26 (3)Gears of War: Judgment(18+)Xbox 360 (100)37 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)PC (2)Wii U (1)218 (9)Assassin's Creed III(18+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (45)Wii U (3)239 (15)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (43)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (15)3DS (5)2510 (17)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (40)VITA (11)Wii U (2)2311 (10)Crysis 3(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (39)712 (11)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (37)PC (6)1913 (19)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (35)Wii (19)DS (16)PS3 (15)3914 (18)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)1915 (6)Army of Two: The Devil's Cartel(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)216 (–)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (21)PS3 (17)DS (13)1617 (8)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 14(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)218 (16)SimCity(7+)PC (100)519 (13)Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (42)PC (2)420 (–)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (37)3DS (22)PS3 (21)Wii U (12)15UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Facebook has started charging UK users up to £11 to send messages to celebrities such as Olympic diver Tom Daley and others outside their circle of friends.It costs a standard 71p to contact less well-known figures, such as BBC's Robert Peston or Prince Harry's girlfriend Cressida Bonas, who do not have an official army of fans or followers, in the UK test scheme the firm has just launched.Facebook confirmed the experiment but said it did not know yet whether it would be implemented across the whole social network."It is being tested among a very small percentage of users," said a spokeswoman. "There is no set timescale. It depends on what happens, what feedback we get as to whether it is rolled out nationally. We are testing a number of price points in the UK and other countries to establish the optimal fee that signals importance. This is still a test and these prices are not set in stone."Facebook has been trialling charging at its US operation since December. The trial has now been extended to a further 36 countries, including the UK.Facebook said the charging fee structure varied according to a number of factors including the number of followers and the number of paid messages someone has received in recent weeks.It said it was a way of giving people a chance to contact individuals outside their circle of friends without it becoming a vehicle for spam.The vast majority of users in the UK can still send messages to strangers for free, but those involved in the test can see the fee scale ranges from the £10.68 for the likes of Daley to £10.08 to contact author Salman Rushdie.Others such as comedian Miranda Hart, culture secretary Jeremy Hunt and comedian Bill Bailey are all in the 71p standard price bracket.The launch of the charging feature will be controversial. Facebook said it was a way of inhibiting spamming for famous people as paid-for messages go straight to the recipient's inbox rather than the "other" folder which receives all communication from people outside a user's circle of friends.In January, Facebook was ridiculed for setting a $100 (£61) fee to contact founder Mark Zuckerberg. He has previously said he would like Facebook messaging to become an alternative to email. The network rolled out @facebook.com email addresses to all users last June.Iain Mackenzie, a spokesman for Facebook Europe, said the charging structure should not be mistaken for a fame barometer."There's not a sliding scale based on fame. You can't infer someone's level of 'celebrity' from the numbers," he said.• This article was amended on 10 April 2013 to better explain the way Facebook has developed its charging fee structure.
A pick of the weekend's gaming stories, hand selected by the Guardian games writers.Microsoft creative director doesn't get the 'drama' around an always-online Xbox / GameSpot.comMartin Gaston:Microsoft Studios creative director Adam Orth has argued against the "drama" surrounding the concept of games consoles requiring an always-on Internet connection.Speaking on his personal Twitter account (now private), Orth argued "sorry, I don't get the drama around having an 'always on' console. Every device now is 'always on'. That's the world we live in. #dealwithit".13,000 furious comments later and Microsoft prints an apology.Retail: 'Xbox 720 always-on connection must not happen' / MCVMCV talks to retailers about rumours surrounding the next Xbox and its supposed 'always online' requirement. Here is Robert Lindsay, Managing Director, Games Centre:If Microsoft incorporates the tech to lock out pre-owned games and Sony doesn't then there is going to be only one winner in the next generation of consoles – and it won't be Microsoft.The publishers are completely out of touch with their consumers if they don't understand how important pre-owned is in helping them fund new releases. It's not rocket science to see that a £39.99 new release with no sell-on value will put a massive hole in consumers' spending budgets.Donating my Xbox Today I donated my Xbox 360 Elite to… / Daniel CookGame designer at Spry Fox on working for Microsoft:Over two console generations, a highly cynical marketing team spent billions with no hope of immediate payback to shift the market. Nintendo was slandered as a kids platform, not a leading light. Xbox put machismo, ultra-violence and chimpboys with backwards caps in the spotlight. Wedge, wedge, wedge. Gamers were handed a pre-packaged group identity via the propaganda machine of a mega corporation. For those raised post-Xbox, this workplace was the unquestioned birthplace, the Mecca. Dude. They made Halo.We're victims of our success says GameStick as it pushes unconsole launch to late June / Pocket GamerBe careful what you wish for.That's the moral of GameStick's announcement that it's pushing back the release of its Android-based unconsole from late April to late June.The reason, the company says, is it's been blown away by the level of support from consumers, developers and retailers.For example, GameStop in the US and Game in the UK will be lead partners, although another 22 retailers around the world are also interested.That's the moral of GameStick's announcement that it's pushing back the release of its Android-based unconsole from late April to late June.It will be interesting to see how the lukewarm response to Ouya affects this UK competitor.'Mario,' 'Zelda' creator says give the Wii U time - CNN.com"Our immediate objective over the next few months is to improve the Wii U system and make it a little more stable, a little bit more convenient to use from a system standpoint," Miyamoto said. "Miiverse (a sort of social network that lets players interact) is an example of an ongoing project. We really wanted to be able to leverage Miiverse in something like 'New Super Mario Bros. U.' We're obviously still early on in it and just trying things out, but so far, it does feel like the community itself is doing a very good job of being a warm and welcoming place for people."IGDA head Kate Edwards: "Games are an art-form, pure and simple" | GamesIndustry InternationalGames are an art-form, pure and simple. As an art-form they should be free to express whatever they want to express. Here in the US we've had the Supreme Court decision which protects games as free-speech, rightly so. So they shouldn't have any limits put on them, like books don't or movies don't.Where the limit comes from is the goals. If your goal is to distribute worldwide, you're probably going to want to think about the cultural impact. If your goal is to make a political statement then you need to do what you feel is right. The main thing that I do when I consult with developers, even now in the IGDA role, is to encourage them to be proactive and think about what they want to get out of it. I think developers should feel free to make what they want to make, to create what they want to create. But they can't expect consumers in all markets to have that same understanding of creative freedom.Before the debate on games and culture, International Game Developers Association head Kate Edwards also answers criticisms about the organisation's controversial party at GDC, which prompted the resignation of member Brenda Romero.You can followPress Start on Pinboard. Feel free to suggest your own links in the comments section.
It's Monday - what did you do over the weekend? Come on, have a think.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHome turf &gt;&gt; Apple OutsiderMatt Drance (who used to work at Apple):While the software is the real news here, Facebook took the initiative to also start working with a handset maker. The HTC First is hardly a "Facebook phone" but it's a chance for Facebook to experience the complexity of coordinating hardware, software, and carrier partnerships from a distance. Remember theMotorola ROKR? Remember what happenedfifteen months later?…Facebook has loudly and confidently entered an arena it has no prior experience in, and has set a clear path to expand its influence at its own pace. Facebook Home will provide a halo effect to current Android users that warms them up to a full-blown "Facebook phone" in the years to come.Chart of the Week &gt;&gt; 51Degrees.mobiThis week's chart shows web traffic usage of the Blackberry Z10 in comparison to the traffic of the Sony Xperia Z during March 2013.As you can see Australia and Europe seem to be using more of the Xperia Z, whereas the US and Canada seem to heavily favour the Blackberry Z10. We know it is home turf for Blackberry in Canada, but it seems Blackberry have managed to chip away at the American market as well.Surprisingly the UK shows a small favour towards the flagship Sony device. Have Blackberry lost their dominance in the UK, or are they still a force in to be reckoned with?Lots more very interesting graphs if you go to the "Product -&gt; Mobile Analytics" page. (Ironically, it doesn't work well on mobile.) The one for Europe for OS share demonstrates that it's very much an Android/iOS world - and that the UK is the only place where BlackBerry makes a strong showing in Europe.% Device count for Android vendors in the UK &gt;&gt; 51DegreesMobile analytics site (which ironically doesn't work at all well on mobile). Lots of different configurations to choose from: this one shows how Samsung took over from HTC in March 2012 and hasn't looked back.Misogyny, sexism, and why Rock,Paper, Shotgun isn't shutting up &gt;&gt; Rock, Paper, ShotgunJohn Walker, editor of the site:In having written about the subject of women and games over the years, I've received a significant amount of abuse. (I'm not going to fret about saying, "But of course not as bad as…", because of course it's not as bad as…) Most of the abuse I receive is lazy insults, and until recently I tended to assume them fairly innocuous. Some has been extreme, such as forum threads dedicated to associating my name with acts of child molestation to skew Google results, personal threats, and deeply personal insults. All of it has one purpose: to intimidate. Whether the purpose of the intimidation is because the person wants to read about new screenshots for a game and not gender politics, or because they are violently defending their privilege, it's always about intimidation.Powerful must-read.New leaked picture of the BlackBerry R-Series smartphone &gt;&gt; BlackBerryOS.comWell, we have seen the L-Series (Z10), N-Series (Q10), and now we get a better look at the upcoming R-Series smartphone, or otherwise known as the BB10 Curve. Last time we got a look at this device it was in a more grainy format. And now with this recent screenshot popping upvia the BlackBerryOS forums, we get a much cleaner shot to gaze upon.This 1998 Paul Krugman column perfectly explains the design flaw at the heart of Bitcoin &gt;&gt; ForbesPascal-Emmanuel Gobry:Bitcoin's algorithm states that at some point the total supply of Bitcoin will be capped at around 21 million. Bitcoin users create more bitcoin by "mining" it (running software on their computer), but Bitcoin's algorithm states that the rate at which Bitcoin can grow will slow down asymptotically to close to zero, such that the supply of Bitcoin will essentially be fixed.Why is that a problem?To understand that, you just have to read what may be the most famous column by Nobel-prize winning economist Paul Krugman: the baby-sitting co-op.Understand the co-op example, he says, and you understand monetary policy. And then you understand why Bitcoin is fatally flawed. It's not fixable for Bitcoin, but could be fixed for another cryptocurrency.Yes, you should care about Bitcoin, and here's why &gt;&gt; GigaomDavid Meyer:in a sense it doesn't really matter if Bitcoin succeeds or fails. The original Napster failed and guess what? Unlawful file-sharing is still with us, and will remain with us for a long time. On a conceptual level, whatever happens, it's now very difficult to see a future without Bitcoin or something like it. It may not replace fiat currencies, just as unlawful file-sharing has not killed off lawful distribution, but it may persist as a viable alternative and, by doing so, force change in the way its traditional predecessors function.The Napster point is apposite. However Bitcoin's real power is as a medium of exchange, not as a currency. Too many people confuse the two. It lacks sufficient liquidity to be a currency, but as an anonymous method of exchange, it's great. Until it reaches a parity where the amount of money flowing in from real currencies is roughly equal to the amount flowing out, its value will vary too widely to make it useful for anything long-term.Welcome to the People Party &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft BlogFrank X Shaw, Microsoft's head of PR:I tuned into the coverage of the Facebook Home event yesterday and actually had to check my calendar a few times.Not to see if it was still April Fools Day, but to see if it was somehow still 2011.Because the content of the presentation was remarkably similar to the launch event we did for Windows Phone two years ago.When we sat down with a blank sheet of paper and designed Windows Phone, we put three words on the wall to guide the team: "Put People First".Those three words were chosen around a pretty powerful but simple insight: People are more important than apps, so phones should be designed around you and the people you care about, not the apps you might use to reach them.Worked out well for Windows Phone, after all. Also, wasn't thelaunch of Windows Phone in October 2010?The irony is that Facebook is likely to do very well out of its Android launcher.comScore reports February 2013 US smartphone subscriber market share &gt;&gt; comScoreWhen you do the numbers, it shows that compared to last month (for which the data is also available) Apple has added 3.1m owners and Android - all Android - has added 1.45m. Apple additions have been outstripping Android additions for the past four months - where Android used to outstrip Apple every quarter (going back to October 2009).Reasons for iOS outperformance in the US &gt;&gt; asymcoThe reason iOS is growing more rapidly may be due to three factorsThe first (being on more carriers) seems obvious enough, but the third is crucial and has big implications for the future, not just in the US.Also of note: Android + iOS = 91% of the installed smartphone base in the US, now at 57% of all mobile phone users.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
In the developed world, geolocation technology has its upsides and its downsides. On the one hand, we can now follow our progress as we walk from A to B without getting lost, and  find the nearest two-for-one pizza deal in the process. In the future, says Jane Frost of the Market Research Society, governments will use such data "to understand how people interact with services such as public transport and health, and to monitor criminals and detect and prevent fraud". On the other, companies will aggressively mine geolocation data to target customers with goods and services according to their habits and location.In the developing world, and in fragile and conflict states, though, the technology is being put to less controversial use. A project in Nigeria for the UK Department for International Development, for example, which is funding a programme to help reduce child and mother mortality in childbirth by encouraging more mothers to give birth in clinics, has successfully combined GPS data collected during interviews with satellite imagery to clearly show the effect of distance on mortality."We knew there was a huge difference between the muslim north and the Christian south," says Johnny Heald of ORB International, the opinion research firm that carried out the interviews using GPS-equipped PDAs. "By interviewing people where we knew clinics were funded, and also a matching sample where they weren't, then overlaying that data on satellite maps, we could show the effect of distance on mortality very effectively."ORB, which specialises in research in fragile and conflict states, also worked with US satellite imagery and information firm Digital Globe on a more complex project that used so-called "geospatial analysis" to predict where Joseph Kony's notorious Ugandan guerilla group, the Lord's Resistance Army, would strike next. Data-rich satellite maps and geolocation information from the sites of previous attacks were fed into a model that used machine-learning to search for likely future targets. The technology is not without its dangers, for interviewers and interviewees, Heald says: "In some countries, like Somalia or Afghanistan, if you're caught with a GPS device or a particularly advanced mobile phone, you're automatically a spy. Likewise, because GPS pinpoints people very accurately, some people in a sample could be at risk if, say, they expressed certain political views. We have to present the opinions of say, eight or 10 people in a village, collectively. There's an ethical issue here."Frost notes that concerns about the use of geolocation data also apply in the developed world, "especially when the data is combined with personal information like gender, race, occupation and financial history. What data is collected and how is developing rapidly, but data privacy legislation is not. Public and consumer  trust in data sharing is taking a beating, and organisations need to commit to ethical data sharing that respects personal privacy before trust becomes a real problem."
Canada has provided a £170m loan facility to European telecoms firm Telefónica to help it buy BlackBerry products and services, as the Ontario-based company tries to recover from a year in which it made a £425m loss and revenues fell &nbsp;40%.The news comes as Carphone Warehouse in the UK begins assessing customer interest in BlackBerry's Q10 phone, which it says may go on sale in May, and could either ignite the firm's revival – or see it fizzle out. Carphone Warehouse has opened "pre-registrations" section on its website for the new keyboard-based phone.Export Development Canada (EDC)announced the huge loan of working capitalto the Spanish-owned company, which it said would "facilitate BlackBerry market share growth within Telefónica".Such loan facilities, which in effect have the backing of the Canadian government, are usually made to ensure that the buyer has sufficient funds to make the purchase. But they can also minimise the risk for the buyer by limiting the amount of money provided upfront.EDC said the facility "just makes the purchase [of phones&nbsp;and services] and related lending easier, quicker and more efficient for all parties", adding: "There appears to be a need for financing for [Telefónica] at this time."The Q10 is the first BlackBerry phone running its new BB10 software which has a keyboard – unlike the Z10, a full touchscreen phone launched in January. The Q10 is likely to prove key in BlackBerry's efforts to keep its corporate clients and persuade those who have left to return..But after a year in which BlackBerry has seen its number of subscribers shrink by 4m to 76m, its share among both business and domestic consumers in the key market of the US plummet along with revenues, at least one carrier is taking an arms-length approach to the company. Last month it was revealed that thebuyer of 1m handsets running the BB10 software was Brightstar, an electronics distributor which will distribute the handsets on behalf of the carrier Verizon to "big box" retailers and other outlets such as supermarkets. That reduces the risk to Verizon if the handsets do not sell as well as hoped, and gives Brightstar the option to distribute them to other retail outlets for other customers.BlackBerry  is also closing down its  BBM music service – apparently a casualty of its dwindling US consumer base.Launched in August 2011, BBM Music in the US required users to pay $5 a month – for which they could choose to listen to 50 songs, and then change 25 of those each month. People could also download music from the playlists of other users. BlackBerry's US consumer base has slumped from 16.7 million users at the time of the launch to 7.6 million in January 2013, according to ComScore.The service will shut down on 2 June following a business review, and existing subscribers will be offered a free 30-day trial on Rdio, a competing service.
It can be a struggle coming to terms with midlife. The compromises, the responsibilities… the having to besoblooming grown-up. But help has arrived in a most unlikely form: the posh family estate. The latest releases join a fleet of super-svelte, exhilarating and very driveable vehicles. It's as if the manufacturers have got together and thought: "What can we do to cheer these poor sods up? Let's build them aproperstation wagon." Here's a magnificent seven…MERCEDES-BENZ CLS SHOOTING BRAKE£49,360, MPG 47.1, top speed 155mphOne of the most eye-catching estates you'll see on the road and a supreme example of space with pace. Notice it's called a "shooting brake", not an estate. You wouldn't want anyone to think you were in, say, the Chatsworth Estate offShameless…Audi RS6 Avant Photograph: ObserverAUDI RS6 AVANT£77,000, MPG 28.8, top speed 189mphRevealed at last month's Geneva motor show, this Audi takes what was already a very fast estate, the S6, and makes it even faster. The race-tuned twin-turbo V8 will blast you towards the double ton, but it still has five seats and 1,680 litres' worth of storage space.BMW 5-Series Touring. Photograph: ObserverBMW 5 TOURING£34,120, MPG 57.6, top speed 138mphThere's no longer an estate version of the thunderous M5 with its remarkable V10 engine, so you'll have to make do with this. But even a second-string 5-series is better than almost anything else you'll drive. And in terms of BMW for your buck, this huge car is the best deal on the road.Jaguar XF Sportbrake. Photograph: ObserverJAGUAR SPORTBRAKE£31,940, MPG 54.3, top speed 134mphThe last time Jaguar attempted an estate was the X-Type. Four years on, Coventry has introduced another big-bottomed  cat – this time it's the XF. Svelte, lithe  and elegant, this is a proper load-lugger concealed as an upmarket family wagon which could pass as a proper exec limo.Ford Mondeo Estate Photograph: ObserverFORD MONDEO£22,445, MPG 53.3, top speed 127mphYes, yes, a Mondeo. But in a competitive market, the Mondeo not only offers the best value for money, it's bloody good, too. This Ford can guarantee you three things: it's well built, cheap to run and very reliable – which sounds like a Lonely Hearts ad you should follow up.Volvo V60 Estate. Photograph: ObserverVOLVO V60£21,195, MPG 47.1, top speed 124mphTime was when Volvo = boring. But how things have moved on. With the V60 you get a bucketful of hip Scandi style, a&nbsp;wagon-load of safety gear and plenty of driver aids. This car will shake you awake if you drift off, brake itself under 20mph and keep an eye out for jaywalkers.Vauxhall Insignia Estate. Photograph: ObserverVAUXHALL INSIGNIA£20,240, MPG 49.6, top speed 124mphThe saloon version was crowned European Car of the Year in 2009, and the estate has followed up on those winning ways. It's stylish and it's built in Germany. The load bay is huge: fold down the back seats and you have room to stretch out for a siesta. Family life is tiring, after all.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk
Combine traditional 2D platforming with rhythm elements andHarmoKnightis the result – at least that's the theory. The game requires players to leap through levels, running automatically but doing so in tempo with a cheerful musical backdrop, cracking heads and springing from ledges on the beat. The result is certainly satisfying, and individual stages are designed with plenty of different routes and play styles, offering ample reason to repeat and perfect. While a little lacking in visual delights, at its bestHarmoKnightmakes for a compelling fusion of sounds, action and characters. A worthy addition to the rhythm-action genre.
Moving forward from itsoriginal incarnation, this stealth shooter has skilfully adapted the CryEngine 3 technology developed for Crysis. Unsurprisingly, then, the environments, whether lush jungles or war-torn cities, look stunning. Weapons and ballistics are also exceptionally detailed, with target range, wind, bullet drop, touch-sensitive trigger and recoil all impacting on head shot accuracy. Which is replayed in glorious, blood-splattered slo-mo. Here, the head shot is the money shot.Crucially, this sequel is more playable than its horribly difficult predecessor and single player offers a decent storyline, with some enjoyable sniping action – but it's not enough. The checkpoints remain so widely spaced that there are frustrating moments of repeatedly revisiting tough stretches, while the claustrophobically linear path, where stepping outside a predetermined route provokes stern warnings to return to your mission or fall back to the last checkpoint, is simply irritating.
The moment I realised I was middle-aged came at 4.25pm on a Monday a month or so ago. I was at the BFI on London's Southbank and had just watched a 15-minute documentary calledBecoming YouTube, made by a young film-maker calledBenjamin Cook. Cook, who has postbox-red hair and a painful-looking piercing in his lower lip, was now on stage in discussion with four fellow YouTubers, all in their early 20s. I had no idea who they were but I was in a minority of one. Among them, the five have almost 4m registered fans ('subscribers' to their YouTube channels) around the world, and millions more are intimately familiar with their work and lives. They came across not quite as rock stars; more like what I imagine would happen if Matt Smith turned up at aDoctor Whoconvention.I played back in my head a section of Cook's film, which was clearly not aimed at someone in their mid-OK-late 30s like me. "You might have noticed that a lot of people… don'tgetYouTube," he said, staring down the camera lens. "Most people treat YouTube in the same way as they would a blocked toilet or Piers Morgan's TV career: they don't know how it happened or who's behind it but they figure it's probably just full of shit and they'll leave it for someone else to deal with."Cook's lip curled into a sneer. "And in YouTube's case that's a shame. Or maybe it isn't. Because, for the time being at least, YouTube feels like our secret: we know that YouTube is a hub of raw untethered talent; a place we can engage, experiment and create in a way that TV – whatever that is – can only dream of."I was beginning to feel I'd underestimated YouTube, and I'll bet I'm not the only one. The site features in most of our lives but only in a passive way: we go there to find the video of Nora the piano-playing cat, to track down Zlatan Ibrahimovic's wonder-goal or to watch Psy's "Gangnam Style" 1,488, 814,712 times. There might be gems on YouTube, but with 72 hours of video uploaded every minute, who has the time to hunt it down?Well, on the evidence of the screening at the BFI, teenagers do, and specifically girls aged between 13 and 17. What they are searching for are video blogs ("vlogs") from cute middle-class boys with Bieber sweeps, make-up instructionals, comedy sketches featuring cute middle-class boys with Bieber sweeps, and video-game "playthroughs", step-by-step guides to completing, say,Resident Evil 5. If you have ever wondered what your children are doing in their bedrooms, or why they are glued to their phones for 16 hours a day, you should watch thefirst instalmentof Cook's 12-part Becoming YouTube. If you are interested in the increasingly targeted and personalised direction that all onscreen entertainment is heading in, it's worth checking out too. One thing you'll soon realise is that this new generation of superstar YouTubers are not just gawky kids sitting in their bedrooms with a webcam. That might be how it started but many have managed to turn it into a lucrative business.Take Charlie McDonnell, who was on the BFI panel, wearing aToy StoryT-shirt and black hoodie. He created the YouTube channelcharlieissocoollikein 2007, when he was putting off revising for GCSEs. The next year, as his vlogs racked up subscribers and views, YouTube started to split ad revenues with its content creators. After A-levels McDonnell had a choice: go to university or become a full-time vlogger. He chose the latter, bought a house and – according to theFebruary issue ofWiredmagazine, on the cover of which he appeared – now earns, from ads and merchandise sales, more than his parents. Recent posts on charlieissocoollike have included nerdy lectures on science, an appeal for donations to the Alzheimer's Society and – heartbreakingly for most of his audience – a confession that he now has&nbsp; a girlfriend.McDonnell's friend and housemate, a 23-year-old vlogger and singer-songwriter from Essex called Alex Day, has been described as"the future of music" byForbes. He created his YouTube channel,nerimon, in 2006, again for fun. He puts up songs and music videos, as well as filming chatty updates on his life. He developed a devoted following and decided to see how far he could get without a major label behind him. The answer was No4 in the UK charts, with 130,000 downloads globally of his single,Forever Yours, in December 2011; his first two royalty cheques came to more than £100,000. (More than 1,000 people worldwide now earn more than $100,000 a year from just their YouTube revenues.)There is growing consensus that traditional media, particularly TV, need to learn lessons from this. "YouTube is beginning to behave like a market leader," noted Elisabeth Murdoch in her 2012MacTaggart lecture. "Believe at your own risk that their platform is based on homemade videos of cats in washing machines… Brands and talent are using YouTube to create direct-to-consumer relationships.Michelle Phanis the world's most popular make-up expert with over 600 million views. Yes – that's equivalent to a global Olympic audience generated by a 22-year-old putting on Lady Gaga makeup."It became clear at the BFI that there remained some generational misunderstandings,. "A lot of companies still view YouTubers as hacks or amateurs," said the compere, Christopher Bingham, a 22-year-old film-maker known as Bing (his channel isslomozovo). "I had to turn down a meeting with Jamie Oliver because they didn't want to pay me and that's something that happens remarkably often. As cool as it would be to say, 'Yeah, I met that guy on television in the Sainsbury's ads', I'm a professional. If you expect me to jump at the opportunity to do something for free, like you're doing me a solid? No." Perhaps the scariest part of that comment for the old media is that these twenty-somethings know Jamie Oliver best for his supermarket advertising.YouTube was born on 23 April 2005 with an upload of avideo from the elephant enclosureat San Diego zoo. It was bought by Google in December 2006 for just over £1bn and grew exponentially every year without initially threatening to turn a profit. That changed decisively at the end of 2010 when the site introduced TrueView, a system that allowed users to skip almost two-thirds of its adverts easily; the innovation being that Google could now charge much more for the ones people did watch to the end.But 2012 was the year YouTube came of age. There are two main reasons: the first is that we, as viewers, are increasingly drawn to niche content that we actively select. The idea of mum, dad and two kids sitting round the box, watching whatever the terrestrial channels are showing is quaintly anachronistic. Cable television offers hundreds of channels, while YouTube gives us potentially millions from a global pool. The second is that technology now provides more versatility for watching content from the internet. For copying the tips from a make-up video, you might choose to use a smartphone in the bathroom; you can watch vlogs in bed on a tablet; for longer, more stylised productions, you've still got the big screen."If TV is a monologue then YouTube is a conversation," says Benjamin Cook. "The communal side of TV has been outdated for 10 years. Something likeDoctor Who,The X Factoror the Olympics will suddenly get everyone crowded round the TV again, but in general TV just feels more distant to me. I will sit in bed and watch Charlie McDonnell's latest vlog and you feel far closer – like you're watching a friend."This direct and intimate connection to the audience is perhaps the most revolutionary element of YouTube. "One thing that's completely different is that a lot of creators involve their audience in the creative process," says Sara Mormino, director of YouTube content operations in Europe. "So they ask the audience questions, they ask them to comment and they are also able to look at the stats of exactly who is watching. They understand where the audience has spent most of their time, which videos they like and dislike most, and then adapt their content. I don't see that happening a lot in TV."For this reason, YouTubers – those who make content specifically for the platform – will often compare the process to theatre or playing music live, more than to producing a television segment. Feedback is immediate and unfailingly honest, and they tailor their performances every time they post a video. Such an environment has given rise to rabid fandom. At first glance, the wild popularity of the video blogs can seem bewildering – really, 3m views for a four-minute video of a 17-year-old boy making a cup of tea? But the more you watch, you begin to realise that the best vloggers share some common traits: they are smart and genuine, and they are just a little bit funnier and cooler than their audience. Great hair doesn't hurt either. In other words, they are perfect best-friend or cyber-boyfriend material.What about cyber-girlfriends? There is no shortage of excellent female vloggers but they have nothing close to the following of their male counterparts. That might be partly because of YouTube's savagely personal comments section, which tends to fixate on appearance over content, but a simpler reason is that teenage girls (the most avid consumers of video blogs) are just more interested in boys.Lex Croucher is a 21-year-old student whose channeltyrannosauruslexxxhas 64,000 subscribers. Her vlogs started out strictly autobiographical but she has lately been drawn to more spiky, issue-led musings; that said, her most popular posts have been on Play-Doh and15 Things Not To Say To Your Boyfriend. "Because the majority of viewers are girls, you have to think that a lot of them just fancy the male YouTubers," she says. "If you're a boy and you've got a nice-enough fringe, you don't always have to put in too much effort."The most celebrated YouTubers often find their fame both a blessing and a curse – at the end of last year both McDonnell and Chris Kendall (akacrabstickz) hinted that they were considering leaving YouTube because of the pressure and attention. Thomas Ridgewell, a 22-year-old who produces films and animations on histomskachannel (1.7m subscribers), is unusual in that most of his fans are teenage boys, drawn to his lewd humour and slick, effects-driven videos. "Being a YouTube celebrity is like being a real celebrity without the perks," says Ridgewell. "No one's going: 'Hey man, come to this cool party! Here's a jet!' You're big enough that you have a massive amount of brands and people looking at you, but you're not big enough that you can distance yourself from your audience. So they are right there in your face, there's no sitting at the top of your tower, saying, 'Hello people.' They are higher than you because there's more of them and they are piled on top of each other. It's terrifying."Ridgewell is one of the superstar YouTubers who are working out how to leverage their popularity. For them, Gangnam Style becoming the first video to pass a billion views is not so relevant. They are more intrigued by the controversialKony 2012film, which has drawn 97m viewers to a 30-minute documentary. In the past, there has been an informal rule that YouTube videos should not exceed four minutes, and that you have to grab your viewer in the first 15 seconds before they click on something else. But there is evidence that audiences are becoming more patient, even thoughtful.McDonnell is currently working on short narrative films for YouTube, while Ridgewell hopes to launch full features on the platform. Cook's ongoing Becoming YouTube project will eventually run to more than three hours. "I don't see myself jumping to TV or film," says Ridgewell. "If I wanted to make a film right now and I needed £500,000, I could probably just go to my audience: 'Hey guys, you've seen the stuff I make, you know you trust me, do you want to give me a couple of quid to make a film?' And they would and I'd make a film and put it on YouTube."As content creators, we have this choice to say, 'OK, get used to longer content or smarter content,'" he continues. "We are in this golden era, the defining era of internet television where we have the power to change and shift the medium. It's like a massive chemical reaction: we're splitting the atom of online entertainment."When you speak to the YouTubers, it's hard not to think that old-style broadcasters should be concerned by the lack of interest in and sometimes disdain for their product. What this generation (and their audience) loves about the platform is that they grew up with it; it feels like it belongs to them. They make the videos, unmediated by grown-ups, and put them out into the world where they are judged by their peer group. The films may be inconsistent, sometimes shambolic, but that – and here there are echoes of the punk movement – is a huge part of their appeal. "There's a decent chunk of us who just feel like YouTube is our home," says Bing.Of course, where there's an audience and money, it is unlikely to remain a "secret" for long. In 2012 Google spent $300m on launching its Original Channels initiative, as it aims to get traditional broadcasters (such as BBC and ITN) as well as celebrities (Jamie Oliver, Madonna) creating videos exclusively for YouTube. Meanwhile, in January 2012, Elisabeth Murdoch's production company, Shine,bought ChannelFlip, a media agency that represents some popular YouTubers, and is expanding rapidly. Music mogul Simon Cowell has taken note, too: last month he launched a new talent trawl calledThe You Generationon YouTube. There are new competitions every fortnight – you enter by video audition – and the winner of the first one, for presenters, was announced on Friday.Across the site, it is already obvious that the videos are becoming more polished and ambitious, and there is a growing sense of commercialism. It is not hard for a user to become a YouTube "partner": you just have to own all the rights to your content and check a box to allow adverts to be shown with your videos. When partners have more than 10,000 subscribers, they become eligible to use the YouTube Creator Space, a high-end studio in central London, which has editing suites, voice-over booths, training courses and an array of cameras and rigs that are a long way from the basic kit that most YouTubers started out with.YouTube is not ready to take over fromTV just yet – not even executives at Google would make that claim. Its ethos is still fundamentally hobbyist, and its budgets for original programmes are a tiny fraction of channels such as the BBC or Sky. "It's not a zero-sum game," says YouTube's Sara Mormino. "There's space for every kind of experience – it's not that one is going to kill the other."Nevertheless these ambitious young film-makers pose a significant threat to the primacy of television. Their core understanding of the importance of community and audience interaction is unmistakably the future of entertainment. "I wouldn't say YouTube was a stepping stone, it's more like a surfboard," says Ridgewell. "We're riding this wave and right now it's turning into an unstoppable tsunami."Read on: 20 of Britain's top YouTuber's profiled
Among the many unpleasant discoveries made by those who stashed their cash in Cypriot banks is that the island's government could stop them moving their money elsewhere. Capital controls are supposed to be a thing of the past, a figment of the pre-globalised world. But it turns out that when banks are threatened, the gloves come off.One of the side-effects of this rude awakening seems to have been a surge of interest in a virtual currency calledBitcoin. At any rate,the price of a single Bitcoin reached $147at one point last week. And people are buying and selling this virtual stuff for what we laughingly call real money via more than 40online exchanges such as Mt Gox,though when I last looked Mt Gox was temporarily offline as a result of a denial-of-service attack that might have been the work of any number of possible suspects: cyber vandals; hackers hoping to sow uncertainty in the market to bring prices down and make a killing; or, for all we know, even the US government, which takes a poor view of people minting their own currency, even if it is virtual.The Bitcoin phenomenon is one of the most intriguing things to have happened in cyberspace since the invention of the peer-to-peer networking that undermined the music business and enabled developments such as Wikileaks. It's an invention of a mysterious – and, to date, unidentified – programmer who called himself Satoshi Nakamoto and claimed to be a 36-year-old Japanese male. He launched Bitcoin on 3 January 2009 and disappeared entirely from the net in April 2011, saying that he was moving on to other things. A Pulitzer prize awaits the journalist who unmasks him. At the moment, all we have is the verdict of Dan Kaminsky, a leading internet-security expert who examined the Bitcoin code and concludedthat "Nakamoto" was "a world-class programmerwith a deep understanding of the C++ programming language" who also "understands economics, cryptography and peer-to-peer networking. Either there's a team of people who worked on this or this guy is a genius."The basic idea behind Bitcoin is to use a combination ofpublic-key cryptographyandpeer-to-peer networkingto create a virtual analogy of gold, that is to say, a substance that is scarce (if not absolutely finite) and fungible. Nakamoto devised a software system that enabled people with access to powerful computers to "mine" Bitcoins (effectively by solving very complex mathematical puzzles) and then securely use the resulting "coins" for online trading. He also arranged things such that the number of Bitcoins can never exceed 21m and that they will become progressively harder to "mine" as the years go by.To the average punter, who knows nothing of cryptography, this sounds like a scam. Ditto the average reporter, though Reuters's Felix Salmon has recently writtena terrific account of the phenomenon. A better way of viewing it would be as a radical experiment triggered by the catastrophic failure of our banking system. This system was, you will recall, supposed to be based on trust. And then we discovered that that trust had been systematically abused and flouted by all of the institutions involved – not just the commercial banks, but also the central banks, regulators and governments that were supposed to ensure that public trust in the system was warranted."The root problem with conventional currency,"wrote Nakamoto in 2009, "is all the trust that's required to make it work. The central bank must be trusted not to debase the currency, but the history of fiat currencies is full of breaches of that trust. Banks must be trusted to hold our money and transfer it electronically, but they lend it out in waves of credit bubbles with barely a fraction in reserve. We have to trust them with our privacy, trust them not to let identity thieves drain our accounts." In contrast, everything in Nakamoto's system "is based on crypto proof rather than trust".Bitcoin raises all kinds of interesting questions. Is it a bubble? At the moment, almost certainly yes. Is it legal? In some countries, notably the United States, probably not. Is it technically breakable? Probably, yes, not because it's badly designed, but because everything based on software will have vulnerabilities. Is it innovative? Spectacularly so. Will the authorities in every jurisdiction hate it? Emphatically yes, and they will use Bitcoin's affordances, for example money-laundering, to justify their hostility, but basically it's just because they can't stand the idea of a currency that can't be debased to political order. Nothing changes.
With Tiger having recently reclaimed the world No1 spot, the timing could not be better for EA's latest in its long-running series but, as is the tendency with annually updated sport sims, this is evolution not revolution. A slight polish of the visuals, a few new game modes and a tweak to the excellently crafted controls is all that veterans will notice. The career mode is still fabulously in-depth, offering the opportunity to guide a young upstart through to the pros to compete at the majors – all four of which are now playable for the first time, as is the chance to create a female avatar. Most interesting, however, is the sepia-toned Legends of the Majors mode, which offers an in-game history of the sport, allowing you to play some of the all-time great tournaments and courses.
Last month, more than 23,000 games-makers gathered in San Francisco for the annualGame Developers Conference – GDC. It's an industry-focused event that has recently become the place where savvy gaming fans can keep pace with the pulse of the development business.Sadly, anticipation over whatMicrosoft might reveal about its next consolewas met with silence, but Sony did reveal new specifications for thePlayStation 4that confirm the device will be monstrously powerful. It emerged, too, that the console's Blu-ray drive will bethree times faster than the current PS3 version, that the machine will be able to optimise multiplayer games dependent on where each player is in the room, and that its controller will support dual inputs on its touch-sensitive front.Developer Hideo Kojimatook to the stage to reveal thatMetal Gear Solid Vis under way, whileElectronic Arts lifted the lid onBattlefield 4, with both games looking every bit the full-on glossy experiences expected.Elsewhere, the new "unconsoles" –  gaming hardware developed outside the major manufacturers that is more open to developers and a little experimental in their form and architechture – such asOuya,GamestickandOculus Riftreceived plenty of attention, and strapping into the latter's headset, it seems that finally virtual reality is set to impress.
1NINEBRASSMONKEYSBENJAMIN COOKStats106,000 subscribers, 1.7m viewsWho is he?The 30-year-old Cook only posted his first YouTube video on his Ninebrassmonkeys channel in December last year, but his multi-part documentary series,Becoming YouTube,  has already become a sensation. Featuring interviews with many of the individuals in this list – Charlie McDonnell, Alex Day and so on – it entertainingly captures the spirit of the movement. "The first YouTuber I discovered was a guy calledcrabstickzand it was just a whole treasure trove of awesome," he says.PitchThe official chronicler of Britain's YouTube generation. His style&nbsp; owes a debt to Charlie Brooker, but this is intelligent and professional film-making. His project will ultimately amount to 12&nbsp;episodes and more than three hours of video content.Signature videoAnatomy of a YouTuber,  Cook's debut video, breaks most of the golden rules of YouTube. It is 15&nbsp;minutes long and doesn't prominently feature cats or explosions. The fact it has been watched almost 350,000 times could hint at an ambitious new era for the platform.He says:"You make YouTube videos, you put them out there and suddenly you realise 300,000 people have watched something you've made. If you think about that too much, you'd go crazy. But a lot of people are stopping and saying, 'Holy shit! People do watch this stuff.' And that adds a lot of pressure on you."TL2SHIRLEYBENIANGSHIRLEY B ENIANGStats190,000 subscribers; 11.1m viewsWho is she?A 23-year-old maths student from London whose dream is to become a pilot or an aeronautical engineer. For now, Eniang is one of the most popular beauty and style vloggers. Her tutorials, which started in 2009, might include tips on how to apply false eyelashes, four different ways of wearing skinny jeans or advice on styling "cute milkmaid braids for spring". Her philosophy is: "Allow your true beauty to shine from within."PitchA style maven for fashion-obsessed teens.Signature videoAlmost half-a-million  have now watched her 20-minute video calledHow to Make a Pleated Chiffon Skirt!. The advice is easy to follow and Eniang has diligently answered viewers' questions.She says:"You forget you are a public figure and people are sizing you up from top to toe. They are going to point out all your flaws. Coming to terms with that was a big challenge, but I finally did because I realised  I can't change what people think of me. If they like it, they like it; if they don't, they don't."TL3SLOMOZOVOCHRISTOPHER BINGHAMReading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoStats133,000 subscribers, 8.8m viewsWho is he?A 22-year-old performer who's been making short comedy sketches on YouTube for four years. Often works with Thomas Ridgewell (TomSka); they are both alumni of the well-regarded School of Media at Lincoln University. "I went to the place where Tom was going so that we could keep working together," he says. "I'm glad because no one else would have worked with me."PitchSurreal, inventive comedy often delivered in strange accents, with lots of shouting. He has a gift for coming up with odd T-shirt slogans that are likely to bemuse anyone over the age of 20, for example: "I'm Trying to Romance You".Signature videoA gothic piece calledThe Bothering,  also featuring his sister (ThatJennyBee). A "top comment" on his work is: "This is more quotable thanAnchorman".He says:"One thing that boggled my mind when I was a student was that no one else seemed to be making videos for YouTube. It seemed like such an obvious thing to me: you have access to this potentially global audience, maybe money and the chance to practise and get feedback. Yet me and Tom were the only ones doing it. And because we did, we had jobs by the time we graduated, and we didn't have to climb the ladder in the traditional way."TL4TYRANNOSAURUSLEXXXLEX CROUCHERReading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoStats64,000 subscribers, 4.9m viewsWho is she?Croucher started posting videos on YouTube in 2008 and won its NextUp talent search in 2011. Now she's a 21-year-old, final-year English  student with a predilection for red lipstick and Harry Potter-themed clothing. She is represented by Elisabeth Murdoch's ChannelFlip and also has a beauty channel calledgirlyashell.PitchIrreverent, self-deprecating video blogging for a core audience of teenage girls. Early videos were a straightforward diary of her life, but now she mixes the silly with the serious: "I started because I was bored and I  thought, 'Oh, I'll be really famous, really quickly.' Now I only turn the camera on if I've got a specific issue I want to talk about." A recent video criticised her course at an unnamed university – its digital literacy department subsequently contacted her  to discuss the problems.Signature videoA list of reasons to be cheerful on Valentine's Day entitledHappy Crippling Loneliness Day!.She says:"I dated a relatively famous YouTuber for a while, quite publicly on the internet. That was a bad idea; don't do that. People never let you forget it. They get very involved, because they think they know your lives. If you break up, people take sides."TL5TOMSKATHOMAS RIDGEWELLStats1.7m subscribers, 366m viewsWho is he?A 22-year-old video producer who has a minor obsession with 1990s third-wave ska ("the very American, poppy version"). He started making videos for the web when he was 11 – a few years before YouTube even existed – and today he is one of the most successful British YouTubers, making animations and slick action films. "All it took for me was to see a flash animation of a guy falling off a skateboard," he recalls. "I said, 'That's my life. I want to do that for ever.' Not fall off skateboards but be involved in making people laugh online. And for 12 years, that's exactly what I've been doing."PitchRidgewell istheinternet impresario. He does not draw himself, and is not an especially gifted performer, but he has stacks of ideas and he recruits the talent he needs to make his videos on a project-by-project basis. Big brands have now started to take notice of his work.Signature videoA 55-second animation made for Marmite (Marmite is Terrible) has been viewed nearly 8.5m times.He says:"I obviously don't make content for people my own age. Twentysomethings are a way too snarky and judgmental crowd, way too hateful. I make my videos for me, aged 12 to 16, when I could still find something funny and enjoy it. I get a lot of criticism from 'artists' but really I'm making content for people who want to have fun and hopefully people who want to be inspired."TL6KLAIREDELYSARTKLAIRE DE LYSReading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoStats330,000 subscribers, 79m viewsWho is she?The 21-year-old De Lys joined YouTube in 2008, uploading videos of herself singing (she has since taken down all but one). Not long afterwards, she created a separate channel for quirky makeup tutorials. An early video showed how to reproduce the special effects fromTerminatorand her channel exploded in popularity from there.Pitch"It's not sexy makeup," she says. "I avoid that stuff like the plague because I hate it." De Lys is particularly adept at movie homages:Avatar,Game of ThronesandBlack Swanhave been big hits.Signature videoHer video showing how tofake a ripped-up nailhas been watched almost 13m times.She says:"The people who watch my videos are about 80% female and 20% male. But there's a funny thing with the guys: from the ages of 20 to 50, there's nothing; but then it spikes up again in the 60s and 70s. That's either something to be proud of or a bit disturbing."TL7CHEWING SANDHAZEL HAYESStats25,000 subscribers, 800,000 viewsWho is she?Hayes is an employee of YouTube, but has only recently started making videos herself. She posts songs, vlogs and comedy skits with her Scottish sidekick, the Unnecessary Otter.PitchFunny, rude, sometimes crude.Signature videoThe firstUnnecessary Otterskit, introducing us to Hayes playing a sweet children's TV presenter with the aforementioned cantankerous Scottish&nbsp;sidekick.She says:"Working at YouTube, it was kind of like when you're in a gym class and the instructor isn't doing the exercises along with you and you sort of begrudge them: 'You don't know how hard this is, bitch!' And if they join in, you think, 'Damn, I better keep going because she's doing it!'"TL8NERIMONALEX DAYReading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoStats674,000 subscribers, 110m viewsWho is he?A 23-year old musician from Essex who has had four Top 40 hits in the past two years without a record label or management.  He has just released a new album,Epigrams and&nbsp;Interludes.Pitch"The Future of Music". At least that's whatForbesmagazine said.Signature videoThe video for his breezy songGood Morning Sunshine, starring Chris Kendall (crabstickz). For a deeper appreciation of Day's popularity, watchAlex Reads Twilight: Ch 1, the first instalment of a hit series.He says:"I wouldn't be able to be like, 'OK, I've got 460,000 subscribers, so probably 40,000 of them want to fuck me.' I just can't process that as a thought. Do you know how many 40,000 people is? Put that many people in a stadium, stick me in the middle and say, 'All of you want to have sex with me.' It's mental."LM9DANISNOTONFIREDAN HOWELLStats1.4m subscribers, 85m viewsWho is he?Howell is known among his subscribers for appearing to live in a permanent existential crisis. His videos track his journey from the end of school through the beginning of university, which he eventually gave up. He now co-presentsa Sunday night Radio 1 showwith his friend and fellow YouTuber, Phil Lester (AmazingPhil).Pitch"Watch the failure that is my life, feel better about yours!"Signature videoList of Reasons Why I'm an Awful Human Being, in which Dan reveals his pet hates.He says:"What I like about YouTube is the intimacy. You really feel a personal connection to vloggers that you might not to straight-up comedians or presenters. It just feels a lot more sincere."LM10CHARLIEISSOCOOLLIKECHARLIE MCDONNELLStats2m subscribers, 279m viewsWho is he?McDonnell is the biggest British YouTube star. He started vlogging in 2007, aged 16, and now calls himself a "professional internet human".Pitch"One Direction for adolescent girls who prefer their guys a little on the dorkier side" is whatAtlanticmagazine said.Signature videoHow to Be English,  in which he makes a cup of tea (3,078,282 views and counting).He says:"I like existing in the microcosm that is YouTube. When it comes to a TV show likeTop Gear, everyone knows who Jeremy Clarkson is and not everyone who knows who he is likes him. Whereas on YouTube, if you know who I am, you probably like me as well."TL11SBTVJAMAL EDWARDSReading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoStats312,000 subscribers, 164m viewsWho is he?A 22-year-old from west London who went from filming local rapping talent on the streets of Acton aged 16 to running a major online broadcaster covering comedy, sports and business as well as music. He helped break Ed Sheeran into the mainstream and has snagged interviews with the likes of Justin Bieber and Bruno Mars. Edwards appeared in last year'sSunday Timesyoung rich list, valued at £6m.PitchA mix of hard-edged content – rap freestyles delivered straight to camera by attitude-heavy grime artists – and glitzier material: red-carpet reporting from movie premieres, backstage interviews with popstars and high-profile music videos.Signature videoEd Sheeran – You Need Me, I Don't Need You. The first of many SBTV videos Sheeran has performed in, this helped launch the singer-songwriter's career and, in return, pulled in more than 7 million views for Edwards's channel.He says:"It works because I interviewed so many stars before they hit the limelight so people trust me. It's such a buzz for me to find upcoming artists that haven't yet been given a platform for their skills."LM12CRABSTICKZCHRIS KENDALLStats292,000 subscribers; 13.5m viewsWho is he?Self-styled internet comedian whose sharp, often very funny sketches have pricked the attention of Old Media stalwarts BBC and Channel 4. He says he makes videos instead of having sex: "My loss, your gain." When it was announced (incorrectly) in January that he was quitting YouTube, the news trended on Twitter.PitchWith his good looks, smart material and natural skills as an actor and comedian, Kendall is an obvious candidate for a mainstream crossover.Signature videoSherlock (Parody), in which the great detective solves the cases of Humpty Dumpty, Goldilocks and more.He says:"You've got 80,000 people thinking, 'Oh, he's this crazy funny guy, he must be awesome to hang out with', when really all I do is playCall of Dutyon a beanbag."TL13BOOKSANDQUILLSSANN VLIEGENTHARTStats33,000 subscribers, 2m viewsWho is she?A 24-year-old London-based "booktuber" (she talks about books on YouTube) from the Netherlands with an MA in English translation and literature. In 2011, she was selected for YouTube's NextUp development programme, which allowed her to "buy new equipment, make new friends and move to London", where she now lives. She also vlogs about beauty (atderpinaMODE) and travel (also at Booksandquills).PitchFast-paced, unpretentious book chat aimed at teenage readers. Vliegenthart mainly focuses on young adult literature (Stephenie Meyer'sThe Hostis a favourite) but occasionally casts a critical eye on adult fiction (The Road,The Virgin Suicides). "This guy certainly has a way with words," is her verdict on Michel de Montaigne.Signature videoHer review ofThe Fault in Our Starsby John Green, the bestselling YA author and a big hero for Vliegenthart. Green's video blog with his brother Hank (aka theVlogbrothers) was a major inspiration here.She says:"Many of my friends have already stopped watching TV and turned to YouTube for tutorials, entertainment and advice. To me, a book recommendation from a fellow YouTuber is worth 10 times more than an ad or review in a newspaper. And instead of just watching a discussion, you can join in yourself."KF14PIXI2WOOTANYA BURRStats716,000 subscribers, 58m viewsWho is she?22-year-old Tanya films makeup tutorials, which usually aim to recreate popular celebrity makeup styles requested by her viewers. Burr was mentored by Pixiwoo, make-up artistSamantha Chapman, whose films were the first cosmetics vlogs to garner big traffic in the UK. Her boyfriend, Jim Chapman, is also building up a following as a male grooming and fashion vlogger.PitchThe go-to woman if you want to learn precise techniques for recreating celebrity makeup looks. If you weren't aware that celebrities had bespoke makeup looks, or you are over the age of 16, this is not for you.Signature videoA  step-by-step guide to recreating Mila Kunis's "smokey eye" look, which has been viewed 330,000 times.She says:" I  love speaking to my subscribers, who are mostly young girls  like me. It feels like I am talking to my friends and every time I meet a subscriber they are always exactly the same, which is lovely."LM15DIGITALREV TVKAI MAN WONGStats568,000 subscribers, 123m viewsWho is he?Describing himself as "an Asian dude with a British accent", Kai is 31, was brought up in Norwich and has an MA in film and media from Manchester University. He writes and presents a YouTube show for a Hong Kong-based camera review channel. Set up in 2007, DigitalRev TV is now the world's most subscribed and viewed photography channel on the internet, attracting some 30,000 new followers each month.Pitch:Off-the-wall (but well-informed) commentary on the tech end of photography – if you want a bit of humour injected into a hands-on review of the new Canon 35mm f/2 IS USM lens, for instance, look no further. The show also features a variety of how-to guides, and, as you'd expect, it's nicely shot.Signature videoHow to Do Levitation Photography, in which Kai demonstrates how to make it look like you're flying in a photograph by jumping off walls and park benches in downtown Hong Kong, much to the bemusement of passers-by.He says:"You start off with one great idea to get the wheels in motion. After that, you need a brilliant team and knowing which ways to steer to make it work. There, that was my crap car analogy of the day."KF16THELEAN  	MACHINESJOHN CHAPMAN AND 	LEON BUSTINStats41,500 subscribers, 1.7m viewsWho are they?A former carpenter (Chapman) and roof tiler (Bustin) from Norwich, who became personal trainers and, in October 2011, decided to share their expertise on YouTube, pulling in a muscular 41,000 subscribers in the process. They are now represented byGleam Digital, a talent agency for social-media stars.PitchStrenuous workouts leavened by lots of cheeky-chappie banter. If you fancy more of the latter, they havea second channelfor lighter material, including text message pranks, visits to their beloved Nando's and the obligatory Harlem Shake parody.Signature videoTaylor Lautner Six-pack Abs Workout, part of their understandably popular celebrity bodies series. This one shows you how to achieve the "amazing" abdominal muscles of the hunkyTwilightstar.They say:"In pretty much every video there is something we don't like, but that is what keeps you improving your content. One thing we could pinpoint is over-complicating things. Not everyone wants to know the chemical structure of a carrot, they want to know why to eat it and when."KF17EMMABLACKERYEMMA BLACKERYReading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoStats170,000 subscribers, 4.4m viewsWho is she?A 21-year-old from Essex who gained a following by readingFifty Shades of Greyout loud on YouTube and graduated to telling subscribers about the joys and humiliations of early adulthood and anything else that comes to mind. She started the channel last May to draw attention to her music career. Now she's represented by ChannelFlip and has started a vlog about computer games (emmafailsatgaming).PitchTongue-in-cheek life tips on a wide range of subjects, from meeting the parents to failing at job interviews, peppered with embarrassing anecdotes from her own life. It's worth trawling back through the videos just to see how many times Blackery's hair colour has changed over the past 11 months.Signature videoUnsurprisingly, the video entitledAwkward Sexy Teenage Momentsis her most popular by a wide margin. Blackery doesn't hold back on the details: "You know where this is going," she says at one point, "but I'm still going to tell you."She says:"If I can help just one sad, confused teenager going through school without any idea of what they want to do, who they are, how to make friends – then it'll all be worth it. Cheesy, but true."KF18PERIODIC VIDEOSBRADY HARANStats232,000 subscribers, 39.7m viewsWho is he?An Australian film-maker who left the BBC in 2009 when he realised he could make a better living producing content independently. Now has 12 YouTube channels and has made more than 1,500 videos about maths and science, earning him a Webby award and a Royal Society prize.PitchOn Periodic Videos, the gratifyingly wild-haired professor Martyn Poliakoff (brother of TV director Stephen) shares his enthusiasm about all matters chemical. The pair started out making videos about each of the 118 elements in the Periodic Table. ("With a few hours of work," said Poliakoff, "I have lectured to more students than I have reached in my entire career.") Later, due to its popularity, they broadened the series out to talk about everything from slow-motion musket firing to the chemical properties of caffeine.Signature videoGold Bullion Vault, in which the pair are admitted to the Bank of England's holiest of holies, which gives Poliakoff the excuse to calculate the value of his weight in gold (roughly £2.5m).He says:"The world is changing fast and you no longer have to work for a Charlie Big Potatoes media organisation for people to take you seriously. The old media should be paying attention to what's happening on YouTube because people are getting more views than them with videos that are made for a tiny fraction of the cost… It is simple mathematics."KF19FOODFORLOUISLOUIS COLEReading this on mobile? Click here to watch videoStats248,000 subscribers, 18.5m viewsWho is he?A 29-year-old charity worker from Surrey whose online success is based on eating dangerous and disgusting animals while they're still alive – or, in the case of his roadkill series, when they're pungently dead. His stunts have attracted criticism from the RSPCA and Peta, who questioned Cole's psychological wellbeing. He also runs a travel vlog – "the one I'm more passionate about" – calledFun For Louis.PitchStomach-churning feats performed by a good-looking guy with dreads? It has all the ingredients of a YouTube success story (other ingredients include live scorpions, a raw deer's penis, four pig's eyeballs and 10 blended-up mice). What's impressive is Cole's unfailing good cheer in the face of so much unpleasantness.Signature videoEating Huge Ragworm, in which Louis tries to eat three vicious ragworms and they try to eat him back, biting him as he stuffs them into his mouth. Vomiting ensues. He washes it all down with a nice glass of white wine.He says:"Some of my friends think I'm an attention whore, but I don't think that's it. At the moment, I'm not saying anything particularly productive with this channel, but it'll be interesting to see where this goes."KF20JACKSGAPJACK AND FINN HARRIESStats1.5m subscribers, 64m viewsWho are they?Indecently good-looking identical twin brothers. Indecently well connected, too: Michael Frayn and Claire Tomalin are grandparents, and their father is Andy Harries, a Bafta-winning producer.PitchThe rising stars of British YouTube. Jack posted his first video blog in June 2011, but ratings really took a boost when he was joined in front of the camera by Finn. 88% of their subscribers are female, aged 13 to 17.Signature videoTwins Attempt Cinnamon Challenge.  As a bonus, see if they can each eat nine Ferrero Rocher in a minute.Jack says:"It's crazy. I've had fan mail from Indonesia, America, all over the world."TL
I try to involve my girlfriend in my famous motoring journalism. It can be interesting to get a&nbsp;non-expert's opinion – a&nbsp;lady's point of view, you might say (if you were a sexist pig). But it's&nbsp;hard to get her to engage seriously. Often she fails even to notice that we're driving something&nbsp;different. If I&nbsp;can get a&nbsp;comment out of her, it's usually just a silly joke, because I&nbsp;live with a&nbsp;punning moron. "Absence makes the fart grow Honda," she says about this one. What does that even&nbsp;mean? Nothing, it's just a&nbsp;stupidspoonerism.This is what I have to live with, dear leader (that's you by the way, notKim Jong-il, who's sadly dead, so won't be reading, or leading… Oh God, I'm turning into her. Racist, too). Anyway, in the interest of tolerance, I'll try to take her ridiculous utterance as a starting point for this review.Absence. Ab-sense, ABS sense… It&nbsp;has ABS, of course – nearly all cars&nbsp;do. This one is a top-end "EX" trim-level model, so it has a lot more besides: leather seats, panoramic glass sunroof, integrated satnav, etc. All of which bump up the price. Thirty-one thousand squids is a lot to pay for a CR-V, given that you can get something much posher, German even, for that money. Lower-end models (prices start at £21,395) make more sense.Heart. Nah, forget about it. The CR-V is a practical, versatile vehicle, not one that anyone's going to fall in&nbsp;love with – for its performance (unspectacular), looks (ditto) or character (dreary).Fart. CO2emissions (and fuel consumption) are down on the previous one – they're good for one of these soft-roaders. Still not amazing, though. There's a greener model in the pipeline, a two-wheel-drive 1.6 diesel that will guff out just 119g/km. As no one's actually going to take one of these off-road, that might be the one to go for.Grow. Cars get bigger. This is way bigger than the first-generation CR-V, which came out in 1995. But in fact it's a few millimetres shorter and lower than the previous one, which is refreshing. And no interior space is lost. There's loads, for five in comfort. The ride is very comfortable too – Japanese engineering, not your arse, soaks up the potholes. Less chance of bringing on a fart that way, then (I&nbsp;know people who fart on every speed bump). And if you do, the boot is cavernous, so hopefully it will go back there and dissipate.Fonder. No. See Heart, above.Honda. It won't go wrong. But this kind of cheap, reliable motoring is no longer the preserve of the Japanese. The Koreans (Kia and Hyundai) have at least caught up, and in interesting design, too. South Koreans obviously, not North, dear reader… Aaagggh.Honda CR-V i-Dtec Ex 4WD ManualPrice as tested£30,995Top speed118mphAcceleration0-60mph in 9.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption48.7mpgCO2emissions154g/kmGreen rating6/10Cool rating4/10
Games out this week includeCars 2: PS3 Essentials(PS3), the cheap re-release of the actually surprisingly decent Mario Kart-esque weaponised driving game;Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean: PS3 Essentials(PS3) sees the cut-price return of one of the weaker outings in the cheery plastic Lego people's apparently endless plundering of cinematic blockbusters;Midnight Mysteries: The Edgar Allan Poe Conspiracy(DS) lets you investigate the mystery surrounding the famous 19th-century poet's death through the medium of tedious hidden object-finding games; inNinja Gaiden 3: Razor's Edge(Xbox, PS3), prepare for granite-hard difficulty as you fight wave after wave of tiresome yet ludicrously tenacious enemies; andAround The World In 80 Days(DS) supplies flyweight puzzles for less discerning owners of Nintendo's ageing handheld.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIf you've played the other Army Of Two games you probably won't be expecting poignant subtextual discourse on the futility of war; more a pair of heavily armed fist-bumping frat boys on a killing spree. The cringe-inducing dialogue never even pauses, punctuating the mass murder with crass banality as you rack up dollars for decimating the locals. In each of the game's short sections, the fragility of cover and scenery is a surprise highlight, as cars explode, heavy things topple on to foes and masonry splinters, especially in overkill mode, which grants temporary invincibility, infinite ammo and a short-term upgrade in firepower. There's little else to recommend it, though. Ankle-height obstacles prove insurmountable, and co-op mode – the game's very raison d'être – is hobbled by the constant flood of enemies and its insistence on taking you back to the beginning of levels when a human joins your game, removing any possibility of teamwork. Lacklustre, coarse and disappointingly insubstantial.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewLike Billy Hatcher (owner of an oversized egg in a long-forgotten Sega platformer), light-fingered raccoon Sly Cooper is a video game also-ran. His tales of comedy heists were so nearly great, it's lovely to see him back for another adventure. The script is witty, the animation solid and the cavalcade of mini-games never stops: a side-scrolling shoot 'em-up homage, remote control car sections, stealth, fighting and serving sarsaparilla to thirsty bar patrons are all in a day's work for Sly and his pals. In this outing they're travelling through time to rescue Cooper's ancestors – who all seem to have had their hands in the till – from prison. The mechanics are a bit clunky, lacking the feel and precision of Mario or the immaculate comic timing of Uncharted 3, but it's so full of new things to do your brow barely has time to furrow before fresh entertainment is wheeled in. In spite of its imperfections, Thieves In Time is a distinctive and charming little diversion.
Amazon trader Ben Morris sits absorbed by spreadsheets and intranet pages on a computer screen in his chilly home office. A small electric radiator battles against the draughts. The central heating is off because the storage tank outside his five-bedroom house is low on oil. He has not had time to order more.There are none of the box-files of invoices, in-trays and out-trays that you might expect in the control room of an expanding, multimillion-pound business. Just two desktop computers, one for Morris, one for his girlfriend Marie, about a dozen stock samples scattered on the desk and a photo of their daughter. "This is where it all happens," he says.With a few key strokes Morris lowers by a penny the price of three of the hundreds of products he has listed on Amazon. "When I look again in couple of hours they [his rivals] will have dropped their prices to a penny below mine," he predicts.The Amazon Kindle, which controls 45% of electronic book sales. Photograph: Bloomberg via Getty ImagesHe has in mind two competitors who sell similar electrical accessory products to those he offers. He suspects his rivals use a piece of software to track prices and undercut him. Because he wants to remain anonymous, he does not want to reveal which product lines he sells. There are several and generate an annual turnover of about £3m.Ben Morris and Marie are not their real names. "They would shut me down instantly," he says, speculating on what might happen if Amazon discovered he had publicly criticised the company and intended to break the site's strict selling rules. "I love Amazon and I hate Amazon. They're a necessary evil. I buy from Amazon. You probably do as well. I just don't like the way we're being treated."  "They are certainly not 'the box with the smile on' they make themselves out to be."At issue is Amazon's decision to increase the fee it charges traders on millions of items listed on the website as electrical accessories – among them memory cards, headphones, hi-fi cables, phone chargers and tablet cases. It is part of a series of targeted fee increases being imposed across Europe. In France, fees on books and DVDs are going up. In Germany, the company is taking a large cut of tyre sales. Similar fee rises were introduced in the US in January.Morris, who has been paying 7% of his sales to Amazon, was told by email two months ago that fees on electrical accessories would rise to 12% from 4 April. "It is nothing but greed," he complains. "Amazon's costs have not increased, well certainly not by this amount. Meanwhile, [traders] have had to deal with the devalued pound [making it more expensive to buy stock overseas] and big increases in postal prices." Changes to parcel-weight categories last April were particularly painful for businesses like Morris's that send large numbers of small packets.This month, Royal Mail has put up charges again, including a fuel surcharge. These have added about 20p to the postal cost for every packet Morris sends, he estimates, prompting him to start experimenting with an alternative service from Citipost.Amazon CEO and founder Jeff Bezos says the company's culture is friendly and intense. Photograph: Ted S Warren/APFinding a substitute for Amazon, which accounts for more than half his business, is not so easy. Nevertheless, Morris is so angry at what amounts to a 70% increase in his fees that he has vowed to sell his goods at cheaper prices on rival websites. He says this is in breach of Amazon rules, which forbid sellers from offering better prices elsewhere. "I don't think they can enforce pricing. We have to be able to compete with everybody. It should be up to the seller, not Amazon."At the moment, I'm putting all my efforts into eBay. The sooner Google, Walmart or Tesco opens [an online] marketplace, the better. My advice to any customer would be to find items on Amazon, locate the seller's website, and buy from them directly instead."For now, however, Morris knows he must continue with Amazon, the website of choice for so many online shoppers. In his product niche, he is locked in a fierce battle with a handful of rival Amazon traders. The top prize is to feature in the "buy box", in effect becoming Amazon's recommended seller based on the site's analysis of shoppers' search terms. If a shopper clicks on the big yellow "add to basket" button, he or she is buying from the buy box seller. In many cases it will be Amazon, but increasingly it can be a small, independent entrepreneur such as Morris.He calls up a performance scorecard showing his Amazon ratings on screen – percentages in the high 90s on each metric. That helps to make him a contender for the buy box. Price is another factor, however, as is the speed at which he has shown he can deliver goods to customers. Exactly what is required to win the coveted buy box spot remains unclear, and the subject of much debate on bulletin boards frequented by Amazon sellers.Some estimates suggest that 90% of sales are secured through the buy box, but Morris says there is still business to be done if a trader does not quite make the top spot. Beneath the big yellow button on many searches, Amazon lists three or four alternative sellers under the heading "more buying choices". If you are not in these runner-up slots, however, you are going to sell very little.Morris has studied his rivals closely, and knows they have been scrutinising his business. Some have plagiarised elements of his sales material, he believes. Others have bought from him and sought to damage his standing with Amazon by submittingwith negative feedback. Many competitors, Morris suggests, are using complicated international shipping arrangements to avoid VAT.Almost 40% of goods sold on Amazon before Christmas were sold by traders such as Morris and his rivals, and the proportion has been growing. Though the Seattle-based internet business began by sourcing and selling goods itself, it has attracted more than 2 million small entrepreneurs adept at finding unexplored markets as yet unexplored in recent years. However powerful it has grown as a retailer, Amazon could not achieve that ambition without its army of sellers.Amazon.co.uk's Milton Keynes ‘fulfilment centre’, one of its vast UK warehouses. Photograph: David Levene for the GuardianMeanwhile, it has increasingly been focusing on its expertise in delivering goods quickly – and on an industrial scale. The company has eight warehouses in Britain, with plans for three more. Independent traders have been encouraged to outsource their postal operations to these warehouses with offers of rebates and other benefits. Morris, however, is reluctant, even if it means he must spend a large part of his day stuffing envelopes and sticking labels. His business is already too dependent on Amazon, he says.The explosive success of online marketplaces such as Amazon, eBay and Play.com has proved a fantastic opportunity for many, tapping into their entrepreneurial passions. "My friends thought I was mad," Morris says, recalling his days as a novice trader. He stumbled on the then unfamiliar world of online sales three years ago after being made redundant from a multinational electricals firm.His previous job had given him limited sales experience, so there were plenty of mistakes at first. Among his first eBay listings were Star Wars masks – little more than acetate sheets folded in half, sourced from the local craft shop – and Indian spices, bulk bought and repackaged in small sachets. "Both were a disaster. The masks were good margin, but they didn't sell well."It was in electrical goods that Morris, with his expertise, was able to find the right balance of margin and volume to build a sustainable business: "I remember clearly the first two Sainsbury's bags full of stock. It was a difficult time. I had just been made redundant and we had a newborn baby. We were in a tiny flat so the nursery was doubling as an office and we had to make sure the business ran around nap times. There were two [postal] sacks hanging on the back of the nursery door. The sacks were getting so heavy it became difficult to open the door."But the difficulties of trading through Amazon have not stopped his business from flourishing. Three years on, it has exceeded expectations: "Being made redundant is the best thing that ever happened to me. I love being my own boss, living in bigger houses – and I've bought a Ferrari.The Amazon logo. The smiling arrow is said to denote the retailer's ambition to sell everything. Photograph: Lionel Bonaventure/AFP/Getty Images"It hasn't all been plain sailing. There have been a lot of arguments, customer issues, cashflow issues. And a lot of time is spent just getting the stock in and out the door … We both work really, really hard. As one of my mates said: 'You have to absolutely love doing it'. We're working seven days a week, 7am to 6pm, at night sometimes."Amazon's ability to bringing a market – to bringing capitalism – into his home office remains a thrill that galvanises Morris. After some online research and a bit of trial and error he has been able to source goods from China, a country he has never been to, from a supplier he has not met. Now shipments sweep up the gravel drive, past the swimming pool to his home outside a small market town every day.Every day a van arrives to pick up customer orders and take them away. "After a busy weekend, on a Monday we are falling over stock. Tthere can be 24, 26 sacks, each with 60 to 100 packets in them ready to go."In three years Morris and his young family have had to move home three times to accommodate the expanding business, and now, having taken an employee, they are struggling to move around their stock room – a converted shed – and are under pressure to move again.Despite this success, Morris feels the business's heavy reliance on Amazon is a big risk. The latest fee rise, he suggests, is an indicator of the company's attitude to its traders. Morris says he feels threatened by the scale of Amazon, intimidated by warning emails when he falls short of the website's style guidelines. Some communications warn that failures to correct rule breaches "may result in the closure of your seller account".Amazon is one of the largest online retailers to use Yodel, which is the biggest delivery service in the country outside of Royal Mail.  Photograph: James Grimstead/RexEven Amazon's billionaire founder, Jeff Bezos, nicknamed Dread Pirate Bezos by one disenchanted former software engineer for his supposed autocratic style, has acknowledged that working with the no-frills internet group can be a exacting experience. "Our culture is friendly and intense," Bezos told Forbes magazine last year. "But, if push comes to shove, we'll settle for intense." Amazon declined requests for comment.• This story was amended on 6 April to remove material introduced in error.
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos is leading a fresh round of investment in the financial news site Business Insider, chief executive and editor-in-chief Henry Blodget announced on Friday.The $5m investment will help develop the site's technology and product teams, editorial operations, sales and marketing and subscription and events, and brings the site's total funding to $18.6m over the past five years.Announcing the investment on his site,Blodget– still a controversial figure on the Wall Street scene – wrote that the investment came out of a dinner the pair had together last year."Jeff's vision, leadership, and philosophy at Amazon have inspired a whole generation of startups and entrepreneurs, including me," Blodget wrote."Amazon has always focused on customers first, knowing that, if they do a great job at that, everything else will take care of itself. This obsession with customers and long-term focus are the reasons that Amazon has been so successful. And this philosophy is something that we very much want to emulate."Blodget said that Bezos had "identified parallels" between Amazon and Business Insider, and added that any future coverage of Amazon would now include a statement of disclosure about the investment.The round also included previous investors RRE Ventures and Institutional Venture Partners. The investment is unlikely to make much of a hole in Bezos's fortune; the Amazon founder has a 19.1% share in the company which has a current market capitalisation of $116bn.Bezos invested through his investment fundBezos Expeditions, which is also funding a project to recoverApollo 11's F-1engines from the bottom of the Atlantic, backing forSeattle's Museum of History &amp; Industryand the10,000 Year Clock– a clock in a West Texas mountain that will tick once every 100 years. Bezos also has stakes in AirBnB, MakerBot and ZocDoc.Business Insider attracts about 24m unique users each month, according to Google Analytics. Its readership is two thirds male and with many professional traders, one third of whom are overseas.In a recent profile of Blodget by theNew Yorker, founder Kevin Ryan described how scoops "are irrelevant. They take two days to report. They're not worth it. If someone has a scoop, we post it four minutes later."He went on to explain that Business Insider's consumer want faster, shorter stories and quick hits while they are at work.Photo byTechCrunchonFlickr.Some rights reserved.The profile describes how Blodget's star rose meteorically during the dotcom boom, only to come crashing down along with the industry in 2000.He came to represent the hype of the dotcom generation and was eventually the subject of an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission which concluded he had "expressed views [on companies] inconsistent with privately expressed negative views".Blodget paid a $4m penalty and took a lifetime ban on working in the securities industry, and his critics – including commenters on the Business Insider site – have questioned whether it is appropriate for him to be commenting publicly on influential businesses."Ten years ago," he told theNew Yorkerthis week, "I got what amounted to a dishonourable discharge from the industry, and I've always been ashamed of that."At some point, if it seems appropriate, I would like to explore the possibility of being reinstated."
Every July, theRoyal Societyruns itsSummer Science Exhibition, a week-long event showcasing the latest in science and engineering research from across the country.This year, the fellowship has a new idea to promote and explore the ideas on show. Developers are being invited to take part in a 12-hour game jam in May, each tasked with creating a playable concept based around one of the exhibits at the summer event. Each team will be paired with a scientist, who'll explain their work and help with the development process. Five of the teams will then receive £2000 to further refine their concept so that the games will be ready for the summer.The Royal Society has teamed up withUnity, which develops a well-known 3D engine for indie studios, as well as digital portalIndie City, which will host the games online."The Summer Science Exhibition is one of the highlights of the Royal Society's year," says Professor Peter Sadler, chair of the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition selecting committee. "We're very excited to be introducing a new element to the Exhibition this year in the form of the Games Jam. An increasing number of exhibitors have used games as a way of communicating their science over the last few years and we're hoping that by giving some of them an opportunity to be part of the Games Jam it will bring state-of-the-art creativity and innovation to their video games and some fantastic news ways of bringing their cutting-edge research to life for our visitors."It's another interesting example of major institutions using games to increase awareness and accessibility. The Science Museum has embraced interactive media, runninggames on its siteto publicise and expand on current exhibitions; the Tate Modern, too, has successfully used games as a way of encouraging people to explore its collection – see Hide&amp;Seek's excellentTate Trumps.If you're a studio, or at least an experienced developer with three friends to drag in, you can find out about the Summer Game Jamhere– you'll need to complete the entry form by 1 May.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch.Due to the Easter holiday, this post didn't appear on 29 April, so this week's selection is culled from the last two weeks. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Checkthis week's 30 best Android apps roundup, which was published earlier in the day. Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:Nimble Quest (Free)Having made its name with Tiny Tower and Pocket Planes, Nimblebit's latest freemium game is more of an action title, blending Snake gameplay with RPG-style characters and upgrades. You swipe your party of heroes to guide them through levels of increasing difficulty. It's genuinely addictive.iPhone / iPadPoems By Heart from Penguin Classics (Free)Book publisher Penguin's new app offers poems from Shakespeare, Shelley, Kipling and other famous authors, challenging you to recite them from heart and share the recordings with friends. Two poems are included free, with others available in packs for 69p a pop.iPhone / iPadVdio (Free)Vdio is an app for buying or renting streaming films and TV shows, which launched in the US and UK earlier in the week as a "special preview" for subscribers to its sister music service Rdio. The slick iPad app is used to browse and watch shows and movies either on-screen, or (via AirPlay) on the TV set.iPadMittens (£0.69 / £1.99)Disney's second game to debut an entirely new character (following Where's My Water?) stars Mittens the cat, who has to make his way through 75 physics-puzzle levels with overtones of Cut the Rope as you chop through scenery on his behalf.iPhone / iPadHakitzu: Code of the Warrior (Free)How to get children interested in coding? Hakitzu wields giant fighty robots for the cause, teaching JavaScript skills in a game that involves battling the cyborgs built by friends. An inventive blend of gaming and education.iPadThe Voice UK Predictor Game (Free)BBC talent show The Voice is back for a second series, complete with this companion app that aims to get fans predicting which contestant will make it through each week's auditions. It can be played in the week leading up to each episode, but also during the show itself to guess which judges will spin their seats in approval.iPhone / iPadChannel 4 Horse Tracker (Free)Launched for this week's Aintree horse-racing event (including the Grand National), this second-screen app shows in-race positions and other data synchronised to what Channel 4 is airing.iPhoneLondonion (Free)Here's something intriguing: a "generative sound app" based on a poem called London Onion by Kurt Schwitters, read by comedian (andGuardian scribbler) Stewart Lee. The idea: the app takes in real-world sounds via the microphone, and blends them with the poem to "create a unique performance each time you listen". If you fondly remember the creative RjDj apps from a couple of years ago, this may appeal.iPhonePeppa Pig's Holiday (£2.99)British publisher P2 Games has sold more than a million of its licensed Peppa Pig apps so far, with Peppa Pig's Holiday the latest to shoot up the App Store charts. This time round, Peppa and family are on holiday: packing bags, swimming in the pool and making ice cream in a series of mini-games. A music video from the TV show is included too.iPhone / iPadThe King's Speech : The Second Screen Experience (Free)There are lots of second-screen apps for TV shows, but not quite so many for films. Released to be used while watching the Blu-ray edition of The King's Speech, this iPad app offers related video, historical nuggets, maps, photos and cast information, synchronised with the film.iPadSid The Science Kid - Sid's Slide to the Side (£1.99)Educational publisher Mindshapes' latest release mixes stories with mini-games, based on children's TV show Sid the Science Kid. Expect friction (of the scientific kind, obviously) as well as singing and two stories from the show.iPhone / iPadYello's Yellofier app is all about block-based remixingYellofier (Free)This is another creative audio app, this time from Swiss electronic music duo Yello. It's an app for mixing samples together as patterned blocks, with sounds provided by Yello's Boris Blank alongside The Orb, Orbital, Carl Craig and other electronica luminaries.iPhone / iPadDisney Storytime (£1.49)US-only for now (albeit with no obvious reason why it can't go global in the future), this collects together 20 digital storybooks for children based on Disney brands including Cars, Toy Story, Monsters Inc and Cinderella. Three are included with the initial purchase, with the other 17 unlocked through a credits system – parents buy credits, which children can then spend as they wish.iPhone / iPadThe Other Brothers (£0.69)There's a lot of excitement from specialist mobile games sites in this indie game, which blends pixel art and platform gaming. It sees two brothers making their way through a range of 16-bit levels, with replayability a big feature thanks to the multi-pathed environments.iPhone / iPadLittle Inferno HD (£1.99)Another beautiful indie game that proves there's life beyond the big freemium hits on the App Store. Nominated for numerous industry awards, it's all based around a fireplace. "Burn flaming logs, screaming robots, credit cards, batteries, exploding fish, unstable nuclear devices, and tiny galaxies..." Which sounds barking, but it's actually rather wonderful.iPhone / iPadNew York Magazine (Free)This is a brand new app for New York Magazine, replacing the existing version rather than updating it. The app blends stories from the mag's print edition with news from its NYmag website, offering single issues or a choice of monthly and yearly subscriptions.iPadKindoma Storytime (Free)Kindoma Storytime blends video chat and digital storybooks, the idea being that kids can read stories with remote parents or grandparents while seeing live video of their face. For parents who travel or grandparents who live hundreds of miles away, this could be a marvellous thing indeed – depending on the quality of the stories, of course.iPadTesco Real Food Magazine (Free)Supermarket chain Tesco's Real Food magazine makes its way to iPad, with a mix of recipes and shopping features, so people can decide what to cook and then buy the ingredients from the iPad. The first issue focuses on "delicious spring cooking", which will be great if/when spring ever arrives.iPadInjustice: Gods Among Us (Free)This is the latest mobile game from Warner Bros based on the universe of DC superheroes (and villains). It's a card-battler where you collect the likes of Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and Green Lantern, then send them into battle with special moves. It works across devices too, including the console version. Naturally, in-app purchases are involved to build your deck.iPhone / iPadMore Trucks – by Duck Duck MooseThis sequel to the does-what-it-says-on-the-tin Trucks app gets children playing with four different trucks: a fire engine, monster truck, crane and flatbed tow truck, with colourful graphics and light educational elements. The link above is for iPhone, but theHD iPad version can be found here.iPhone / iPadMotoGP Live Experience 2013 (£15.99)It may be pricey by app standards, but this promises great things for fans of MotoGP racing. Officially licensed for the 2013 season, it's designed to be used while races are happening live, with audio and text commentary, live timing and 3D tracking of practice, qualifying sessions and races, with video highlights and news in between events.iPhone / iPadMight &amp; Magic: Duel of Champions (Free)Everyone and their sword-wielding half-orc aunt wants their own card-battler nowadays. Ubisoft's RPG brand Might &amp; Magic is latest to clamber onto the bandwgon, with a game that sees you building a card-based army of units, events, heroes, spells and fortune twists, then battling in online tournaments before swapping tips in the in-app forum.iPadToys"R"Us Towers (Free)A freemium game based on a real-world retailer? That's what you get here, with Ubisoft's game taking inspiration from the flagship Times Square outlet of Toys R Us. Your job is to build the perfect toy store (if you liked games like Tiny Tower or Mega Mall Story, you'll know the drill) through a mixture of persistence and in-app payments. If you're in the US, you can also unlock money-off vouchers for real Toys R Us stores.iPhone / iPadMashtun (Free)Whisky brand Chivas has released this app, but it's far from just branded advertising. Pitched as "parlour games for the modern host", it's a fun collection of mini-games played in the real world, from charades to completing physical actions while balancing a tower of on-screen blocks.iPhone / iPadTekken Card Tournament is a card-battler beat 'em upTekken Card Tournament (Free)More card-battling: in this case for beat 'em up veteran Tekken. This sees you building a deck of moves and battling virtual and real opponents. Later this year, it'll also tie into a range of real-world collectible cards, with scannable QR codes to add them to your in-game deck.iPhone / iPadDisney Princess: Story Theater (£1.99)Disney's latest app brings three of its most famous princesses – Cinderella, Ariel and Belle – to iOS in a set of stories. The "Theater" aspect is most interesting though: the app is as much about children creating their own stories starring the cartoon heroines, using characters and props.iPhone / iPadDexteria Jr (£1.99)The final children's app this week is based on the existing Dexteria app for teaching fine motor skills. This one is aimed at 2-5 year-olds, with three interactive exercises designed to build up kids' "strength, control and dexterity" with their fingers. Parents can keep tabs on their progress through a reports feature too.iPadFavourit (Free)Favourit describes itself as a "social betting and tipping community" for sports, and this is its first iPhone app. Covering global sports including football, tennis and rugby, it enables people to place bets using virtual cash for fun, or real money via Favourit's bookmaker partners.iPhoneBadland (£2.49)What was that about beautiful (paid) indie games on iOS? Here's another one for the list. A marvellously-crafted platform game with 40 striking-looking levels to explore on your own, and a multiplayer mode where you can play with friends on the same device.iPhone / iPadPopAGraph (Free)Apple is giving some promotional love to this nifty photography app this week. Its schtick is less about filters (although they're here too) and more about "popping your image off the page" with a 3D effect, before posting it to Twitter, Facebook and/or Instagram.iPhone
The moment I buy my fake Facebook girlfriend, she leaves a post on my wall. It reads: "I just remembered that thing you said… hiarious. lol&nbsp;;)" Great. Now everyone thinks I've fallen for a woman who can't spell and says "lol" a lot. This is a disaster. My reputation might take years to recover. What if&nbsp;she misuses an apostrophe in her next post? Or&nbsp;has ever said the word "nom" out loud? I'll&nbsp;be&nbsp;ruined.Worse still, my girlfriend – my actual, real-life, flesh-and-blood girlfriend with whom I live – isn't a&nbsp;fan of my new fake girlfriendatall. Whenever my Facebook girlfriend posts anything, my real-life girlfriend narrows her eyes and reads it back&nbsp;to me in a withering voice. Yesterday, while I&nbsp;was looking up a recipe on my phone, she yelled,&nbsp;"Are you texting your new girlfriend? You&nbsp;are, aren't you?" and then fell silent for  three-quarters of an hour. This whole situation was a mistake.Why did I buy a fake Facebook girlfriend? Curiosity, mainly. Name me one red-blooded man&nbsp;who wouldn't want to validate his neediness by paying a stranger of undetermined gender to send him hollow, misspelt platitudes on the internet. You can't, can you?But I also wanted a glimpse into the thriving, fascinating fake internet girlfriend industry. For a&nbsp;modest amount of money – certainly far less than it costs to start and maintain a human relationship – a growing number of websites now&nbsp;offer the services of pretend social media paramours. Maybe they'll flirt with you on Twitter. Maybe they'll change their relationship status on Facebook. Some fake girlfriends will even phone you at work, presumably so you can&nbsp;bark, "Not when I'm in the office, darling!" then hang up, roll your eyes at your colleagues, walk home and cry.It's a weird setup. Many of the services claim that they exist to make other women jealous – your crush will see that you're in a new relationship, realise that she's wanted you for herself all along and pursue you relentlessly until&nbsp;you're hers. It sounds unlikely, but apparently it works.My Facebook girlfriend came fromFiverr, an online marketplace where everything costs exactly five US dollars. Want someone to optimise&nbsp;your CV? Five dollars. Want someone to&nbsp;write your name on their cheek in lipstick and&nbsp;photograph it? Five dollars. Want a stranger to say a prayer to a god of your choice? Five dollars, you numbskull. For a friend's birthday last year, I took a Fiverr vendor up on his offerto&nbsp;dress as a wolf, dance around his basement and&nbsp;film himself singing a personalised, free-form version of Happy Birthday. The finished product looked like something a serial killer might record seconds before turning the gun on himself but, hey, it only cost five dollars. It was either that or&nbsp;an Amazon voucher.Fiverr is teeming with fake girlfriends. But what sort did I want? Did I want to remain amicable with my pretend partner, or break up spectacularly (one ad was titled: "I will be your jealous PSYCHO girlfriend for a week")? Did I&nbsp;want a deliberately submissive Asian girlfriend, or someone touting themselves as a "crazy angry&nbsp;Russian"? Someone who would "post the sexiest comments you have ever seen", or someone who didn't care if they had to be my girlfriend or my boyfriend, just so long as they got&nbsp;their five dollars?And then I found Martha. She was probably French, possibly Asian and almost definitely female. To be fair, it was hard to tell. Her profile picture was so impenetrably lo-res that I briefly worried I'd accidentally paid for a romantic encounter with a cat's face or a pile of fruit or something. Martha's advert read: "Want to make a ex jealous? I will regularly post flirtatious comments on your timeline wall for all your Facebook friends to see."I checked her Facebook "likes" page to see if we&nbsp;were compatible. She likedSaul Williams. I've&nbsp;heard of Saul Williams. She liked Tibetan fashion. I know where Tibet is. She liked something called "The Garden Of Emotions". My&nbsp;mum and dad have got a garden. Perfect. We&nbsp;were all set.As I signed up, I decided to ask Martha a few questions to see how much of her was artifice. Not much, it turned out. Her name really was Martha, she was 27, it was her in the picture and&nbsp;she fake-girlfriended two men a week but mostly she was hired by businesses who wanted their Facebook pages to look more popular than they really are.Nor was this her only source of Fiverr income. As well as pretending to be your girlfriend, she could also teach you secrets about eBay, provide you with a list of restaurants in any city in the world, send you a postcard from Paris, translate your documents, buy you a French lottery ticket or drive unlimited traffic to your website, all for $5 a pop. "She sounds busy," my girlfriend sniffed. "Good luck trying to spend any time with&nbsp;her."But it was too late to back out. I'd paid the equivalent of £3.53 for this. I logged on to Facebook, named Martha as my girlfriend and sat&nbsp;back, anticipating shock and outrage from everyone I knew. This was going to be good.And then… nothing. Not a peep. From anyone. Eventually, a text from a friend limped in, drowsily asking what was going on. My real girlfriend's best friend momentarily expressed the lowest possible amount of concern, before getting bored and wandering off. But that's as scandalous as it&nbsp;got. Maybe, I thought, Martha&nbsp;was saving all the good stuff for day two.Nope. The next day she came online to write the word "ouch" underneath a picture of a leg injury I had posted deliberately to make her say something girlfriendy. I wouldn't have minded, but my Auntie Pat had written the exact same thing underneath it three hours earlier. What was happening? Could it be that my fake internet girlfriend was ashamed of me? Wasn't I even good&nbsp;enough for a lo-res probably-woman to love? Did that £3.53 mean nothing to her?On day three, Martha didn't post at all. I&nbsp;know this because I sat in front of my laptop all day, obsessively refreshing Facebook every 30 seconds and wondering what I'd done wrong. I sent her a&nbsp;private message. "Hi, Martha," it read. "I haven't heard from you today. Is everything OK? :)"That's right, I used a smiley. I was chasing a woman who didn't care about me, and realistically might not even be a woman anyway, and things had got so fraught that I actually used a smiley. I was debasing myself for minuscule scraps of affection. This was every single relationship I've ever been in all over again.And that's where things started to get complicated. Because Martha clearly wasn't attending to my needs in the proper manner, I&nbsp;decided to revise my options. After a sleepless night, it hit me. I would cheat on Martha.Now, I'm generally of the opinion that infidelity is wrong, but these were desperate times. I hopped back on to Fiverr and bought the services of a&nbsp;woman called Yournewcrush, who offered to write "flirty comments to make your ex realise what they are missing out on!" I directed her to Martha, handed over my five dollars and waited for the sparks to fly.Yournewcrush was chattier than Martha. I could call her Veronica, she said, before telling me that everything about her profile – her name, location, history, opinions and details – was fictional. She was studying for a master's in psychology, and suffered from very poor health. She'd been doing this for a year and a half, and it was the perfect job for her. "I have clients from all around the world, from ages 17 to 75," she told me. "Some are&nbsp;college students and others are multi-millionaires. They tend to be men who just went through a bad break-up and just want someone to talk to or an ego boost."Best of all, she said, "I never use emoticons, XOXO, abbreviations, terrible spelling or internet lingo." You hear that, Martha? Veronica knows better than to say "lol" to her boyfriend. She knows how to treat a man. And, if she doesn't, I'll&nbsp;buy another girlfriend who can make both of you jealous. And if that doesn't work, I'll buy another one. And then another one. I'll buy every&nbsp;single Facebook girlfriend on Fiverr and pit&nbsp;them all against each other. What, you don't think I've got that many multiples of £3.53? I'm rolling in £3.53s! I'm a&nbsp;£3.53ionaire!Fortunately, this horrifying chain reaction of made-up girlfriends didn't need to happen.&nbsp;Veronica immediately leapt into the fray with gusto. She&nbsp;found the post announcing my relationship with Martha and wrote "DISLIKE" underneath it. She&nbsp;saw the picture of my injured leg and offered to kiss it better. She found a picture of me&nbsp;and said that I&nbsp;looked "a little bit crazy" in it.&nbsp;Not really a compliment, I know, but it didn't&nbsp;matter.The main thing is that it worked. Veronica's involvement spurred Martha back into action. "Hey… you left your bracelet the other night at my place… Wanted to come back for more? ;)" A&nbsp;winky smile, confused tenses and the insinuation that I'm the sort of person who would&nbsp;ever wear a bracelet, yes, but this was more like it. Martha and Veronica were jealous of&nbsp;each other. Maybe they'd fight for me. Maybe they'd fight for me in a jelly pit.This was brilliant.It wasn't long after this that the desperate reality of the matter started to sink in. First, I&nbsp;realised that these girls were interested only in my £3.53. They wouldn't be jealous of anything if&nbsp;I hadn't been flinging virtual coins at them. Second, and most importantly, nobody else cared.&nbsp;Aside from one message asking if I was going out with a spammer, my Facebook friends were oblivious to my exciting new love life. My brother didn't notice. My parents didn't notice. None of my friends from work or school or university expressed even the slightest bit of joy or concern about anything that was happening to&nbsp;me. Finally, after five days of this nonsense, I&nbsp;took it upon myself quietly to dump Martha&nbsp;and Veronica. To&nbsp;misquote Elton John, our candle had burned out long before literally anyone important in my life gave a&nbsp;billionth of a shit about it.And, having been through the&nbsp;experience, I&nbsp;think that's probably for the best. Facebook is&nbsp;for many things. It's for remembering birthdays. It's for posting drunk pictures of yourself that your children will&nbsp;one day be horrified to discover. It's for seeing which of your classmates has got the most racist since you left school. But&nbsp;it isn't for parading your new £3.53 fake girlfriend around on. Or, for that matter, the girl you paid £3.53 to make your £3.53 girlfriend jealous. But Martha and Veronica, if you're reading, know that a&nbsp;corner of my heart will be for ever yours. You&nbsp;can have it if you like. Five dollars.
The browser wars are back – but this time on mobile as well as the desktop. After long-simmering disagreements with engineers at Apple, Google has split its development of the Chrome browser's rendering engine for both desktop and mobile from the main line of the open source WebKit project.That creates a "fork" in the engine which will put it on an increasingly divergent path from other WebKit developers, including Apple, Nokia, and BlackBerry.For users, growing differences in how the rendering engines work could mean that viewing the same site with different browsers will give different results – especially on mobile.Google is calling its new rendering engine "Blink" – andadmits in a blogpostthat "we know that the introduction of a new rendering engine can have significant implications for the web."But it adds that it thinks that having multiple rendering engines – the programs that decide how to lay out pages – "will spur innovation and over time improve the health of the entire open web ecosystem." The move means there are now four main rendering engines online: WebKit, Blink, Trident (used in Microsoft's Internet Explorer) and Gecko, used by Mozilla.Rendering engines figure out how to interpret the HTML, CSS and Javascript that makes up a page, and decide how to lay out the page. They're the essential subsystem for a browser, onto which elements such as navigation, bookmarking, tabs and so on are overlaid to produce the finished app.The move follows long-simmering disagreement between engineers at Apple and Google over the best way to develop the rendering engine underlying the browser – with one senior Apple engineer saying that Google refused to incorporate key technologies into the main branch of WebKit, keeping them instead for Chrome.But Google argues that its move means innovation in its browsers can advance more quickly, and independently, without being held back by legacy code.In the blogpost, it says it will remove seven "build systems" and 7,000 files comprising more than 4.5m lines of code. "Over the long term, a healthier codebase leads to more stability and fewer bugs," writes Adam Barth, Google's software engineer.For web designers who will have to design pages that work with even more rendering engines, the divergence could mean growing problems. Similar troubles occurred early in the development of the commercial web, when Microsoft and Netscape produced their own non-standard adaptations – such asNetscape's addition of the "blink" tag, which was not adopted by Microsoft.The stakes are high. Chrome is the one of the most-used browsers on the desktopaccording to NetMarketShare– or the most-used, according toStatcounter, which uses a slightly different methodology and sample. Netmarketsharecounts unique visitors to sites, and provides weighting for internet population size in countries; Statcounter simply counts hits on sites.At present, Apple's MobileSafari is the most-used on mobile, according to Net Applications' measurement of visits to sites – despite the greater number of Android phones in use. Statcounterputs the Android browser as the most-used, as 30% against MobileSafari's 24%.Google is presently rolling out updates to Android which replace the Android "Browser" app with Chrome in newer versions of Android released in the past two years.Apple is not the only company using WebKit. In February, Norway's Opera stopped trying to develop its own rendering engine and joined the WebKit group. This week, it said it will use Blink.Forks in open source projects are generally irreversible, because the two paths introduce differences in coding and features which are irreconcilable. For that reason, those behind such projects usually make strenuous efforts to avoid them – unless those involved have seriously divergent aims for the project.The split has come after tensions between engineers from Apple and Google, which have played out on the WebKit mailing lists following disagreements on how WebKit should develop to support "multi-process" functionality in a browser. Google's branch of WebKit, used for its Chrome browser, has supported multi-process for a long time – but the company has repeatedly refused to integrate that into the main branch of WebKit, which would have made it available to all the companies and organisations that use WebKit, including Apple, Nokia and BlackBerry.That refusal seems to have persuaded Apple's team, which has been core to the development of WebKit since using it for the Safari browser, released in January 2003, to introduce WebKit2 earlier this year which did offer that capability. Crucially, though, none of Google's engineers was given "commit" powers to WebKit2 – meaning they could not incorporate changes into the main branch.In effect, the fork creates a mobile version of the "browser wars" of the 1990s, when Microsoft's Internet Explorer took on the then-dominant Netscape Navigator, and won – though Microsoft was later fined under antitrust laws for the tactics that it used, where it used its dominance in Windows to strongarm PC makers not to install Navigator.The tensions are clear in aHacker News discussionbetween Maciej Stachowiak of Apple's Safari group, who has long been one of the WebKit team (using the handle othermaciej) and Justin Schuh (justinschuh) of Google's Chrome security team.Stachowiak says:The main reason we built a new multiprocess architecture is that Chromium's multiprocess support was never contributed to the WebKit project. It has always lived in the separate Chromium tree, making it pretty hard to use for non-Chrome purposes.Before we wrote a single line of what would become WebKit2, we directly asked Google folks if they would be willing to contribute their multiprocess support back to WebKit, so that we could build on it. They said no.At that point, our choices were to do a hostile fork of Chromium into the WebKit tree, write our own process model, or live with being single-process forever. (At the time, there wasn't really an API-stable layer of the Chromium stack that packaged the process support.)Writing our own seemed like the least bad approach.If Google had upstreamed (integrated into WebKit) their multiprocess support, we almost surely would have built on it. And history might have turned out differently.He adds that "we talked privately with particular Chrome folks before we started [WebKit2], in the middle [of development], and shortly before landing to mention that we were landing soon. I don't know if the contents of these conversations were ever shared with the whole Chrome team as some Chrome people seemed super surprised at our announcement [of WebKit2]."But Justin Schuh, who works for Google on its Chrome security team, argued that the multiprocess source was available to be integrated – but that the WebKit team didn't incorporate it.Alex Russell, one of the Chrome team,insisted in a personal blogpostthat the key intention of the move is to speed up the time it takes to compile and test new versions of the code. "To make a better platform faster, you must be able to iterate faster," Russell says. "Today's WebKit defeats that imperative in ways large and small. It's not anybody's fault, but it does need to change."He says that the decision to split from the WebKit team was "wrenching" but that "in all honesty, we may have paid too high a price for too long because of this desire to stay close to WebKit."Appleadopted WebKit2 in April 2010, announcing the move on the WebKit mailing list. "The major difference [from Google Chrome] being that we have built the process split model directly into the framework, allowing other [browser] clients to use it," wrote Apple's Anders Carlsson at the time. A split process system can use the multiple cores in modern processors, among other advantages.At the time, some found it controversial – though Stachowiak said then that the naming "seems to make this project seem a bigger deal than it is." He called it a "proof of concept".
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.Due to the Easter holiday, this post didn't appear on 29 April, so this week's selection is culled from the last two weeks. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day. For now, read on for this week's Android selection.SketchBook Ink (£3.32)Autodesk's SketchBook Ink was warmly received on iPad, but now it's available for (virtual) pen and ink artists on Android tablets too. Working in portrait or landscape orientation, it offers slick touchscreen line-drawing, with plenty of options to export images for further work on other devices.Nimble Quest (Free)Having made its name with Tiny Tower and Pocket Planes, Nimblebit's latest freemium game is more of an action title, blending Snake gameplay with RPG-style characters and upgrades. You swipe your party of heroes to guide them through levels of increasing difficulty. It's genuinely addictive.Humble Bundle (Pay-What-You-Like)The Humble Bundle site has been offering marvellous value for money for Android gamers for a while now. Its latest bundle lets you pay what you want for four excellent games – Anomaly Korea, Contre Jour, Plants vs. Zombies and Bladeslinger – then throws in The Room, Metal Slug 3, Funky Smugglers, Raiden Legacy and Another World if you pay more than the average ($5.61 at the time of writing). You can choose how you divide your payment between the developers, charities and Humble Bundle itself.Pac-Man +Tournaments (Free)Even the most famous gaming characters are trying freemium on for size. Witness the new Pac-Man game from Namco Bandai, which blends the original arcade game with a new Tournament mode with online leaderboards. In-app purchases are used to buy virtual tokens to play the weekly tournaments, but if you're not fussed about those, you can play for free.The Voice UK Predictor Game (Free)BBC talent show The Voice is back for a second series, complete with this companion app that aims to get fans predicting which contestant will make it through each week's auditions. It can be played in the week leading up to each episode, but also during the show itself to guess which judges will spin their seats in approval.Tekken Card Tournament turns Tekken into a card-battlerTekken Card Tournament (Free)Another big gaming brand trying free-to-play on for size. In this case, beat 'em up veteran Tekken has been turned into a card-battler – a currently hot (not to mention lucrative) genre on iOS and Android. This sees you building a deck of moves and battling virtual and real opponents. Later this year, it'll also tie into a range of real-world collectible cards, with scannable QR codes to add them to your in-game deck.Kytetime Easy Parental Control (Free)The original Kytephone Android app was a way for people to add parental controls to a smartphone being used by their child, including GPS tracking. Kytetime is a sister app more focused on setting limits on how older children use their device – for example turning off Facebook and text messaging during school hours or late at night, setting time limits on games and more location-tracking. Smart parenting or Big Brother (well, Father/Mother) privacy infringement? There will be parents in both camps for that debate.500px Beta (Free)There's a separate 500px Android app for people sharing photos on the prosumer service, but this new version "allows you to experience fresh code that is brewing at 500px Labs in gorgeous Toronto" – a way to test new features before they're rolled into the main app. If you're a keen photographer and haven't tried 500px yet, it's well worth a look, by the way.Ninja Village (£2.99)Japanese developer Kairosoft has a growing fanbase for its addictive strategy games on iOS and Android. Ninja Village sees you building a ninja clan and sending them into battle, while also building their village into a prosperous settlement. If you've loved other Kairosoft games, you'll love this. If not, it may make the perfect introduction to their charms.Reign of Amira: TLK (Free)This is interesting: a game from Qualcomm's Snapdragon Game Studio that's meant as a showcase for its Snapdragon 600 processor. It sees you exploring a fantasy world with lots of beasts to battle, with (unsurprisingly) pretty nifty graphics to boggle at along the way.ArtHunter (Free)This app comes from the National Galleries of Scotland, showing off artwork from museums and galleries around the country, with the ability to "unlock" the digital versions by visiting them in real life. Expect a mixture of high-resolution images, video and audio.Athlete.com Running GPS (Free)There's an ever-increasing number of fitness-tracking apps with social features available on Android, with Athlete.com's effort the latest to join the race. Its features include tracking pace, route, distance, calories burned and other metrics, with the ability to share details with friends, get audio feedback and music while running, and ping messages back and forth between running groups. All the data is backed up on the Athlete.com site too.WWE Presents: Rockpocalypse (Free)Yes: Rockpocalypse. As in The Rock, who's currently back plying his wrestling trade in the WWE alongside his Hollywood acting career. So what's The Rock been cooking on mobile, and is it worth, er, smelling? This is an official WWE game that sees The Rock beating the bejaysus out of a succession of "crazed goons of an evil mastermind", funded by in-app purchases of virtual coins to improve his chances.Catapult King (Free)Here's the latest fun-looking game from Chillingo, brandishing princesses, dragons and catapults in a 96-level fantasy adventure. Magical power-ups for your catapult are the key to success (and the key to the freemium moneymaking for Chillingo, presumably).Rosetta Course (Free)Something more serious here: an Android port of the well-known Rosetta Stone language-learning software, tying into the desktop edition – with the ability of newcomers to sign up for a demo account. Progress can be saved across devices, so really this is about people learning through Rosetta Stone being able to polish their linguistic skills when away from their computer.Magicka (£1.32)Popular PC hit Magicka has made the jump to tablets, with all manner of wizardy spellcasting fun in single and co-operative multiplayer modes. You'll be zapping monsters and creating new spells, with a dash of welcome humour accompanying the moreish gameplay.Mr Bean Slider Puzzle is one for kids of all agesMr Bean Slider Puzzle (£0.69)The animated version of Mr Bean? There's now a mobile game for him aimed at children. It's a collection of slider puzzles based on the cartoon, with four levels of difficulty to suit different ages, and the ability (for older players, obviously) to share best times on Facebook and Twitter.Frontline Commando: D-Day (Free)Publisher Glu Mobile has been exploring how freemium mechanics can work for a range of traditionally-hardcore game genres. This latest example is a third-person shooter set during World War 2, with five campaigns and 145 missions, all manner of historic weaponry, and in-app purchases used for some items.Fotor - Photo Effect Studio (Free)There's some buzz around new photo-editing app Fotor, which offers a mixture of features from cropping and filters through to tilt-shift and a camera screen promising to help users "always capture the sharpest photos". All the usual social networks are built in for sharing purposes too.Into the Dead (Free)Pikpok is one of the indie mobile games developers that you can trust to come up with high-quality games, and Into the Dead looks like it'll enhance the company's reputation more. It's yet another zombie apocalypse game, but one with plenty of creativity and originality at work as you fend off the shambling undead. A cross between an endless runner and a first-person shooter, and very good fun.Furby MouthOff (Free)Fancy your children gabbling like Furby toys? Probably best not to answer that. This is the idea behind Furby MouthOff, though – a new app from Hasbro that provides a virtual, on-screen Furby face to mouth the words being spoken by its user in the real world. The idea – as with previous MouthOff apps from developer ustwo – is to hold the phone in front of your mouth while chattering away.Crumble Zone (Free)There's a healthy number of interesting indie games coming out for Android at the moment, with Rebel Twins' Crumble Zone one of the latest. It sees you rotating a little green alien around his home planet while blasting asteroids – old-school arcade-game action with modern-day visuals and touchscreen controls.Emergency (£1.99)Emergency made its name as a series of PC games, but is now available on Android for the first time. It puts you in charge of the emergency services over 13 missions, from plane and train crashes through to asteroid impacts. Your job is to save lives and sort out the mess.Epoch (£3.39)So many games are "post-apocalyptic". Isn't there a gap for more mid-apocalyptic" titles? Just a thought. Epoch looks really good though: an action game powered by Unreal Engine where you're battling robots and trying to find out what happened before that apocalypse. Just the latest showcase for Android's gaming chops.Spawn Wars 2 (Free)Another strategy game here, but on a cellular level. Gamevil's title is a sequel to the original Spawn Wars, as you "embark on the journey to the largest human cell with your army of the smallest human cells", reproducing and evolving as you go.Mega Run – Redford's Adventure (Free)Get Set Games' Mega Jump has been very popular with Android gamers, and now it has a sequel focused, as you may have guessed, on running as well as jumping. That means a colourful platform game with 80 levels to explore, lots of power-ups and characters to unlock, and the promise of more content to come in future updates.Burgerapp (£1.99)What problem is this app solving? The problem of being in London and craving a decent burger. I've certainly been there. The app offers personal reviews of "the best burger joints in London", along with tip-offs on special offers, and information on how to make your own beefy treats.Burn Note (Free)If you're security-conscious (or just sexting), Burn Note may be just the thing. It's a messaging app where "all messages self-destruct after reading", armed with the promise that the app will prevent recipients taking screenshots.Set Sail! Pirate Adventure (Free)It's not available in the UK yet, but Set Sail! Pirate Adventure looks like it has potential: a piratical romp where you'll be trading with friends, meeting Medieval characters and battling at sea. Oh, and it's the first game I've seen promising a "unique beer system" as a key feature.Mahjong Solitaire (Free)Hundreds of thousands of downloads already this week for this tile-puzzler, with more than 150 Mahjong board layouts and four difficulty levels to test your wits. Mahjong is one of those genres tailor-made for touchscreens, and while there are lots of games to choose from, CanadaDroid's title looks like a keeper.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A collection of interesting links gathered by Guardian games writers.The Next Xbox Will Require an Internet Connection To Start Games, Sources Say / KotakuTwo Kotaku sources have added more credence to the rumor that the next Xbox, expected to battle the PlayStation 4 in late 2013 or early 2014, will be an always-online system, though it will be able to tolerate dropped connections."Unless something has changed recently," one of the sources told us over email, "Durango consumer units must have an active internet connection to be used."This rumour just will not go away. Sony must be rubbing its corporate hands together with glee.How Jason Rohrer Won The Game Design Challenge | Rock, Paper, ShotgunJohn Walker:Jason Rohrer's game, A Game For Someone, began with the idea that it should not be played for at least 2,000 years. That brought about two issues: 1) How to make a game that would last for 2,000 years. 2) How to stop anyone from playing it for 2,000 years. Rohrer addressed both angles adequately.Showing an image of a mighty cathedral, that took over 300 years to build, Rohrer explained that there was something extraordinary about a project for which those digging the foundations knew they would be dead generations before it was complete. He wanted to recapture something of that timelessness in his concept – a game that he nor anyone else would ever live to see played. So he realised that to do this, it would need to be a board game.This is the background story to Rohrer's winning entry in the last ever GDC game design competition. Up against the likes of Richard Lemarchand (Uncharted) and Will Wright, he came up with this rather astonishing idea...Microsoft will win next-gen war, Sony's online infrastructure is "god awful" – Bushnell | VG247"I personally believe Microsoft is in a superior position, and the reason is Sony, whenever they change consoles, the software tools that they have are lame," Bushnell said. "A lot of times in the past they were in Japanese; not well documented and getting the software development community up to speed…they may have been able to do it in Japan, but the American software community just says 'Oh boy, what a pain.'"And a lot of people don't realize how strong the software community is at making the hardware platform sing and dance."Hmm, this at a time when most developers are agreeing that Sony has massively improved its software tools and development environment.Zynga launches its first real-money gambling games in the UK / GamasutraSocial games company Zynga today made a notable step into the world of real money gambling games, as it launched a couple of browser and download games in the UK.Zynga is banking on the idea that real money online gambling is where it will find its fortune, and has recently been making steps to convert its company into a legal online casino.It's... GambleVille!Gartner Says by 2014, 80 Percent of Current Gamified Applications Will Fail to Meet Business Objectives / GartnerGamification is currently being driven by novelty and hype. Gartner predicts that by 2014, 80 percent of current gamified applications will fail to meet business objectives primarily because of poor design."The challenge facing project managers and sponsors responsible for gamification initiatives is the lack of game design talent to apply to gamification projects," said Brian Burke, research vice president at Gartner. "Poor game design is one of the key failings of many gamified applications today."Can you gamify failure?
It's Friday! Any plans for the weekend? I'm hoping to complete Bioshock: Infinite before the WHOLE of social media ruins it for me!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook Home &gt;&gt; FacebookYou may be seeing a lot more of this.Apple's slide-to-unlock patent invalidated in Germany (decision is appealable) &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsSamsung and Google's Motorola Mobility have just scored a win over a famous Apple user interface patent. The Bundespatentgericht, Germany's Federal Patent Court, ruled that all claims of EP1964022 on "unlocking a device by performing gestures on an unlock image" are invalid as granted, and additionally held that none of the 14 amendments proposed by Apple could salvage the patent.... It can and will be appealed by Apple to the Bundesgerichtshof (Federal Court of Justice).…This patent isn't even remotely as strategic as it is famous. Every user of a smartphone with a touch screen needs to perform this gesture frequently, but the patent does not cover all slide-to-unlock mechanisms but only some, and Apple's rivals have all developed workarounds.So it's a defeat that was a victory anyway. The crux of the invalidation was that it's simply a software solution to a problem - and in Europe, you can't patent implementations which consist only of software. The US is different. And:the most important prior art reference, a Swedish mobile phone named Neonode N1m that was launched approximately a year before the iPhone, may not be eligible as prior art under US law.Holy Crap, Is This Mark Zuckerberg's Embarrassing Childhood Angelfire Website? &gt;&gt; GizmodoHoly crap, yes, it is. From 1999. You know, when he was 15. Fifteen, yes.Apple's iMessage encryption trips up feds' surveillance &gt;&gt; CNET NewsDeclan McCullagh and Jennifer van Grove:Encryption used in Apple's iMessage chat service has stymied attempts by federal drug enforcement agents to eavesdrop on suspects' conversations, an internal government document reveals.An internal Drug Enforcement Administration document seen by CNET discusses a February 2013 criminal investigation and warns that because of the use of encryption, "it is impossible to intercept iMessages between two Apple devices" even with a court order approved by a federal judge.The DEA's warning, marked "law enforcement sensitive," is the most detailed example to date of the technological obstacles -- FBI director Robert Mueller has called it the "Going Dark" problem -- that police face when attempting to conduct court-authorized surveillance on non-traditional forms of communication.Ouya review: can an indie console take on Sony and Microsoft? &gt;&gt; The VergeDavid Pierce:With Ouya's hacker ethos tends to come a distaste for paying for things, so Ouya has mandated that every game in its store be free to download. That sounds like a great, let's-all-hold-hands way to make gaming great on the platform, but it leads to something far more frustrating. Every game is free to download, but then dumps on your head a load of nags, pop-ups, and pleas for upgrades or in-app purchases — some games are $4.99, some are $15.99, others just constantly implore you to donate $.99 so the developer can have a beer. Worst of all, it makes buying things impossibly easy — you enter a credit card when first setting up your Ouya, and there are often no confirmation boxes or checks against you spending thousands of dollars. Oh, you hit Upgrade because it's right next to Play and the controller's laggy? Perfect. Thanks for your money.Reconfiguring payment systems is one part of what's required for a developer to move their app from Android to Ouya. The other is (hopefully) simpler: apps have to work with the controller. This, as best I can tell, is the one compelling argument for Ouya's not including the Play Store or even the Amazon Appstore on the console — a number of existing games simply won't work with the controller, and even those that do don't work well. Configuring a game for a controller is easy, though, so for Ouya's sake and ours I hope developers put in the time.3.5 out of 10. Hey ho.The real reason Windows Phone is failing &gt;&gt; ReadWriteBrian S Hall:The real reason why Windows Phone has failed because there is no good reason for it to exist.Go on, try to think of one. Think of just one reason - one customer-facing reason - why Windows Phone should exist? Is it better? Cheaper? Faster? Simpler? More secure? More connected?Microsoft has designed a smartphone operating system that might be better, maybe even much better, for those things that Microsoft is good at - such as Word, Outlook, Xbox Play. The problem is, those do not seem to be the things that smartphone users want or need.In 2012, UK telecom carrier O2 commissioned a study of smartphone users. It showed that a typical userspends more than two hours a day (128 minutes) with their smartphone. The majority of this time, however, is spent on activities where Microsoft's Windows Phone offers no significant advantages over iPhone or the best Android devices.Excellent point. Whatisthe USP of Windows Phone?Blink Developer FAQ &gt;&gt; Google Chromium ProjectsGoogle's official explanation for why it's forking WebKit:Is this going to be open source?Yes, of course.Chromium is already open-sourceand Blink is part of that project. Transparency is one of our core principles.Developing Blinkcovers this in detail.Chrome Blink FAQ (interpreted) &gt;&gt; PRNGRob Isaac rewrites that Blink FAQ. For example:1.10 Is this going to be open source?Not really.While you can certainly read the source code, we're fully aware that actually tracking and understanding a modern HTML renderer is extremely difficult. In addition, the first changes we will make are intended specifically to break compatibility with WebKit, so the only organisation with sufficient resources to track our changes will no longer be able to do so.In practice, this allows us to call the project "open" while simultaneously ensuring Google will be the only effective contributor to the Chrome and Blink source now and in the future. We've had enormous success co-opting the language of open source in the past to imply our products are better, and we aim to continue with that strategy.Inside Apple's plans for Its futuristic, $5bn headquarters &gt;&gt; BusinessweekSince 2011, the budget for Apple's Campus 2 has ballooned from less than $3bn to nearly $5bn, according to five people close to the project who were not authorized to speak on the record. If their consensus estimate is accurate, Apple's expansion would eclipse the $3.9bn being spent on the new World Trade Center complex in New York, and the new office space would run more than $1,500 per square foot — three times the cost of many top-of-the-line downtown corporate towers.Nobody's ever quite explained what's wrong with the existing buildings. Have they?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Material on 1bn webpages from nearly 5m .uk websites, plus public tweets and Facebook entries, are to preserved for the historical record at six libraries in the UK and Ireland.The archive project, aimed at preserving a digital record of events and cultural and intellectual works to match traditional print archives, begins on Saturday.Its organisers say copies of every public tweet and Facebook entry in the UK could eventually be included. The moves will also cover ebooks and iPad editions of newspapers and other digital forms.The British Library will begin the enormous operation a day after new regulations laid down by parliament come into force but already it is warning that key accounts of some events over the past 10 years have already been lost."If you want a picture of what life is like today in the UK you have to look at the web," said Lucie Burgess, head of strategy at the library. "We have already lost a lot of material, particularly around events such as the 7/7 London bombings or the 2008 financial crisis."Social media reactions to the Queen's diamond jubilee celebrations were among other information that had fallen "into the digital black hole of the 21st century because we haven't been able to capture it," she said. "Most of that material has already been lost or taken down."Burgess added: "We will have to distinguish between content published in the UK and elsewhere but in principle we will be able to archive the publicly available tweets of any individual, company or organisation."Until now the British Library could only preserve a relatively small number of websites. The 2003 Legal Deposit Libraries Act paved the way for such information to be stored but copyright laws had forced it to seek permission each time it wanted to collect web content.The Bodleian Library, in Oxford, Cambridge University library, the National Library of Scotland, the National Library of Wales and Trinity College library in Dublin, like the British Library, which is acting on behalf of all, have the right to receive a copy of every UK electronic publication.The trawl will include embedded audio and video material but the regulations do not cover other mediums such as YouTube or Spotify. The project will later seek to identify UK sites in the .org and .com domains.Burgess said that it had taken over 300 years to collect 750m pages from printed newspapers, yet the aim now was to collect 1bn webpages in a year and then conduct regular sweeps in future. "It is about taking a snapshot. It is not for us to say what is of interest. Researchers will be the judges of that."Roly Keating, chief executive of the British Library, said that there had been " a very real danger" of millions of web pages, e-publications and other non-print items "falling through the cracks of a system that was devised primarily to capture ink and paper".While the 2003 act established the principle that legal deposit "needed to evolve to reflect the massive shift to digital forms of publishing", the regulations would make "digital legal deposit a reality, and ensure that the legal deposit libraries themselves are able to evolve – collecting, preserving and providing long-term access to the profusion of cultural and intellectual content appearing online or in other digital formats."Access to the material will be offered in reading rooms at each of the six libraries.
