Photograph byDanTekGeek, used under CC licenseWelcome to day two atROFLCon; the AGM of the internet's weirdest and most wonderful.Ben Schultz -Leeeeeeeeerrrrrrroooooy Jenkins- MCs in the most amusingly shambolic way. First up he introduces the wrong panel. Then says speakerAlice Marwickis from Harvard (she's from NYU). Dammit, Leeroy. The audience claps - they're a forgiving bunch.She begins: "My pet topic is status. Every social group you can think of has a status hierarchy. In some ways fame is status on a grand scale. Fame gives you a kind of power, but it's not a catch all that fixes all your personal problems (in fact, it's the opposite)."With arms waving and swaying from side to side, she starts rattling through what celebritiesareand what they have become... read on after the jump to see what's what."Celebrity is the ultimate award for individualism. What is it about daily life that causes so many people to want to be famous?""Celebrity is not democratic. It's a myth that we can all have the same kind of success if we work hard. People who are known more for their fame than for their achievements are now our representation of celebrity."She's a fast talker, but it's early in the morning and I'm not quite keeping up with the academic verbiage here. More coffee needed, or bring it back to the nets, lady!Microcelebrity is defined in one sense as people who perform for and interact with their fans. We use the word celebrity, but it's a totally new kind of thing.Marwick talks about the case ofMagibon, an American teenager who became a fad in Japan for her cute videos. She was unveiled on a Japanese TV show, and it turned out she was awkward, gangly andnormal- a victim of internet disease (where dating profiles and MySpace pictures are thinner, sexier and younger than in real life). I'm losing the thread here a little bit, sorry. The words are too fast and too clever and a little too dry for my jetlag to cope with.She moves on to the taxonomy of fame. We used to have heroes, stars and celebrities. But that doesn't hold true anymore. First: those who seek celebrity and those who have it thrust upon them.Careerist promoters: it's now stock in trade for every career. The example isJulia Allison.Then you've got creative promoters: people who are pushing their product, not just persona. Bloggers, vloggers and so forth (Scoble,Ze Frank,Kottkeand so forth - not sure I'd count Kottke in there myself).Then we have plain old self-promoters. Often young women who are party girls who dress up in crazy outfits and they're basically just promoting themselves. Not entirely sure how that is different from the Julia Allisons of the world.Finally we've got those who have fame thrust upon them; Star Wars kid, Numa Numa. It's tough for them.Is internet celebrity more democratic than traditional celebrity? I personally think that internet culture can be sexist, racist or homophobic. Biggest YouTube personalities are young, attractive women. Biggest bloggers are white guys, even though most blogs are written by women.Biggest cheer of the day so far, for apie chart of Rickrolling- by the guys behindI Can Has Cheezburger.Now she's talking about the fact that internet celebrities are intrinsically linked to small communities. Now she makes a play for microcelebrity to celebrate the unheard voices on the internet; rather than just fuelling the cycle of vapid, empty cultural novelty: if this is the culture we're building as internet nerds, let's make it a culture that matters.It's a call to arms, but I'm still a bit confused.Anyway,Chelsea beat Man Utd, which brightened up my morning.
Once upon a time, when I was a lowly student with a distinct lack of life experience and a restricted budget, it was Shrove Tuesday. So I popped into the local Co-op and splashed out on a packet of pancake mix. The sachet had a very appetising photograph of a perfect pancake on the front. But more of that later. At about the same period in history, that is to say, in the early 1980s, I was a regular listener to the John Peel show - something of a devotee, in fact - and a couple of nights a week I would flout the law of copyright and several other laws relating to the recording of broadcast material by taping the show. In my defence, it wasn't easy. It involved hovering over a radio-cassette player for two hours and jabbing down on the "play" and "record" buttons at the desired moments. Peel, God rest his soul, would often let the tracks play right to the last note. I always took this to be a kind of subversive courtesy to all us tape-makers out there and, in fact, of the dozens of cassettes I still have in my possession, those containing his sardonic, shambolic links are the most prized. But back in 1982 what would I have given for the Intempo Rebel (&pound;69.99, available from May, fromintempodigital.com)?Basically, the Rebel records music from the radio and cuts out all the talk. That is its advertised function. It's a neat-looking little thing, about as big as a packet of cream crackers, and comes in black or red. The sound quality is good - it's a decent receiver in its own right - and it's simple to operate. But here's the first problem: it has to be on for at least 12 hours (how rebellious is that?) before it starts to work. While it warms up, the Rebel "learns" the FM station (only FM) you've tuned into, and begins grabbing music. It can record about 40 songs, and even selects the best versions.My music station of choice is BBC 6 Music, but the Rebel doesn't do digital unless it's hooked up to a separate DAB radio, and frankly, I can't be bothered getting the jump leads out. So, one Wednesday morning, I set it to Radio 1 and go out for the day. Twelve hours later it has recorded 12 songs. One song an hour. Even allowing for the egotistical ramblings of daytime DJs on national network radio, this seems like a pretty slim catch. And don't ask me what the songs are. The Rebel chops out all talk, including the announcement of song titles and artists' names. If Shazam can do it, why can't the Rebel? All 12 songs I have managed to collect are minus their beginnings and endings, edited out where DJs have been blabbering, and one of my songs is not a song at all but a jingle. You can hook it up to your computer or any hard-drive music player, but I don't want my iPod cluttered with partially recorded, randomly selected, untitled songs. The following day I try it with Radio 3, and this time it records nothing whatsoever. Not a sausage. Unfair, perhaps, to tune a device that subtitles itself a "PopCatcher" to the BBC's classical music station, but nevertheless...Some scenarios in which the Rebel would be useful: 1) You are nocturnal, with a predilection for daytime radio. 2) You are diurnal with a preference for "thru-the-night" music. 3) You own a supermarket and want to pipe free and anonymous music into your aisles. 4) You have been in a coma for the past four years, have never heard of podcasts, iTunes or Listen Again, and think that MP3 is a controversial new toll road through Surrey.But, in the end, it's all about time. The Rebel does nothing you can't do on the internet in five minutes and has arrived on the market a quarter of a century too late. And the pancake mix? When I got it back to my mouldy student kitchen I read the instructions. It said, "Just add water, a pinch of salt and an egg, then flavour with sugar and lemon juice." In other words, I'd bought a packet of flour.
Passing the bukkit: LOLsecretz and Alexis Ohanian. Photograph bydantekgeek, used under CC licenseTake one picture, add a comedy caption all in capitals, spelled spectacularly badly and using grammar only your pet could love, and you have, apparently, a recipe for internet gold.That, then, would seem to be first and simple lesson learned from the very fact we're sitting in a LOLcat panel - a room of a couple of hundred people gathered to hear what the creators of some of the largest LOL-based memes on the web, waiting for pearls of ungrammatical magic to drop from them.And so we wait. The panel, for those who are fans of the LOL meme - and there are plenty who have either tired of it by now or never thought it was funny in the first place - is an auspicious one.'Cheez' fromI Can Haz Cheezburger, the daddy of the LOLcat movement is possibly the star of the panel for many. Martin Grondin,LOLcat Bibletranslation (61% of the good book done and still going) is a rising star, and the exploits of Ceiling Cat and his creation is tipped for publication soon. There's Ryan and Arija from the now defunct (or 'permanently hiating')Lolsecretz(a heady mixture ofPostSecretand LOLcats). Adam Lindsay fromLOLcodeand Stephen Granades fromLOLtrekcomplete the line up.Full, grammatically correct details after the jump...Alexis Ohanian fromRedditis moderating the panel, and starts with a question familiar to anyone who has ever tried to describe what they're laughing at to the internet unfamiliarite across the desk - perhaps more prescient to those people who are making a living out of it than anyone else: "Do you know what your parents know what you're doing, and do they understand?""My parents have no idea." Says Cheez, employer of the eight (soon to be more) people that keep the site running: "They think I'm a doctor. And yeah: I think doctors may help people live longer; I think that LOLcats help people to live happier lives."The question of longevity is raised. Captioned pictures and the growth of LOLspk, have provided the biggest memes for a while, though Rickrolling may have provided a temporary blip in the memeosphere. But it can't last forever; nothing does on the internet. Things bubble up, are big for a while and then disappear again. Ryan from LOLsecretz answers - "Will we still be laughing about this in our nursing homes? Well, we might. But all the younger, cooler people will be talking about something else entirely. We might be laughing about it in a nostalgic way, but none of our nurses will get what's funny."When talking about the creation process, the word 'humbled' gets thrown around a lot, the fact that one idea is started and only survives and grows by the mass input of the wider community. The conception catches the public imagination, and then the audience become the contributors.LOLSecretz's Arija talks about the fact that people get so excited about not only creating but this sense of group ownership of the LOLs, with particular reference to a submission where some kittens declared a preference for Mike Huckabee over Hillary Clinton for president [here], and the comment box flared up with comments pointing out that the cats were Quite Clearly Democratic. Which sends a ripple of amusement through the audience - whether it's because people are alarmed that people could become so invested or because anyone could ever presume a kitten to be Republican, it is not clear."The thing is bigger than you," says Adam Lindsay. "You are really just midwife helping it into the world. I think I'm going to stop this analogy now before it just gets horrible..."The audience, it must be said, are mainly in awe. The beginning of the statement "One good example is the walrus with his bucket" leads to a spontaneous round of 'AW'ing! and applause. There are surely only a few places in which the mention of a walrus (plus bucket) can elicit such a response. So everyone seems a bit excited when the microphone moves to the audience."I've been following this for a while. I couldn't help but notice that the tone of the LOLcat has changed, from a baby voice, to something else entirely..." Comes one audience question."It's the only language I know of that started as a written language before anyone tried to speak it out loud, so whatever voice you hear speaking that out loud in your head, that's its voice," says Cheez - which of course leads to someone asking just what that voice might sound like and the audience (and, presumably, anyone who might be sitting in to watch it on a Friday night on the live webstream) he gives a credible stab at what the voice sounds like in his head. Unexpectedly, it sounds like a bee with a blocked nose ordering pizza.The microphone tours the floor and mainly collects smartarse comments from people. "Did you refuse to have this tomorrow because Caturday is now an official day of rest?" says one, to general applause - "EVERY day is Caturday", comes the reply. Another quips "On behalf of stoners everywhere, I just want to say 'Thank you', because you have made me ell-oh-ell-oh-ell-oh-ell-oh-ell just loads of times...." before she drifts off into a low mumble. The one slightly narky comment is, remarkably, treated exactly as everyone would treat a troll in a comment box: the whole place goes quiet, everyone looks at the floor and hopes that if they just ignore the negativity, it will go away.Which derivatives are personal favourites of the LOL-creators?emoLOL,LOLnin,LOLbots, and other things are mentioned, alongside theFAILblogtouted by an audience member.Do you ever get a submission that even you don't understand? "No," says Cheez. "We're fluent now." "Seriously? I get whole paragraphs. Whole chapters. Whole PAGES" Says the man behind the LOLCat Bible. "Do you know how big that book is?"The audience snorts and shuffle happily in their chairs - an action that would probably be falsely described as 'Laughing Out Loud' if they were typing it - and after a lot of toing and froing, things start to dry up. "This is the last question", warns the microphone lady."Thanks, I just want to say, these have been great comments, all on topic, thanks! For cheap viagra, visit ..."And Drew Curtis from Fark is drowned in laughter, as people sit and silently wish that THEY'D come up with the first spam comment of the conference.
Mario Kart Wii(Wii)Nintendo, &pound;39.99Coming with a tiny and exquisitely balanced steering wheel into which you clip your Wii remote, Mario Kart's mechanics, on paper at least, remain the same. Drifting gives you a speed boost and floating question marks supply weapons which include the dear old guided red shell and slippery banana skins, along with new arrivals like squid ink. As well as new tracks, there are circuits from every version of the game, from the 16-year-old Super NES classic to Double Dash, making this like a Mario Kart best of. The handling doesn't equal the hallowed original, but is more responsive than the derided Mario Kart 64. Sadly, that steering wheel is pretty pointless, though; the conventional control set-ups work far better.Puchi Puchi Bubble Wrap KeychainFirebox.com, &pound;7.95Made by Japan's leading bubble wrap manufacturer, the Puchi Puchi is a bubble wrap-popping simulator. Pressing the device's spongy keys produces a muted popping noise, with every 100th pop replaced by a random sound (think woof, boing, fart and you'll be close enough). While the buttons don't feel particularly realistic, the biggest underminer of the unit's authenticity is its hard lower surface; you can't help thinking that if it had a soft underside the whole bubble wrap vibe would be perceptibly more complete. Still, for a keyring that only does one incredibly silly thing, it exerts a strange compulsion, tied inexorably to the strange noises that occur just rarely enough to retain their mystique. Of all the activities you could undertake that would be likely to cause repetitive strain injury, this is by far the most fatuous, but the real question is: is Puchi Puchi a fun craze or a terrible warning for a society in the throes of decadent collapse?Wii Fit(Wii)Nintendo, &pound;69.99Wii Fit comes with the balance board: a solid plastic step that you stand, balance, lean and do press-ups on, which lets your Wii know how smoothly you perform each exercise. It also acts as a weighing machine that establishes your BMI with ruthless efficiency. The game's personal trainers gently interrogate you, get you to choose your goals, then set about motivating you to use Wii Fit's aerobic, strength and balance exercises. Each day's exercise is recorded, encouraging competition with housemates and ensuring that too many missed days elicit a digital chiding from your chosen trainer and, while beginners' exercises are only enough to provide a warm glow, the higher levels will genuinely make you sweat. If you're already a gym regular, Wii Fit might feel a bit lightweight but for everyone else it's a pleasant and flexible way of becoming less fat.
In keeping with your status as a leading company executive with an intimidatingly stressful schedule of pan-European business appointments, you're going to need a car that can offer you unmistakable kerb-side prestige and boldly authoritative car park presence. But more - much more - than that, you're going to need a car that can offer you a massage.Let's face it, what more can a busy executive ask, at the close of a long and punishing executive day, than that his executive car should oblige him by working some of the executive knots out of his executive back? This is not pampering. This is sensible time management, with a view to the optimisation of personal performance levels in a monumentally competitive working environment.So where do you turn these days for the best in-car muscle relief? You're not exactly spoilt for choice. A few of the top-range Audis will give today's executive a decent kneading. Mercedes, too, can oblige with some rubbing, albeit at a stiff premium (forgive the expression).Drop down a segment, though, into the realms of the more affordable saloon, and only Citro&euml;n can supply the treatment you need, with the new C5 and its first-in-class, unique back massage function.Let's hear from Citro&euml;n themselves: "This relaxing device, which is built into the driver's seat, slowly rubs the occupant's back with a repetitive movement from the top of the seat to the bottom, cyclically pulsating for up to 60 minutes."Sounds excellent, no? What would that cost you, if ordered up from reception? &pound;45? With the Citro&euml;n C5, you're saving money already.Alone in my C5, in the vicinity of Newbury, Berkshire, and suffering the punishing levels of executive stress which, it goes without saying, are par for the course for motoring journalists testing extremely comfortable saloon cars, I reached for the button on the side of my seat. Then I breathed deeply, and waited.Was I "cyclically pulsated", as promised? Well, up to a point. Eerily, the seat behind me stirred, as if an unusually somnolent guinea pig was climbing up and down under the upholstery. But, you know - in a nice way.Yet, tender as it is to have someone - even someone mechanical - prodding away gently and uncomplainingly at your kidneys for a while, this probably wasn't the stress-busting, totally reinvigorating, all-Swedish experience I had been quietly hoping for. To be honest, I've experienced much the same sensation with a bored child drumming its feet from the seat behind.To drain the lymphatics properly and deliver a thorough release of tension, the system would, it seems to me, have to find a way to work deeply on the shoulders. The driver's seat would need to flatten out and offer a hole that you could breathe through while lying face down. And in that position, changing gear and generally remaining properly abreast of conditions on the road could prove unduly challenging, even for the more experienced driver. So, within the limitations, then, this will probably have to do.Great saloon, by the way. Smooth, smart, superbly nailed together, and as German as it is possible for a French car to be, yet with that mildly eccentric twist that Citro&euml;n specialises in. Non-executives may also care to apply.
How can my husband transfer 1960s archive recordings from reel-to-reel tapes on to hard drive or CD? The only equipment we have is the original recorder with DIN sockets and cable.The sockets on your reel-to-reel machine are still in use in some Midi equipment, which is good news. Most electronics shops sell cables that convert a five-pin Din connection to an ordinary pair of phono jacks; Maplin (maplin.co.uk) has them for around &pound;8. Just stick one end into your recorder and the other end in your computer's microphone input, and you should be ready to record using the software on your computer.Is there an MP3 player that is compatible with iTunes on my Mac and has an FM tuner?If you like iTunes enough to keep using it even without an iPod, you could try a program such as SyncTunes (nesfield.co.uk/synctunes), which makes it compatible with almost any MP3 player. It's not quite as straightforward, but works - and would let you try something like the SanDisk Sansa range: lots of features (including FM) and an 8GB model for around &pound;100.You could also buy an iPod with an FM accessory, Griffin's iFM, say, which just plugs in, and costs less than &pound;20.&middot;email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
MondayEuro 2008: officially goodInterview: Cactus GamesEngine development is an artform says Mike Acton of InsomniacTuesdayIndustry struggling with Wii owners?Rise and fall of MilliwaysWednesdayGTA IV shipping early. Will retail behave?PEFI needs update says EUGTA IV - Okay here we goThursdayWhat would you ask Nolan Bushnell?&lt;/&gt;Nintendo's great yearDo games still have a stigma?Times Square gets videogame showFridayGame Pitch: Clouds Beyond CloudsWii Fit out today
ROFL schwag: photograph byVarmazis, used under CC licenseThere are many momentous dates in history: March 15, 44 BC (just ask Julius Caesar), or October 14 1066,perhaps. Or what about 1969, the day that Neil Armstrong stepped foot on the moon.Well, netizens of the world, markthisone in your calendars: April 26, 2008: it's when the great memequake of 2008 took place. We're here atROFLCon, a gathering of the web's microcelebrities.Anna's already written abrief introduction to the event; last night there was a drinks mixer courtesy of Scott Beale atLaughing Squid; now it's finally getting started.We're crammed into a lecture hall at MIT, with an eager crowd waiting for things to kick off. It's hard to tell who is who (the conversation opener appears to be "which meme areyou?"), apart from a few obvious candidates: the *actual* Firefox (or at least, that's what he says) is wandering the corridors;Tron Guyand a spread of other weird and wonderful characters; MC isLEEEEEEEERRRROOOYYYYYJenkins.First up isDavid Weinberger, co-author of the Cluetrain Manifesto, as well as Everything is Miscellaneous. He gives a short treatise on how fame has changed from the days of one-to-many broadcast through to networked fame of the internet."It's economic," he says. "It's all about scarcity; fame and greed go together really well, they're both a product of the scarcity system. There's only so many people who can be famous in the broadcast world. If you're famous, you can shoot somebody in the face and nobody even looks into it.""The fame system we get from the broadcast world is based on alientation, it's us and them. It's about the nervousness and kneeknocking we get when we see a celebrity in Dunkin Donuts and go 'hey, look, it's them'."We're treated to a brief look at the page of I Kiss You guy - Mahir - who David uses as an archetypal example of meme celebrity."There was nothing particularly remarkable about the site, but he became famous on the web. It's impossible to know why - for some people it was condescension, but I'm also sure there were people who were just delighted by his enthusiasm. The point is that nevertheless, we made this guy famous for whatever reason."It is passed from one person to another, and part of the reason is that we are aware that we are now able to make people famous ourselves."In the future, everyone will be famous to 15 people," he says. "This is the way of handling abundance. We don't really know how fame works in a time of abundance, but we're working it out.""We now get all kinds of fame; demeaning, joking, mixed up. But, most importantly, it's flawed. It's like us. Fame is becoming ours, we are making it ours, as we are doing so much else in our culture. Fame now reflects us."Then we move onto a panel on whether you can make money from this stuff, moderated by Weinberger ("I'm a little reluctant that the first topic is about making money," he said).How do you do it? How much of a fluke are you?It's a funny panel - we might catch up with all the details later - but essentially it's answered by Alex Tew, ofMillion Dollar Home Page, who says it's essentially about praxis. "It was a total fluke, but I think if you try to be a fluke enough times, you'll manage to be a fluke at some point. A lot of people don't do their stupid ideas because they're scared, I just did it because I'd done it before."
Oregon Scientific's Weather Watch is "the ultimate accessory for outdoor fun," says the company, and "while looking effortlessly cool it shows the time and weather through its stunning digital display." It's listed as "coming soon" in the UK and "out of stock" in the US.The weather station aspect is that it "tracks the weather by measuring barometric pressure" and then gives you an icon for sunny, partly cloudy, cloudy or rainy. It's also "water resistant up to 30 metres (98 feet)" so you'll be able to tell the time in the bath. But presumably not the weather.Does that appeal to your inner Boy Scout tendencies? Or do you just get the time from your phone and the weather from the radio? (Unless you still haveone of these, of course.)The Weather Watch was one of the products Oregon Scientific unveiled at CES, along with the AnyWear 3D Pedometer, Strap-free Heart Rate Monitor, Digital Compass Watch, Wireless Temperature and Humidity Data Station, and the Multi-Room Climate Monitor.
Want to take part in a bit of citizen journalism? It won't be quite as much fun as trying to find out where a Miami-based would-be Mac clone maker is, but it should be entertaining anyway. And you get to exercise your rights under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Come on - we said "free"!The task is simply this: find out how much your local council is paying to the Ordnance Survey (OS), Britain's mapping agency, for its mapping services. All it takes is a little FOIA request, which you can almost always do via email, and a bit of editing of a page onOpenStreetMap(OSM), the open-source collaborative mapping effort.Thepage asking councils for their spendingmakes interesting reading (you'll see I've done my bit already), though it's some way from complete. For one thing, there are 468 county, city and district councils in the UK, but at the time of writing the details from only 17 are available (with another four pending). Come on, you're almost sure to be the first.So open a new browser window, look up your local council and its FOI email address, and compose your email. Once you've done that, then there'll be a complete map showing how much people are paying per head for their councils to use the OS's services. It won't take long, and it only needs a few of the readers here to act to get this bit of information.The fact that we - or at least council taxpayers - are paying for OS services of course goes against the OS's mantra, which is that it doesn't cost taxpayers anything. Well, that's sort of true, and sort of isn't. Actually, as this work by OSM shows, it isn't. Nearly half of the OS's revenue comes from selling its data to the public sector, and the public sector is funded by us, the taxpayers.Why, you might wonder, are local councils buying OS data? Because it's something they need for all sorts of elements of their work. Because the OS is an authoritative source of where things are, and because councils need to be able to track their assets, buying into the OS's data is essential. While OSM is good in many ways, it's not yet better than OS - whose MasterMap, for example, can tell you with 99.6% accuracy whether someone has put up a garden shed in the past six months. (OS funds extensive overflying to map the UK; its self-administered target is to get 99.6% of changes into the MasterMap within six months.)That's quite a challenge for a citizen-effort project like OSM. Steve Coast, one of the key drivers behind the OSM project,explainedthat his motive for starting the page above was: "I think would be cool to ... make a map of map charges. The idea is that the OS basically don't respond to awkward questions through the Freedom of Information Act as they're commercially sensitive … but if we all write to our councils and ask them then they have to give us at least some idea. My council just sent me a letter with the new council tax bill breaking it down by police, schools and so on ... but not maps. So, we can figure out who's paying the OS too much or little. It'll be interesting."This raises the other question: should we resent the OS charging us in this way? I don't think so. While I applaud OSM's efforts - can you name any other public, open-source project that would have generated astreet-level map of Baghdad? - I think that OS is an essential service. (The ideal would be for OS's data to be fed, copyright-free, into OSM. Though I suspect the OSM team might think that was cheating, somehow. And although OSM has already got more than 32,500 registered users, it's after more: if you want to volunteer,get in touch with them.)That doesn't stop me also thinking that the restrictions on uses of OS data are too tight, and that the processes which oblige it to cover its costs in this way - which might have made sense in the pre-internet era - don't stack up in a time when everything, such as this article you're reading, is shifting online towards lower transactional costs and the opportunity for more creativity with data.The intriguing thing is that if theFree Our Data campaignsucceeds, and the OS begins to offer its raw data (perhaps MasterMap, perhaps the aerial photos with mapping grids - it hasn't yet divulged quite what it actually thinks its raw datais) then its revenues from licensing to private organisations will go down. (But with more companies making commercial use of the data, there'll be a bigger tax take, which Cambridge economists calculatewill more than compensatefor that lost direct revenue.) Making up the gap in the middle might require slightly higher charges to councils through the Mapping Services Agreement (under which councils license OS data).Will that be such a hardship? Given that it seems to cost those so far mentioned anywhere between 11p and 28p per head per year for the OS services to your council, the addition of a few pence here and there probably isn't going to be too much of a hardship - not when compared to rising fuel, food, alcohol and mortgage (or rent) costs. Ordnance Survey is still a cheap service. What we need though is to make it a universal service which we can all exploit for this country's benefit.We'll keep plugging away at the Free Our Data campaign. Meanwhile, can you help out by sending that FOI request?
Although there have been subnotebooks on sale for well over a decade, the categoryseems to be taking offwith the low cost Asus Eee PC. And with readily-available reference designs from Intel (Classmate PC) and VIA (NanoBook), a lot of PC manufacturers can enter the market. Liliputing has thereforecompiled a listof what is and might one day be available, with pictures, specifications and links.The list longer than you probably think. It includes machines from Indian, Brazilian and even UK-based suppliers (see Elonex One), though it's missingHacao Classmate PCfrom Viet Nam. It's also missing the serious subnotebooks (Flybook, OQO, Sony etc), the Origami style UMPCs that are usually small Tablet PCs, such as the Samsung Q1, web pads and phone-style PDAs. So, it isn't intended to be a complete list of subnotebooks, but for what it does cover, it's very useful.
Over the next two days at an auditorium in Cambridge, Massachusetts, a panel of experts will earnestly dissect the art of captioning pictures of felines – and what, if anything, might be the successor to theLOLcat.Sounds odd? Welcome to ROFLCon.Theeventis the brainchild of Tim Hwang, a final year student at Harvard who was inspired by the creator ofxkcd– a massively popular, and massively geeky, web comic. Randall Munroe set up a public event and everyone, including Hwang, was surprised by the response."Everyone was expecting a few geek kids and hundreds of people turned up – one man even flew from Russia to meet him," he said. "It was just this incredible micro-celebrity moment."Spreading the conceptSoon after, Hwang and some friends got together and decided it would be good to spread the concept. What if you could get the originator of every major internet meme in the same room?And so, for one weekend, the lighter side of the net might grind to a standstill as some of the most popular – and, some might argue, pointless – sites come together at what is being described as the first AGM of internet memes. Attendees include Alex Tew, who made a million fromselling individual pixelson his web page; the originator of a talking cat tidal wave;Kyle MacDonald, who turned a paperclip into a house with the help of the internet; and Jay"Tronguy"Maynard, a middle-aged everyman in a superhero costume."It's a conference for micro-celebrities," says Hwang. "The internet makes it possible for people to be famous to 15 people. It's suddenly possible for people to post their own things online and to be famous in this really small-scale way to a bunch of people they don't know in a way that is sort of unprecedented up to now. So the idea is basically to gather all these new celebrities in a way that they can also share this somewhat odd experience of waking up one morning in an otherwise seemingly unremarkable life and thinking 'I am famous to some amount of people'."Along for the rideThe search for the DNA of a successful memes is becoming increasingly important. Among those hitching along for the ride this weekend are people who create and manage the communities that foster and feed these memes, and people who are desperate to find ways of harnessing the viral power of these unexpected amateur phenomena and feeding it into mass media and marketing.ROFLCon might be held within the hallowed walls of MIT – one of the world's leading universities for hi-tech innovation – but it's not all work, work, work."There is a lightness to it all, there has to be: it's funny," he says. "These things are funny; LOLcats are funny, and it's also funny that there's so much time and energy being poured into the creation of these things. But it's also interesting as to why this particular thing has become such a huge success and mode of communication."- Follow ROFLCon all weekendon the Guardian website.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
While most of us are waiting for GTA IV's release this Tuesday a potentially a more significant release - at least in terms of mainstream appeal - is out today. Yes, Wii Fit has arrived. I'vereviewedandbloggedabout Nintendo's nifty balance board peripheral and am quite a fan. It's not going to help you get super fit but that probably isn't the point. For people not used to exercise Wii Fit offers a friendly and accessible way to get started. Motivation is needed of course, but doing step or hula hoop in front of your telly is easier than doing it in a gym. Interested then or already been and bought? What are your impressions of Wii Fit?
The Elevator Pitches continue to come in thick and fast, and this week's contributor is Kerry Turner,Wikigamerand creative mind behindReally Fancy Games, based in Brighton. From her biog:Really Fancy Games is the pet project of Kerry Turner. Kerry has been tinkering around with game designs since she learned how to write her first lines of BASIC. Now a Flash developer by day and keen gamer in her spare time, she's finally getting round to writing games for people who aren't her little sister.We pressed her for information on her first development project, a point and click mystery based on the lives and the works of the Brontë sisters. Intrigued? Keep reading!Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.It's called Clouds Beyond Clouds, and it's a good old-fashioned scary mystery story set in a strange, dark world based on the lives and works of the Brontë sisters.The gameplay is inspired by my love of classic graphic adventures - I'm a huge fan of the old Lucasarts stuff, along with their better imitators - but the setting, visual style and tone are something quite different. My biggest inspirations for the feel of the game are Twin Peaks and gothic novels, and the naive, hand-drawn style of the graphics is something of an homage to Dame Darcy [http://www.damedarcy.com/].I'm building the game using Flash andLassie Adventure Studio, a Flash-based development tool for creating point and click adventures, and it'll be available in both browser-based and downloadable formats.How do players control the game?The game has a very simple interface: click an object or area of the screen to walk there, or click and hold to see options for interacting with it. Inventory, options and so on are also very simple. You could play the whole thing using just one finger, if you liked.What is your background?I'm a Flash developer by day, which comes in very handy for the technical stuff. As for my games background, I've been playing and thinking about games non-stop since I first played Granny's Garden at school and, in weaker moments, still consider getting a Monkey Island tattoo. To take your question more literally, I'm from Yorkshire, which probably explains the fascination with lonely moors, small towns and the Brontë sisters.Name your competitors.I'm giving my games away for free, so I don't really think of them as competitors, but there are a lot of talented people out there making adventure games. It's pretty friendly out there - there are lots of people willing to share tips and resources, help promote one another's work and so on. Two games that I've recently really enjoyed areSpooksby Erin Robinson andWhat Makes You Tick?by Matt Kempke.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?Just me at the moment! I'm working on getting a playable demo online in the coming weeks, with the aim of completing the game later this year.What's your biggest challenge?Finding the motivation to stick at it. I'm a one-person games studio by choice - I spend all day working with other people's design and graphics, so it's nice to be able to exercise complete creative control - but sometimes it's very hard to convince yourself that you need to put the hours in.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?It's bad enough that my friends have to put up with my "amusing" development anecdotes - I won't inflict them on your poor readers, too! Suffice it to say that it's amazing what you'll find funny or interesting when you've been working on your own for long enough.What's your distribution/publishing plan?I'll definitely be making the game available for free, but beyond that I'm not sure yet - I haven't decided whether to host and promote it myself, or just set it loose online and let all those parasitic Flash game sites make money off my hard work. Although, funnily enough, I think I made up my mind as I wrote that last sentence.Are indie games the latest killer appIndie games used to just be called games - it's strange to think of them as the latest anything! I think that smaller games made by smaller teams are enjoying a period of popularity and media attention - the success of Xbox Live Arcade and the hype around Wii Ware definitely point towards an interest in these sorts of games - but it's nothing new, just the pendulum swinging back.We bedroom programmers have been around much longer than multi-million pound budgets and huge studios!Are you the next big thing?To be honest, I hope not. I like making games, but I also like doing all sorts of other stuff - making music, designing jewellery and so on. I see this as a hobby, and I don't think I'd enjoy it quite so much if it were anything more than that. Although I suppose that if anyone were to offer me a fabulously glamorous day job off the back of it, I wouldn't complain.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My Sky+ box. I hate new or supposedly innovative technology that boasts that it is going to make life simpler only to, in fact, make life more complex with tricks or features that no normal person would need or want and all the time making what was once a simple task ever more complicated - eg, all Microsoft operating systems and office products since [the first] Windows. I have a kind of a rule of thumb with new technology - if it takes more than 3 clicks, forget it, it hasn't been designed with me in mind. Sky+ is one of the very few pieces of technology that both simplifies and enhances what it has been designed to do compared with everything that has gone before. It's like that joke about soap powder commercials; every time they say it's "new and improved", this begs the question - how shit was it to begin with? If it works LEAVE IT ALONE. Thankfully in the case of the Sky+ box … they have.How has it improved your life?If I didn't have the programmes I really wanted to watch on Sky+ I would just watch endless repeats of Top Gear on Dave. This would cause me to lose all my friends and ultimately to lose the will to live, so yes I think that is an improvement. It has completely changed the way I watch television, and I watch a lot of television. I now watch what I want when I want. I also love finding TV treats hidden away on UKGB Drama +2 – 6=Bliss or something and Sky+ them to watch on a rainy Sunday. I can also sneakily watch Skins that my 15-year-old son records without the obvious embarrassment of having to be in the same room as him as he salivates and groans.What additional features would you add if you could?Larger hard drive, and a DVD recorder so that I can put "keepers" onto DVD and, of course,  watch Absolutely: Everything, the box set of all four series of the fantastic Channel 4 sketch show Absolutely.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Probably. It will have been replaced by some machine that claims to know what you want to watch before you have even heard of it. It will take 6 months to install, 10 minutes to start up but it means that for the first time you can synchronise your window cleaner with the weather forecast.What one tip would you give to non-Sky+ users?Get one and stop bleating on about Sky being the death of sport. Its not.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A bit of both, really. I like technology and I like innovation. However in practice more and more technology is all about us buying more stuff from ever decreasing suppliers who basically want to control our lives - therefore shrinking rather than expanding our horizons. That is when I feel the urge to smash a threshing machine or, in my most recent case of technorage, an Epson scanner that doesn't tell you where it has automatically saved the scan you have just done … what a total plank of a machine.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A Volvo 850 T5 Estate which cost £30,000. A family car with one simple piece of innovative technology. Take a big, heavy, safe and sensible estate car, and stick the impulse engine out of the USS Enterprise under the bonnet. The result?  Children always arrive with a g-force smile on their face. I still own it 12 years later, my environmental argument being that I offset the turbo charger with the fact that no one has had to use up the world's resources to manufacture me a new hybrid car.PC or Mac?PC. Now originally I used Macs but I had to change to PC for the really showbiz and sexy reason that, at that time, Sage (industry standard accounting and financial software) stopped supporting Macs. Subsequently for years I looked on jealously as my chums who had no need for cost reports or financial forecasts got all the girls, the parts, the awards, the riches whilst all that happened to me was that I never went over budget. However this changed when a few years ago I had to get a laptop. I bought an Asus and it has been brilliant. It is light with a carbon fibre case and it is as tough as a flight recorder. In four years it has never missed a beat. Out in Budapest filming Robin Hood it has been great to see one Mac Crap Book, or whatever they are called, break after another. Ironically the guy that does legal and financial stuff for Absolutely Productions now proudly showed me the latest Mac size-zero iBook. Now don't get me wrong, it looks very sexy, but a couple of things - no DVD drive. Eh? And it is so thin that in order to for it not to be mistaken for a letter and posted they have given it an aluminium case. So it may be thin but it is also heavy, (heavier than my 4 year old Asus). What on God's Earth is the point in having something THAT YOU HAVE TO CARRY that is heavier than a 4-year-old laptop? Not only that but the lighter, older laptop has a better than 50/50 chance of starting the next time you push the go button.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Don't have an iPod and please don't get me started on iTunes. I use my Nokia 95 mobile phone for music and it is great. It has this marvellous function that if you are listening to music and a call comes in, it fades the music down gently then you answer the call, then it fades it back up once you have hung up. A thoughtful and lovely bit of technology. It also has a most played function, so I can tell you precisely that Deadbeat Club by the B-52s, Caledonia by Dougie MacLean, and What Time is Love? By The KLF are the top three most played songs. Accurate, if a little too revealing.Will robots rule the world?No, I think they are fundamentally smarter than that. Why would they want to? Let the humans run the world, the robots will be on the beach.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Tesla Roadster, one the world's fastest production electric cars. Jay Leno has one so there must be plenty of chin room. It's made in California so maybe I will go over there to pick it up. Then I could drive round to Steve Jobs's house, take him out for a pint, apologise for slagging off so many of his products and then, just as I drop him off at his multi-million-dollar mega-mansion, give him a few pointers as to where he is going so wrong.Gordon Kennedy and friends can be seen in the DVD box setAbsolutely: Everything, which is out on May 5
You quote BT's head of consumer business, John Petter, calling on Ofcom to force the mobile phone companies to reduce their prices (Mobile phone users overcharged by &pound;1bn, claims BT executive, April 21). According to Petter, mobile companies are setting call termination prices - which mobile phone operators levy upon each other and fixed-line companies to connect calls to their customers - well in excess of their costs. We don't agree. Following extensive consultation and cost analysis over two years, Ofcom set call termination rates in March 2007 for four years. We are confident that these charges protect consumers from excessive prices, reflect operators' costs and promote effective competition in the mobile sector. Ofcom has consistently acted to reduce mobile call termination rates. Over successive charge controls, our actions have lowered the prices that all customers pay for calls to mobiles, whether from fixed phones or mobiles.Stuart McIntoshCompetition partner, Ofcom
Yesterday I posted a short item about Walter Bender, who was responsible for the OLPC (One Laptop Per Child) software, walking away from the project (Where's Walter? Another top OLPC executive quits). I've since seen anAP wire storyon the same topic with more information. It says that Benderhas new plans: to launch an independent effort to further the development of the XOs' homegrown software, known as Sugar, and get it to run on Linux computers other than XOs. "Sugar is in a narrow place and it is ripe to be unleashed," he wrote in an e-mail exchange.But it seems that the head of the project, MIT's Nicholas Negroponte, is not as happy with the software as his colleague. According to AP: "Negroponte said he was mainly concerned with putting as many laptops as possible in children's hands."He lamented that an overriding insistence on open-source had hampered the XOs, saying Sugar "grew amorphously" and "didn't have a software architect who did it in a crisp way." For instance, the laptops do not support Flash animation, widely used on the Web. . "There are several examples like that, that we have to address without worrying about the fundamentalism in some of the open-source community," he said. "One can be an open-source advocate without being an open-source fundamentalist."So there's your basic problem. Bender now wants to get Sugar out there, whether it's running on an OLPC or not. Negroponte now wants to get millions of XO laptops out there, whether they're running Sugar/Linux or Windows XP.Of course, if third world countries had actually signed upand paid forthe millions of OLPC laptops we were led to expect, the problem wouldn't exist. Negroponte founded the project, sold the idea to governments, and is the name with which it's publicly associated. Obviously he wants to fix it (and so would you).Whether Negroponte actually knows what's wrong, and whether he's trying to fix it in the right way, are open to dispute. But what other options does he have?
Oh, the twists and turns in the row over the legality of Phorm's server-side adware system go on and on. Earlier today we noted that the Foundation for Information Policy Research (FIPR) said the system infringed both Data Protection and interception laws.So now, Phorm has responded, and it's not pleased. It starts gently:People are rightly concerned about online privacy and other online companies are collecting, storing and using large amounts of personal data often keeping personal information for at least 13 months. Our technology, however sets a new standard - it does not store personal data.This is undeniably true, though FIPR's argument (and Richard Clayton's argument, separately) is that while that might not be stored, it can be derived from the cookies and other information flying about.Phorm isn't finished, however:FIPR is abusing its influence and promoting its own agenda by encouraging a frivolous debate about the legality of a legitimate e-commerce business. Internet users would be better served if FIPR focused on the benefits of the online technologies available today rather than undermine the online privacy debate and block technological progress. That would help people to make valid informed choices about the services they want to use.Ooh, handbags at dawn. I don't think that Phorm and FIPR are going to see eye to eye anytime soon.Meanwhile, the Home Office has restated its position that Phorm is legal. Or might be. AtThe Register, a statement says that In a statement,"We can't comment on the legal position of targeted online advertising services. It is up for [sic] the courts to interpret the law."We did prepare an informal guidance note. It should not be taken as a definitive statement or interpretation of the law, which only the courts can give. It wasn't, and didn't purport to be, based upon a detailed technical examination of any particular technology."This is rather as you'd expect things to be. The Home Office is not the final arbiter of whether an action is legal; the fact that it gets told off by judges again and again (most recently about thefreezing of terror suspects' assets) tells you where the real determination lies.The upshot: everyone's still busy hating everyone. The next question: when is BT going to test Phorm? Anyone signed up for it? (And can anyone find a decent image forhandbags at dawn?)
a href="http://www.gamecinemahd.com/&gt;GCHD is producing a new show filled with game trailers and interviews which will screen on the Clear Channel Spectacolor display situated on the corner of 47th and Broadway. CEO Wes Keltner says:"Our program itself can become interactive with the introduction of Bluetooth and SMS control of the content, thanks to Spectacolor's innovative product. And, as sponsors are added, I think they will begin to see how consumers can touch and engage their brand and ultimately walk away with that brand on their phone.So actually, it's a big interactive advertising board, albeit an interesting one that transports web-based marketing techniques into a huge public space. The show's producer Ronnie Hobbs certainly doesn't see this as just a money-spinning giganto-ad, he seems to be on a personal crusade to change public perceptions of gaming as a hobby for teenage dirtbags:It's time to change the conversation about gamers. The average gamer in the U.S. is 33 years old. We feel it is time to treat him/her as an adult and acknowledge they have style. We're doing everything in our power to make this form of entertainment credible, respectable and accepted... Gaming is not a sub-culture anymore. You can still play Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 and pay your mortgage.An inspiring Henry V-style battle cry there, only slightly marred by the fact that a considerable number of Americanscan'tpay their mortgages and that's why we're all sinking into a catastrophic credit crisis.Anyhow, the website reckons they'll get 1.6 million impressions daily, although thepress releasesays that 560,000 will pass by the board every day. Which means each passer-by will need to have one look, then do a comedy double-take and then finally look again.Next stop Piccadilly Circus?
David Amor, creative director atBuzzdeveloper Relentlesswhen askedif games had now become fully mainstream.br&gt;Despite this he goes on to argue that any stigma attached to gaming has all but disappeared. "The PSOne took some of it away, it was positioned as a cool device, and PlayStation 2 has seen people recognise that the system isn't just for boys."I agree with the first quote. The Wii and DS have undoubtedly helped but gaming still has a way to go before it becomes truly mass market. And maybe it never will. Gaming, no matter how Wii Sport friendly, always requires an effort. How can it ever really compete against the passivity of TV? Of course, there is an age gap too, though this will obviously shrink.I'm less convinced about the stigma thing though. Yes, gaming is far removed from the spotty teenage stereotype of yore, but that perception still lingers. Media headlines still talk about gaming addicts or geeks. Publishers don't help either. For every Wii Fit or Cooking Mama they are still churning out 20 titles based around guns, cars and sport. So yes, the stigma has faded but it hasn't disappeared. After all, when was the last time you mentioned your gaming hobby to someone you've just met?
Earlier in the week, Ibloggedabout the problems of marketing Wii to a new audience of non-gamers and about 'disappointing' sales of Super Smash Brothers, as reported by the NY Times. Well, hey, is turns out Nintendo doesn't have much to worry about. The company hasreported its financial resultsfor the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008. From the jubilant press release:Nintendo posted sales of more than 1.67 trillion yen (just over 16b US dollars), an increase of 73 percent over the prior year. Nintendo also reported FY08 operating profits of more than 487 billion yen, a year-over-year increase of 115.6 percent.During the year, the company shipped 18.61 million Wii consoles and 30.31 million DS handhelds. So Wii shipments stand at 24.45 million and DS at 70.6 million.As for software:Nintendo also forecasts shipment of 177 million Wii software units for FY09, while the FY08 shipment was 119.6 million units. Through March 31, 2008, Wii enjoys a life-to-date tie ratio of 6.07 games per system worldwide.So yeah, they should be okay. Panic over.
No Nintendo console would be complete without its own version of the legendary kart-racer, which mixes deceptively cute characters and visuals with spectacularly brutal gameplay in which a volley of power-ups will assault you just when you think you're winning.But the Wii version has to be the best yet. It comes with a wheel into which you clip the Wiimote. It works beautifully, providing all the fine control you need and rendering power-slides easier to pull off than ever.There is a smattering of great new tracks, containing clever devices like conveyor belts, and giant bouncy mushrooms, bikes for the first time (which handle much like karts), a few new power-ups (such as one which temporarily turns you into a giant) and the ability to produce tricks in mid-air, which bring corresponding speed-boosts when you land.The end result is, as ever, a game that will make you chuckle and curse simultaneously, and is so painfully addictive it may lead to rehab. Essential if you own a Wii.
Not content with making us smarter, Nintendo is now aiming for our collective wobbly bits. Wii Fit is a nifty fitness board – about the size of a large pair of scales – that connects wirelessly to your Wii console.Step on and the game tells you your weight, body mass index (BMI) and, after a couple of balance tests, your Wii Fit "age". And then the fun really starts. Players can choose from muscle, cardio, balance and yoga events. Think press-ups, lunges and warrior poses. An on-screen instructor helps out and the whole thing feels welcoming. There are games, too. Hula Hoop is easy to play and perfect for parties. Ski-jump – bend knees, lift heels – is more imprecise but amusing enough. The tightrope balance test is also rather addictive.The jogging, which takes place off the mat and has you sticking the Wiimote in your pocket, is a little gimmicky. Don't ditch that gym membership just yet, but Wii Fit is far more than just a game.
The Foundation for Information Policy Research (FIPR) has called on the Home Office towithdraw its "misleading" adviceabout the legality of Phorm's server-side adware system, in an open letter to Jacqui Smith, the minister in charge there.Theopen letter(PDF) follows analysis by Richard Clayton, FIPR's treasurer (and a security expert at Cambridge University) and by Nicholas Bohm, its general counsel. They conclude that "the operation of Phorm's systems involves:interception of communications, an offence contrary to section 1 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000fraud, an offence contrary to section 1 of the Fraud Act 2006unlawful processing of sensitive personal data, contrary to the Data Protection Act 1998And adds - in a just-pointing-out way - "Individual directors and managers of the Internet Service Providers involved could be criminally liable for these offences."Well, that's jolly. And meanwhile, Dr Clayton has been analysing the possibilities ofPhorm's cookies (essential to the running of the system) being stolen.It begins thusly:users whose ISPs deploy Phorm will end up with tracking cookies stored on their machine, one for every website they visit, but with each containing an identical copy of their unique Phorm tracking number.Next:The Phorm system strips out these cookies when it can, but the website can access them anyway, either by using some straightforward JavaScript to read their value and POST it back, or by the simple expedient of embedding an https image within their page. The Phorm system will not be able to remove the cookie from an encrypted image request.Once the website has obtained the Phorm cookie value, then in countries outside the European Union where such things are allowed (almost expected!), the unique tracking number can be combined with any other information the website holds about its visitor, and sold to the highest bidder, who can collate this data with anything else they know about the holder of the tracking number.But surely sites know about you already?Of course, the website can do this already with any signup information that has been provided, but the only global tracking identifier it has is the visiting IP address, and most consumer ISPs give users new IP addresses every few hours or few days. In contrast, the Phorm tracking number will last until the user decides to delete all their cookies…It's got to be said it's not looking too promising just at the moment. Wonder when BT is going to be starting its trials of the latest Phorm systems? Opt-in, of course..
The free classified advertising website Craigslist makes much of its disdain for corporate culture, but its unorthodox style has brought it into conflict with one of its biggest shareholders, eBay.Attracting nine billion page views a month, Craigslist has chipped away at newspapers' advertising revenue since its creation in 1995 and is popular among people searching for anything from apartments to jobs, pets, furniture or fleeting sexual encounters. With a staff of 25, it is estimated to be valued at $5bn (&pound;2.5bn).Hoping to cash in on that success, online auction firm eBay snapped up a 28.4% stake from a former Craigslist employee in 2004. But eBay filed a lawsuit this week accusing Craigslist of unfairly diluting its investment by more than 10% through actions which violate corporate law."Since negotiating our investment with Craigslist's board in 2004, we have acted openly and in good faith as a minority shareholder, so we were surprised by these recent unilateral actions," said eBay's general counsel, Mike Jacobson.The precise actions that allegedly devalued eBay's stake are unclear because the lawsuit, filed in Delaware, has been sealed to protect commercial secrets. But experts say the dispute is consistent with a pattern of frosty relations.Craigslist charges a fee only for a small proportion of its ads, placed by professional estate agents and by employers. Its founder, Craig Newmark, insists he is not motivated by maximising profits - he recently said it was "kind of laughable" to suggest that the site had a business plan.Jim Townsend, an advertising expert at consultancy Classified Intelligence, said: "They don't look at themselves as being in business. They see themselves as being in a virtual democracy. They don't follow the same rules as everybody else."Classified Intelligence estimates that Craigslist's revenue will reach $81m this year, but could be much higher if the site accepted banner advertising.In spite of its investment in Craigslist, eBay has begun competing directly in free classified advertising by launching the website Kijiji.Responding to eBay's lawsuit, Craigslist's chief executive Jim Buckmaster put a statement entitled "tainted love" on its corporate blog suggesting the complaint "hints at ulterior motives" - such as a hostile attempt to take control of Craigslist or sell the shares to an unfriendly party."We are surprised and disappointed by eBay's unfounded allegations, which came to us out of the blue, without any attempt to engage in a dialogue with us," Buckmaster wrote.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
EE Times says Apple's purchase of chip company PA Semi may create problems for the US military.It says: "The startup's PWRficient processor is designed into DoD programs in every major branch of the armed services, said one PA Semi customer who expects Apple will end production of the parts."PA's 64-bit chip was adopted more rapidly than usual because of its power saving features:PA Semi got kudos from analysts when it announced its PA6T-1682M in February 2007 because the dual-core 64-bit PowerPC variant consumed as little as 15W while running at up to 2 GHz. Cards using the chip delivered significantly greater performance than their competitors while shaving power consumption by as much as 30 percent.But it's not clear that PA Semi could continue to offer the IBM-licensed chips even if Apple wanted to continue production. EE Times says:On Monday (April 21), PA Semi informed its customers it was being acquired and it could no longer guarantee supplies of its chips. The startup did not identify the acquiring company but said that company may be willing to supply the chip on an end-of-life basis, if it could successfully transfer a third-party license to the technology.The obvious solution would be to sell the manufacturing rights for the PA6T-1682M to IBM, which invented the Power technology and which has been a major supplier to the military industrial complex for decades (andnot just in the US).Incidentally, you can forget about using a 15W chip like this in an iPhone or iPod. An ARM chip consumes more like 250 milliwatts.
Nintendo's annual sales have increased by 73% to 1.67 trillion yen (£8 billion) in the year to March 31, with profits up by 115.6% to 487 billion yen (£2.3 billion). Growth is based partly on the success of the hugely profitable Wii console. The company says:During the 12 months ending March 31, 2008, Nintendo shipped 18.61 million Wii console to its distributors and retail customers globally, bringing the worldwide total to 24.45 million since its debut in November 2006. For the fiscal year that began April 1, 2008, Nintendo forecasts global Wii console shipments increasing to 25 million.However, the company is also doing well in the handheld market:During the 12 months ending March 31, 2008, Nintendo shipped 30.31 million Nintendo DS systems worldwide, bringing the total worldwide shipment to 70.6 million. By March 31, 2009, Nintendo forecasts shipments of an additional 28 million Nintendo DS systems.We also have a report fromReutersin Japan andWii wins hefty profit boost for Nintendoon Guardian Unlimited.
Crunchgear,Engadget,Gizmodo,Gadgettasticand another thousand or so sites have featured these keyboard pants apparently designed by Erik De Nijs. The original source may well beYanko Design, which has 8 photos and covers this sort of thing. However, whether Erik "Smartypants" De Nijs actually exists or not remains a mystery. If he is an art student having a laugh, maybe that's sufficient reward.....
I recently asked a semi-topical question on Gamesblog: with the economic downturn grimly transforming from newspaper scare story to actually bloody scary, when does everyone stop buying games? The answers that came back were mostly of the defiant "I'm not going to stop, dammit" variety. It seems that our readers are more likely to make sacrifices elsewhere (you know, minor things like going out with friends, holidays, eating) than to give up on their game-buying habits. As a games writer, I breathed a small sigh of relief.And it seems Gamesblog readers are not alone. In the US, console sales are up 27% on the same period last year, while software revenue hit $1bn (&pound;504m) for March, up 63% on 2007 figures. Closer to home, Microsoft just announced that European sales of Xbox 360 have doubled since the price of the console was cut on March 14. Grand Theft Auto IV, out next Tuesday, is expected to make $400m in its first week on sale.There's an obvious reason for this recession-proof success - videogames represent excellent value for money. If you buy a decent adventure title - a Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid or Legend of Zelda - you're looking at between 20 and 40 hours of gameplay at least, and many times that if you get lost, make mistakes or pause once in a while to admire the scenery. With titles like Call of Duty 4 you can also add in hundreds of hours of online multiplayer gaming; if you have a headset you can invite your friends and chat while you're playing - see, you're also saving on phone calls. And with Wii Fit, you'll even be getting some exercise in.Also, for the price of a decent family game - something like Buzz Quiz TV (out next month), Rock Band or pretty much anything on Wii - the whole household is entertained. A game costs &pound;40 - take the family to the cinema, throw in a couple of fizzy pops and a trough of popcorn and you'll spend more than that in a night. Which will your kids remember in few years? The latest paint-by-numbers animation franchise, or the nights you spent laughing at each other's Singstar performances?There's another important element too - games are empowering. When your life is a runaway train crammed with fear and uncertainty, you can load up Rainbow Six Vegas or Grand Theft Auto IV and be the master of an engrossing, rigidly defined domain; your spec-ops mission against a deadly terror faction won't end in you being unable to meet the payments on your assault rifle; your downtown crime spree won't prematurely abort when your car is repossessed. That's why games will keep selling: they give you a world and put you in control. At times like this, you sometimes have to take the victories where you can find them.
Next week is The Guardian's Games Week, and there will be a plethora of digital entertainment fun acrossguardian.co.uk. We're even getting in on the act in ourTech Weeklypodcast, where Keith, Greg and I will have the opportunity to interview game godfather,Nolan Bushnell- yes, he who brought the western world Space Invaders, who introducedPonginto our homes, who createdAtariand is therefore responsible for my misspent youth, who launched theChuck E. Cheesefranchise (the best place to have a birthday party, from my point of view), and who's now smooshing all of these milestones into a contemporary package with theuWinkseries of diners.So what would you like us to ask the guru of gaming?
Last September, Paul Hanlon entered a Microsoft competition giving away 1,000 copies of Windows Vista. He won a copy, as did several friends and family. He put the four prize copies up for sale on eBay - only to find that the eBay listing was removed as a copyright violation, apparently at Microsoft's behest. Hanlon was told by Microsoft's anti-piracy team to send in the software for examination to ensure it was genuine. How, he asked, could the software not be genuine when Microsoft had sent it to him in the first place?What do you own when you acquire software, and what are your rights? The simple answer is that you own only the medium it's carried on - the CD, DVD, or, more often now, the hard drive you download it on to. Software companies only grant you a licence to use it, usually in the form of an End User Licence Agreement (Eula) that pops up at installation. If you're like most people, you've never bothered reading any of these things before accepting the agreement so you can get going.Your fault - agree?If you did read the terms, you might be surprised. Eulas typically specify that the software's publisher is not liable if anything goes wrong. They typically specify the publisher's preferred jurisdiction for legal disputes. And some are even more restrictive: some graphics packages have been known to specify that they cannot be used in the production of pornographic images. Yet these licences are, as Hanlon complained, not really contracts: you generally cannot read them before you buy (rather than use) the software, and you can't negotiate terms.In February, the National Consumer Council releasedthe results of a studyof software licences that highlighted a number of complaints. The NCC recommended that publishers be required to supply details of the licence before the purchase is made, that agreements be written in plain English and the EU should extend the Consumer Sales and Sales Guarantee Directives to cover digital contracts and licence agreements.The NCC is not the first to raise this sort of issue. Norway last year demanded that Apple change the terms of its iTunes Eula, which required Norwegian users to abide by English law and accept any and all changes to the terms without notice, and disclaimed all liability for Apple. Sarah Cole, a senior solicitor at Oxford-based Mills and Reeve, says: "I don't think it's in anyone's interest to create these documents that no one can understand. At the moment, they do major on what you can't do. It wouldn't go amiss to spell out what you can do with them as well."One reason that so many Eulas seem so restrictive and so difficult to read, she says, is that - contrary to appearances - they're often not drafted by lawyers, but instead pasted together out of pieces of text from other contracts.Today's software licensing began to take root in the late 1960s, as Nicholas Bohm explains. Bohm is a retired solicitor, member of the Law Society's electronic law committee, advisory council member of the Open Rights Group and general counsel for the Foundation of Information Policy research. Says Bohm: "The really early machines were delivered like a car. You don't sign up to a licence agreement to change gears in a car just because the gearbox uses patented technology."Rise of the machineBut around 1970 the idea of programs as separate items subject to copyright began to take root, and the courts began to agree. "It was very contentious for a long time," he says, "and it was by no means cut and dried." For one thing, English copyright law didn't have a category for works intended to be read or acted on by a machine. Based on 19th-century legal decisions, the fixed categories - literary works, music, graphical works and artistic craftsmanship (such as pottery) - all required a key characteristic, that the work be "appreciable by the human mind". A computer program is clearly not designed that way. By 1988, the situation was resolved by the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act: copyright now subsists in computer programs.But, says Bohm: "Copyright produces funny effects when it's applied to software and things not appreciated by humans. For example, when you buy a book you don't need a licence to read it." However, he says: "The suggestion that you can acquire ownership of something subject to terms prohibiting its sale to anyone seems repugnant under English law." That means that at least your right to resell the physical medium the software resides on should remain intact. But that in and of itself doesn't give a buyer the right to use the software. The notion of a limited licence grew up in manufacturing. It wasn't common, but for example, you might buy a type of fabric dye that was limited to use on cotton but no other material. It wasn't, says Bohm, done very often, and only when it was commercially important. But the licensing terms had to be absolutely obvious prior to purchase.Beware the wardrobe"In English law," he says, "the archetypal case that everybody learns is the hotel that put the notice inside the wardrobe." The notice said that all clothes left in the hotel were left there at the customer's own risk. "The courts robustly said that the guest has made his contract across the reception desk table, and it was done and dusted at that point, and notices in wardrobes have nothing to do with the contract that is already in the past." The argument that software licences are now an industry standard and therefore everyone knows what the terms are going to be he dismisses as "an argument of desperation" and "just drivel".But most of this hasn't been tested in British courts, and it's not clear what view they would take of today's Eulas. "A lot is done on custom," says Cole. Yet Eulas are becoming more, not less, important because so many devices mix hardware and software.Take, for example, Apple's iPhone, which is sold locked to a particular mobile network operator. Hackers were able to unlock the phones, but found that a later firmware upgrade turned some of the hacked phones into bricks. Certainly many consumer devices warn users that opening the device voids the warranty. But such restrictions have not typically applied to computers; the iPhone falls into the middle ground where the restrictive practices of the mobile phone industry collide with the more open practices of the computer industry.More recently, the popular blog Boing Boing noted (tinyurl.com/yscm4s) that Fuji requires buyers of its infrared-capable IS-1 digital SLR cameras to sign a non-transferable Eula that, among other things, demands to know what business purpose the camera is being bought to serve, and prohibits the buyer from allowing anyone else to use the camera. It also requires the buyer to notify Fujifilm if the camera is lost, stolen or sold (tinyurl.com/2b8mm3).As for Hanlon, Eulas weren't really his problem; he didn't get as far as opening the box and installing the software. Instead, the applicable terms were those imposed by the terms and conditions of the competition. And if those say you can't resell the software, then, say both Cole and Bohm, you can't.&middot; This article was amended on Friday May 2 2008. We originally misspelled Nicholas Bohm's surname as Boehm in the article above. This has been corrected.
I'm looking for an HD video projector to give as big an image as possible with a lens-to-screen distance of 2 metres.Peter HuntYou want what's called a "short-throw" projector, which will have a wide-angle lens to produce a big picture from a short distance. High-quality wide-angle lenses are expensive. Short-throw projectors typically offer XGA resolution (1024 x 768 pixels), but at least one does widescreen WXGA (1280 x 720): the Epson EMP-400W, at £956.45. If you really feel the need to go up to "full HD", or 1080p, then you will need WUXGA (1920 x 1080), and I don't think there are any short-throw designs. Also, WUXGA projectors cost more, typically from £1,200 to £12,000.I can believe the Epson EMP-TW1000 video projector is a "best buy" at £1,952.85, but it's an expensive way of watching movies or playing HD games!Try browsing theProjectorpoint.co.uksite, which is where I got my prices. There are pages devoted toshort-throw projectorsand Home Cinema Projectorssorted by resolution.
Each time I go on the internet, I pick up the 2o7.net cookie. My antispyware software (XoftSpySE) rates this as "low risk". Is there any way that I can prevent it from being downloaded?Nick Carter2o7 is an advertising tracking cookie installed by sites that use Omniture, and you can opt out of getting it by going tohttp://www.omniture.com/privacy/2o7. Naturally, the opt-out process involves installing a cookie.Alternatively, you can block it by telling your browser to block all third-party cookies, or all cookies. You can do this in IE7 by going to Tools|Internet Options, clicking the Privacy tab, and raising the security settings slider, or by clicking the Advanced button. You could also go to the Security tab and add 2o7.net to the Restricted Sites zone.Other programs such asSpywareBlastercan block tracking cookies, and you can clear them out usingCCleaner. Both programs are free. However, bear in mind that some cookies store your ID and save you having to log on to various sites. Also, cookies are used by Microsoft's support and update pages. Make sure you know all your passwords before deleting cookies!Web extra: Charles Arthur wrote about its use by software companies such as Adobe inWhat is Omniture, and why is it watching me?in the January 3 2008 issue.
I can't get my Palm 515 to take a charge. I haven't used it for years but now want to revive it. How do I charge it?Don CheathamYou don't! Palm handhelds and similar devices use lithium ion or lithium polymer batteries that often need to be cycled (charged and discharged) three or four times when new, before they operate at full capacity. However, these batteries are only designed to last between 18 and 24 months, after which the effects of oxidisation come in.Also, when lithium batteries are discharged below a designated voltage, an internal protection circuit may prevent them from being recharged (seehttp://www.rebatt.co.uk/technicalinfo.shtml). Your battery is beyond its design life and has probably fallen below its designated voltage, so trying to recharge could be dangerous. Your best bet is to buy a replacement battery.
I don't understand how changing to IE7 will help the security of my laptop if it is not open. Can you explain please?Clare BalmeEven if you don't use Internet Explorer, the component parts can still be used by other programs. Firefox does this to display sites in IE inside Firefox tabs, if you use the IE Tab extension. IE7 is more secure by design than IE6, especially in Vista. Also, there are now many more IE7 users than IE6 users, so any site that still doesn't work properly with IE7 is heading for trouble.
Small space, big pictureI'm looking for an HD video projector to give as big an image as possible with a lens-to-screen distance of 2 metres.Peter HuntJS:You want what's called a "short-throw" projector, which will have a wide-angle lens to produce a big picture from a short distance. High-quality wide-angle lenses are expensive. Short-throw projectors typically offer XGA resolution (1024 x 768 pixels), but at least one does widescreen WXGA (1280 x 720): the Epson EMP-400W, at &pound;956.45. If you really feel the need to go up to "full HD", or 1080p, then you will need WUXGA (1920 x 1080), and I don't think there are any short-throw designs. Also, WUXGA projectors cost more, typically from &pound;1,200 to &pound;12,000.I can believe the Epson EMP-TW1000 video projector is a "best buy" at &pound;1,952.85, but it's an expensive way of watching movies or playing HD games. Try browsing theProjectorpoint.co.uksite, which is where I got my prices. There are pages devoted to short-throw projectors (tinyurl.com/3vgnbc) and Home Cinema Projectors sorted by resolution (tinyurl.com/428nj8).Plagued by 2o7Each time I go on the internet, I pick up the 2o7.net cookie. My antispyware software (XoftSpySE) rates this as "low risk".  Is there any way that I can prevent it from being downloaded?Nick CarterJS:2o7 is an advertising tracking cookie installed by sites that use Omniture, and you can opt out of getting it by going totinyurl.com/2jduhr. Naturally, the opt-out process involves installing a cookie. Alternatively, you can block it by telling your browser to block all third-party cookies, or all cookies. You can do this in IE7 by going to Tools|Internet Options, clicking the Privacy tab, and raising the security settings slider, or by clicking the Advanced button. You could also go to the Security tab and add 2o7.net to the Restricted Sites zone.Other programs such as SpywareBlaster (tinyurl.com/g1d9) can block tracking cookies, and you can clear them out using CCleaner (ccleaner.com). Both programs are free. However, bear in mind that some cookies store your ID and save you having to log on to various sites. Also, cookies are used by Microsoft's support and update pages. Make sure you know all your passwords before deleting cookies!Recharging a PalmI can't get my Palm 515 to take a charge. I haven't used it for years but now want to revive it. How do I charge it?Don CheathamJS:You don't! Palm handhelds and similar devices use lithium ion or lithium polymer batteries that often need to be cycled (charged and discharged) three or four times when new, before they operate at full capacity. However, these batteries are only designed to last betwen 18 and 24 months, after which the effects of oxidisation come in. Also, when lithium batteries are discharged below a designated voltage, an internal protection circuit may prevent it from being recharged (seetinyurl.com/6gftn7). Your battery is beyond its design life and has probably fallen below its designated voltage, so trying to recharge could be dangerous. Your best bet is to buy a replacement battery.IE7 for securityI don't understand how changing to IE7 will help the security of my laptop if it is not open. Can you explain please?Clare BalmeJS:Even if you don't use Internet Explorer, the component parts can still be used by other programs. Firefox does this to display sites in IE inside Firefox tabs, if you use the IE Tab extension. IE7 is more secure by design than IE6, especially in Vista. Also, there are now many more IE7 users than IE6 users, so any site that still doesn't work properly with IE7 is in trouble.Defending XPThanks for the item on defending XP (April 10). Could you supply the URLs for the products you recommend?Rob BurnsJS:There are links on the Ask Jack blog (tinyurl.com/5ayyno).BackchatThe reader who complained about his Onetel email service says: "I was phoned by a helpful human being from Onetel. He gave a direct contact number, and undertook that there would be an improvement. He took my points, in particular that Onetel/TalkTalk has a commercial and moral obligation to provide a reliable email service to subscribers, and that when service was interrupted the status homeline should give information on how long the problem would take to fix."blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Had one of his parents been slightly less fortunate in their choice of a mate, James Watson might not have helped discover the structure of DNA in 1953. Instead, he would have been born deaf, and then lost his sight as he became a teenager. Equally, as he is, had he been less fortunate in the genetic lottery when he chose his wife, either of their sons might have had the same fate.This is because Watson's complete DNA - his genome - contains a single gene for Usher's syndrome, an inherited disorder which affects hearing and sight. Watson's must have come from one of his parents. Usher's is a "recessive" disease - you need two copies of the gene to be affected. About five people per 100,000 carry the gene, so Watson's chances of being disabled weren't large. But they were real.Revealing the riskWe know this because the analysis of his genome was made public last week, in a groundbreaking paper in the science journal Nature that also revealed that he carries genes that may increase his risk of cancer, including one linked to breast cancer. While the sequencing of genomes for research has become almost routine - so far the genomes of dozens of species have been sequenced - Watson's was notable for how quickly and cheaply it was done.The first full human genome sequencing, completed in 2003, took 13 years and cost $437m (&pound;220m). Watson's sequencing, carried out by a company called 454 Life Sciences, took only two months and cost about $1m. Other companies, such as Illumina and Applied Biosystems, are relentlessly pushing the cost down.Reading the 3bn "base pairs" in human DNA - akin to letters, encoding a total of between 20,000 and 30,000 genes  that are the "words" of genetics - is getting faster as companies find quicker ways to "read" entire stretches of DNA at a time, like reading a sentence in chunks rather than letter by letter. 454's can read up to 450 bases at a time; Pacific BioSciences, one of many rivals, more than a thousand.The cost of sequencing an individual genome is thus falling exponentially - just as the cost of hard disk space or transistors on a chip did when computing took off. Plotting the numbers on a graph suggests that by 2012 it will take a few hours and cost less than $100. A few years after that it will cost perhaps $10.That's when you should expect an explosion in personal sequencing. Jason Bobe, the director of community for the Personal Genome Project, based at Harvard Medical School, writes thePersonal Genome blogand reckons that by 2015, 50 million people will have had their own DNA sequenced. He says: "My rationale is simply to assume that the trend line for the personal sequencing market might look a lot like the one experienced in the personal computer market" - which grew from a few thousand units sold in 1975 to 50m in 1995. "If the personal genome sequencing market follows suit, we might say that 2007 for personal genome sequences was like 1979 for PCs, and we've just turned the corner into 1980 where units sold remains below 1m, but growth is noticeable."Who benefits?Cheap, fast genome sequencing could upend how we think of disease and identity. If it's fast and cheap enough, would benefits claimants be asked to provide a DNA swab from their cheek? Would the same swab be your passport? Might police at a crime scene simply scan for DNA?The first, most obvious, use is foetal testing. Would a future James Watson and would-be spouse compare genomes? If both had single genes for Usher's syndrome, would they have children anyway, given the one-in-four chance that their child might have the full-blown syndrome? Would abortions be allowed on the basis that a child would have a disabling - but by no means life-threatening - genetic disease? The impending arrival of everyone's genome only makes this more urgent.Watson himself, on seeing the presence of his breast cancer gene, said he would have acted on the knowledge had he had daughters: "I would tell them to immediately check if they had [that mutation]." But he also chose to withhold parts of the sequence relating to the APOE gene - associated with a higher risk of Alzheimer's disease - because he doesn't want to know if he has a genetic disposition to it.His nuanced approach will be food for thought for the House of Lords select committee on science, which this week opens an inquiry into "genomic medicine".Mark Jobling, professor of genetics at the University of Leicester, notes that: "The problem is that many common genetic diseases are complex. It isn't a single base change. More complex diseases like schizophrenia and Alzheimer's won't be predictable."The idea of DNA profiling to collect benefits isn't new. It was suggested by the Labour MP Frank Field, then in opposition, as long ago as July 1996, "to safeguard the National Insurance system" - though he insisted that this was not "the introduction of an ID card".He added: "A DNA test should be taken at birth along with all the other tests which are now merely a routine." The suggestions caused outrage at the time; but routinely sequencing a baby's genome at birth will be possible in a decade.Precisely that suggestion - of routine  genomic sequencing of newborns - was suggested in a 2003 policy paper on the NHS, points out Dr Helen Wallace, director of Genewatch UK. "It was criticised on cost grounds," she notes, "but more particularly because most of that information [about an individual's genome] was likely to be misleading. OK, you can tell where someone has recessive genes that might lead to a known genetic illness, but the claims being made now by some of the companies offering sequencing are leading to concern and fear of disease."Wallace suggests that they are distractions. "You share your environment and lifestyle with your family and for most of us this will be more important than our genes," she says. "Gene tests won't help to tackle major health problems such as bad diets, poverty, smoking and pollution." Genewatch generally opposes universal sequencing, on surveillance grounds.What about crime scene tests? Jobling says: "The only reason for doing a full genome sequence would be for phenotype prediction, if you found DNA and didn't have a match. There have been some genetic variants already discovered that affect height; you might know eyes, hair ... you could produce an identikit predictive picture of your suspect. But in terms of individual ID, [DNA fingerprinting is] already perfectly adequate as it is."Sequential growthThere's also the question of how far the price of testing will fall. Jobling points to one key difference between computers and DNA sequencers: computers are all-purpose machines. PCs are a mass technology, Jobling notes, "whereas it's difficult to see that there would be a case for having a DNA sequencer in every home. We've got a new sequencer here at the university and it cost &pound;250,000, with an annnual maintenance contract of &pound;25,000. And that's before we've switched it on."So, he says: "How far down the cost [of sequencing] will go will be determined by the final size of the market and its applications." But if the whole population is sequenced from birth, and your DNA becomes your passport and benefit ID, that will expand the market - perhaps making it a self-fulfilling prediction. James Watson may be among the first. But many will follow.The rapidly falling cost and time needed to map your DNA2003$437,000,00013 years to map2007$10,000,0004 years2008$100,0004 weeks2012$100*2 days*Forecast
For the past two years, these pages have campaigned for data that government bodies collect at taxpayers' expense to be made freely available to all. We've uncovered some examples of the absurdities that happen when public bodies have to wield legal weapons, sometimes against each other, to protect "their" data.We think we're winning the argument.The next step would be an experiment: find some data sets that could be made available at little cost, and try it.An independent economic study commissioned by the government concluded that three trading funds - Land Registry, Companies House and the Met Office - could make some data available at once with little impact on their bottom lines.Land Registry of England and Wales holds data sets that could be of great value if made available in bulk: in particular, property price data and "polygons" (multi-sided figures showing the area of each registered property). At the moment, anyone can look up title information, including the last sale price, for &pound;3 at the Land Registry's website. The registry also sells data sets to commercial property information websites, but not for unsolicited mailshots.Polygons are restricted to other public bodies for a reason that will be familiar to Free Our Data readers - they are based on geographical data from Ordnance Survey, whose licences restrict its use in "derived" products.Plotting the futureGiven the British obsession with property prices, making the whole data set available for free would open up interesting possibilities. Paul Maunders of the web information service Fubra (fubra.com) suggests a few: "If we could get access to the polygon data for free ... we could identify areas that might be suitable as building plots, analysing the amount of garden space available in each record."When properties are advertised for sale, they rarely show the size of the building or its land. We could attempt to derive this metadata from the polygons, and therefore build a web service to show the area of every property (and its land) in the UK. Make a timeline showing how an area is developed over time, perhap overlaying an animation on a Google map, that shows the change in use through the years. We could also add a history of all the plans. The Land Registry have this in a paper form, but I don't believe they offer it online currently."Maunders's conclusion? "Innovation in the private sector would get these features built a lot more quickly than if we were to wait for the government."Companies House registrations are another potential mine of information for online products aimed at businesses and customers. One possibility would be a data mashup that would identify directors with a serial track record of starting companies but failing to file returns.Making the Meteorological Office's observational data freely available for all might spawn a new culture of personal weather forecasting. It might even create an equivalent to the thriving market in ancestor-tracing information which has built up since the National Archives began making its data freely available.Keith Dugmore of the Demographics User Group, which represents business users of government information, says that anonymised income statistics directly from HMRC might be immensely valuable.On the busesTom Steinberg, of the web activist group MySociety, has a more prosaic request - he would like bus timetables available for re-use. Presently, different transport companies have different rules for making their timetables available to services such as the Transport Direct website. "They tend to be extremely conservative licences, allowing only one use." A simple change in operating rules could force them to give out data for all uses. "The authorities don't let operators run a bus if it's not safe, so it's fairly reasonable to make them make their timetable data available."Many sets of government data are available for free individually, but not in bulk. Some examples are the locations of post offices, water boreholes and lists of school governors. A mashup of all three data sets might reveal something interesting - but until someone has the data, who knows?And this of course is the only honest answer to the question of what Britain's academics, activists and entrepreneurs would do with all the data we want to set free. We don't know. But neither does the government - and that's the point.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
It won't say - which makes it appear to have made idle threats. Having warned a number of British internet service providers (ISPs) a fortnight ago that they had two weeks to "take action" or face court injunctions, the BPI - which represents record labels in the UK - now has to decide quite what it's going to do, as some (specifically, Carphone Warehouse) have responded that they won't, while others have said very little.The subsidiary question that some were asking was: on what grounds could the BPI seek an injunction against an ISP, since its argument isn't with the ISP, but the subscribers doing the illicit file-sharing? The answer - provided by a friendly ISP - is that it could take the ISPs to court under section 97 of the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, on the grounds that the ISP has not "taken action" to prevent the breach of the BPI members' copyright - such as Island Records, whose artist Amy Winehouse last year won the not-sought-after accolade of "most pirated artist" following the runaway success of her album Back To Black.The trouble though is that the law is silent on precisely what constitutes "taking action". Does it mean (as the BPI is urging ISPs to interpret it) "tell people who are using file-sharing networks to download copyighted music to stop or they'll get kicked off the system in a three-strikes-and-you're-out model"? Or does it mean - as one ISP suggested to us it does, at least to their legal department - writing a letter to every subscriber reminding them that downloading copyrighted material and not paying for it is illegal? Or does it mean, as Charles Dunstone, head of TalkTalk has interpreted it, telling the BPI, in almost so many words, to go forth and multiply?The BPI said this week only that "we've had a response from Carphone Warehouse within the timeframe and our dialogue continues. We are focused on entering commercial discussions with all ISPs that would increase the number of safe and legal digital music services available to their customers."But we believe they should act when they know customers are using their accounts to access music illegally via unregulated and unlicensed services."Brave words - but for the fact that the BPI is silent on quite what it will do next. It has to be said that that doesn't look like an effective strategy, for in business it's never good to appear to make idle threats, nor to set deadlines which then expire without any effect.Even so, time, even if not on the internet scale, is on the BPI's side. In February the government warned in a strategy paper that if the two sides couldn't agree, it would begin tobring in legislationfrom April of next year. Roosevelt said "speak softly, and carry a big stick"; better still to get the government to carry it for you. ISPs, beware.
I can't believe it's not cloned!Can't wait for a startup in Miami to send you a white box PC running Apple's Leopard? CNet shows you how to roll you own! NB: may turn into brick with software updates. (Thanks, SteveFarr.)And it can't send texts eitherIt's Microsoft's Surface - the touch-sensitive system that's like an iPhone on steroids. And what's it used for? Selling mobile phones. Somehow, this feels like a fabulous opportunity missed.No, not clickfraud - new mathsGoogle vice-president Jonathan Rosenberg deadpans Tom Lehrer's "new math". Is this how they do their financials too?Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
It is well known that we are entering a world in which thousands of television channels will be constantly pitching for our attention. But have you wondered whether one of them might be run by you? Thanks to the dizzy pace of technological change and the freefall in the cost of storage, there are now dozens of companies such as YouTube,seesmic.com(interactive video chat) andmagnify.netin the marketplace. One of the most interesting is a recent UK startup,worldtv.com- run by its co-founders from their homes without an office - which offers something I wouldn't have dreamed possible even five years ago.It is best explained in three stages. First, you can simply watch videos from 150 countries or create your own television channel in one of the easiest setup procedures I have come across. You can aggregate all your favourite videos from places such as YouTube, Metacafe, Yahoo etc, which can then be watched sequentially by anyone, anywhere, unless you make them private.That is the most popular use of the site, but the potential is augmented by the second stage. By clicking on a dashboard button, the webcam of your computer is activated - if it has one - so you can add your own original material to the channel. Although it didn't connect once or twice (due, it seems, to maintenance work being done as it is still in beta) it worked well most of the time.It was the third stage, however, that blew my mind. Worldtv recently linked up withqik.com, another impressive startup (from the US) that enables videos you are taking on your mobile to be watched live from a website or another mobile device. It is not unlikekyte.com, which I reviewed a year ago (tinyurl.com/3ggz29), but it also allows users to send videos to fashionable sites as Twitter or Facebook or to be archived in unlimited quantities on qik's servers. When linked to worldtv it means you can have a global TV channel on your mobile (though on most Nokia smartphones only at the moment) that can stream what you are taking live to your worldtv channel, interrupting the videos you have already set up to play.I made qik the default button on my Nokia N80 (now a couple of years old) so I could start broadcasting live to the world simply by pressing one button. I tried it at home using (free) Wi-Fi and it worked first time. As I was recording I witnessed it being broadcast live on the worldtv screen of my computer, including the sound of my voice a second or two later (just like on real TV). Later, I went to a local butterfly centre to film a dizzying array of butterflies - but very aware of charges for data transmission, as I was not on an all-you-can-eat tariff.What impressed me was not the result of my very amateurish efforts (myworldtv.com/shakespearesmonkeytvnotched up 11 viewers around the world before I switched it to private) but that it was possible at all. There will be lots of rubbish on these sites, but as mobile cameras get better, and users more professional, some of the channels will become really professional: a laboratory for tomorrow's film and television producers.Amazing opportunities are opened as you could, in theory, film an entire archive of your life if you just leave your mobile on (until the battery runs out) or use it when you fear you may be attacked so the whole episode is filmed simultaneously online. But there are also serious privacy and copyright problems if you can broadcast to a live audience anything anywhere: a concert, a football match, a row on the street, strangers in a restaurant. Videoing celebrities could go ballistic.Maybe we won't need CCTV cameras any more as we will all have one. I am a camera. By the way, this won't cost you a penny if you use Wi-Fi or an unlimited data tariff. There are even plans to do a 50% revenue share with you when adverts are introduced.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Rome may not be a real-time game, but it's as deep and rewarding as the best of the turn-based strategy games like Civilisation. Set between the first Punic War (280BC) and the dawn of the Roman Empire, you can find yourself battling up to 50 different factions across the globe to hang on to your territories, wealth and prestige. Just about anything is possible, from building family dynasties to crushing barbarians with your military, economic or religious might.It's hard for novices to get to grips with and badly in need of a better tutorial but, if you like thinking more than formulaic battles and easy victories, this is definitely the wargame for you.
We all know about cutting and pasting from one document to another.Hulu.com, the online video site set up by News Corp and NBC Universal last year, lets you do it with video: select the bit you want from, say, an episode of The Simpsons and email it to a friend, post it to your blog or put it on your Facebook page.Chopping up professional media at a user's whim is something that big media still has trouble getting its head around. But the one-click forwarding of bits of programmes is just one of the surprising tools that Hulu's management has been able to convince its two powerful media owners to embrace since the site had its "soft" launch last October in the US.Another is the search function. If a particular TV show or a film isn't one of the 400 TV series and 100 movies on the site, it doesn't give a "no results" message. Instead, it looks across the entire web to find legitimate (ie, non-pirated) video, and offers links to it - even if it sends users away from Hulu. So if someone searches for Desperate Housewives, a link will appear toabc.com- a rival network."When we did this search feature initially, the people at Fox and NBC scratched their heads and said: 'Why are you doing that? We compete with these companies in our traditional businesses'," recalls Jason Kilar, chief executive of Hulu. "But they quickly got to the conclusion that this is a great thing to do for users and so is exactly what Hulu is about and what Hulu aspires to be."Now showing: moneyWhat Hulu aspires to be is "the world's best monetisation service for premium content owners," says Kilar, who worked for Amazon for 10 years before joining Hulu as its first employee last July. "Everything at Hulu is monetised. We invest heavily in our advertising and sales operations and in the presentation of content because advertisers pay more for that."Thus the facility that allows users to cut and paste bits of programmes and email them or post them on other sites pays off because the video clips carry their Hulu-sold advertising with them wherever they end up. "This way we get content in front of audiences that we would never reach otherwise," Kilar says.Reaching audiences beyond Hulu is also why it is attracting CPM (cost per thousand) advertising rates above the rates paid for prime-time television slots. Kilar won't say how much advertising Hulu has taken, noting it is early days and that the site only launched officially on March 12.Kilar admits that part of the reason for the higher CPMs on Hulu has to do with a dearth of space: Hulu limits the amount of advertising time it sells to two minutes for every 22 minutes of video, a quarter of the typical eight minutes of ads per 22 minutes of video on American prime-time TV. "We think that this [amount of advertising] is the right user experience and the advertisers are also paying a premium for that," Kilar says. "We also don't autostart anything. So the advertising and the videos don't run unless the user has clicked to play."Kilar believes that providing a quality video experience means that the service is attracting an audience that advertisers covet, namely 18-to-34-year-olds. "They are very picky about the media they consume and how they spend their time," he says.Social networking may be the buzzword of the moment, but Kilar is very clear that Hulu does not want to stray too far on to ground that is already being covered by sites like MySpace, which of course is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, an investor in Hulu."I think it would be a big mistake if we suddenly fashioned ourselves as a social network," says Kilar. "There are already social networks that are very good at what they do. We are trying to be the place you watch your favourite for free, anytime, anywhere. The widgets that we have on the site are in support of watching your favourites and the conversation around the content, but it's not about finding a soulmate or dating or commenting on pictures. There are places that do all that very well already."Kilar, who was recently in Cannes at the MIPTV trade show, says that he has ambitions to move beyond the US market with his service, but wants to avoid launching before he is ready. "We very much have ambitions to be a global site but we want to walk before we run," he says. "We would be very hesitant about launching in a territory without stellar content. In the US we took our time to make sure we had great content. We don't think that a service is built to last unless it is worthy of remark. And that will be our mantra."So far Kilar says the company has spent approximately $15m (&pound;7.5m) to set itself up. He won't be drawn on the number of users of the service today, but admits that as the usage goes up the cost of running the business will increase because streaming video uses a lot of bandwidth - and that is expensive."If you look at our cost structure, the personnel line is still our biggest cost but it will soon be eclipsed by bandwidth costs," he says. "But that is part of our business model."Streaming aheadKilar also thinks that Hulu ducked a bullet when it decided to opt for browser-based streaming of its content rather than basing it on peer-to-peer downloads like Joost. "I think streaming is a bigger market than downloads, and although I can't talk about future road maps, when you look at the free streaming business which is ad-supported versus the download business which is a transaction model, I think that streaming has more potential."He points to the success of the BBC's iPlayer. "I think the stats speak for themselves. In the US, consumption of television content over the net has more than tripled in the past 24 months. In other markets, I have no reason to believe that the growth wouldn't be as strong so long as the content is made available. People are embracing free, ad-supported premium content over the internet."Does he think Joost's teething problems will cripple its service? "I have so much respect for Mike Volpi [Joost's CEO]. He is one of the sharpest tools in the shed and I admire him personally and professionally, so I think that Joost is in very good hands with Mike Volpi." But, he adds: "Joost started at a different moment in time and when they were reading the tea leaves they came to certain conclusions. We [at Hulu] started a year and a half later and that made the difference. Individual companies that are focusing on aggregation now may go niche. These things happen. But in an industry as large as this [online video], I think there will be more than one winner."Kilar "gives credit" to NBC and Fox for letting Hulu develop in ways that seem antithetical to a traditional media business accustomed to controlling exactly how and when its programmes are viewed."It's our job to focus on the mission and if we do that the folks at Fox and NBC will continue to keep whatever they do outside our boardroom to compete with each other aside so that we can build this much larger thing together," he says."Because that is what it is all about: aggregating on the net is a lot more valuable than not aggregating. It is the difference between having a store that sells one record label as opposed to one that sells many, many labels."Hulu: jumping hoops&#183;CEO Jason Kilar was the first employee, hired in July last year.&#183;The company was co-founded by News Corp and NBC Universal, but in August Providence Equity partners paid $100m (&pound;50m) for a 10% stake, valuing the business before launch at $1bn.&#183;Some $15m has been invested so far, according to the company.&#183;Hulu.com has content agreements with 50 providers, including MGM and NBC Universal.&#183;Hulu.com streams all its content and began offering HD content in March.
The cloud, that huge bank of online power that lives somewhere and everywhere, is fast becoming the lifeblood of the internet economy. Web services let small dotcoms outsource what they're not good at - plumbing - and focus on what they really do. The result is that startups no longer need to worry about server loads, file hosting or coping with traffic: they can just stick everything in the cloud and let somebody else handle the tough stuff.It's the stuff that keeps many of the best new websites running, and is increasingly encouraging new startups out into the open. As a vital part of the web economy, the cloud is now a utility. And once you're part of the furniture you are almost impossible to replace.That's what Amazon understood when it took a long-term bet and rolled out its Web Services suite over the past few years, renting out computing power and storage from inside its own enormous and hugely efficient network. It's also why, when Google recently announced its own App Engine (a similar kit of hosted services for web developers), the reasoning seemed obvious.The benefits of taking this long-term approach are that Jeff Bezos can remain comfortable, even when faced with fighting the web's most powerful company. "This is not going to be a winner-take-all space," he said, as reported by Wired. "It's rare for significant industries to be built by a single company."His words might sound like fence-sitting corporate-speak, but they also contain some truth. The software revolution was won by companies who created platforms, not programs. Forget for now that Microsoft showed that it's possible to go on and take over the market once you've built up enough of a lead.Actually, don't. In all the hubbub about the cloud, it's worth asking exactly where Microsoft is. Why isn't the world's biggest and most powerful software company taking the initiative here? For all of Microsoft's chest beating about internet delivery as the next phase of its development, we've seen precious little in the way of action.There are so many reasons that it's hard to pin down. Perhaps it's with Ray Ozzie, the successor to Bill Gates, who is still settling into his job. Or perhaps it's just the stifling bureaucracy of a corporation that stretches as far as the eye can see.Or perhaps, after a decade of ignoring the web, there just isn't the capability to create the cloud at Microsoft. Remember: Amazon and Google are essentially offering web services that tap into the spare capacity on infrastructures they've already built. Without such a heavy online investment over the years, perhaps Microsoft simply can't compete. It's now paying the price of its inaction over the past decade. Instead, while its real competitors are off building platforms, Microsoft's internet strategy seems terrifyingly simplistic: spend, spend, spend.After all, it wasn't long after Steve Ballmer announced that he'd be acquiring 20 companies a year for the next five years that he started his ugly courtship of Yahoo. Watching these two circle around each other is like sitting in a cinema, waiting for a tragedy to unfold. We know it's coming and we can't bear to watch - but still, we're transfixed.And it isn't even a romantic tragedy. There is no tinge of Romeo and Juliet here, just shades of Sid Vicious and Nancy Spungen; a torrid relationship that was messed up from the start and always doomed to end up in a dirty, bloody horror show.But perhaps, in the end, it doesn't matter whether Microsoft makes it through or not. The cloud - for all the revolutionary talk - is just a continuation of the status quo. We're still talking about a small group of super-rich corporations stealing each other's lunch: Google jumps into Amazon's world of web services; Amazon jumps into Apple's of music downloads; Apple jumps into mobile phones; Microsoft eats up everything it can.The future is already owned, and it's owned by the names we know. After all, the cloud might be on the horizon, but the world underneath stays essentially the same.
The ThinkPad X300 is less than an inch thick, weighs only 1.42kg and offers long battery life, so it's ideal for "road warriors". But unlike most ultraportables, it's packed with features. These include a 13.3 inch widescreen, built-in DVD burner, lots of wireless connectivity (Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and a Sim for a 3G phone connection), 1.3 megapixel camera, three USB ports, Ethernet and monitor ports, fingerprint recognition and a 64GB Solid State Disk (SSD) as standard.Lenovo's investment in the quality of the X300 is understandable. The ThinkPad has been the business notebook of choice since IBM unveiled the model 700 at Comdex in 1992. And the X300 is a ThinkPad, right down to the little red trackpoint in the middle of the keyboard. But it's not from IBM. China's Lenovo has taken over IBM's PC division, and needs to convince its traditional buyers that the ThinkPad mojo is still working.The X300 should do that. The bright matt backlit LED screen makes the LCDs on my veteran X31 and 240X ThinkPads look desperately dull. And it proved rather faster than I expected. On Vista's Windows Experience Index, the 2GB X300 scored 3.5, outperforming a year-old heavyweight Dell Inspiron. Its 1.2GHz Core 2 Duo (rated 4.4) wasn't that much slower than Dell's 2.0GHz version (rated 4.9), while the Intel P965 Express graphics chipset - a source of apprehension - scored higher than Dell's GeForce Go 3700. The X300 is by no means a speed merchant, but it's pretty snappy for an ultraportable.Battery life was also impressive: I was getting around five hours of stop-start word processing. Lenovo says "up to 10 hours," but that's based on using the expanded battery option, and an accessory battery that replaces the DVD. You can also carry a spare battery.The Samsung E64 SDD helped save power. It's also bigger and faster than the drive in my old X31: you never have to wait for the disk platter to spin up, because there isn't one. And the SSD and low-voltage processor helped the X300 run surprisingly cool.Fortunately, a couple of things will stop me from buying one. First, it turns out the 13.3 inch widescreen isn't quite as tall as the 12.1 inch screen in my X31, just wider. The extra resolution is nice - the X300 does 1440 x 900 pixels - but the extra width makes the whole machine bigger (317 x 236mm), without providing much business value. It's great for movies, of course.The other is the &pound;2,000 price tag. This is good value for a top-of-the-range ultraportable, and the X300 would be cheaper with a conventional hard drive. But I think I'll wait until Lenovo extends the range downwards.Pros:Screen, keyboard, DVD and SSD drives; battery life; weightCons:Price; and do you really need widescreen?lenovo.com/uk
Dilbert 2.0You can now write own punchlines to strips and create mashups at the new Dilbert site, now in beta.dilbert.comMouse not requiredClusta is developing what it claims is the first website that can be controlled by gestures, which are detected via a webcam.hrp.clusta.comNavigate with photomapsNDrive is selling the first GPS navigators with maps that use real photos of (so far) 29 cities in the UK.tinyurl.com/4x8qsuMicrosoft CRM onlineMicrosoft has launched an online version of its CRM (customer relationship management) business system.crmchoice.comNokias to get Sony tunesPeople who buy a Nokia phone that Comes With Music will get a year's free access to the Sony BMG music download library.tinyurl.com/4y7rpwUSB drive for consolesIomega is offering a 160GB external Media Xporter hard drive (&pound;73) that connects to both Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 videogame consoles.tinyurl.com/6kp4reSamsung got SoulSamsung is planning to introduce Soul, a new "flagship" 3G mobile with Magical Touch interface, 5 megapixel camera and B&amp;O sound.uk.samsungmobile.comUSB laptop protectorThe Stealth MXP is a USB drive with fingerprint recognition that works with encrypted portable PCs to protect data.tinyurl.com/3slhrw
The travails over the past week or so of Psystar - the Miami-based startup which said that it would offer Apple's latest version of OS X, "Leopard", on generic boxes - have been enormously entertaining. The way that the company apparently moved from place to place (judging by its website) made me wonder if it was being run by one of those impromptu teams from The Apprentice - with one bunch haring around town trying to buy up copies of Leopard at full price from shops while others head down to Quik-E-Computer to buy some low-priced computer chassis, leaving someone else back at the office, swearing at the computer. And then all being called back into the boardroom to be told they're an absolute shower.As I write (on Tuesday), nobody seems to have received any computers from Psystar, more than a week after it said it would have them out the door in 48 hours. Still, patience is a virtue.But even if Psystar's adventures are some sort of bizarro version of everyone's favourite business game, they have demonstrated one thing very clearly: there is huge pent-up demand for cheaper Apple gear. Forums abound with people saying: "I'd love to buy an Apple machine, but I just can't afford it. And the ones they're offering don't do what I want." The customers clearly want to have a wider choice, especially at the bottom end. And in the middle, actually, where they want a midrange tower rather than the supercharged Mac Pro towers that Apple offers.The ironic thing is that too much choice nearly killed Apple. When Steve Jobs returned there, more than a decade ago, he proclaimed himself mystified by its bewildering range of desktop computers - the Performa, the Quadra, the LC, the Power Macintosh. "What's the difference?" he asked, and binned the lot - to be replaced by the "grid of four": portables and desktops, for pros and consumers. He also killed the clone makers that Apple estimated had taken 10% of its business.But if people want a bargain-basement machine then Apple is leaving money on the table by not offering it. If enough startups make cloned Macs, Apple gets just $129 per machine (the price of Leopard at retail) - or perhaps only the wholesale price (which, Sir Alan would tell you, is probably two-fifths of the retail price, or $51.60). Apple's10K stock filingshows that its net sales per computer sold are $1,532 (compared to $181 per iPod sold). We can't be sure how much profit each generates, but it seems a fair assumption that it's more than $129, or $51.60. Letting people make clones is financially bad news for Apple. With more than $18bn in the bank, it could afford to shave its margins to stave off cloners.Now, mea errata. In previous columns here, I've complained about the instability of OS X 10.5, aka "Leopard". Turns out I was wrong. The machine I'd installed it on had a known memory board fault. Once that was fixed, the problems vanished. ("D'ya think it was tin whiskers?" asked a colleague. Well, it might have been, but how would we know?)That though raises the question of how many other people who've had problems with Leopard actually had problems with Apple's hardware. I realised that every Apple my family has owned has had some problem - two failed logic boards, one broken Firewire port, one cosmetic crack; and a work colleague just told me of his wife's bust MacBook. Yes, a logic board again.On consideration, Apple might not like clones. But it might be that everyone else really is ready for them. Someone call the Apprentices!
Up to 4 million people will be affected after Microsoft's Outlook Express email program ceases to work with Hotmail, the company's own webmail service, from June 30. On that date Microsoft will disable the technical protocol, called DAV, that enables Outlook Express to download messages stored in Hotmail folders.These people will this week receive an email from Microsoft explaining the consequences of the change, along with the company's reasons for enacting it. The advisory message (tinyurl.com/5eucpa) recommends that users install Windows Live Mail, available as a free download. It goes on to state that DAV, which stands for distributed authoring and versioning, is a "legacy protocol" and that a "more efficient" system is needed to manage the large email inboxes - up to 5GB - now offered by Hotmail. After that date, people trying to access their webmail via Outlook Express will get an error message.However, the company admitted that PC users who rely on Outlook, or Entourage on the Mac, will be able to continue using these commercial Microsoft email applications to access their Hotmail accounts. Users of non-Microsoft email tools, such as Thunderbird (tinyurl.com/3buruj), may need to update their software.Outlook Express was introduced in 1997 and was standard issue with Windows 98, Me, 2000 and XP. It was also available as a free download (with Internet Explorer) for other versions of the operating system, and for Apple's Mac OS 9. But Microsoft stopped its development four years ago and removed the program from IE7.With the public release of Windows Vista in January last year, Microsoft ditched Outlook Express in favour of Windows Mail. This includes new features, like spam and phishing filters, but does not employ DAV.In November last year, Microsoft introduced the Windows Live Mail program, which the company recommends Outlook Express and Windows Mail users install. This does include support for Hotmail, and will automatically import messages and contacts from Outlook Express. But it uses a proprietary Microsoft protocol - DeltaSync - rather than industry-standard protocols such as Imap or Pop3 for connecting to client mailboxes.Four years ago Microsoft restricted Outlook Express's access to Hotmail only to those with subscription (paid-for) accounts. However, holders of "legacy" Hotmail accounts continue to get free access. Microsoft could not confirm how many of the affected users are holders of these legacy accounts.
