In creatingLego Pirates of the Caribbean, developer Traveller's Tales has carefully rebuilt the familiar world of the titular seafaring films from virtual plastic blocks, including locations and characters from the three already-released movies and the forthcoming fourth instalment, offering players a chance to explore an elaborate toy box reimagining of the world of Jack Sparrow.The result is a witty parody that simultaneously pokes fun at and celebrates its inspiration. Like theStar Wars Legogames before it, thisPirates of the Caribbeanrelease is sharp and funny, but to a degree the style outshines the substance.To play the narrative-led game is certainly absorbing, but in making it accessible to the widest possible pool of fans, its creators have slightly diluted the experience as a whole. However, it was never going to be a title designed to push experienced gamers. In its role as accessible family entertainment, much like the films themselves, it is wholly successful.
Price£17,745MPG55.4Top speed109mphOn the website of the London branch of the Pug in the Park monthly meet-up, one happy mutt posted this message last week:  "Hi, I'm Big Dave. I like eating, chasing cars and having my belly rubbed. I dislike water and strangers.  I have an uncontrollable urge to bark at them." Big Dave is a black pug and a park regular. I'm not sure if he's friends with Popeye, an eccentric four-year-old beige pug (the owner described the colour as "champagne"), but the two usually attend the Regent's Park meet-and-bark which is organised by fans and friends of the short-muzzled, curly tailed, frog-eyed toy dogs.It was apposite beyond my imaginings that the car I happened to be in when I stumbled across the event was Nissan's new Juke – a vehicle that is also short-muzzled, frog-eyed and magnificently ugly.Car designers have long turned to the animal kingdom for inspiration – powerful haunches and long graceful lines are ripe for emulation in the motoring world. But the Juke's designers have clearly become confused along the way and gone for a pug-hog hybrid which doesn't make us want to have our bellies rubbed.At some point, deep in Nissan's design HQ, possibly during a refreshingly frisky blue-sky session, the question of what would happen if you attached a miniature 4x4 body to the underpinnings of a world-beating supermini must have arisen. Clearly they decided there was only one way to find out – build it. So the wags at Nissan metamorphosed the conservative Micra (long-term squeeze of blue-rinsed grannies and faithful servant to BSM) into a diminutive urban sports utility vehicle which looks like it's been up all night partying on horse tranquillisers.The car's front end is particularly provocative. It has large headlights, a&nbsp;recessed air intake that makes it look as if it shares a dentist with Homer Simpson and sidelights that bulge above the bonnet like the eyes of a crocodile swimming in a Florida swamp. It's not an easy look to carry off.On the one hand I want to applaud Nissan for daring to break the tiresome monotony of most of today's cars; on the other it's difficult not to burst out laughing. And if Nissan were intending to make a joke of the Juke, they should have really gone for it. Instead, they've stranded the Juke in a&nbsp;no-man's land of ugly without charm. The colour scheme of the test car I drove, for instance, was middle-aged silver. Yet this car is clearly aimed at the younger driver. When Fiat first produced its aesthetically challenging Multipla – a&nbsp;car so hideous it resembled a medical condition onEmbarrassing Bodies– the Italians found themselves with a surprise hit on their hands. I think the Juke loses out not because it's ugly, but because it's not uglyenough. The French have a term for this –jolie laide.If youcanget past the looks, and it will appeal to many, what's left? I tested the 1.5-litre diesel which managed to be a perfect storm of disappointment – noisy, under-powered and inefficient. Although the quoted figures boast of a top speed of 109mph, 0-62mph in 11.2 seconds and 55.4mpg combined fuel economy with 134g/km of CO2, I managed only about 40 to the gallon. It felt sluggish on the open road and the six-speed gear box was clunky and vague.Inside, the car is remarkably roomy, but also feels strangely unloved. The plastic finishes seem cheap and tinny and the whole gives the impression that no one expects this city SUV to hang around for long. Given that it fits into Nissan's line-up as a slightly shrunken Qashqai – one of Britain's most popular cars, the Sunderland plant simply can't churn them out quickly enough – it feels like a&nbsp;wasted, if courageous, opportunity.Back in the park, I learn that pugs themselves suffer from a number of difficulties, including overheating, obesity and a pronounced gag reflex – something Juke owners, too, may have to learn to live with…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
Video games, we have been led to believe, are about wasting time. It is a misunderstanding that players and game makers have railed against for 40 years. While movies and television are endlessly analysed and debated in the mainstream media, games are characterised as troubling, irresponsible or banal, the fatuous byproducts of the digital revolution.But a growing number of theorists and designers disagree. This is, after all, an entertainment medium that worldwide makes $50bn a year, a medium in which an estimated one third of UK adults indulge. An emerging school of thought, drawing on cognitive science, psychology and sociology, suggests that our growing love of video games may actually have important things to tell us about our intrinsic desires and motivations.Central to it all is a simple theory – that games are fun because they teach us interesting things and they do it in a way that our brains prefer – through systems and puzzles. Five years ago, Raph Koster, the designer of seminal multiplayer fantasy games such asUltima OnlineandStar Wars Galaxieswrote a fascinating book calledA Theory of Fun for Game Design, in which he put forward the irresistibly catchy tenet that "with games, learning is the drug"."An effective learning environment, and for that matter an effective creative environment, is one in which failure is OK – it's even welcomed," Koster says via phone from his hometown of San Diego. "In game theory, this is often spoken of as the 'magic circle': you enter into a realm where the rules of the real world don't apply – and typically being judged on success and failure is part of the real world. People need to feel free to try things and to learn without being judged or penalised."Consistently, he says, the most successful games are the ones that provide us with interesting tools such as weapons or magic (or even angry birds) and allow us time to experiment with them. He provides as a defining example the 1985 platforming gameSuper Mario Bros, created by Nintendo's renowned game designerShigeru Miyamoto. On the first screen, players are given the ability to jump and can play with this for as long as they like, but to get to the next stage, they need to have mastered the skill so they can leap over an enemy and on to a platform. Afterwards, they learn about hidden bonuses and items, but only when each new addition has been perfected.This "acquire, test, master" model is still intrinsic to game design. The recently releasedPortal 2, a brilliant, physics-based puzzler set in an abandoned science research facility, works in exactly the same way. Here, players wield a portal gun, a device that creates dimensional wormholes in walls, floors and ceilings – but they're only introduced to one facet of the gun at a time, and when it has been mastered, new items such as super-bouncy gels are introduced. There is constant progress and a continually evolving challenge, but there is always room to experiment and to figure things out through intuition."Games allow us to create these little systems where learning is controlled and taken advantage of really brilliantly," says Margaret Robertson, development director at innovative London-based games studio Hide&amp;Seek. "We do love learning and we're good at it, but it is often frustrating in the real world because you don't always get to go at the pace you want to go and often don't immediately see the application of what you're doing. Also, learning is rarely done in an atmosphere that's a little bit illicit. Something we don't talk about is that, actually, one of the strengths of games is the stigma that still surrounds them – they feel like bunking off!"But the brain's love of systems and puzzles is only part of the deeper appeal. Another important element is autonomy. Games tap into our need to have control; this is very obvious in "god games" such asThe Sims, where we shape the lives of virtual humans, but it's becoming a vital element of action adventures and shooters, too."Games are increasingly complex systems that offer a variety of different experiences," says Dan Pinchbeck, an experimental game designer and lecturer in creative technologies. "Titles such asRed Dead RedemptionandAssassin's Creedhave a central design ethos that players should be able to define their own play to an extent. There's an emphasis on the pleasure of choosing and planning. We've moved quite dramatically away from the action games of the 80s and 90s, where the primary mode of engagement was reaction to events. Shooters still have this core of fast, reactive action, but a game such asCrysis&nbsp;2is also about approaching a situation, making a solid plan and then defining the template for this reactive mode, depending on your preferred play style."This has proved to be a hugely successful recipe. TheGrand Theft Autoseries of urban shoot-'em-ups has sold more than 100 million copies, not just because of the rampant crime and violence, which is admittedly fun, but because they offer the player agency and authority in a realistic, complicated world. "There's a crescendo of ecstasy that comes through the acknowledged application of autonomy," says Robertson. "Games give you a space where you have power and most of us, most of the time, don't feel like that. And then, whatever you do, gamesnotice. Again, in life, that doesn't always happen. If you do the things you're supposed to do efficiently and quietly, no one notices and that's rubbish."Now, the industry has really started to consider the appeal of player autonomy. "There's a trend at the moment to look at what psychologists, behavioural economists and sociologists can give us pointers to," says Robertson. She has been readingessays by George Loewenstein, a behavioural economist who's written at length about curiosity: "Curiosity is the act of wanting a thing without knowing what it is. Lowenstein calls it 'closing the curiosity gap' – we find something narcotic in the sense of tension and the resolution. Well, there's a lot of that in video games and we need to understand it."At this year's Game Developers Conference, for example, Kent Hudson, a game designer at LucasArts, gave a fascinating talk on self-determination theory, which concerns the study of human motivation. He talked about how gamers need to own their worlds in order to be happy. This sort of analysis used to be almost taboo within games, but now studios are taking it on board."The industry attitude towards education has changed radically for the better," says prominent game researcher Jesper Juul. "I recall hearing industry professionals claim that game design was something like an unteachable dark art, but now, with bigger budgets and with game design graduates placed in most studios, this attitude has mostly faded."The best studios are also designing their titles around established reward systems. "A good game will have the expected progression at the end of each level, but it will also provide surprise rewards halfway through," says Ben Weedon, a consultant at PlayableGames, a company that carries out usability testing on new titles before they're released. "It's a principle that's based on workplace psychology. One of the best ways to reward employees is to enhance predictable annual bonuses with little treats added in every now and again – buying all your staff an iPod, for example. It keeps people much more motivated. In a game, you're essentially pressing the same buttons and doing the same things over and over again, so you need those elements of the unexpected to stay compelled."But developers also know that there's more to games than systems and mechanics – story is becoming ever more important. Science-fiction adventure seriesMass Effecthas a sprawling story of intergalactic intrigue, while thrillers such asHeavy Rainand forthcoming Raymond Chandler-style detective adventureLA Noire, are loaded with the sort of compelling plot twists and shock revelations we're used to from movies. Indeed, narrative games have their own version of Hollywood's three-act structure, designed to keep us utterly hooked. "A shorter final act is often used to give a sense of acceleration towards climax," says Pinchbeck. "It's all about communicating the player's position on the arc, so they have a strong motivation to keep playing." Opening levels also tend to be brief, because this flatters us into thinking we're making quick progress.Again, this comes back to the central appeal of games – authority. Game stories are often pretty hokey, but they're compelling because we're in control. Veteran British game designer Charles Cecil is currently working on the BBC's well-receivedDoctor Who Adventuregames (downloadable frombbc.co.uk/doctorwho/dw/theadventuregames) and has seen how giving fans control over the Doctor brings them closer to the plotlines. "The huge positive is that the player is experiencing the story advance as a reward for something that has been challenging," he says. "One of the joys of gaming is that the story means so much more because you have achieved something to get it, rather than just watching it. That is the great strength of the medium."Another important game design facet is "disproportionate feedback", in which players are hugely rewarded for achieving very simple tasks. In highly successful shooters such asCall of DutyandBulletstorm, when an enemy is shot, they don't just collapse to the floor, they explode into chunks. In casual puzzles, titles such asZumaandPeggle, a completed level is accompanied by pixelated firework displays, sparkling rainbows and messages declaring: "Ultra Extreme Fever". These contrasting forms of graphical over-elaboration aren't just there for window-dressing, they're a charm offensive on the brain's pleasure centres: you're good, you're a success – you're powerful. Disproportionate feedback is an endorphin come-on.Conversely, designers have discovered that failure can be an important factor in keeping us entertained. Four years ago, researchers at the Helsinki School of Economics' Mind lab studied the oscillatory brain responses of game players and found they often get pleasure from losing a life; if the resulting animation is entertaining, and if the failure is their own fault, it's just another indicator of the player's agency in the world. When urban driving gameBurnoutwas released, the design team immediately realised that players loved crashing the cars because of the breathtakingly realistic destruction animations, so for the sequel, they added a mode that encouraged and rewarded dramatic collisions – it was a massive success.Almostdying could be even more important. "I heard a talk at GDC that pointed out something interesting," says Brian Fleming, the producer of apocalyptic superhero adventure gameinFamous. "When people tell stories about their greatest moments, they often revolve around nearly dying. In games, what's really special for people is not, 'I killed the bad guy and I was perfect', it's, 'I nearly died, but I just managed to kill the bad guy.' How do we set out specifically to give them those experiences? That's a great challenge for us as game makers."Games tap into our motivations, our neural pathways, even our friendships. The rise of online multiplayer gaming as well as Facebook titles such asFarmvilleshow that interactive worlds are becoming acceptable venues for social interaction. And brand owners are taking notice. Facebook and browser games are now a key element of many film and TV marketing campaigns – they're "sticky", they're compelling and they give potential viewers ownership over stories and characters. Then there's the burgeoning concept of gamification, in which websites, smartphone apps and location-based services such as Four Square and Gowalla are being designed to resemble games, with high scores and achievement points, to keep customers entertained. Everybody fromPlayboyto Starbucks to London Transport is providing game-like services to users, the latter via downloadable gameChromaroma, which rewards Oyster card users for exploring new areas. M2 Research estimates that companies spent more than $100m worldwide on gamification projects last year, a figure predicted to rise to $1.6bn by 2015.So games aren't just about wasting time. They fulfil intrinsic human needs, whether we are conscious of it or not. "That loop of agency, learning and disproportionate feedback is at the heart of something very important," says Margaret Robertson. She thinks for a second before pointedly adding: "And very, very seductive."Four big games – and why they're successfulAngry BirdsBrightly coloured smartphone physics puzzler (100 million downloads and counting) where you launch birds at the evil pigs who have stolen your eggs.ANALYSIS: The basic skill it rewards – being able to aim objects accurately – is one we're designed to want to practise. "It's evolutionarily useful that the brain fastens on challenging problems that have to do with trajectories," says game designer Raph Koster. "Physics calculations like this were extremely valuable if you made your living with a spear."VERDICT: You loveAngry Birdsbecause your ancient ancestors needed to be really good at throwing stuff.FarmvilleFacebook game with more than 62 million users that allows players to tend a virtual farm, raising livestock and harvesting crops.ANALYSIS: "There's a cognitive theory called signalling," says game designer Raph Koster. "The premise is that a lot of what we do that we can't quite explain is actually about sending signals to those around us. One of the things we tend to signal is conscientiousness – and so having, for example, a really lovely, well-tended garden is a public signal of how responsible and dutiful you are, and how good you are at taking care of things, which could be a signal that you'd be a good parent."VERDICT: You playFarmville, not because you're bored at work, but because you want your friends to see that you'd be a good father or mother.Grand Theft Auto seriesMostly about running around the streets with a big gun causing all kinds&nbsp;of chaos. Now on its fourth instalment.ANALYSIS: TheGTAseries has been successful because it provides the player with real power and autonomy and multiple simultaneous objectives. "It is not dissimilar to a well-structuredTV series, such asMad MenorBattlestar Galactica," says game designer Richard Rouse&nbsp;III. "In any given episode, there are A and B plots, plus there's a bigger plot that's extending over the next few episodes and a really big plot for the whole season. All are playing out at the same time, so you get short-term satisfaction from watching just one episode or you can invest more time and get more rewards. It's a similar effect in games, except for us, the rewards aren't just plot – we also give players additional resources and tools, which makes our hooks much stronger. Hence, 'Just one more turn.'"VERDICT: You are not a closet sociopath, you just enjoy a nice, multi-layered plot.Call of Duty: Black OpsThe latest instalment in the incendiary first-person shooter series has sold more than 20 million copies.ANALYSIS: Like most titles in this genre, it's designed to put us into a series of dramatic set-pieces. As game design lecturer Dan Pinchbeck explains: "Tim Willits, the creative director of id Software, has talked about this as a central idea in his studio's designs: overwhelm the player, but give them the firepower to get out. It feels as though the odds are stacked against you, but actually the designer is making sure the odds are actually kind of in the player's favour."&nbsp;VERDICT: You play this for the same reason you like theme-park rides - it gives you all the thrill of potentially life-threatening situations, without your life actually being endangered.
'A billion here, a billion there, and pretty soon you're talking real money" is an aphorism frequently attributed to the late Everett Dirksen, the celebrated Republican senator from Illinois, who died in 1969.While intensive research has failed to unearth documentary evidence forthe source of the entire quotation, the phrase "a billion here, a billion there" was one of Dirksen's mantras which he often deployed in castigating congressional profligacy with taxpayers' money.One wonders, therefore, what Dirksen would have made of the news that Microsoft was spending $8.5bn (around £5bn) of its shareholders' money to buy Skype, the internet telephony venture, in an acquisition that has gobsmacked both the technology industry and Wall Street. It is, said theArsTechnica analyst, "a deal that's hard to understand"(translation: nuts).The scepticism that greeted the announcement stemmed from various sources. Some observers were astonished by the price Microsoftpaid for a loss-making outfit.Others struggled to identify a coherent technological strategy behind the deal. And many people speculated that Microsoft's unhappy record with new acquisitions might mean that yet another disruptive mouse was about to be sat upon by the software elephant.  "Skype RIP?" was how one of my email chums expressed this suspicion in a message after the news first broke. Microsoft's CEO, Steve Ballmer, was mightily exercised about this."We will continue to invest in Skype on non-Microsoft client platforms," he said in a conference call on Tuesday, "I said it, I mean it: we will continue to support other platforms."TheWall Street Journalreported the conversationunder the headline "Microsoft: We Promise Not To Screw Up Skype."Now it is well known that valuations of internet ventures, as the Bible says of the Peace of God, "passeth all understanding".  (Just think of the current "valuation" of Facebook at $52b.) But even by those hallucinatory standards, Skype's chequered history to date is a thing of wonder.The company was launched in 2003 by chaps who had earlier run the, er, controversial peer-to-peer file-sharing system Kazaa. The basic idea was to use peer-to-peer technology to carry digitised voice signals over the internet, thereby enabling users to make free voice calls to anyone who had an internet-connected PC running Skype software.From the outset, Skype spread like wildfire – putting on nearly 400,000 new usersa day; by 2010, it was reckoned to beresponsible for a quarter of all international telephone calls.Yet it was able to achieve this without spending very much on technology. How come? Simple: it's a peer-to-peer system. When you sign up, you click on an agreement that states that "Skype Software may utilise the processor and bandwidth of the computer (or other applicable device) you are utilising, for the limited purpose of facilitating thecommunication between Skype Software users."Translation: your computer and internet connection become part of Skype's global technical infrastructure. So the more users there are, the more capacious that infrastructure becomes.Neat, eh? It was so neat that eBay acquired Skype in 2005 for $3.1bn, in a deal that provoked almost as much astonishment as the one announced last week. Two years later, eBay took a $1.4bn "impairment" in an explicit admission that it had overpaid. Relations between the Skype founders and their eBay owners became rocky and in 2009 eBay sold 70% of Skype to a consortium of private investors which included someone called Marc Andreessen.The plan at that stage was to float the company on the stock market, but legal wrangles over intellectual property were already beginning to cast some shadows over that agreeable prospect.Then along comes Steve Ballmer armed with the Microsoft chequebook: eBay gets $2.55bn for its 30% stake, and so hasn't lost money on its Skype punt. Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis, the co-founders of Skype, get $1.19bn fortheir 14% stake (in addition to what they got first time roundby selling it to eBay).The sweetest thing of all, though, is that the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, which owned 3% of Skype, comes out of it with a $205m profit on an investment of $50m.Readers with long memories will remember that a certain Marc Andreessen was the co-founder of Netscape, the company that was wiped out by Microsoft all those years ago.Revenge is indeed a dish best eaten cold.
Brink, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Played out on the Ark, a waterborne city built for 5,000 that's become home to floating slums of 50,000, here you play either a member of the security forces or a Mad Max-styled resistance fighter.Bravely brushing aside convention, all levels are unlocked from the beginning – including the alternative endings for each campaign – giving access to what's a determinedly multiplayer game. Operating in teams comprising soldiers, medics, engineers and operatives, you're unusually reliant on the support of fellow humans and rewarded for returning their favours. The objective-orientated levels and ability to scramble fluidly over scenery give its firefights a dynamic edge, but in spite of these differences, the cohesiveness of Brink's team experience and overarching friendliness, such variety can't disguise some fairly MOR action, and its puny weapons and piffling grenades underwhelm.Bethesda, £34.99-£49.99LEGO Pirates Of The Caribbean, DS, PS3, Wii &amp; Xbox 360LEGO Pirates Of The Caribbean.The LEGO series' well-rehearsed schtick involves taking Hollywood blockbusters and re-rendering them in a series of wordless, charmingly grunted scenes injected with gentle puzzles and a world of things to smash and collect. Pirates sticks to this template, with swooning Elizabeth Swann, a scowling Admiral Norrington and an adorably prancing LEGO Captain Jack forming a fraction of its 70-plus character cast. Other players can drop in at any time for co-operative play; sword fights and set-pieces feel appropriately swashbuckling; and it gently coaxes out your inner child by rewarding you for demolishing every last piece of scenery, which may be sufficient entertainment on its own for actual children.Disney Interactive, £34.99-£49.99Plants Vs Zombies DS, Nintendo DSPlants Vs Zombies DS.Your house is under attack from waves of cartoon zombies and to fend them off you have an expanding catalogue of rapaciously aggressive flora, from the peashooter to the cabbage-pult, with which to defend yourself. Getting your planting strategy right for each level is vital, with the zombies getting increasingly outrageous in their methods of crossing your lawn to get to your brains. As you progress, what starts as a casual dabble becomes a cheerful struggle for survival as you're encouraged to experiment with herbal weaponry. This DS version may not look quite as pretty as the game's iPhone incarnation, but stylus control brings far greater precision, which in the latter stages is a life-or-death commodity. There are a couple of tiny new twists (yelling at your plants to perk them up, and the Zombatar! avatar creator), but Plants Vs Zombies is as alluringly whimsical and insanely playable as ever.Mastertronic, £24.99
Dads Are The Original HipstersWith their terrible jokes, taste for reindeer-patterned cardigans and poor DIY skills, dads are generally regarded as thoroughly uncool. But as this site reveals, the truth is that most dads were once hip young things who were very possibly, several decades ago, into the same cool stuff as their sons. Well, this isn't strictly true, as what represents cool here is stretched to include deep V T-shirts, shooting stuff, sweatbands and teeny running shorts. But you'll get the point. If nothing else, this oddly touching collection of American vintage bad-asses demonstrates that the world was a browner, kinder place in the Kodachrome-coloured 70s and 80s.Life + TimesDonald Glover AKA Childish Gambino Photograph: GettyJay-Z's stylish new website isn't about his music or life as such. Instead, like Gwyneth Paltrow's web project, Goop, it's about the general Jay-Z aesthetic – things that inspire and interest him. The man himself pens the occasional item under the name SC, while a team of writers have been plugged into the Shawn Carter psyche to bring us films, pictures and audio clips that cover everything from street art to basketball legends to footwear philosophy. It's all pretty fascinating in a front-of-an-airline-magazine kind of way. Music entries focus on progressive new hip-hop acts including the fabulous Childish Gambino – the pseudonym of actor/comedian Donald Glover whose brilliant raps namecheck Tina Fey and Hall &amp; Oates.Blog roll: AnimalsAnimals With Stuffed Animals.Animals With Stuffed AnimalsApparently real animals love hanging out with toy versions of themselves.Crappy TaxidermyAs if being stuffed wasn't embarrassing enough, some stuffing operations go badly wrong.Writers And KittiesNo great writer's home is complete without a cat.Panda TaintEver notice that panda bears look a bit nicotine-stained? You are not alone.The Proceedings Of The Ever So StrangeA close look at the red-lipped bat fish and other oddities from land and sea.Real Angry BirdsThey're out there, waiting, ready to attack those dastardly piggies.What we learned on the web this weekThe greatest lost cat poster ever. 
Flyer and photo by Jason PermenterWhat thegreatest lost cat poster ever looks likeYugoslavia hadthe world's best monuments50 Centis a rubbish flirtMacs fitin an "evolope"We canlearn a lot from antsThree gagsa day is better than noneAll moviethemes should have disco versionsHow tozombie-proof your homeWhat's missingfrom Pixar moviesA close-upof the White House situation room
It was around a quarter of the way up one of London's very few steep hills when I realised I had a problem. Perhaps it was a bit daft taking one of Halfords' cheapest bikes up Swains Lane, the killer road that bisects Highgate Cemetery, separating Karl Marx and Alexander Litvinenko, but I figured the Apollo had 18 gears – at least one of them would be low enough to make the ascent.Alas, I discovered all too late that the six lowest gears did not work. Try as it might, the derailleur just couldn't get the chain to slide on to the lowest ring but made a noise like a dinosaur crunching ice cubes. So it was that by the time I got to theglass housenear the summit, I had been forced to push. Rubbish. I've done Tour de France climbs without ever having to walk.It actually makes me quite cross that Halfords sent out a brand new bike that didn't work properly. It's indicative, I think, of a lack of respect in the bike industry for customers at the bottom end of the price market. The Apollo is usually sold flatpacked, ready for customers to assemble at home (a disaster waiting to happen). Mine was allegedly set up by a professional.Independent bike shops will tell you it's impossible to make a decent bike for under £300, and the Apollo proves it. It's a bike destined to be abandoned in the shed before its first birthday. I am not a bike snob. I use panniers, for goodness sake, and am not afraid to sully the geometry of a road bike by sticking a rack on the back. But I am against ugly, shoddy bikes. And the Apollo is ugly. When it arrived, I thought they had sent me a child's bike by accident. How many grown women would really choose a metallic lilac number with tacky flowers transferred on to the frame?Not everything about the Apollo sucks. I took it off road to Highgate Ladies Pond in Hampstead Heath, and the knobbly tyres coped well with rough terrain. It's relatively nippy too, and not all of the components are rubbish: the rear mech is Shimano and the gear shifters are SRAM. And unlike many cheap ladies' bikes, it did have a women-specific gel saddle (important given the different physiology of the female bottom).But these do not make up for the Apollo's hideous appearance and malfunctioning gear set. If&nbsp;you&nbsp;can&nbsp;afford to spend an extra&nbsp;£200, I recommend theSpecialized Sirrus, or if you can stretch to £400, a good friend swears by her Chris Boardman women'shybrid(sold exclusively through Halfords). If you really can only spend £140, buy secondhand. And if you want to ride up Swains Lane, check your gears first.Apollo Haze Women's HybridPrice£139.99 for the 18-speed model (this is the sale price)FrameSteelWheels700cGears18Weight15kgIn three wordsCheap and nasty
Hackers have broken into the vaults of the Japanese video games developer, Square Enix, accessing the details of 25,000 customers in the second major data breach to hit the gaming world in recent weeks.The software house, which is behind some of the world's most successful computer game franchises, including Final Fantasy, Deus Ex and the Tomb Raider series, said the intruders could have stolen customer email addresses after cracking security on two of its websites.It said no credit card details were exposed, but admitted the CVs of 350 people applying for jobs in its Canadian offices could also have been downloaded."Square Enix can confirm a group of hackers gained access to parts of our Eidosmontreal.com website as well as two of our product sites,"the company said in a statement."We immediately took the sites offline to assess how this had happened and what had been accessed, then took further measures to increase the security of these and all of our websites, before allowing the sites to go live again."Square Enix's admission follows last month's revelation that an attack on Sony's gaming networks caused the loss of personal data held in tens of millions of online accounts.Sony has apologised for the security failures that saw hackers break into its PlayStation Network and Sony Online Entertainment networks, accessing the credit card accounts of more than 100 million customers.The haul of data stolen in the Sony attacks, believed to be the biggest security breach in the history of the internet, could cost in excess of £1bn.Square Enix stressed that information stolen from its servers was limited to contact details. "These email addresses are not linked to any additional personal information," it said. "They were site registration email addresses provided to us for users to receive product information updates."
Burson-Marsteller's former UK chairman has described the smear tactics employed against Google as "furtive and creepy" and the PR executives involved in the campaign were "shadowy, backstreet spin merchants".Terence Fane-Saunders, who worked for Burson-Marsteller in the 1980s and now runs his own PR firm, Chelgate, criticised his former employer on his company blog today, asking "What on earth has happened to Burson-Marsteller?""If senior B-M professionals are now seen to be operating like shadowy, backstreet spin merchants, you have to wonder about the continuing value of that example," he said.Burson-Marsteller confirmed on Thursday that it was secretly hired by Facebook to run an anonymous campaign against Googleby planting negative stories in the US media.The agency's employees approached journalists in the US offering to ghost write critical pieces asserting Google's Social Circle product was a privacy threat, but repeatedly refused to disclose the client they were working for."In this grubby little attempt to seed negative stories without disclosing their source, they were denying the media (and that means the public, and that means you and me) the opportunity to assess the value of those stories," he said. "If you don't know the source, you can't judge motive."A spokesman for Burson-Marsteller said: "Whatever the rationale, this was not at all standard operating procedure and is against our policies, and the assignment on those terms should have been declined. When talking to the media, we need to adhere to strict standards of transparency about clients, and this incident underscores the absolute importance of that principle."Burson-Marsteller said on Friday that it would not fire the two ex-journalists involved in the smear campaign – former CNBC technology correspondent Jim Goldman and former political journalist John Mercurio – who joined the PR agency relatively recently after long careers in the media.The pair will receive receive extra "training" and Burson-Marsteller said it intends to redistribute its code of ethics to all employees in the wake of the scandal."We have talked through our policies and procedures with each individual involved in the program and made it clear this cannot happen again," said Pat Ford, Burson's USA president,in an articlein PR Week USA.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
A company is claiming to have apatenton Apple's in-app purchase system, and has contacted at least five developers of iOS apps in the US and UK demanding that they license it.The move has worried app developers who are uncertain whether Apple will cover any legal costs relating to their apps, even though they have used the company's developer kit and associated tools to create the apps.One claim was served on Friday by hand on James Thomson, a Glasgow-based developer who wrote the apps PCalc and DragThing. Another who received the couriered legal package was Matt Braun, a developer based in Toledo, Ohio, author of the best-selling iPhone kids game MASH who runs a mobile app development company, Magnate Interactive. Patrick McCarron of MobileAge, based in Chicago, has also received a demand.The claims come from a Texas-based company called Lodsys, which said it has four patents relating to in-app purchases, interactive online ads, online help and subscription renewals. They are citedon its website.Lodsys is a patent licensing company for inventions developed byDan Abelow, a Harvard graduate who sold five of his patents outright in 2004: four went to Lodsys and one to a company called Webvention.Abelow told the Guardian that he has no knowledge of which companies have licensed the patents. His site said the licensees of his patents include Apple, Google, Microsoft and Nokia along with roughly 200 other companies."The concept of the Lodsys-owned patents predates the internet," Abelow told the Guardian. "The idea was that if you're sitting and holding in your hand a product and you use it, why shouldn't it be aware of your behaviour, digitally, and conduct your needs to the vendor, who could interact with you." He filed for the patent in 1992 and it was granted in 1999, making it valid for at least another 15 years.The Guardian attempted to contact Mark Small of Lodsys by phone and email, without success, to seek an answer to whether Apple had ever licensed any of the named patents, and what validity was claimed against the apps developers.A number of the developers, including Thomson, have referred the claims to Apple's legal department, on the basis that they have built their apps using Apple's developer toolkit.Apple's iOS Paid Apps agreement says that developers will be reponsible for "claims that any of the licensed applications and/or the end-user's possession or use of those licensed applications infringes the copyright or other intellectual property rights of any third party".But it is seen as highly likely that Apple will fight Lodsys's claim, because it would destabilise its App Store, which is an essential element in maintaining the attraction of its iPhone.The move is a worrying one for developers, and follows asimilar filing at the end of Marchby another Texas-based company, H-W Technology, which asserted a patent on an "internet phone with search and advertising capability".Florian Mueller, who closely watches developents in smartphones and patent claims, analysed the claims by H-W Technology and commented: "What's really disconcerting about this lawsuit is that it's the first such lawsuit to attack – besides operating system vendors and device makers, which are routinely sued by patent holders – a number of companies because of their smartphone apps. I'm really afraid we're now going to see more patent lawsuits against application developers. Hopefully this won't ever affect little guys who can't afford to defend themselves, but if there's a major company behind an app, or if an app is commercially very successful, it can happen and it has now apparently started to happen."
Now is a good time to be a social mobile games developer with a hit or two under your belt. Big companies cuh as Zynga and DeNA are snapping up talented indie studios as they position themselves to take advantage of the boom in revenues from freemium games on iOS and – soon – Android.Astro Ape remains independent, but it took investment from DeNA in September 2010 on the back of debut iOS hitOffice Heroes, before launching another successful game –Dessert Heroes– in January 2011. Several million players later in early May 2011, the company's third titleMonsterz Revengewas released.Chief executive Chieh Huang is bullish about the opportunity for mobile social games – an opportunity that he thinks is being missed by many competitors. "No one's really trying to push the bar," he tells Apps Blog."There are so many companies content to make hits and make a lot of money, but not really push the industry forward. People are still putting the same old stuff out that we've seen for the last 18-24 months. It perplexes me a lot, and we're trying to change that."Huang claims there is a danger of mobile social games – and indeed social games more widely – getting stuck in a rut of games where you run your own farm, restaurant, shop and so on. Astro Ape's games don't completely buck that trend – Monsterz Revenge starts with the premise of a graveyard fast food franchise – but adds more elements with mini games and power-ups."We knew we had to go a completely different route," he says. "It's a different kind of game, and one that isn't typical for social games these days. We're trying to punch above our weight, because if we go where everybody else is, we can't out-spend them, and that's the way you get apps up the charts. We're trying another way."When Office Heroes came out in July 2010, a promotion from Apple saw it attract half a million users within a few days, at a time when Astro Ape was still effectively "two dudes in a garage – the quintessential startup story". The New York company has since expanded to 20 people and moved out of the garage to an office in Manhattan.DeNA's investment has opened up new opportunities for Astro Ape, including developing a new game for the Japanese company's Mobage service, which is launching globally this year through a partnership with Samsung.Mobage is huge in Japan, generating revenues of $1.38bn for DeNA in 2010 alone. Last year, it acquired US mobile social games publisher ngmoco for $403m to help take the service global, but partnerships with developers such as Astro Ape are an important piece in that strategy too."I like working with them, because they have a good mix," says Huang. "They recruit people who are considered as new thinkers in Japanese society, and they also have industry veterans.  There are a lot of free thinkers in the company."Huang is not surprised that the big social gaming firms are buying or investing in indie mobile social studios, suggesting that there is a race against time for these companies to emerge as the clear leader in the space."If they're trying to grow their capabilities organically in mobile, within 24 months they can have an awesome team, but it will be too late. The big players know there's going to be a clear-cut winner probably within nine to 12 months. The only way to get critical mass is to snap up smaller developers."For now, Astro Ape is focusing on building its player community, and – like all its rivals – trying to cross-promote its games across that community, to save on marketing costs.The uncertainty around the so-called 'incentivised offers' model, where players are offered virtual currency in games if they install other games whose developers have paid for that promotion, makes that more urgent.Which brings us back to more original, innovative games, to pick up and keep a following. "Mobile is a completely different beast to Facebook, and in terms of being social, there's so much more potential," says Huang."On a traditional PC, you don't have location-based technology, you can't access text messaging … they're not like a phone. The devices we're working with are inherently viral, but nobody has found that trick to leverage these features. That includes the companies with billions of dollars of revenue who haven't figured it out yet. Someone's going to unlock these channels one day though."For now, Astro Ape is focusing mainly on iOS, although the game it made for DeNA and Samsung was an Android title, so it already has a toe in the water there. Google's introduction of in-app payments make social games like Astro Ape's more potentially lucrative, but Huang remains measured in his views on Android."You can't ignore hundreds of thousands of new activations a day, but for now it's a different crowd," he says. "From what I've seen, people with iOS devices generally spend more on apps than people with Android devices. On an aggregate level that will change because Android's global growth is so strong, but on a per-user level, it wouldn't shock me if they never outspend the iOS users."
Chinese internet users suspect that their government is interfering with the method they have been using to tunnel under the "Great Firewall" to prevent them connecting with the outside world.Sites such as search engine Google and news site MSN have become difficult to access, they say. And a number of universities and businesses have begun warning their users not to try to evade the firewall.Since 6 May, a number of users says that internet connections via China Telecom, the largest telephone company, and China Unicom have become "unstable", with intermittent access when trying to access sites in foreign countries using a "virtual private network" (VPN) – a preferred method of evading the blocks put up by China's censors to external sites. Even Apple's app store has been put off-limits by the new blocks, according to reports.The disruption has mainly affected corporate connections such as universities while home connections that use standard broadband systems have been unaffected, according tothe prominent Chinese technology blogger William Long.Normally traffic flowing over VPN connections is secure because it is encrypted, meaning that the Chinese authorities were unable to detect what content was flowing back and forth over it. A VPN connection from a location inside China to a site outside China would effectively give the same access as if the user were outside China.Sites including Twitter and Facebook are blocked in China; by using a VPN linked to an outside "proxy" which acts a conduit for links to other sites, a China-based internet user could access either site directly from their computer without the authorities being able to monitor them.But this month that appears to have changed.According to Global Voices Advocacy, a pressure group that defends free speech online, the disruption follows new systems put in place in the "Great Firewall" – in fact monitoring software on the routers that direct internet traffic within and across China's borders. The new software appears to be able to detect large amounts of connections being made to overseas internet locations.The problem has become so bad that some universities and businesses have told their users not to try to use VPNs, and only to visit "work-related" sites; to do otherwise could lead to "trouble" for the company and the users involved.China's approach to internet connectivity has been a bone of contention between it and the international community for years. Google dithered over the fact that it would have to censor its search results in order to function inside the country; in January 2010 itwithdrew from China's mainland over allegations of state-sponsored hacking of its Gmail service. The US secretary of state Hilary Clinton has criticised the use of the Great Firewall, and earlier this weekthe US said it would provide $30m of funding to break web censorshipin repressive regimes, and added that China had a "deplorable" human rights record and that it was a "fool's errand" to try to hold off democratic changes such as those sweeping the Middle East.
It's a good couple of years since the MacBook Air launched, and yet we still can't get away from comparing any other laptop at all to the Apple design.And thus is the case with the Dell Vostro V130. It's not actually anything like the Air, but if you dig around online for reviews of it, you'll quickly find comparisons:here's PCPro, for starters; andhere's BitchBuzz.The Vostro is more solid – a bit thicker, square corners, and a bit heavier (1.59kg). The screen is nowhere near as good as the Air's, nor is the touchpad. Rather better spec, though. But actually, my point is that it's a bit lazy and not especially helpful to make the comparison.So what do you get? The answer is a capable but uninspiring travel companion. Despite trying to make it look sexy – it's available in several different colours including red and, er, corporate grey – there's not much you can do to a laptop to make it stand out in the looks department unless you, um, buy an Air. Or a Sony Vaio, orthe new Samsung 900X3A– but they're all considerably more expensive than this workhorse Dell.Inside my review laptop is an Intel Core i5 (not the new speedy Sandybridge i5; this is a 470-UM model, clocked at 1.33GHz which can be boosted to run at 1.86GHz if needed via Intel's TurboBoost, which in effect temporarily overclocks itself when needed). The base spec of this series of laptops is 2GB of Ram; my review unit had 4GB of Ram. The former is fine and the latter is generous in a notebook. The machine runs quiet and cool, thanks to the grandiosely titled Hyperbaric cooling system, which in effect means that the fan acts as an air intake rather than an exhaust.The spec means you can comfortably watch high-definition video, but there's no optical drive; you'll either have to rip your DVDs for watching on the road, or drag along an external optical drive. However, you'll munch through the battery if you watch video; battery life is pretty poor, at around two hours use before you need to plug it in again.As it's an ultraportable, this Dell is short on connectors. You've only got two USB connectors, and they're USB 2.0 rather than the newer, faster USB 3.0. You do, however, get an HDMI port and an eSATA connector as well as the usual VGA and Ethernet ports. Additionally, some models have a SIM card slot.My review notebook came with a 500GB hard drive, though you can instead have a SATA III 128GB SSD. My choice would be the former. This is not a laptop for a speed freak and in fact it boots very quickly anyway; you wouldn't notice much gain from the SSD, even though it is the newer, faster standard, and the downside of course is much less storage space.The keyboard is generously sized and comfortable to use, although there's no separate number pad. I wasn't that keen on the touchpad – this is one area where it is instructive to compare to the Mac laptops, and I have yet to see a laptop that does a touchpad as well as the Macs. The two-fingers-to-scroll seemed a little erratic on this Dell; I ended up using the up and down arrow keys to scroll.What lets this otherwise perfectly laptop down is its screen. It's got a fat bezel around it, cutting down the actual screen real estate. It's a 13.3in WLED screen at a resolution of 1366x768, running on integrated graphics (so you won't get any gaming joy out of it), but the colours are dull and don't feel very accurate and the viewing angle is poor. On the plus side, the screen is matt rather than a hideously reflective shiny screen. It's not much good in a sunny room, though.It's hard to get excited about this notebook. However, it's also hard to dislike it bar the niggles about the touchpad and the screen. It's a good, solid, value-for-money notebook that wouldn't be too ghastly to travel with. The base model starts at £399, rising to £594 (plus another £60 for the additional 2GB of Ram) for the review unit I've been playing with.I particularly like that it comes with a system DVD – so many machines skimp on that, leaving you to make your own. The OS is Windows 7 Home Premium x64: if you're buying this for work, though, you'll have to upgrade to Professional if you want to connect to your work domain.So it's not the most exciting laptop, but a capable and reasonably portable one that does pretty much everything you need it to.Pros:fairly lightweight, good value for money, system DVD, range of options.Cons:screen, battery life, touchpad a bit annoying.Dell.com
The developers of Dark Souls are not afraid of death. Or more specifically, they're not afraid ofyoudying, in their game. A lot.Following the release of Demon's Souls, the oblique RPG adventure that became a surprise international hit last year, they revelled in the game's reputation as a relentlessly tough and demanding taskmaster. Now, at Namco Bandai's showcase in Dubai, they're showing off the follow up, and they want to make it absolutely clear that the greater profile of this title won't mean a more accessible experience."Demon's Souls provided thousands of deaths to players," grins producer Kei Hirono. "This one is going to be even more difficult."It is, once again, a dark fantasy adventure, in which players must gingerly creep through a series of dungeon hellholes, fighting off a vast menagerie of really-quite-insistent enemies. Our demo begins outside a vast citadel named "Sen's Fortress"."We picked a level that will illustrate how many different deaths will be brought upon the player," laughs Hirono. Apparently, this stage earned the nickname "trap themepark" during development. We don't have to wait long to find out why: as soon as the armour-clad lead character enters the building, he steps on a booby-trapped flagstone, sending an arrow shooting out of the far wall into his stomach. That's a big chunk out of the health bar and we've barely made it over the threshold. There are lots more of these arrow triggers to come.The aim with Dark Souls, explains Hirono, has been to capitalise on the three key concepts of the original game: deep, strategic sword fighting, highly explorable environments and the unique online element, which allowed participants to drop in to each other's single-player campaigns, leaving messages, co-operating or engaging in competitive duels.In Dark Souls, you once again get to build the specific warrior you want, customising gender, size and build as well as the all-important equipment load-out. Through the game, different forms of armour and weaponry become available, allowing the construction of extremely individual warrior types.It's an extension of the Demon's Souls system, with some interesting outcomes: Hirono shows us one example the team has built, a short, rotund character in strange bulbous armour, which severely restricts speed and agility. "We call him the onion knight," he says. "We don't know if he's of any use, but he's in there!"Sen's Fortress is a labyrinth of winding staircases and narrow corridors, the way ahead only dimly lit as you make progress. On our route to the battlements, we encounter several four-armed, snake-headed warriors – they charge out of the darkness, hissing and flailing, and need to be dealt with via skilled swordplay or quick use of magic (fireballs do the trick rather nicely).Early on, we lumber into a caverous chamber where four huge axe-like pendulums swing over a narrow pathway. It's a very familiar platformer challenge, but here it requiresparticularlyprecise timing, and there's a snake man at the end firing arrows, just to add to the fun.Up some stairs, we come across a doorway to the same vast chamber, with another higher, narrower walkway and another set of pendulums; below, we can see the challenge we just completed, and on looking up, it's obvious there are more of them above. It is a great chasm of tense timing tasks.Elsewhere, there's a section where we have to run up a staircase while avoiding the constant flow of huge boulders crashing through in the opposite direction. As we get higher into the building, we find a gigantic machine that's directing these rocks into certain funnels, via a series of massive cogs and wheels, and a lever to change the route, making it a gigantic environmental puzzle. It's the typical mix, then, of short, sharp dexterity challenges with longer term tests.En route, Hirono teases us with a few observations that may hint at a new take on Demon's Souls' ingenious online element. In a couple of rooms, there are several large stone statues of knights, which he says are a key part of the game; at one point he also passes a group of man-sized cages suspended from the ceiling. "Hmm, these probably mean something, but we'll ignore them for now," he says. Could they be possible traps for fellow gamers?Namco will not confirm anything until E3 in June, but Hirono offers a few scraps of further information. "There will be co-operation, there will be competition, the system has similarities with Demon's Souls, but it will be totally revamped and a lot of new features will be available," he says."What we want to emphasise is the amount of role-playing in the game. We want each player to really take on a role, and we've implemented a new system – we're not sure what to call it yet – sort of a contract to help determine the player's role in the Dark Souls universe. That role will determine whether you want to become enemies or allies with other players."It's typical, though, that the game has us looking at seemingly mundane scenic props and features and pondering over their significance. What Demon's Souls quickly taught players was that nothing could be taken for granted; conventions were exploited and warped, everyday RPG items were imbued with new significance. Darks Souls is playing the same game.There's a great bit where Hirono goes to open a treasure chest, in which you're conditioned to expect valuable items. But here, the lid whips open and reveals a monstrous mouth lined with sharp teeth. Suddenly a pair of arms emerge from the sides of the box, pulling the character towards its bloody maw. When we break away, two long spindly legs grow from the base and it stumbles at us greedily.Out on the battlements, Hirono pans the camera around. We can see a see vast castle on a cliff edge hundreds of metres above us and another in the valley below – apparently all of these are explorable and the game panoramas will constantly hint at the next torture chamber to come. Beyond another staircase we find the source of those huge boulders; a grey, stone-like giant is picking them from a pile and lobbing them into a chute.A long fight follows, and once he's downed, we're expecting the demo to finish. "That wasn't a boss fight," cautions Hirono. Suddenly, he looks out to another building close by – in its doorway stands a gigantic warrior monster, many times large than the one we've just slayed. It is the Iron Golem glimpsed in a recent Dark Souls trailer. "This boss is perhaps one that you can't beat alone," says Hirono, suggesting that co-op play could be an essential element in end-of-level encounters.This is, then, an uncompromising continuation of the Demon's Soul approach to the action RPG genre. There is no softening in the search for a larger mainstream audience – although Hirono is keen to point out that the challenge is carefully tweaked, and always fair."There's a fine line, it's difficult to tune, but that's what we're doing now," he says. "We're playing though, trying to envision how people will play, and where enemies spawn from. We're trying to reach a point where the game is difficult, but the player is entertained."The way that Hidetaka Miyazaki [the game's director] tunes the game is that, it is difficult, but there are aways several ways to conquer the difficulty, and players will be able to learn from their mistakes. It's not just about making the enemies stronger, we have to provide enough choices for the user."•Dark Souls will be released for PS3 and Xbox 360 in October
A fascinating techy thread now emerging on Twitter is#myfirstpc- in which people talk about, well, you guessed.It seems to have been kicked by James Governor of RedMonk, whotweeted: "ok then. here we go. my #firstPC was a TRS-80 - you had drill and solder if you wanted sound...  what was your #firstPC?"Some of the answers are quite fascinating:Adrian Short(who has done a lot of development involving councils and RSS and mashups and all sorts): "#myfirstpc was a 48K ZX Spectrum, for which I wrote random-access file handling extensions for the Microdrive into Sinclair Basic."Hardcore.Matt Auckland(he's in Southampton): "Amstrad CPC 464 tape deck with green screen. Bought for the family around mid-late 80's. I learnt basic programming on it aged 6"Jason Rogers: "Heathkit h89 that my dad and I put together, my son's= iPad 1, my dad's=lots o tubes &amp; punchcards, his fav=Cray I."You have to love the historic span - and the change in processing power - that those 140 characters cover.Clint Weathers(in Niineapolis): "..was a Timex-Sinclair 1000 and 16KB pack. I wrote Sinclair for the specs and we built a 75 baud modem for it in electronics class."OK, what, mine? First PC I used was a Commodore something-or-other on which I programmed a BASIC Space Wars game for the entertainment of classmates. (In retrospect I should have charged a quid a go. I'd have been Bill Gates.)The first PC I actually owned? Sinclair Spectrum with 48K of RAM. I ran LISP on it. Well, I say ran. It would be truer to say that it walked.Come on then - what's yours?
For those wishing to strut their stuff in the privacy of their home, the recent release of Dance Central on the Xbox 360 raised the bar. How does Zumba respond? By awkwardly wriggling under it. This isn't a bad game, but it adds nothing new to the over-saturated dance genre.Zumba is – apparently – the latest fitness trend sweeping the nation, to quote a press release or 50. It's a combination of pretty much any Latin music or dance step you care to mention, from mambo to reggaeton via hip-hop. In the Wii version, after a brief profile set up (aka entering your name) you'll immediately be able to take tutorials or dive straight into a 20-minute workout.There, on the screen, is a silhouetted figure of a dancer, performing moves. You simply copy them in time. If you hit the beat, the figure glows green. If you are wildly out of step, it goes yellow. If you have the dancing ability of David Brent, look forward to an ominously glowing red.And that's pretty much it. There are no verbal descriptions of the moves, so you just have to watch with an eagle eye and hope you are getting it right. The graphics are basic. There are multiplayer modes, should you be confident or lunatic enough to want to do it en masse – although as with all kinetic games, you'll need plenty of space.As you progress through the game and the workouts, you unlock extra treats. Though as rewards go, the dubious pleasure of moving your workout from a thinly sketched (and apparently empty) nightclub to a skyscraper rooftop hardly seems motivation enough. And you don't even fall off the skyscraper if you go wildly out of step. I know, I tried.As with so many fitness games, you get out what you put in. In this case, if you put in the madly flailing arms and gyrating hips of a drunken dad at a disco, you may well get a heartbeat that's elevated enough to improve your fitness. However if you are even vaguely self-conscious (and it's amazing how self-conscious it's possible to be, alone in your own home) then you are unlikely to derive any real aerobic gains from this.And that's the problem – it's hardly a serious fitness tool, and it's not really a game. The movement tracking – done via the remote slotting into your waist belt – is forgiving in the extreme. Move in any vaguely timely manner and it'll shout "that's great!" at you, despite the fact that you were actually doing a pathetic shoe shuffle rather than a convincing calypso.Strictly a game for Zumba enthusiasts and drunken parties.• Game reviewed on Wii
LimeWire has agreed to pay record companies $105m (£64m) to end a five-year legal battle over illegal filesharing.The out-of-court settlement with 13 record companies, including labels owned by the four major groups, comes days after the start of a trial to decide damages following a decision that the service was liable for "massive scale infringement" for helping users pirate digital music files.LimeWire, which the music groups blame for $1bn in lost sales, was shut down in October following a court ruling.Mark Gorton, the former Wall Street trader behind LimeWire, agreed to pay off music giants including Universal, Warner, Sony, with his lawyers saying that he was "pleased that this case has concluded".Founded in 2000, LimeWire was the last remaining peer-to-peer filesharing network after Grokster, Kazaa, eDonkey and Napster folded under pressure from the music industry. LimeWire's $105m payout follows the $115m settlement paid by Kazaa in 2006. Grokster agreed to pay up to $50m to music giants after its 2005 landmark ruling in the Supreme Court.Edgar Bronfman, the chief executive of Warner Music, the home to Bruno Mars and Plan B, said on Wednesday at the trial that he was frustrated that LimeWire did not shut down or convert to a "legal service" after the Grokster ruling. "It's devastating, frankly," he said."We are pleased to have reached a large monetary settlement following the court's finding that both LimeWire and its founder Mark Gorton personally liable for copyright infringement," said Mitch Bainwol, the chief executive of US music trade body the RIAA. "As the court heard during the last two weeks, LimeWire wreaked enormous damage on the music community, helping contribute to thousands of lost jobs and fewer opportunities for aspiring artists."Bainwol said that the resolution marked "another milestone" in the fight against illicit downloading.According to RIAA figures, US recorded music sales fell to $7.7bn in 2009 from $14.5bn in 1999. The rise to prominence of peer-to-peer filesharing networks is singled out as a primary factor for this decline by the RIAA.Napster, which claimed more than 100 million users at the height of its popularity at the beginning of the decade, collapsed in 2002 under the strain of a number of legal challenges.
A burst of 12 apps for your consideration today, with a flurry of them aimed at children.The Chancellor's GoldThis is a location-based treasure hunt, released as an iPhone app that works in London. Players have to solve seven photo-puzzles a month that will lead them to the virtual treasure, with the idea being that they are encouraged to visit landmarks around the UK capital. The game is running from May until August, with monthly prizes of £1,000 and a grand prize of £5,000.AD Block – TrialShould the makers of Angry Birds be worried? Ad Block is an Android app that claims to do just that: block adverts. It does that by automatically turning off the handset's internet connection when launching an app that the user has designated as requiring ad-blocking, before switching the connection back on when they close it. Initial reviews on Android Market suggest it works with Angry Birds, which is ad-funded on Android.Family Guy FreeFox Mobile Entertainment's new Family Guy iPhone app doesn't offer full episodes. Instead, it's all about promoting sales of the shows on Apple's iTunes Store, with short clips refreshed every day, and sharing features to pass them on to friends. US-only at the time of writing.PBS Kids Video for iPadUS broadcaster PBS has launched what it describes as a "safe, child-friendly viewing experience" for iPad. Users can browse and watch videos from more than a dozen of PBS's TV shows, including Sesame Street. Videos stream over 3G or Wi-Fi, and are a mix of education and entertainment.IGN DominateFox Interactive Media's IGN gaming division has launched a social app that aims to be the Foursquare of console, handheld and mobile gaming. "Check into your favorite games, discover what your friends are playing, and share your status with IGN's community of gamers on My IGN," explains its App Store listing. Platforms supported include Xbox 360, PS3, Nintendo 3DS, Wii, PC, iOS and Android.Ivor the Engine for iPhoneVintage children's TV brand Ivor the Engine has returned in the form of an iPhone game (there is a separate iPad version), which presents a series of puzzles based on the Merioneth and Llantisilly Rail Traction Company. It still trips off the tongue after all these years. The app includes narration from the late Oliver Postgate too.Thomas &amp; Friends: Hero of the RailsIt must be the day for iOS apps focusing on popular train-based TV shows for kids. Callaway Digital Arts' latest Thomas the Tank Engine title is a book-app, mixing animation, games, puzzles and finger-painting. It follows a previous Misty Island Rescue app based on HIT Entertainment's brand.Tunes2Go Music ExporterThis app could be controversial for record labels. It's free and available for iPhone and iPad, and makes it easy for people to share their iPod music libraries with friends. Users can email individual tracks, or import their collection into the app, which then generates an IP address from which someone on a nearby computer can download them.Backyard at Twilight: A Stella and Sam AdventureZinc Roe Games' new iPad app is based on the Stella and Sam books by Marie-Louise Gay, and blends a storyline with animation and mini-games for a young audience.KickARiPhone game KickAR claims to be 'the first augmented reality football game', with 10 challenges making use of the device's camera. Note, you'll have to download and print out an AR marker from the developer's website before playing.Nyan Cat: Lost In SpaceThe time it takes for web memes to travel to mobile devices is coming down. Nyan Cat was a perplexingly popular Flash animation a few weeks back, and now it has a spin-off game for iPhone and iPad.PopOut! The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin for iPadBook-app developer Loud Crow Interactive's latest iPad app takes Beatrix Potter's Squirrel Nutkin book and gives it a pop-out tablet spin, following in the footsteps (pawprints?) of its previous Peter Rabbit app. US-only at the time of writing.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAfrica's cascade of Internet censorship &gt;&gt; Al Jazeera English"Despite much attention paid to Egypt and Libya's Internet shutdowns, Tunisia's pervasive Internet filtering, and Morocco's arrests of bloggers, little attention has been given to Internet censorship issues throughout the rest of the African continent. Events in recent weeks, however, have brought the region's online troubles into sharp focus."LimeWire to pay record labels $105 million, ends suit &gt;&gt; Reuters"The operators of LimeWire agreed to pay record companies $105 million, ending a federal trial over copyright infringement damages owed by the once popular but now defunct file-sharing service."Blogger Outage Leaves Posts and Comments Missing &gt;&gt; AllThingsDCurious: "Google's Blogger service has been offline or unreliable for much of the day, with Blogger-hosted blogs changed to read-only mode, and posts and comments made after 7:37 a.m. PDT on May 11, 2011, removed."How Google controls Android: digging deep into the Skyhook filings &gt;&gt; This is my next..."At the very least, it's now extremely clear that Google plays a major role in Android device development, to the point where Andy Rubin himself approves and denies requests from OEMs. It's also clear that Google places tremendous value on collecting location data, and it acted swiftly when it determined Skyhook's deal with Motorola might threaten its ability to collect that data."The Ballmer Days Are Over &gt;&gt; The Brooks ReviewRequired reading. In sum: "Microsoft isn't dead yet, nor will it be soon. It is however in the early stages of death and Ballmer isn't going to the hospital -- he's running to go party some more. Microsoft needs a swift kick in the ass."Google Near DOJ Settlement Over Online Drug Ads &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Google Inc. is close to settling a U.S. criminal investigation into allegations it made hundreds of millions of dollars by accepting ads from online pharmacies that break U.S. laws, according to people familiar with the matter."Examining Facebook's "Smear Campaign" Concerns About Google Social Circles &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandDanny Sullivan does due diligence on Facebook's dirty tricks campaign against Google. Did the social network have a point? "I can't see that Google is using any information in Google Social Search from Facebook," he says. Over to you, Facebook.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Uh-oh, it's Friday 13th. Let's hear about your unluckiest gaming moments...
Lady Gaga, pop supremo, wearer of meat dresses, the star who has sold more than 15m albums worldwide, announced on Wednesday that she is partnering with games company Zynga&nbsp;to release exclusive songs through their Facebook game, FarmVille. The singer's fans will be able to visit GagaVille, a specially designed farm inside the virtual farming simulation game, which will contains unicorns and crystals.Lady Gaga's choice of FarmVille makes sense: it's an enormous market. The game has around 60 million players worldwide – that's roughly the same size as the population of the UK. And FarmVille's demographic appeal is broad. The game is inoffensive to the point of being anodyne, and unchallenging to the point that some commentators say it barely deserves the title "game" at all. But the lack of challenge is part of&nbsp;what's made it successful: it can be&nbsp;played on&nbsp;any internet-connected&nbsp;computer, doesn't&nbsp;need special equipment or particular skill, or an expensive phone or&nbsp;data-download plan.In FarmVille, players plant virtual crops – strawberries, bell peppers and leeks are just some of the many choices – wait a few hours, and then harvest them to receive coins that allow them to&nbsp;buy more farming supplies. Of course, the best farming goods can't be bought with in-game coins, but need real money, with items ranging from a few pence to a few pounds. As the New York Times pointed out in a profile of FarmVille's founder Mark Pincus last year, "the sums&nbsp;are&nbsp;small, but add up quickly&nbsp;when multiplied by millions&nbsp;of users".The illustrations are uniformly aimed at lovers of cuteness: the game features big-eyed farmer avatars, pastel-coloured trees and turkeys that are harvested not with a swift hatchet blow to the neck but by plucking their feathers. One&nbsp;doubts whether their "English farm"&nbsp;is ever going&nbsp;to suffer an outbreak of foot-and-mouth or scrapie.But the genius of the game is that players advance much more quickly if they rope their friends in too. My Facebook account is littered with requests such as: "I'm trying to nourish my baby lamb! Could you send me a bottle?" Some find these requests hard to turn down and by exerting this social pressure FarmVille has consolidated a solid user-base. Lady&nbsp;Gaga's not the first to spot the business potential of a tie-in with such a popular brand: the last time I entered FarmVille's virtual space I was offered a "free windmill from American Express". They've also partnered with McDonald's in the past, as well as raising money for earthquake victims in Haiti.The growth of FarmVille is just the latest and most obvious expression of a change in gaming demographics&nbsp;over recent years. The media's image of a "gamer" might still be of a man in his teens or 20s sitting in front of Call of Duty for six-hour stretches, but that stereotype is now more inaccurate than ever.Games companies are increasingly creating products aimed at older women, a demographic that tends to be more&nbsp;interested in simple "casual" games, which can be played in short bursts throughout the day and don't require too much attention. Big Fish Games, which makes "hidden object" games designed to appeal to mystery lovers, surpassed $100m (£61m) in annual revenue in 2009 and recently announced a partnership with middle-American magazine Woman's Day. PopCap Games, whose highly entertaining and child-friendly game Plants vs Zombies was nominated for a Bafta last year, feature "player profiles" on their website, including "Barbara Simpson, 36 – Connecticut mom plays Bejeweled Blitz with a baby on her lap" and "Ann Hough, 48 – Mother, daughter bond over Plants vs Zombies". These games are being sold as a way to relax, to indulge in "me-time", to entertain children and, above all, to connect with others. FarmVille, with its extremely simple gameplay and emphasis on social connection, has tapped into this market.Andrea Phillips, creator of many online games including the social change-driven Facebook game America 2049, says: "Games – especially Facebook games – are increasingly targeting older&nbsp;and more female demographics. This is because that is where the money is. Older women spend more time gaming, measured in minutes per day, than any other category of player. Ignoring the audience who wants your project the most is just bad business sense." James Wallis, a game designer whose new life-simulator game Hyperlife will be based in Facebook, agrees. "Facebook works for us because our intended audience is very broad. We want the fortysomething soccer-moms, but we also want teens and twentysomethings to play it." And FarmVille's success with the female demographic? "As a friend of mine once put it, 'Girls don't like to die'. In FarmVille and its successor CityVille et al you only ever succeed, though sometimes you succeed more than other times. This makes a lot of industry people dismiss&nbsp;social games out of hand. And these people are fools, who for the last 30 years have&nbsp;been designing the wrong sort of games. If the&nbsp;success of Facebook games proves anything, it's that there has always been a massive market for games, they've just been waiting for the right game to come along."Interestingly, this new group of players tend not to describe themselves as gamers. Partly as a response to that image of strung-out adolescent boys, products aimed more at women and at an older market have tended not to call themselves games at all. The Wii console has been marketed as "Wii Fit" – the adverts often portray it as a piece of&nbsp;exercise equipment not a games console. Nintendo DS games have been marketed as "brain training" – focusing on a serious purpose rather than play. Although research has shown that theWii Fit isn't as effective as going to the gym, and there'slittle evidence that brain training can help slow mental decline, the "training" packaging helps to sell these games to a demographic that might be unwilling to buy something purely for fun. It's increasingly easy now to find people who say "I'm&nbsp;not a gamer, I don't play computer games" but, when challenged, will admit that they play Angry Birds on their iPhone, or MafiaWars on Facebook, or solitaire on their PC during quiet times at work – if those aren't computer games, what are they?FarmVille, of course, is unashamed about being a game. It's partly that playful style that makes it a good partner for Lady Gaga, an artist famed for antics and experimentation.Gaga has also used social media to develop a deep connection with her fans– she surpassed Britney Spears last year as the most-followed user on Twitter, andtopped a survey of the most popular musical artists in online social media.But Gaga isn't the only musician tapping into the increasing reach of games. Adrian Hon, CCO of Six to Start, a games company that made an online game Ununited Eurasia for rock band Muse and has justcreated one for indie band Death Cab for Cutie, says: "Games are a good way for bands to connect with their younger fans, to engage with the sort of people who buy music and go to concerts. Labels and publishers have&nbsp;seen the internet primarily as a place to advertise and a source of worrying piracy, but artists tend to be&nbsp;much&nbsp;more interested in the creative possibilities."In all this enthusiasm, one should remember that FarmVille has not been without its detractors. In a now-notorious speech, Pincus, talking about the early days of his company Zynga, said: "I did every horrible thing in the book to get revenues right away. I mean, we gave our users poker chips if they downloaded&nbsp;this Zwinky toolbar which was like, I don't know, I downloaded it once and couldn't get rid of it . . . We did anything possible just to&nbsp;get&nbsp;revenues."The social element of the game means that non-players get deluged by FarmVille spam. And game theorist Ian Bogost has suggested that social games are more destructive of personal time than other kinds of gaming, saying that they"abuse us while we are away from them, through obligation, worry, and dread over missed opportunities". When I shut down a console game, it pauses the action and allows me to resume it at a later time. If I try to step away from FarmVille, I know it will continue without me, and I'll miss opportunities to grow crops or receive special items, making games such as this potentially more compulsive and harder to&nbsp;quit.But these misgivings don't have much effect on&nbsp;the bottom line. The games industry is growing by somewhere between 10% and 20% a year, a figure that the film and the music industry could only dream of. We might not all be wearing meat dresses in 10 years' time, but in hooking up with an online game, Lady Gaga is likely to be&nbsp;a&nbsp;forerunner of things to come.Casual games that have taken over the worldAngry BirdsIt's a physics simulator, really – and not a particularly accurate one. Draw back your finger to aim a bird in a catapult at a tower of pigs who have stolen their eggs. Didn't quite get them all? The pigs snuffle and giggle worryingly – you really must try again just to get that last pig. This iPhone game of never-ending pig-bird war has sold more than 12m copies.Plants vs ZombiesThe zombies are coming, and all you have to defend your house with are an array of badass plants, from peashooters to repellent garlic. My best moment? Discussing with a friend's six-year-old son where to put the magnets and coffee beans to disarm zombies on pogo sticks. Now that's&nbsp;entertainment.Words with Friends"I'm playing Scrabble with someone in America," said a friend's mother, "I don't know if it's a man or a woman, but they come up with some good words." Words with Friends isn't quite Scrabble, of course – some of the tile values are different, but the ability to connect with friends or strangers through the word game is astonishing.Cut the RopeAnother game which is genuinely "for all ages", I've shown Cut the Rope to five-year-olds and 70-year-olds and been met with enthusiasm all round. The premise is simple: there is a sweet on a rope, and a hungry-mouthed creature waiting at the bottom to eat it. Cut the rope to drop the sweet into its mouth. But avoid the spikes. And the spiders. And remember to use the bubbles. Hours of fun.
It has already been sued by rowing-obsessed millionaire twins, accused of breaking numerous privacy laws, and watched its founder Mark Zuckerberg immortalised in a Hollywood film that was far from flattering.Now the controversies surrounding Facebook's rise to global supremacy also include corporate dirty tricks, after it emerged yesterday that a leading public relations firm employed by the social networking site has attempted to secretly plant negative stories about its bitter corporate rival Google in the US press.Reacting to a report in the Daily Beast news website, Burson-Marsteller, whose clients have included some of the world's largest corporations, admitted it had tried to place negatively spun comment pieces about Google, written by two former journalists who now work for the PR company, in the national daily USA Today.Former technology writer Jim Goldman and John Mercurio, an ex-political writer, also pitched negative stories about Social Circle, Google's new social networking tool, to other papers, including the Washington Post.The writers claimed Social Circle, which allows users of Google's gmail service to interact with each other, would enable the company to compile "deeply personal" dossiers on its customers."The American people must be made aware of the now immediate intrusions into their deeply personal lives Google is cataloguing and broadcasting every minute of every day," they wrote, "without their permission."The alarmist strategy was apparently designed to undermine the new service, which offers users some of the same interactive features that has enabled Facebook to claim close to 1 billion members. None of the stories were accepted by the newspapers in their original form.It was not the dirtiest of corporate tricks, but nor was it the most sophisticated. Although the two men refused to disclose the name of the client they were working for, a guessing game soon broke out in the American media. Microsoft and Apple were both cited as possible guilty parties, before the Daily Beast, the website founded by former New Yorker editor Tina Brown, reported that Facebook was behind the corporate smear.Burson-Marsteller conceded yesterday that it had been working for Facebook, and offered an apology. Company spokesman Paul Cordasco told the Guardian: "The client requested its name be withheld on the grounds that it was merely asking to bring publicly available information to light, and such information could then be independently and easily replicated by any media. Whatever the rationale, this was not at all standard operating procedure and is against our policies, and the assignment on those terms should have been declined."A spokesman for Facebook said: "No smear campaign was authorised or intended."But the episode could damage its reputation, just as it seemed to be putting a series of controversies behind it.Several lawsuits filed against Zuckerberg – including one from the Winklevoss twins, who claimed he had stolen their idea for a social network while they were studying together at Harvard University – have been settled. The billionaire Facebook founder was also forced to announce last year that the company was overhauling its privacy settings, after being accused of making its members' personal information available to advertisers.Not surprisingly, the Google smear campaign has already spawned a new internet nickname: online wags are now calling Zuckerberg's site "Twofacedbook".
Within the past few weeks, any attempt to use my laptop to watch streaming media generates buffering problems. This was never an issue previously. I have checked the download speed of my broadband supplier (Virgin) and it is showing 2.7Mbps, as opposed to the advertised "up to 10". I have no idea whether this performance has recently dipped.Is the buffering problem likely to derive from the download speed or could it be something more sinister which has attached itself to the laptop? I regularly run Spybot Search and Destroy, and no obvious issues have shown up.David CollinsThe internet comes with no guarantees about performance, and a vast number of things can delay a streaming video. There can be problems with the hosting site, with any of the dozen or more hops that the data take on the way to your internet service provider (ISP), and with the "traffic shaping" system your ISP probably employs. When the stream reaches your house, there can be further problems with your broadband router, the connection to your computer, and the software and/or hardware of your PC. This can include problems with graphics drivers, anti-virus software (especially shields and live scanners, which you can turn off), firewalls and browser plug-ins. The buffer acts as a temporary store to smooth out any variations in the video stream. However, when the system breaks down, it's hard to find the cause.It's always a good idea to start with some PC hygiene, butSpybot Search &amp; Destroyis not up to the job. Instead, download and run two free programs,CCleanerfrom Piriform, to clear your PC's caches and cookies, and thenMalwarebytes Anti-Malwareusing the Quick Scan. You can also check which version of Adobe Flash is installed in each browser (look for theVersion informationbox on Adobe's site), and if you think Flash might be the problem, go through Adobe'stroubleshooter.When you've finished, reboot your PC and run either the Windows Task Manager or Sysinternals'Process Explorer. The System Idle Process (which indicates that your PC is not doing anything) should be somewhere around 98%. Check also that you have some free memory and at least a gigabyte of free disk space. Windows works well when it has enough resources, but if it runs out of them – for example, if a runaway program is stealing 100% of the processor – then the performance plummets.The next problem is trying to find out if the buffering is being caused by your PC or your ISP. It's easier to do this if you can compare two laptops and two ISPs. For example, try a different laptop with your Virgin connection. If videos play properly, then it's probably a problem with your PC. Take your laptop to a Wi-Fi hotspot or a friend's house and watch a streaming video via a different broadband supplier. If videos play correctly on your laptop when you're away from home, the problem could well be your router, or your ISP.Reboot your router by disconnecting the power cable, waiting for 30 seconds, then plugging it in again. If that doesn't solve the problem, can you try a neighbour's Virgin connection or a different router? If you're using a Wi-Fi connection, try connecting your laptop to your router using a good quality Ethernet cable, or vice versa. (Cables work better than Wi-Fi, but there are plenty of bad cables around.) Is somebody else crippling your connection by running BitTorrent over your network?Your measured speed of 2.7Mbps is certainly enough to watch YouTube, Vimeo and similar videos without repeated pauses for buffering: YouTube's help page onBuffering and playback problemsonly specifies "at least 500+Kbps for the best viewing experience". Most streaming services work well with 1Mbps, though you may need up to 3Mbps for high quality movie playback and about 5Mbps for HD TV.Even if your connection is fast enough, your ISP probably gives some types of data preferential treatment. Virgin should explain its "traffic shaping" policies if you ask. For example, I would expect Skype audio and video and perhaps BBC iPlayer streams to get preferential treatment over web surfing and file downloading. I would expect peer-to-peer traffic such as BitTorrent to be "shaped" to a low performance level. However, I would not be shocked to see streaming video performance slugged during the peak evening hours. The internet is a shared resource, and its capacity is limited.One way to find out if your ISP is doing odd things is to use a proxy connection, preferably an encrypted one, so that your ISP can't see what you're doing. Unfortunately, most of thefree anonymous proxy serviceswon't handle video streams or file downloads because of the vast amount of expensive bandwidth they consume. However, bothSpeedproxyandUnblock YouTubewill play YouTube videos. Sites like this appeal mainly to users whose employers or teachers have blocked access to YouTube, but if they play videos without stuttering, then the problem is with Virgin.If all else fails, you can often watch videos by downloading and playing them instead of streaming them. With YouTube, for example, you can pause the playback until the download line (the pale red one) reaches the end of the video. After that, the video is playing from a file in Temporary Internet Files. Alternatively you can download the video file in your preferred resolution using a site such asKeepVidorYouTube My Way. (I switched from KeepVid to YTMW after uninstalling Java.) For BBC content, you can installBBC iPlayer Desktop.
Facebook has been caught secretly paying a top public relations firm to plant negative stories about Google in the US media.Burson-Marsteller, one of the world's largest PR firms, attempted to get USA Today, the Washington Post and other high profile US news outlets to write scaremongering stories about Google's privacy policies.The explosive revelation – which will seriously damage relations between the two technology giants, already bitter rivals – came to light inleaked emailslate on Wednesday. Facebook later confirmedto the Daily Beastthat it had hired Burson-Marsteller.Paul Cordasco, a spokesman for Burson-Marsteller, told the Guardian on Thursday that the assignment was "not at all standard operating procedure" and was against the company's policies. He added: "The assignment on those terms should have been declined."Cordasco confirmed to the Guardian that "the assignment" was now terminated and that Burson-Marsteller was no longer working with the social network. Facebook declined to comment when contacted by the Guardian.Suspicions in Silicon Valley were aroused earlier this week when two high-profile media figures  – former CNBC tech reporter Jim Goldman, and John Mercurio, a former political reporter – began pitching anti-Google stories on behalf of their new employer, Burson-Marsteller. The pair consistently refused to disclose the identity of their client.Goldman and Mercurio approached USA Today and other outlets offering to ghost write op-ed columns and other stories that raised privacy concerns about Google Social Circle, a social network feature based on Gmail.In their pitch to journalists, the pair claimed Social Circle was "designed to scrape private data and build deeply personal dossiers on millions of users – in a direct and flagrant violation of [Google's] agreement with the FTC [Federal Trade Commission]".Facebook's cover was blown when Burson-Marsteller offered to help write an op-ed for Chris Soghoian, a prominent internet security blogger. Soghoian challenged the company's assertion that Social Circle was a privacy threat and accused them of "making a mountain out of a molehill".Soghoian was stonewalled by Burson-Marsteller when he asked them who their client was. He laterpublished an email exchangebetween himself and Mercurio.Cordasco said on Thursday: "Now that Facebook has come forward, we can confirm that we undertook an assignment for that client."The client requested that its name be withheld on the grounds that it was merely asking to bring publicly available information to light and such information could then be independently and easily replicated by any media. Any information brought to media attention raised fair questions, was in the public domain, and was in any event for the media to verify through independent sources."Whatever the rationale, this was not at all standard operating procedure and is against our policies, and the assignment on those terms should have been declined. When talking to the media, we need to adhere to strict standards of transparency about clients, and this incident underscores the absolute importance of that principle."Burson-Marsteller is no stranger to anti-Google stories. In 2007, Microsoft admitted that it had an "ongoing relationship" with the firm, which had been lobbying a number of top UK businesses to raise the issue of Google's dominance in search.The companyconfirmed to the Observerat the time that it worked with Microsoft to launch a new organisation – the Initiative for Competitive Online Marketplaces – that made a series of announcements relating to Google.In this case, too, Burson-Marsteller did not disclose which company it was working for until challenged.Google declined to comment.
Some lessons for app developers from last night's episode of the Apprentice? A gang of dislikeable eejits shouting at one another isn't the best way to brainstorm an app. You can't go wrong with animal noises. And comedy racial/regional stereotypes? There are good reasons why there aren't many apps for that.The Twitter buzz around last night's episode was huge, as usual, but fuelled by an extra dash of aghast app developers watching the two teams try to crack their business model in a little over 24 hours. While shouting at one another.The fact that the show's producers chose to focus on apps for a whole episode's task shouldn't be taken lightly though: "Business-wise right now, this is pretty much where it's at," explained Lord Sugar, even if his talk about apps "going live on the internet" displayed his old-school technology roots.The episode was good news for London-based developer Grapple Mobile, even if the price for TV fame was having to mentor teams whose initial ideas were along the lines of: "A traffic light ... I didn't really think it through." The company's raison d'etre is making cross-platform apps quickly for brands, and while few will be demanding comedy soundboards overnight, the fact that Grapple hit its televised deadline will do the company no harm.Grapple boss Alistair Crane thinks there were some serious lessons  to be learned from the episode though. When the teams went out on the streets to grill people about their app usage, it turned out that "quick, snackable content" was hugely popular. "The mobile industry is obsessed with games, but when you ask normal people, often they just want something quick and entertaining," he says.The victory for the girls' team ultimately came down to their Ampi-Apps app being more globally interesting than the boys' Slangatang collection of comedy regional catchphrases, although a point that came through strongly was the importance of the app descriptions. Blunt does-what-it-says-on-the-tin prevailed with Ampi-Apps, ahead of the boys' more vague description. "I'm bored," noted Lord Sugar halfway through reading it.Something that didn't come out in the TV show was the specific platforms the apps were available for. Crane explains: "The producers didn't want us to just build this on one platform, so we did Android, Nokia and BlackBerry," he says. What, no iPhone? It seems the requirement to get an app approved and live the same day was a sticking point."We reached out to Apple and said, 'We've got this opportunity, can you help us expedite a submission?' and they just wrote back saying 'No'," he says. "BlackBerry and Ovi were super helpful, and Android were very helpful too, actually."Perhaps the most startling lesson from the episode was the fact that you can knock up an annoying sounds soundboard app overnight, put it live and then wake up in the morning with 10,000+ downloads from around the world. Curiously, though, both apps were removed from the app stores once the challenge was completed, meaning they were not available when the episode aired last night. An opportunity missed, especially if any profits could have been donated to charity.Crane's baffled expressions during the brainstorming session for the girls team that he was mentoring were a standout feature, though. "Filming kicked off at 6.30 in the morning, which is not my best time, and I wasn't allowed to give guidance on the app's content," he says. "So you've got these relatively neurotic young people coming out with ideas like a jelly bean counter, and you're thinking, 'Are you mental?!'. But for a young British business, the experience was hugely positive."
You wouldn't think it to look at him. That Charles Arthur, the mild-mannered – avuncular even – technology editor of the Guardian might, three years ago, nearly have been responsible for my death.The story starts back in 2008, just after the publication of mylast book, in which I described my embarrassingly unsuccessful attempt to become the British Mark Zuckerberg. Tired of London and tired of life, I decided to sell almost all of my possessions and embark on a new life, travelling from tech conference to tech conference, blagging cheap accommodation and free booze, and writing about the resulting experienceson my blog.And what experiences they turned out to be: from crashing parties at SXSW and ETech with Michael Smith, to hijacking a double-decker bus (owned by Myspace) at FOWA [the Future of Web Apps conference] withAlex Tew, to almost coming to blows with Jason Calacanis on some New Media Age panel or other. It was shortly after the Myspace bus incident that Charles Arthur blipped on to my radar, and I on to his, when he wrote a very generous review of that book. Specifically, he wrote that "seeing the crunch come like a slow-motion car crash is compelling reading". Indeed.Seeing an opportunity to strengthen my blagging powers, I emailed Charles and suggested that, if he liked my writing so much, he might find some space within Guardian Technology for me to write a weekly column. To my slight amazement, he did.With the words "Guardian Columnist" on my imaginary business card, the game changed overnight. Where once I'd had to talk my way into conferences by pretending to be a contributor to some fictitious publication of other, now the invitations arrived in floods. And so did the tickets to lavish parties and fancy dinners, and gallons and gallons of sponsored booze. I was already a heavy drinker – living permanently in hotels will drive you to that – and my alcoholic intake increased sharply along with my readership.Pretty soon I stopped paying attention to conference programmes entirely, in preference for sitting at the back of the room, bitching about the crap Wi-Fi or sub-par food while getting slowly – then quickly – drunk on whatever I could lay my hands on. Once a week, I'd dash off 800 words of as much as I could recall from the previous seven days –wooden ducks,a broken keyboard, Michael burning his eyes outwith a taco. A few days later, a chunk of money would land in my bank account; enough at least to get me to my next destination.Obviously, I expected the jig to be up after a month: conference organisers would soon figure out that allowing me through their doors was a net negative and would add me to some kind of blacklist; Charles would come to his senses too – kicking me to the curb in favour of more words from the eminently sensibleCory Doctorow. But even after I wrote a (now reasonably infamous)hit-jobon the 2008 Le Web conference (dashed off in 10 minutes in a hotel room, so I could get back to the bar), and even after organiser Geraldine Le Meur had been so angry with me that she refused to shake hands with me at DLD the following year – even after all that, the invitations still came. Not only was I allowed to attend Le Web 2009, but Geraldine and her husband Loic even invited me to speak on stage. "All publicity, it is good" as Loic put it afterwards.So, at the age of 29, I was being paid to travel around the world, almost attend conferences, get uproariously drunk – and then to write self-promotional pieces about my brilliance after the fact. I moved to San Francisco on a media visa (again facilitated by my Guardian gig) and promptly began to tear my way through the glut of parties afforded by the second – third? – dot-com boom. It all seemed (to embrace the cliche) too good to be true. And, as it turned out, it was.What I saw as my irreverent oeuvre, and what one reviewer recentlydescribedas "a testament to the virtues of debauchery", was in fact a toxic cocktail of narcissism and alcoholism. For all that total strangers might have envied my lifestyle and wanted to spend time in my company, my closest friends were slowly edging away. I simply wasn't fun to be around for more than a single night – constantly looking, as I was, for the next ridiculous story; the next fun way to get ejected from a party or slung in a police cell. After all, from these disasters, the best columns usually came. As my editor, Charles couldn't have been happier with my work. But unbeknownst to him, that work was facilitating a lifestyle that, had it continued, would have almost certainly killed me.Fortunately it didn't continue, and if I'm going to give Charles credit for almost killing me by giving legitimacy to my behaviour, then I suppose it's only fair I give him his due for saving my life; or at least prompting the change that did. In July 2009, just eight long months after my first column, Charles sent me an email...Hi Paul,Oh, I don't like to have to write this email. The past not-quite-a-year of your column has been enormously entertaining, and what's more you haven't managed to attract a single libel lawsuit. I'm not sure whether to be amazed, delighted, surprised or disappointed. But I've liked them all.However, the economic situation has increasingly begun to chew off first our feet and more recently our legs. Which is why I'm really sorry to say that in recasting the budget I can't, at present, find a way to keep paying for your weekly column. Obviously you're free to take your ideas elsewhere.I'm really sorry that it's come to this; if it's any comfort, you're far from alone. We're simply having to take an axe to all sorts of contributions because there isn't the money to pay for them.If you've any questions, then do get in touch.Best,CharlesAnd that was that. Economic realities, nothing personal. But the result was the same: with that email I was transformed from reckless alcoholic columnist to just plain reckless alcoholic. I'd lost countless good friends, burned even more professional relationships and torn my liver a new asshole; and suddenly it was all for naught. No-one was paying for my shit any more, except perhaps me.It was at this point that I discovered just how forgiving my friends were, particularly my best friendSarahwho used her sway at TechCrunch to convince Michael Arrington that giving me a job might not be suicidally irresponsible. Assuming of course that I promised to grow the fuck up.The following few months weren't exactly plain sailing – in fact, they later formed the last, and most painful third of a book about my struggles with alcohol (see below for more on that) – but eventually I came out of the other side, mostly alive.Looking back now, I feel slightly sick when I think how close I came to oblivion, and I shudder when I read the boasts of other people still living the life I once lead. You can see them everywhere, on blogs with titles like:Drunk Writer Talk,The Drunk BlogandDrunk Man's Guide. At least I went to the (limited) trouble of finding an editor who would publish my words: thanks to YouTube channels, Twitter accounts, Facebook galleries, it's possible to build a reputation as an entertaining drunk without ever having to sober up enough to type a full sentence.Regardless of our preferred social media channel, each of us has become the lead character in our own ongoing narrative; and our audience (whether a dozen or a million followers) demands we engage in even more ridiculous behaviour to keep them entertained. Even otherwise sensible people can lose their minds when faced with the possibility of capturing something that will interest a large number of people – which is why the BBC is forced to remind readers not to "take unnecessary risks" when taking camera phone images for potential publication. (I'm sure the Beeb's lawyers are happy with that piece of arse-covering, but trust me when I say that all the risks I took seemed perfectly necessary at the time.)And yet, and yet ... it's ridiculous for me, of all people, to act po-faced about those who behave badly to attain online fame. Here I am writing a self-promotional guest column in the hope that you'll buy my new book describing exactly that kind of behaviour. And not only have I been paid handsomely for writing the book, but this morning I signed an option contract for the film rights too. If ever there's an example of someone profiting from recklessness, it's me – I'm like the baby who stuck his hand in a fire and pulled out a fist-full of chocolate.Perhaps a more sobering example can be found in the story of Evan Emory, a Michigan musician whothis weekpleaded "no contest" to charges of "unlawful posting of an internet message with aggravating circumstances". Emory was arrested after he decided it would be hilarious to play a gig for a class of young children, and then cut the video together with a borderline pornographic song to make it look like he was singing smut to kids. Of course, he posted the results on YouTube.Similarly hoisted on their own electronic petards were Teeside 20-somethingsFrancisco Zayas-Slater and Andrew Pepperwho were arrested after posting video of them driving recklessly at 90mph in a 40mph zone, and the breathtakingly idiotic Anthony M Carleo (aka "the Biker Bandit") whoallegedlystole $1.5m in chips from the Bellagio casino in Las Vegas only to be caught after boasting of the crime on the TwoPlusTwo.com gambling forum.The behavior of Messers Emory, Zayas-Slater, Pepper and Carleo might have been more extreme than mine (the only person I physically harmed with my drinking was myself) but our stories share a common factor: a pathological need to misbehave, and then to share our misdeeds with an appreciative audience. Otherwise, why bother misbehaving at all?•Paul Carr's new book, The Upgrade: A Cautionary Tale of a Life Without Reservations is published today in the UK inpaperbackandebookformats. Or buy it in the US:paperbackandebook.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMeredith Attwell Baker Leaving F.C.C. to Join Comcast &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comHmmm: "Four months after the Federal Communications Commission approved a hotly contested merger of Comcast and NBC Universal, one of the commissioners who voted for the deal said on Wednesday that she would soon join Comcast's Washington lobbying office"At Risk: global mobile threat study finds security vulnerabilities at all time highs for mobile devices &gt;&gt; Juniper Networks"With smartphones set to eclipse PCs as the preferred method of both personal and professional computing, cyber criminals have turned their attention to mobile devices. At the same time, the gap between hacker capabilities and an organization's defenses is widening. These trends underscore the need for further mobile security awareness, as well as more stringent, better integrated mobile security policies and solutions."The Really Smart Phone &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Apple and Google may be intensifying privacy concerns by tracking where and when people use their mobile phones--but the true future of consumer surveillance is taking shape inside the cellphones at a weather-stained apartment complex in Cambridge, Mass."For almost two years, Alex Pentland at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has tracked 60 families living in campus quarters via sensors and software on their smartphones--recording their movements, relationships, moods, health, calling habits and spending. In this wealth of intimate detail, he is finding patterns of human behavior that could reveal how millions of people interact at home, work and play."Through these and other cellphone research projects, scientists are able to pinpoint "influencers," the people most likely to make others change their minds. The data can predict with uncanny accuracy where people are likely to be at any given time in the future."Even predicts market movements. Amazing.Windows Embedded Handheld 7 slips off the Microsoft roadmap &gt;&gt; ZDNet"A year ago, Microsoft officials went public with their roadmap for the company's various embedded mobile operating systems. At that time, the Redmondians said to expect Windows Embedded Handheld 7 -- an enterprise-targeted update to its ruggedized-device operating system -- to arrive in the second half of calendar 2011. But those plans seemingly have changed."Where changed means "we've binned it". But you only learn this if you examine PowerPoint slides as though they were communiques from the Kremlin.Apple reveals a powerful location-based service for the iPhone &gt;&gt; Patently Apple"The idea is simple. Deliver a location based service to information savvy iPhone users that wish to receive temporary retail and service-based applications. Imagine standing at the entrance of a restaurant and viewing their menu on your iPhone or entering a public library and being able to access their database. The minute you leave the library or the front of that restaurant, the app disappears so that you don't clog up your iPhone with hundreds of local business apps. I don't know if Apple will tackle this at their upcoming developer conference, but this is a phenomenal opportunity for hungry developers and/or Business Form companies looking for a new avenue for revenue. There are millions of non-geek business owners who are going to want in on this service so as to attract new tech savvy iPhone using clients. Snooze on this opportunity and you'll Lose."Intriguing.BlackBerry PlayBook review &gt;&gt; Pocket-lint"it took us a couple of days and a helpful hint from the chief designer of the PlayBook to find out that we could turn it on without the use of the power button. All the functions are there from the start, but RIM doesn't detail them in any of the accompanying literature."But he makes house calls, right?LG Optimus 2X to get Angry Birds Rio game preloaded &gt;&gt; Mobile EntertainmentAlfred Hitchcock would be having a field day with this. They're everywhere.A rising tide does not lift leaking ships &gt;&gt; AsymcoDediu on the latest market numbers for smartphones. As he says, it's hard to get seasonality out of the growth. Prize for best blogpost title, though.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A bumper day today, with a burst of 11 apps for your consideration.WI OrchestraReleased by Wallander Instruments, this intriguing iPhone and iPad app claims to be "a full orchestral library and compositional tool". That means users can create their own classical works by layering instruments, using a similar velocity-based keyboard to Apple's GarageBand app. The app is free, but the instrument bundles are paid in-app downloads - £1.79 for strings, saxophones, brass etc.Army of Darkness DefenseBackflip Studios made its name with freemium iPhone games like Paper Toss. Now it's released its first big branded game, based on the cult zombie movie of the same name. The business model is a paid download in this case, rather than freemium.Royal Wedding AlbumWell, better late than never. By waiting until now to launch its official Royal Wedding iPad app, the Press Association has been able to include exclusive photos of William and Kate's big day, along with older pics of the couple, both together and separately. It's selling for £2.99.Juno Jr's The Day The Music StoppedBased on musical edutainment DVD brand Juno Jr, this is a music book-app for iPhone and iPad, blending 3D animation and original orchestral compositions, teaching kids how to put their own melodies and harmonies together.Times IntARactThis augmented reality BlackBerry app works with codes printed in the Times of India newspaper, allowing readers to be shown videos, posts, tweets and deals when pointing their camera at the page.TweetCaster Pink for TwitterHandmark has reskinned its Android Twitter app to raise money for breast cancer charity Feel Your Boobies Foundation (which, if you're wondering, aims to raise awareness among young women of the need to check their breasts for lumps). The app costs $10 – and, as the name implies, is pink.FishSquare"Fishing meets FourSquare. Record your catches, see who else is fishing and what bait and tactics they are using." A beautiful idea, although one that makes us wonder how many fishers are really checking in between casts.SlangatangHats off to EJC Labs: the morning after the apps-themed episode of The Apprentice aired on UK TV, they've developed a full Android parody of the boys' team's Slangatang app. And put it live on Android Market for good measure.MemneonUK-developed Memneon is an iPhone and iPad game that aims to offer a new spin on brain training, with pattern-based gameplay and lashings of neon.Hector EP1 HD: We Negotiate With TerroristsTelltale Games' graphical adventure stars Hector, a detective who's 'violent, drunken and has a taste for all things criminal'. Has the potential to be up there with Monkey Island – high praise indeed.MetalStorm: OnlineThis online multiplayer dogfighting game is the latest iPhone and iPad game from US publisher Z2Live, which has previously struck big with its Trade Nations social game.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Thursday's edition of the Chatterbox is now online...
Google has launched an audacious attack on Microsoft, announcing laptop computers called Chromebooks that will use its own operating system – rather than Windows – will ship in June.The machines will be made by Samsung and Acer, two companies that have previously made machines running Microsoft's software.The laptops will coordinate tightly with Google's "cloud" online services, and have almost no capacity to store information. Instead, the bare-bones operating system is essentially a web browser that steers users to applications like email and spreadsheets directly on the web, rather than storing software such as Outlook or Word directly on PCs.The move is Google's first directly onto Microsoft's home turf of PC operating systems and the Office suite software – a pair of monopolies that generate around $5bn of profits for the company every quarter. Until now it has largely avoided direct competition with Bill Gates's company on its strongest areas, focusing instead on internet areas such as search and webmail and online document services.The Chromebooks shift day-to-day functions onto the internet, removing what Google sees as the time-consuming burden of tasks associated with traditional PCs such as installing software and updates, backing up files and running antivirus checks, executives said."The complexity of managing your computer is torturing users," Google co-founder Sergey Brin said at the announcement at Google's IO conference in San Francisco. "It's a flawed model fundamentally. Chromebooks are a new model that doesn't put the burden of managing your computer on yourself."PC sales have grown steadily over the past 15 years, with brief dips during the recession, but there are signs of slowdowns, especially in Europe and the US, among consumers. Businesses are Microsoft's most loyal customers. Google is aiming at such "enterprise" customers, too, with the suggestion that their data will be safer in the cloud than on a PC that could get lost or stolen.The company will offer businesses its Chromebooks, along with technical support, as a hassle-free solution for $28 a month. The laptops, using processors made by Intel, will be available for order initially in the US on Amazon.com and Best Buy's online store from 15 June.As with Google's Android mobile operating system, the Chrome operating system (Chrome OS) will be free. The intention is that it will encourage people to spend more time on the internet – where they are more likely to use Google and so see or click on its adverts, because Google is the dominant provider of search adverts, with about 90% of world share.In another move encouraging people to move their computing off their PCs and onto "the cloud", Google on Tuesday launched an online music locker service in the US letting users store and listen to their songs wherever they are.The operating system and Chromebook PCs expand on Google's web browser, also called Chrome, that competes against Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Earlier on Wednesday Google announced that there are 160m users of its Chrome browser, launched in September 2008.
We have decisively moved from a world of one browser provided by your operating system to a world where people install the browser of their choice. The increasing growth of Firefox usage has risen to the point where 31% of users on the Guardian website use Firefox and only 37% use Microsoft's Internet Explorer (split into 22% IE8, 9% IE7 and approx 3% each for IE6 and IE9).Google's entry into the market has increased usage over time: one year ago at the previous Google IO, there were 70m Chrome users worldwide; today we were told there are over 160m. Unusually for a browser, Google has committed to a forced upgrade process and releases updates every six weeks.Why? To combat the problem that more than 50% of Windows computers around the world are still running Windows XP – an operating system that is approaching 10 years old - and a browser that's often the same age.Google has been trumpeting itsChrome browserachievements at Google IO, showing off what a wonderful platform it is for the web. Over the last year, the team has improved the performance of the browser when running complex web applications by improving the performance of the underlying Javascript engine that web developers use to add logic to a simple web page. Additional improvements in security have made the "Google web" a safer place to be - which can only be good for the web, and for users.The biggest announcements they have made is massive improvements to the graphics functionality in your browser. Implementations of theHTML5 Canvastechnology that powers many of the graphical bits of the web are 10 times faster than they were in previous versions, and those improvements don't require the developers to upgrade their application.This is good news for game developers such as Rovio, who are able to build Angry Birds for the web, and on new builds of the Chrome browser it will run faster.If developers want much,muchfaster graphics, the Chrome browser team has spent time vastly improving theWebGL graphics libraryavailable in Chrome. This is a subsystem of the browser, often called part of the HTML5 specification, but actually a separate specification in its own right, that allows developers to build 3D applications and utilise the high performance graphics hardware available in your machine.Google's improvements in Chrome means that WebGL applications can run up to 10 times faster than the equivalent Canvas implementation.The dark side of all of these improvements is that we are likely to start seeing "Optimized for Google Chrome" badges on the web, as many of these features won't work across all browsers. That wasn't good with Internet Explorer in the bad old days of the Netscape wars, and wouldn't be good today. Some things such as Canvas work in most browsers (but not in the most common versions of Internet Explorer), but WebGL's implementation is inconsistent across all the browsers.Google's advancements are welcome for experimental applications, and developers building applications for the Chrome App Store, but their impact on the wider web will probably be negligible, since cross-browser implementation is considered so important by many organisations.
Namco has drawn back the velvet curtains on a new version of Soul Calibur. At its LevelUp showcase in Dubai on Tuesday, the company announced that Soul Calibur V will tread the boards of destiny again next year, continuing the weapons-based fighting series famed for its mighty swords, sumptuous visuals and S&amp;M tinged outfits.Set 17 years after Soul Calibur IV, the game represents a generational shift for the series. Siegfried is 39 years old and no longer wields the eponymous Soul Calibur sword. The lineage of power has instead passed to Sophitia's son Patroklos, whose prominence in the new trailer suggests a leading role in the forthcoming brawler. In an unexpectedly phallic plot twist, however, the Soul Edge and Soul Calibur swords have been reduced in length to short swords. Apparently all will be revealed later. That, I'm almost certain, is the first time a game's story has hinged on the varying lengths of a sharp instrument — let alonetwosharp instruments.The key news is that the combat system is being overhauled to make it more reactive, while combos will be easier to access and perform. "Soul Calibur IV was a little heavy and there was often a delay between the button press and the action, especially online," explains producer Hisaharu Tago. He refers to the new system as "much lighter, sharper and more elegant".Tago would not reveal much more about the game at the demo event. He says there will be a mixture of favourite characters and newcomers and that we can possibly expect to see the children of other long-time cast members in the title (apparently, Patroklos's fighting style is a more agile version of Sophitia's so we can probably expect more of these inherited and adapted brawling styles). Personally, I'm hoping for the lovechild of Ada and Voldo – although I wouldn't want to bump into this monstrous progeny in a dark alley.Elsewhere, Tago has confirmed that the "create a character" mode will return from the previous game, and that the online modes will be updated and expanded. In a Q&amp;A session at the end of his demo, there was even confirmation we can expect at least one surprise guest character, in the manner of Darth Vader and Yoda, appearing in IV. He also hinted that we may one day see a modern day setting for the series, which is currently set in a hazy 16th century timeframe. On a roll now, the producer, suggested that in the wake of the newly announced Tekken: Blood Vengeance animated movie, there's a chance we'll see a full-length Soul Calibur anime, possibly set in that 17-year gap between IV and V.There will be much more info – and hopefully some in-game footage – at E3 in June, but this is an intriguing direction for the series, which some felt lost its edge in the previous instalment. One thing is certain, the narrator's sense of sonorous melodrama is still very much intact. At the start of the teaser trailer, he states, "transcending history and the world, a tale of souls and swords, eternally retold," and somehow he makes it sound like Shakespeare.
Nokia has - at long last - revealed the location data that its Symbian smartphones collect while in use. We did ask them about it back on 24 April when theiPhone location(and, soon after,Android) brouhaha blew up, but they gave us a totally useless (no, really) reply.In brief: it stores up to 2,500 cell tower positions for a potentially unlimited period, and up to seven days' worth of Wi-Fi and GPS data, and up to 40 hours' of data from Ovi Maps location data.That's about equal with the collection metrics for Android, updated iPhones, iPod Touches and iPads (using the 4.3.3 software), and Windows Phones.Could have been faster, though, Nokia. My question to them on 24 April was: "could you tell me please what location data is stored on Nokia smartphones (eg N8, E7, etc - the ones that are classed as 'devices' rather than 'mobile phones' in the accounts)? It would be useful to know eg how many cell tower locations are cached, how many Wi-Fi networks are cached, etc."You may recall it was a story that had whizzed around the web; the original was the most-read on the Guardian's site that week, and pretty much every news organisation was reporting on it. So Nokia, as the world's biggest handset and smartphone maker, where one of whose executives once boasted to me that they know the details of the firmware on every single one of the 400m handsets they ship, would be able to respond quickly and completely, surely?Nokia's response, four days later:"We collect personal data relating to our products and services in an open and transparent fashion and provide fair and reasonable choices on its collection and use. All personal data collected and held by Nokia is processed fairly, lawfully and carefully and in a way that protects the privacy and rights of individuals."I pointed out that this fell a few miles short of being any sort of answer to the questions I'd posed.However the company changed its tune a little when some US senators got on the case of location data and privacy. Seriously? Politicians have more clout than the media in getting statements out of companies? We're shocked, shocked we tell you. (Though it would be nice if they could have just gathered this and passed it to us, and then to the politicians.So here we are, 20 days on from the start of Locationgate, 18 days on from when I first asked Nokia about what data it gathers, and here is its answer:The location data gathered depends on several factors, including the technology used to deliver specific location-related functionality. The smartphone stores a small subset of the locations of cell towers and Wi-Fi hotspots it has most recently identified. When an application on the smartphone requests location information, nearby cell towers and Wi-Fi hotspots are detected. The smartphone then uses locally stored information for those that it recognizes. If sufficient information for positioning is not available on the device, it asks for its position from a positioning server, which maintains a database of known locations of cell towers and Wi-Fi hotspots, kept up to date in part with information on such locations, which is only sent by the smartphone to the server when these positioning methods are used. All communication to the positioning server is encrypted.When customers choose to use Drive navigation in Ovi Maps, certain location data is sent to Nokia to report traffic jams, traffic patterns, changed road conditions and other such general information so that Nokia can provide a better service to all consumers, for example to provide alternative directions around a blocked road. This information, which is not personally identifiable, includes latitude/longitude, speed, direction and timestamp.On the data in the product both time based and item storage based limits for location data. The last known position is replaced every time a new position is calculated. Wi-Fi or GPS based positions are stored for a maximum of 7 days and for network based positioning, up to 2500 of the most recent locations may be stored, after which location information will be deleted or replaced when Wi-Fi or network positioning is next used. The length of time that the data is stored will therefore vary depending on how frequently the positioning services are used in different locations. For data collected when using Drive navigation on Ovi Maps, information stored on the smartphone is collected from a maximum of 40 hours of driving. All information stored in the smartphone is encrypted and is deleted from the smartphone once it has been transmitted to Nokia.Positioning data, as described above, is not used to track consumers' location but is used to provide the best service experience. Where it is stored on the smartphone it is held either in a protected area of memory which is designed to prevent access by other applications, or stored in encrypted form. The storage of certain positioning related data on the smartphone and its subsequent sharing with the positioning servers is essential for effective positioning. Without it, the performance of all positioning methods would be seriously impaired or they would not work at all.See? It wasn't that hard. (Well, maybe it was.) So we've now got responses from four of the five main platforms:Apple,Android,Windows Phoneand now Nokia. The missing one? RIM. Yes, I did email them on 24 April, and got a response saying "I'll see if I can find out for you". Since then? Nada. Come on, RIM, you can do it. You know you can.
Ever heard of Huawei – pronounced "hu-wa-way"? Quite possibly not. But the Chinese company (whose formal name is Huawei Technologies) is making an aggressive push into the consumer electronics space, marketing its new smartphones and tablet PCs in glitzy Beijing malls and even a Milan fashion show as it seeks to emerge from decades of obscurity.Huawei is betting on the Google Android operating system for its smartphones, aiming to grab market share from Apple's iPhone and Samsung Electronics' Galaxy range, in a move that is pushing the private company to open its once closed doors to the outside technology world.After repeated requests, Huawei recently granted Reuters corespondents rare access to a research &amp; development centre in China's electronics boom town of Shenzhen, putting on display its new approach and its entry into the consumer space.They found the building dotted with evidence of Huawei's drive for innovation: on one floor, the R&amp;D team displayed an array of products still in the works – a 4G network card, a smartphone with a wireless charger and a snazzy smartphone with a see-through case.Having built itself into the world's second-biggest network equipment provider (after Sweden's Ericsson), having passed Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens Networks. It plans to nearly quadruple revenues to $100bn (£60.8bn) in 10 years, analysts are banking that Huawei is up to its newest consumer market challenge."I cannot predict if Huawei has the makings to be Asia's next Samsung, but I would definitely not count it out," said Matt Walker, principal analyst at research firm Ovum.Huawei now hopes to double its cell phone shipments to 60m this year, including 15m smartphones. "We hope to become the world's No 3 in cell phone shipments and the world's No 5 in terms of revenues within five years," Victor Xu, chief marketing officer of Huawei Devices, said as he played around with a Huawei IDEOS smartphone.Under Huawei's previous direction, consumers weren't "able to see our brand on the things we make," Xu added, occasionally slipping into his pocket to grab his personal phone – an iPhone – when it rang. "But now we're changing our strategy."Yet some questions linger over Huawei among western strategists: principally, can a company so closely tied to China and its government be completely trusted? The US government has vetoed the use of Huawei equipment in some sensitive systems, especially telecoms systems, and in February forced it to reverse out of the $2m acquisition of a US startup company, server technology business 3Leaf Technologies. Similarly, in February 2008 its bid to buy network equipment company 3Comstalledin the face of US political opposition.Chief of Huawei, Ren Zhengfei, 66, is a former director of the telecoms research arm of China's People's Liberation Army (from 1979 to 1983). He set the company up 24 years ago with just 21,000 yuan (£1,970 at current conversion rates; probably less then).The company is aware of these tensions; so much so thatin April it revealedits board members and overseas sales figures for the first time. Looking at the biographies, you wouldn't find any obvious links with the Chinese military or government – and certainly not on its chairwoman, Sun Yafang, who joined the company in 1989. That's odd, given that Chinese news reports suggest she once worked in China's Ministry of State Security. IDG News noted this; Huawei never responded to its query about the apparent omission.Instead, the company is trying to be – or appear – more open, with moves such as giving Reuters exclusive access to its R&amp;D centre. The corridor walls had rows of paper with hand-drawn sketches of mobile phone and tablet PC designs. Just around the corner was an unusual 3D printer spewing out plaster-like handset models for the R&amp;D staff to have a look-and-feel of their designs.Visitors and staff at the centre are barred from carrying cameras and flash memory cards to ensure new designs are kept under wraps."I've noticed a lot of interesting innovations going on in Huawei," said Hagen Fendler, chief design director of handsets, who moved from Germany last year to join Huawei after working for Siemens. "Twenty years ago, virtually no one has heard of Korea's LG Electronics in Europe, but now it's a big brand. I think Huawei will be able to achieve the same in China," he said. Fendler is one of many foreign R&amp;D staff Huawei has hired globally to strengthen its technology and designs.While Huawei's network equipment has had success globally, one destination remains elusive – the US. It hopes smartphones and tablet PCs will help it capture that market.With its network gear business plateauing in some markets, such as China, Huawei hopes to cash in on fast-growing mobile devices. Selling at about 1,500 yuan, Huawei's smartphones have been sold in markets from Australia to Kenya.Global smartphone shipments exceeded PC shipments for the first time in the fourth quarter of 2010, with the mobile phone market expanding to $341.4bn by 2015 and smartphone sales contributing to three-quarters of that, industry figures showed.Setting up its own marketing channels instead of relying on distributors is another area Huawei has to work on."Huawei needs to create a brand that consumers can identify with and it will need its own marketing channels instead of relying just on distributors. From what we see, distributors aren't that keen on selling Huawei's handsets," said Ji Yongqing, author of the Chinese-language book "Huawei's World".Huawei's spectacular growth and global standing have boosted its profile, but its ambitious overseas expansion plans have previously hit roadblocks over those suspicions that the company maintains links with China's military – ones which are almost impossible to disprove without making all the code for its equipment open source, which could undermine its business model.In the latest edition of Fortune magazine, Ren was ranked the fifth most powerful businessman in Asia, just behind Samsung Group's chairman Lee Kun-hee.Underscoring the company's transitive phase, a source says that Ren, a former member of the People's Liberation Army, owns two phones – one Huawei; the other, an Apple iPhone 4.
There was relatively little jazz being played at the Woodstock Music &amp; Art Fair in 1969, but there's a thoroughly modern link between the two in 2011 in the form of US developer 955 Dreams.It has released two iPad apps:The History of Jazz, andOn the way to Woodstock, which blend text, video and music playlists with timeline-based interfaces."We are a music startup, focused on educating users about music," says Kiran Bellubbi, a tech veteran who co-founded the developer with musician TJ Zark. "iPad has caused this mash-up of the two streams: the recorded music business and the book publishing side of the business."The History of Jazz was released in January 2011. Why jazz? Bellubbi explains that the esoteric nature of the music genre was the main appeal."It's very difficult to read books about jazz. You've got these words – syncopation, modality ... these words don't mean anything to anybody really! It's elitist. What our app did was take away all that, to focus on the artist and the music. You can hear the music, read a little bit about it and connect to the artist. And of course, you can buy the music too."That's something that's notable about both apps: they have curated playlists of music from the featured artists with playable samples, and the invitation to tap through to Apple's iTunes Store to buy them. Bellubbi believes that the more people read about an artist and their life, the more music they will buy."We sell more jazz music through our app than a traditional jazz records shop," he says. "It's the same with Woodstock. The experience has been bastardised to its core with tie-die and hippies, and diluted for today's generation. But by keeping the artist at the forefront, if I show you Janis Joplin's work in the 60s and allow you to connect with it in a manner that does justice to the artist, I would bet $100 that you would buy one of those albums."955 Dreams is keen to use the platform behind its two apps so far for some specific artist apps in the future, through partnerships with record labels. The company is also working on a music discovery app of its own focused on new artists, which will hopefully make its debut in July."It's a subscription service around music, but very different from what people are used to. It's not like Spotify or Grooveshark or Amazon."This may require licensing deals with music rightsholders – an area that has proved a challenge for many developers thus far. Bellubbi admits that "the cost of doing business with music labels is very high", right down to the legal fees required when hammering out licensing deals, but says 955 Dreams' first two apps has helped."When you meet the people who are managing these artists, they are very reasonable," he says. "They understand that we're trying to do something additive to the experience they've created. We're trying to get their work to consumers. We have a focus on the user, and a focus on the artist."
LA Noire was always going to be highly anticipated. It is, after all, the latest project from Rockstar, the publisher behind Grand Theft Auto and Red Dead Redemption – the company that has defined a new era of sprawling open-world adventures.But this one is different. Crafted by freshman studio Team Bondi, and envisioned by Brenda McNamara – the creator of Sony's one-time GTA competitor, The Getaway – it is a new slant on the Rockstar recipe.Set in Los Angeles in the late-1940s and following a rising star of the LAPD, Cole Phelps, it is, for a start, on the opposite site of the law from many of the publisher's titles. It also looks to be a more cerebral ride, with the emphasis on studying crime scenes and questioning suspects rather than gunning down everyone who inadvertently strays into your sights.So what's the central concept behind the game, and why has Team Bondi opted for the period of Chandler and Dashiell Hammett? Recently, we spoke with McNamara and Rockstar's vice-president of development, Jeronimo Barrera, to find out more.So take us back to the beginning. How did LA Noire come about? Was it from reading Chandler novels or watching Fritz Lang movies?Brendan McNamara:Yeah, I suppose it was. When I first read Raymond Chandler I was about 15, and over the last 10 years I've read a lot of James Ellroy, too. When Curtis Hanson brought LA Confidential to the screen, I thought, well, maybe we could do a more modern version of that. When we started the game, we went all the way back to the German Expressionists – we wanted that really stark lighting. And we're now able to do that for the first time on consoles.And how did the proprietary Depth Analysis facial capture become a part of this?BM:I'd been doing motion capture for around 15 years, and I was never very interested in the technology. But for a long time, before I even started Team Bondi, I was looking into capturing the surface of the face. So when I moved back to Australia I started a company to research facial capture.Does it have its roots in some kind of medical implementation? That's certainly where standard optical motion capture came from.BM:You're always standing on the shoulders of giants. It comes from 20 years of research into stereovision and photogrammetry. In fact, you can take it back to Pythagoras: through a pair of cameras you're just trying to triangulate a pixel. But now is an important point in time because we can manage that phenomenal amount of data, and find clever ways to play it back on a console. We have 32 cameras that capture a gigabyte of data a second – we have about 350 terrabytes of raw data!Jeronimo Barrera:When we started working with Team Bondi, even though the experiments were up and running we didn't have it working in the game, it probably didn't come online until last year…BM:That's correct. It was a huge text adventure for a long time!But looking at the game now, it's so richly visual. You've clearly spent a lot of time on period details such as fashion and architecture. Did you have Mad Men in mind?BM:It's interesting, but the production levels on games like Red Dead Redemption and LA Noire are similar to that kind of show now. We tried hard to get the right costumes, the right fabrics ... we're a little obsessive about detail.Did you speak to the LAPD?BM:We spoke to a lot of them. Originally, we approached the LAPD historical society and they took us in hand, told us what it was really like, took us out to one of the old jails, sat us in a cell, all that kind of stuff. They took us through famous cases how the organisation has changed. They told us some great stories.And most of the missions in the game are based on actual cases, aren't they?BM:90% of the cases are. That was part of our research phase: we got the newspapers from every day during 1947, we had the Examiner, the Herald, the Daily News ... there were just so many amazing stories, we thought we may as well use them – it's more interesting than what we could have come up with. And for any that are unsolved, we tried to come up with our own way to solve them.What were some of the key cases for you?BM:Obviously the case of the Black Dhalia was why we chose 1947. We weren't trying to solve that, it's like Jack the Ripper, it's unsolvable. But on the front pages of all the newspapers at the time there was a photo of someone cut in half – you can't imagine that now. That set the tone for the brutality of the year. There were a lot of great cases that we couldn't do. We could have had hundreds.The game is all about reading body language. Did you study the subject during development?BM:Well, Jeronimo plays a lot of blackjack, so he can probably explain all about tells!JB:Obviously we did a lot of research, read all the books, but you've got to remember, we're using actors, and they are inherently lying all the time. We directed their performances toward what people are used to seeing on film or on TV, when you watch liars on a cop show, versus really good liars in real life.BM:The other side of that is, actors will say they're never lying because they're truly in the moment. We weren't consciously looking for micro-tells, as you won't be seeing this game on 14-foot-high screen like you are in the cinema. If you say to an actor, "on this line I really want you to lie", it's amazing how that comes across.JB:And all the time you're investigating crime scenes, so you have to keep data in your head about what's happening, what's going on. Part of the game is to catch people, to have the evidence available so that you can accuse them when they're lying. It's about keeping track of the story, the whole performance, rather than necessarily looking for an "answer".In many ways, then, the game requires a whole new set of skills from gamers. Is it nerve-racking or exciting to be making those demands?JB:It's a little bit of both and as of this moment, it is still unproven. We've yet to see if people are going to attach themselves to it. At Rockstar, we're always trying to push the medium. If games areonlygoing to be about shooting things, dying and starting over, that's a pretty boring future for us. So here's an opportunity where we thought, how can we make having a conversation be the focus of the gameplay?It's been sort of the holy grail for a long time and the technology wasn't there to approach it in this manner. Obviously, there have been a million talking heads in video games – games like Mass Effect do an amazing job, the guys at BioWare really know how to work conversation systems. But we wanted to take it a step futher and actually have that human element that can be missing from those games; the ability to see a performance rather than a puppet on screen.It certainly seems designers are now realising that games can be about human drama ...BM:Exactly. There's no reason why you can't have the same sorts of relationships – whether they're about fear, hate or love – with a game character that you can with a film character. That's one of the freedoms that technology gives you.JB:Even though the structure of the game is revolutionary for this industry, it's based on the tried and true formula of cop shows that have been around for years on television. There's an element people will be familiar with, whether you're a hardcore gamer or not: you show up at a crime scene, you find evidence and then you go talk to suspects.But do you think an emerging interest in human drama will gradually change the way games are developed?JB:Absolutely. When you're making games this big and so frigging complicated you have to have a good director and good writers, you have to have designers who are willing to take chances on creating new gameplay mechanics. Something has to change, that's the only way of raising the bar. We're taking lessons from Red Dead, which took lessons from GTA, we're obviously evolving how these games are made.How about story-telling – have you brought in scriptwriters from Hollywood or TV?BM:I just wrote it myself, like I normally do! No, as much as I'd like to compare myself to Kubrick or Hitchcock, most parts of a game are super collaborative. I might come up with a plot for a case, but the first thing we'll do before I write a word of dialogue is sit down with the game designers and work out where the holes are; where it would work and where it wouldn't in a game. If you meet this person here, and then you talk to someone else, but don't find this clue … you learn a lot from that process. With video games, whether they're as big as this one or not, you have to be in an office for three or four years with game developers. If you want to wander around in jodhpurs with a bullhorn, it's probably not going to work.How are the likes of Kinect going to help evolve human dramas? This whole idea of controller-free input must open a few new doors?BM:Definitely, and to some extent we're exploring that in this game – we put a person in front of you and ask, "do you believe them or not?" Their face becomes the user interface. The controller definitely stops you broadening the audience.JB:I love the Kinect, we play it in our household. It's evolving, it's trying to find its place – is someone going to make the killer app for it? Absolutely. And for us, if the best way to get our vision across is motion control we'll use it. But that all came along during the development of LA Noire and we didn't want to shoehorn it in.Do you see an era where there is no shooting in a Rockstar game?JB:Absolutely, and we're flirting with that in this game – there are cases when you never draw a gun or chase a criminal. It's something that's going to happen sooner than later. I have children and when we get together as a family we play games, we don't watch TV. We're a generation that's always been around interactivity, and in the future something like LA Noire could be broadcast directly onto your cable set-top box. It's the future.And we're taking the same risks with LA Noire as we did when we published GTA 3. At that time, I remember trying to explain to people that there aren't really any levels, you can go where you want, you activate missions when you want. It was going over people's heads. They thought it was absurd. Well, this game is a bit more cerebral, you have to talk to people, you have to figure out if they're telling you the truth, but it's taking that same sort of step that GTA took. We're going from having a cinematic experience that you can control to a human experience that you can control.How might LA Noire change the user's relationship with the lead character? Phelps is a complex character with a troubled past – will our relationship with him change? Are we heading into a future where our relationship with the lead character is malleable over the course of the game?BM:I think Red Dead foreshadows that kind of stuff: the character journey. At Rockstar, we're not really interested in archetypes any more, we're not interested in characters who are the same at the end of the game as they were at the start. For as far back as you can remember, that's been the case with game characters. You can laugh with them, kill with them, but they don't change. We want to see how our characters develop through the entertainment. With TV we get to see how a character develops over a series, that's the interesting part – to go on a personal journey with characters. That's what we want to do with games – and I think that's possible.Do you think you've clambered over the uncanny valley now?BM:Oh, there's so much more to do!JB:It's a good step forward, and it's really important to our industry. Sure, there's a place for shooting games, I'm a big fan of Dead Space 2, but we have to expand our horizons...
When Anonymous first made big headlines in early 2008 with its protests against the Church of Scientology,dubbed Project Chanology, it was not yet apparent that Anonymous would be here to stay.Three years later, Anonymous has not only gained a sizeable collection of adversaries and critics – including government agencies, IT security companies and digital rights advocacies who criticise its methods – it has also won scores of secret and not so secret admirers, especially among the highly social media literate, digital creative class.The reputation of its members as defenders of truth and seekers of knowledge, digital avengers who cannot be lied to because they will hijack the emails of those who try, seems to strike a chord with many.What has remained unclear is just who or what Anonymous is. Popular descriptions used in the media are those as a protest movement, a hacker community, or – merging the two – as a hacktivist group. Apart from an interest in the actual individuals behind the handle, a focus has been on whether or not Anonymous has a leader or central command structure which oversees and steers it actions.While Anonymous claims the contrary – and some reports from "inside Anonymous" characterise it asa "stamping herd" of wary individuals– this suspicion does not subside. In mid-March, Gawker announced to have receivedchat logs from Anonymous' "secret war room", and evidence of "certain members doling out tasks, selecting targets, and even dressing down members who get out of line".What has received less attention in the media is where Anonymous came from and what it is outside of ongoing activitiessuch as last year's Operation Payback, which targeted companies that had cancelled their service to Wikileaks, or the current Operation Sony, which began as a consumer rights protest until Sony suggestedAnonymous might have been behind the PlayStation Network hack(Anonymousdenies this).But these operations, and the fluctating number of individuals that engage in them at a time, are not identical with the collective identity of Anonymous, an identity that has been crafted in a collaborative effort and whose origins I am going to outline here.Anonymous is anyone who knows the rulesThis collective identity belongs to no one in particular, but is at the disposal of anyone who knows its rules and knows how to apply them. Anonymous, the collective identity, is older than Anonymous, the hacktvist group – more to the point, I propose that the hacktivist group can be understood as an application of Anonymous, the collective identity.This identity originated on imageboard 4chan.org, as a byproduct of a user interface policy called forced anonymity, also known for short as "forced anon".Forced anon made it impossible for users to type in their name when they published a forum post. Instead, "Anonymous" would invariably appear as the default author name for any post. As a result, and in particular for the uninitiated, discussions on 4chan would seem like an absurd soliloquy, with "Anonymous" posting a message and "Anonymous" and "Anonymous" responding.What this interface policy prevented was the creation of a hierarchy among users, which is known to quickly establish itself in online forums, with older forum members dominating and "newbies" having little weight in the discussion. Anonymous's (the group's) present dismissal of hierarchies and leadership has its roots in this practice. The uncertainty about who is talking (or probably just talking to him or herself, feigning conversation) is characteristic of the "forced anon" experience.Fertile ground for collaborationWhile users could not inscribe their individual identities, 4chan provided a fertile ground for a collaborative play with this collective identity, generating the rules for its rhetoric and its visual appearance. During Project Chanology, these rules and generated cultural meanings could first be witnessed in action by larger media audiences – eg, in the videoMessage to Scientology, which popularised Anonymous'sbiblical claim: "We are Legion. We do not forgive. We do not forget. Expect us."Protesters in physical space wore Guy Fawkes masks in the style introduced byV for Vendetta, which is now widely recognised as Anonymous's iconic look.Anonymous's appearance with masks is not coincidental. The collective identity itself serves as a mask, allowing the bearer to do and say things that would otherwise be out of bounds.Guests at a fancy-dress party are familiar with the phenomenon: the one who dresses up as Casanova develops a talent in charming the attendees that is otherwise unknown in him. In its excess and exaggeration, the carnivalesque is also rarely free from a critique of society. On 4chan, this critique manifests itself rather crudely as a relentless and often obscene mockery of virtually everything (as the purported'Rules of the Internet', No. 18,would have it: "Everything that can be labeled can be hated.").With Anonymous, the hacktivist group, the critique is more politically refined, tackling in particular internet censorship and the suppression of information – although its backlog of activities also features interventions such as the hacking and manipulating of epilepsy support forums with flashing animations, potentially triggering a seizure in people with photosensitive epilepsy.For those who have only become aware of Anonymous over the past half year, such an intervention might seem out of character. These days, Anonymous, the hacktivist group, seeks to emphasise its advocacy of digital rights and even its trustworthiness – eg, claiming in itsdefence against Sonythat "Anonymous has never been known to have engaged in credit card theft".But taking sides with the most noble cause has so far not been known as a priority of Anonymous, the collective identity. While noble causes are not per se excluded, its motto – "We did it for the lulz" (read: for our enjoyment) – potentially overrides all other causes. Afrequently circulated motivational poster by Anonymous warns us: "Anonymous. Because none of us are as cruel as all of us."Anonymous, the collective identity, not only has a carnivalesque edge; it also echoes traditional African mask societies whose many functions,as Elizabeth Allo Isechei puts it, include the "exercise of male power and various forms of social control, whether over the youthful initiates or those the maskers perceive as deviant".It must be noted that it is the mask and the temporary position outside of the social order which bestows this power on the maskers, a power which does not extend to the regular life of the individuals and their unmasked identities.Understanding the collectiveIf one understands Anonymous, the group, as a contemporary, post-adolescent mask society and Anonymous, the collective identity, as its mask, activities such as Operation Payback appear in a new light: they, too, can be read as an attempt to exert social control, in this case over the companies that dropped Wikileaks as a client, through punishing them with DDoS attacks.To understand Anonymous as a collective identity, the crucial question to be asked is not who the individuals are that use the mask, but what it is that this mask allows them to do.Unlike traditional mask societies, however, gaining access to Anonymous does not require initiation through "elders" or senior members of the group. Instead, a user's computer, web and programming skills are the decisive factor which he or she must bring or develop to be initiated.To first accumulate knowledge about Anonymous's rules, a user must spend a considerable amount of time online – eg, on websites such as 4chan or Encyclopedia Dramatica – to become familiar with its language and understand its culture.While this might be technically relatively easy for someone who works in the media or IT industries, spending a lot of time online will be comparably more difficult for, say, a teacher or sales clerk.The details of an ongoing operation, however, are not discussed on these websites. To become an active member of the hacktivist group, users need to be able to enter IRC channels and, again, spend much time online to be able to follow the crowd if it moves elsewhere.Depending on their skills and allocatable time, some users will merely observe (including journalists – which also raises the question whether these have already become part of Anonymous or not). Others will take up more active roles within the operation.Press releases will be written, posters designed, communication infrastructure set up. While it does not seem likely that all participants in an operation are "hackers", some activities will necessarily require the involvement of programmers and administrators.This could indeed be one of the weak spots where Anonymous, the hacktivist group, risks betraying the promise of Anonymous, the collective identity. Certain skills might translate into a more important role within an operation, and as soon as infrastructure such as a website or IRC channel is set up more permanently, it might amount to actual control. The"civil war"said to have "broken out in the ranks of headless 'hacktivist' collective Anonymous" on 9 May 2011 was sparked off by this very issue: "There is a hierarchy. All the power, all the DDoS - it's in that [IRC] channel,"an Anonymous splinter group declaredafter having stolen the IP addresses and passwords from two AnonOps network sites – not to destroy Anonymous, but to fight back the ongoing centralisation and reform it according to its promise.The other weak spot is in Anonymous's dealings with the media: Anonymous's original notion of a leaderless, heterarchical organisation is antithetical to journalists' relentless demands for quotable references from spokespersons (nor does it help that seeing one name in the news might be appealing to some participants in an operation).The media, on the other hand, have so far barely been able to reflect the distinction between members of an ongoing operation and the notion of Anonymous as a collective identity – which, awkwardly, makes everyone engaging with Anonymous a hacker in the public perception.Anonymous, the collective identity, has not only by now become a part of internet lore, it is also already being used by people to nurture a resilient self who would stand up for his or her rights if necessary.We can assume that hardly anyone of those toying with the idea of putting on Anonymous's mask is a hacker on the verge of committing a DDoS attack – the mask may be empowering, lending them for instance an apodictic rhetoric in the defense of their information rights which not everyone might be able to muster on his or her own. As a collective idenitity, Anonymous is also about the right of wearing a mask, to make use of a speaking position that would otherweise not be available, both online and in physical space.•Jana Herwigis a PhD candidate in Theatre, Film and Media Studies at the University of Vienna, Austria
Google is facing a wide-ranging investigation into its online advertising system by the US justice department, which could cost the technology giant at least $500m (£304m).The justice department has launched an investigation into whether Google's lucrative advertising system unfairly treats some unnamed advertisers.Google is facing a similar probe by the European commission, as its multibillion dollar business model comes under increased regulatory scrutiny around the world.The potential $500m cost of the US probe came to light in Google'squarterly report to the US Securities and Exchange Commissionon Tuesday.Google said in its filing: "In May 2011, in connection with a potential resolution of an investigation by the United States department of justice into the use of Google advertising by certain advertisers, we accrued $500m for the three month period ended March 31, 2011."Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, we believe it will not have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows."Google's advertising network, which primarily delivers short text ads alongside relevant searches, accounted for $8.3bn in sales in the first quarter of this year.The companyreported an overall 18% rise in profitin the first three months of this year, to $2.3bn. However, the $500m set aside earlier this month reduced Google's net income to $1.8bn, the company said in its SEC filing.European regulators have opened an investigation into whether Google unfairly manipulates its search results to boost its own products, and whether its advertising network is rigged to drive up prices.
Apple and Google were scolded by US politicians on Tuesday over their privacy policies relating to mobile phone use, as the fallout from therevelation that iPhones and Android devices collect data for location sensingcontinued."I believe that consumers have a fundamental right to know what data is being collected about them," said the Democratic senator Al Franken from Minnesota at a hearing of the new senate judiciary subcommittee on privacy, technology and the law. "I also believe that they have a right to decide whether they want to share that information, and with whom they want to share it and when."Franken, chairman of the subcommittee, added: "I have serious doubts about whether those rights are being respected in law or in practice."The Apple software chief, Guy "Bud" Tribble, said the company is committed to user privacy. "Apple does not track users' locations," he said. "Apple has never done so and has no plans to ever do so."  But he added that the company's privacy policy says that Apple "may collect, use and share precise location data." Tribble wouldn't answer questions after the hearing about the apparent discrepancy.Google's director of public policy in the Americas, Alan Davidson, said the company's Android smartphone platform has a similar policy. "All location data that is sent back to Google's location servers is anonymised and is not traceable to a specific user or device," he said.But Franken challenged the assertion that Apple's and Google's location data are anonymous. He asked another witness, researcher Ashkan Soltani, whether the time-stamped location data could be used to track users. Soltani said that he thought it was possible, and that assertions the data are anonymous are "not really sincere".The senators accused the tech industry of exploiting location data for marketing purposes – a potentially multibillion-dollar industry – without getting proper consent from millions of Americans.They did, however, say they would be cautious about drafting privacy rules that could stifle innovation in the space. Mobile device users' personal information helps companies tailor coupons, advertisements and weather information, among many other things."Don't get me wrong. The existence of this business model is not a bad thing. I love using Google maps for free," Franken said.Lawmakers also expressed concerns about how mobile applications share data. Franken asked whether Google and Apple would create rules for their mobile stores, requiring developers to have a written privacy policy.Davidson said that Google doesn't closely police the applications uploaded to its Market and so didn't ensure that app developers had a privacy policy. Davidson deferred to Google's leadership to comment on such a policy.Tribble said privacy should be built into applications, as many users do not read privacy policies.In the end, few committee members seemed satisfied that current privacy law and industry practices adequately protect consumer privacy rights. Franken concluded: "We need to think seriously about how to address this problem, and we need to address this problem now."There have been at least four online privacy bills introduced in the US legislature during this session, which include proposals that companies tell consumers what data is being collected, with whom it is shared and how it is safeguarded. But it's too early to tell which, if any, of the bills might become law.Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat, said he is frustrated that no company is willing to take responsibility for ensuring the safety of customer data – citing specifically Google's preference for openness, and internet service providers "crawling with malware"."I think we really need to be working on those boundaries. 'As open as possible' is not an adequate standard to this task," he said.Whitehouse noted that some apps are given away or are sold for very little precisely because developers plan to collect and sell personal information gathered on their users."We need to consider a bit more what our model is going to be here. I have not yet heard a model here today that convinces me that it protects the internet itself and privacy," he added.
A burst of 9 apps for your consideration across iPhone, iPad, Android and Symbian today.Hype Machine RadioHype Machine Radio is an iPhone app launched by the well-established online music service. It promises to turn music blogs into radio stations, playing back new songs written about on blogs, complete with artwork and the text of the blog posts themselves.Jackass: 10 Years of StupidMTV has launched an "interactive book" for its Jackass show, offering a mixture of text, photos, videos and mini-games based on the last 10 years of comedy japes. Currently available only in the US App Store.Thor – Son of AsgardMarvel Entertainment has turned iOS game publisher for Thor, with a 3D action adventure that runs across iPhone and iPad. The game includes an original storyline and script, with traditional comic panels thrown into the mix.MasterCard PayPass LocatorLaunched by MasterCard itself, this Android app lets people find their nearest stores that accept the PayPass technology. It works globally, and includes SMS sharing.Yahoo Fantasy BaseballYahoo's Fantasy Baseball app for Android enables people to sign in and play the company's fantasy baseball game on their phones, with real-time score and stat updates.SAGA MagazineiOS isn't only for the youngsters, y'know. SAGA Magazine has released its official iPhone and iPad app, with a £1.79 download fee and the ability to register in-app. Tri Active Media is the developer.Big Buck Bunny: Movie App EditionThis is the latest iPhone and iPad app that lets you watch an entire movie – in this case, animated flick Big Buck Bunny. It's the work of German developer DutyFarm. We say "entire movie" - it's only 10 minutes long.ToonBo ABC – Alphabets &amp; AnimalsThis educational iPhone app is based on the "sing-song" DVD of the same name, with the ToonBo characters having proved popular on YouTube too. It promises to teach kids, yes, the alphabet and animal names.WebLeap TrialWebLeap is an Android app designed to let people "move webpages between your phone, tablet and computer". The latter involves an extension that currently only works on the Chrome browser. The idea: you can quickly switch from viewing a site on device to another.LinkedIn for SymbianBetter late than never: LinkedIn has launched a Symbian app on Nokia's Ovi Store.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy iFlowReader is closing down &gt;&gt; iFlowReader" BeamItDown Software and the iFlow Reader will cease operations as of May 31, 2011.  We absolutely do not want to do this, but Apple has made it completely impossible for anyone but Apple to make a profit selling contemporary ebooks on any iOS device. We cannot survive selling books at a loss and so we are forced to go out of business. We bet everything on Apple and iOS and then Apple killed us by changing the rules in the middle of the game. This is a very sad day for innovation on iOS in this important application category. We are a small company that thought we could build a better product. We think that we did but we are powerless against Apple's absolute control of the iOS platform."Fossil Meta Watch wrists-on at Google I/O (video) &gt;&gt; EngadgetGoogle has a watch that you can link to your (Android) tablet or phone: "For now, just two of the models shown here will be sold, but there's no telling what will happen once the platform builds up enough of a backbone to support an influx of actual customers. The company isn't handing out a timeframe as to when it will be ready for the mass market, but we'd be shocked if it was still floundering around this time next year."We think Engadget had better prepare itself to be shocked. Anyone remember Microsoft SPOT?Why Google Does Not Own Skype &gt;&gt; StevenLevy.com"As Chan helped with due diligence, even going to Europe to see Skype firsthand, he became convinced that the purchase was a bad idea for Google. He concluded that one of Skype's key assets - its peer-to-peer technology -- was a mismatch for Google, which worked on the newer paradigm of cloud computing. 'The worst thing about peer-to-peer is that it doesn't work well with Google,' Chan told me during an amazing interview for IN THE PLEX in February 2010. 'Peer-to-peer just eats up your bandwidth, right, it's like the old technology.' So if Google bought Skype, Chan concluded, it would have to rewrite the entire Skype platform."Mull on that for a bit.iPhone 3GS, iPad 1 Still Selling Well [in US] &gt;&gt; AllThingsDHere's a radical idea: Apple's price/product segmentation might be done by continuing to sell its older generations of products - something it hasn't done before. "Canaccord Genuity analyst Michael Walkley says his retail checks show continued strong demand for the iPhone 3GS at AT&amp;T and iPad 1 at Verizon, even as the iPhone 4 and iPad 2 continue to fly off the shelves. At AT&amp;T, for example, the iPhone 3GS is outselling newer Android phones like the HTC Inspire and Motorola Atrix."Microsoft Buys Skype &gt;&gt; ben horowitz's blogFrom Skype's private equity owners: "In a direct attack, Google offered a free competitor to Skype's US paid product and a heavily discounted competitor to Skype's international product. Google then aggressively promoted these cheap products to their enormous Gmail user base by forcing every Gmail user to view Google's Internet telephony advertisement before allowing them to access their email. What was the result of this effort? Skype new users and usage growth has accelerated since Google's launch, culminating in:"-500,000 new registered users per day"-170m connected users"30m users communicating on the Skype platform concurrently"209bn voice and video minutes in 2010"On the mobile front, Apple built video calling right into the iPhone, making their Facetime product the default offering for iPhone users. How did that impact Skype's usage on the iPhone? 50m users have downloaded Skype's iPhone product since the release of Apple's Facetime."Has Apple's iPad finally killed the Netbook? &gt;&gt; CNETThe view from the labs. It may not be the hardest question you have to answer all day.Why Windows Phone Will Beat Android &gt;&gt; Pyramid ResearchBefore you sneer, read it.Q&amp;A: can a £15 computer rekindle the UK tech industry? &gt;&gt; PC ProEben Upton: "I used to teach at the University of Cambridge and was part of the process of interviewing sixth formers for Computer Science, and that's where I noticed the need to do something."When I was there as a student in the mid-1990s, the typical skillset that undergraduates came through the door with would be assembly language, maybe a bit of C, BASIC and a certain amount of hardware hacking."By the time I was actually interviewing, ten years later, that had changed to mostly HTML from people who had done a web page and the really good ones would maybe have done PHP - you'd get the occasional exception, but the skills have declined."It was as if there was a pipeline of hobbyists and then one day we stopped topping the pipeline up with ten year olds and gradually this wave has passed through the pipeline, first through the universities and then the workplace."Scam Warning: Only Google Can Give You a Google Music Invite &gt;&gt; Mashable"Be careful, webizens: Anyone offering you a free Google Music Beta invite is setting you up for a scam."The beta doesn't let current users give out invitations to their friends, so no one has spare invites to give you. That includes Mashable writers, your friends online, and any website claiming to be giving away Google Music invites."Includes us, too. We can't invite you. Sorry. The scam, of course, was inevitable.How Microsoft Will Change Skype &gt;&gt; Mashable"A very small percentage of Skype's 170 million users actually pay to use the service. Skype's IPO plans indicate that this was not a pressing concern."But the company was looking to expand video advertising within Skype itself -- and CEO Tony Bates mentioned video ads numerous times during the press conference."Under Microsoft, Skype's advertising muscle is far stronger. Microsoft has spent lots of time investing into ad platforms with Bing and the Windows brands, and that is sure to extend to Skype."Skype users -- especially those who use Windows -- should expect to see video ads and portal homepage information coming to the app in the future. This makes sense. If Google or Facebook had purchased Skype, chances are they would take a similar approach."Interesting that Ballmer 'skirted' the question of corporate integration. Office division won't like Skype for a while.This bulb is pretty brilliant: How Google wants to light up the home, starting with a light &gt;&gt; GeekWire"Apart from the debut of a new music service and details of the next Android version, Google's I/O conference today brought news of an initiative called Android@Home that aims to let the smartphone operating system double as a remote control for appliances and devices in the home."Exhibit A: An upcoming line of intelligent LED bulbs from Lighting Science Group."So how do they work? Each bulb will contain a small, wireless chip allowing the bulbs to communicate with one another, establishing a wireless mesh network that communicates with a wireless router in the home, which in turn can communicate with the phone."Not mentioned, but we're guessing it uses ZigBee.Google and the 360 Degree Music Experience Conundrum &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsForrester analyst Mark Mulligan on the new wave of cloud-based music services: "Now that Amazon and Google have both shown their hands, the last hope for a 360 Degree Music experience this year lies with that being a royal flush that Apple is holding close to its chest ... In the meantime the winner in all this is? Illegal free of course."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Come and chat, it's Wednesday.
Martha Graham, the American dancer and choreographer whose name became synonymous with 'modern' or 'contemporary' dance, is celebrated in Google's latest doodle today, marking her 117th birthday.In an eleborate piece of animation, the doodle is based on a dancer who performs a series of striking, Grahamesque routines to spell out the six letters of the search engine's name.Graham, whose influence on modern dance has been likened to the legacy of Pablo Picasso and Frank Lloyd Wright in their own spheres, passed away at her home in Manhattan in 1991 at the age of 96.However, she had sealed her place long before then in the pantheon of great artistic revolutionaries of the 20th century, having been credited with developing a new and codified dance language that smashed the traditional mold and established itself as a lasting alternative to the older ballet tradition.According to Time magazine: "Her fierce choreography sometimes amazed and sometimes horrified, but in it she embodied modern dance — arrogantly and spectacularly."Initially acclaimed as a great dancer in her own right, the Pittsburgh-born daughter of a Victorian-era mental health physician, she contined to perform late on in to her life and left the stage at the age of 75 when she gave her final performance in 1969.Graham choreographed more than 180 works, looking on enviously later in life at young dancers performing in her signature style, based upon contraction and release of the body.Her legacy lives on in the techniques used by dance companies around the globe, including the Martha Graham Dance Company, which has continued to develop contemporary dance since its founding in 1926, often rooting works in contemporary social and political contexts.
This week Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur are joined by Tom Loosemore to analyse this week's biggest tech stories.We begin withMicrosoft's purchase of Skypefor $8.5bn. At the time of recording, the deal was only expected, and so the team look back at Skype's 7 year life, and how it has changed hands in that time.  Charles finds it hard to see why Microsoft needs the VoIP service - and predicts a hard time for it within their Redmond HQ.Charles also takes a look atthe latest sales figures of mobile phones in western Europe, and finds Nokia has been pushed into second place by… Samsung and Apple in the handset and smartphone markets respectively.  It's more bad news for Nokia, and neither Tom nor Charles can foresee a rosy future for Nokia - with Tom predicting fatal consequences for the company.The team also discuss an apparent schism within Anonymous, and examine the group'sdenial of an attackin which credit card details were stolen from Sony's PlayStation Network.  Aleks, Charles and Tom talk through the group's aims, ponder the ramifications of a split, and attempt to describe the structure and motivation of Anonymous - with mixed success.And finally, Tom talks to us abouthis attempts to build a single, central government websitewhich will deliver information and services from recommendations made by the UK's digital champion Martha Lane Fox.  Tom explains what his aims are forAlphagovand what it has been like working on such a large project, and within a huge government bureaucracy.Another full programme from your Tech Weekly team.  Please leave us your comments below, tweet and re-tweet us. And you can answer Aleks's poser about sites that sum up Britishness below too.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Microsoft's acquisition of Skype, its biggest ever, is an $8.5bn (£5bn) gamble to try to catch up with Apple and Google.The software company, once so dominant, has been left behind by its more fleet-footed competitors as the pace of technological change – especially in mobile telecoms – has outstripped its ability to innovate.Analysts saw the deal, which edges out the $6bn it paid for online advertising company aQuantive in 2007, as a sign of Microsoft's ambition to become a bigger force in the consumer and smartphone market. They also interpreted it as a sign that Microsoft intends to broaden its appeal to businesses by using Skype to offer cheaper services than existing phone companies.Skype, which has 663 million people across the world registered to use its voice-over-internet-protocol (VoIP) communications, is available on personal computers and mobile phones – though not yet on Microsoft's new Windows Phone operating system. That is expected to be remedied soon.The deal will see it established as a separate business inside Microsoft, dubbed Microsoft Skype. Tony Bates, the Skype chief executive, will become president of Microsoft Skype and report directly to Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer.Ballmer, who tried to buy Yahoo three years ago for $45bn, spelled out his vision: "Skype is a phenomenal service that is loved by millions of people around the world. Together we will create the future of real-time communications so people can easily stay connected to family, friends, clients and colleagues anywhere in the world."Others were less enthusiastic and highlighted the difficulty Microsoft faces in monetising Skype, whose telephony service is free between users. "It doesn't make sense at all as a financial investment," said Forrester Research analyst Andrew Bartels. "There's no way Microsoft is going to generate enough revenue and profit from Skype to compensate."Another, Shanghai-based Michael Clendenin, managing director of the consulting firm RedTech, said: "If you consider Skype was just valued at about $2.5bn 18 months ago when a chunk was sold off, then $8.5bn seems generous and means Microsoft has a high wall to climb to prove to investors that Skype is a necessary linchpin for the company's online and mobile strategy."But despite Skype never having turned a profit, analysts were mostly enthusiastic. "For me, this actually looks like a near-perfect fit for Skype," said Dean Bubley of Disruptive Analysis. "A substantial part of Skype's current user base is from PCs. Although mobile devices get all the glory at the moment, Skype epitomises what's best about desktop VoIP."Next frontierHorace Dediu, a former Nokia business development executive who now runs the Asymco consultancy, said: "I see this as a pattern of consolidation of voice business models. I don't think it's coincidental that Apple, Microsoft and Google are all trying to secure assets, intellectual property, experts and businesses in VoIP and in voice control."Voice is the next frontier both in IP-based communications and in user interfaces. Skype happens to have a very large pool of users who can be engaged with multiple services besides voice. These additional services can be the root of new business models. Microsoft has plenty of degrees of freedom to experiment with: Windows Live, [search engine] Bing, Windows Phone etc."Google and Facebook were last week rumoured to be in the running for Skype but Microsoft emerged as prime bidder.The company already has three other VoIP offerings, via MSN Messenger, Xbox Live and Lync, used in its Office division. It is not clear how usernames will be integrated among them.Ballmer confirmed that Skype will continue to be developed for non-Windows platforms.Skype's principal source of revenue is international calls made by people unwilling to pay standard voice rates, which can be far higher. The analysis company Telegeography noted that Skype's international traffic volume grew by 39bn minutes in 2010 – twice the amount of all phone companies in the world combined."Demand for international communications is probably limitless," said Stephen Beckert, a Telegeography analyst. "Skype has taught millions of callers they no longer need a telco to talk to friends, family and business partners abroad."Incorporating Skype into Windows Phone – which will be used by the Finnish phone-maker Nokia in forthcoming smartphones – could also have advantages in countries such as Latin America, where people find voice calls too expensive and prefer to use data services, said Stela Bokun of Pyramid Research. "At the end of 2011, 40% of handset users in Latin America and Mexico will be using handsets that are 3G+ enabled," she told the Guardian.That could offer a route for Skype. Other possibilities in emerging markets include using Skype credits as payment for internet access, she said.Skype has never made a profit: in 2010 it recorded a loss of $7m on revenues of $860m – $1.30 per registered user a year, or $5 per "connected" user a year. While revenues have been growing it has been able to negotiate better call termination rates around the world with telephone companies.The acquisition is the second in Skype's eight-year history. In October 2005 it was bought by eBay for $2.5bn, but was 70% sold in October 2009 to a consortium of private equity and venture capitalists.The purchase is subject to US regulatory approval, which the companies hope to secure later this year.
Google has unveiled its long-awaited music and film players in its biggest challenge yet to the dominance of Apple's iTunes.Two new cloud-based players – which are intially available only in the US – will allow users to stream music and movies on their Android smartphones or tablet computers, without the need for an internet connection.Music Beta for Google, the technology giant's "digital music locker", was unveiled alongside the film rentals service for Android at the Google I/O developer conference in San Francisco on Tuesday.The music player allows users to upload up to 20,000 songs from their computer – including tracks bought on iTunes – to the internet, which they can then listen to on the move. Music Beta will be free while it is invitation-only.Music Beta works in the same as Amazon's Cloud Player, which the online retailer launched at the end of March. However, Cloud Player customerscan upload just over 1,000 songs, with those who purchase music from the Amazon store upgraded to a premium service.Like Cloud Player, Google's music service has launched without concluding deals with major music labels.Earlier this week, Google's director of digital content for Android told the New York Times that it was not "relying on partnerships [with music companies] that have proven difficult" to launch the service. He said the music labels had not been "as collaborative and frankly were demanding a set of business terms that were unreasonable" during the negotiations.Google is also making itsrecently expanded library of more than 3,000 films– including The King's Speech and Inception – available to stream offline, on Android smartphones and tablets. Film lovers will not be burdened with lengthy downloads either – movies will be stored on the internet and cached on users' portable devices for offline playback.Apple is expected to announce its answer to its rivals' digital music lockers in the near future, with a significant upgrade to iTunes. Unlike the offerings from Google and Amazon, Apple's service is anticipated to include elements of popular cloud-based streaming services like Spotify and Rhapsody, which allow users to play music they have not already purchased.Mark Mulligan, a senior music analyst at technology advisers Forrester, said that the new generation of music players failed to match up with consumer expectations."Streaming, purchasing, discovery, storage and playback should all be brought together into a 360 Degree Music experience. That's what consumers want and is the logical answer to the questions the emergence of the cloud poses. 360 Degree Music experiences are what will sell devices and drive music consumption and revenue, not locker services alone," hesaid."Now that Amazon and Google have both shown their hands, the last hope for a 360 Degree Music experience this year lies with that being a royal flush that Apple is holding close to its chest."
This has the air of a bit of a cult gathering, but it's a big cult - 5000+ developers descend on the swanky Moscone Center in downtown San Francisco for the annualGoogle I/O conference.A giant clock counted down the seconds until the giant corporation unveiled its latest Android developments. No matter that Apple has taken over as theworld's most valuable brand. This is Google's presentation to the world - not only to those in San Fran but also the viewing parties watching the event live in 110 cities around the world, from viewing parties across world, including Cairo (1,000 people watching there) plus NYC, Paris, Tokyo, Cambridge, Hyderabad and Vienna.For those of you not steeped in the developing world, this is the event this month - not least for the swag. Each attendee at the conference gets a freeSamsung Galaxy Tab 10.1, only 8.6mm thin (thinner than the iPad).But the real star of this show is Android - the Google operating system that the company is trying to export into every aspect of our lives - and the announcements today mean forays into movies,musicand even our home appliances.The big message from Google is around some big numbers: 100m activated Android devices; 400,000 new Android devices activated every day; 200,000 appls available; 4.5bn apps installed by today.So, here's my recap of what's been announced in the key sessions this morning - so far.Ice cream sandwich and moreLong anticipated, this is the single operating system that will work on any tablet, phone or other Android device. It translates theHoneycombsystem for phone users too.Developers here very excited by quite a small development to take "widgets to the next level". They can be stretched horizontally or vertically with a few lines of xml.Everything will be open source.An Android device will be able to be a USB host, which means we can all plug devices in, such as a keyboard or a game console. The team demoe'd a giant tilting labyrinth - you can see a pichere:Take, for example, Google's Android-connected exercise bike, which pumped heart rate data from the cycle to the phone mid-exercise, or the fun demo of a labyrinth marble game tilt-controlled with an Android tablet. This is a hacker's fantasy—a board that'll integrate an Android device with... whatever they can stick it into. Powerful stuff, and fertile dirt for crazily inventive mindsThe team also showcased a pretty cool head-tracking development where the device can follow who is speaking in a conversation, or knows to zoom into a particular part of the face.Google MoviesThenew project available via Android Market, it's the first of two announcements which stamp directly on iTune's territory. This allows users to rent them via the cloud to their computers and android devices, for around $1.99 and in high definition. Google has struck deals with Sony Pictures, NBC Universal and Warner Brothers for the rights.The movies have a 30-day rental period and a pin feature allows users to download them onto the device for when you're out of wifi.Google MusicThe biggest announcement,Google Musicwill be available in beta and only to US users initially - so you have to request an invitation - except for all the I/O attendees who were automatically invited today.Basically, your music collection would no longer be stored on your machine but in the cloud - and you can import playlists from iTunes into it. You can build a playlist based on any song you like -instant mix - suggestions appear straight away. No cables or "painful" syncing, obviously and soem pretty cool carousel effects. Although, as Google admitted in the press briefing:A couple of the major labels were only interested in doing so on terms we thought were unreasonable and usustainableThere can be 20,000 songs in the library and the service is free in beta.Updating techGoogle has done deals with big companies such as Verizon, Vodafone, LG and Sony Ericcsson to ensure an 18-month turnaround for updates - although as a couple of journalists pointed out in the press conference afterwards, in 18 months you might as well buy a new device.Android@homeThis is an experimental framework designed to encourage developers to get a headstart on developing apps and software, making the "home an Android accessory". The team demoed a device which could turn lights on and off, control alarm clocks or home appliances such as fridges and cookers via your android device - all of which is planned to be a long-term development, probably end of 2012.AsBen Parr writes in this post:The search giant's ambitious plan intends to turn the home into one connected deviceIt has partnered withLightingScienceto create an Android light bulb.It also showed off Project Tungsten, which is a home audio system where Android tablet users can control which speakers come on or off and in one particularly cool development, the team showed a device where users could just swipe an enabled CD and the system would automatically download the entire contents.That's it so far - we'll update more developments as we hear about them and it's worth following the whole thing at#io2011
Little more than a decade after the dotcom bubble burst, the internet business is once again partying like it is 1999. The frenzy of deal-making in Silicon Valley, which is turning social media entrepreneurs into multibillionaires, moved up another notch when Microsoft splashed out $8.5bn for the loss-making internet telephone service Skype.Tuesday's buy is a record for the software giant and takes the total value of worldwide tech-related deals so far this year to $85.5bn (£52bn) – the strongest spell since the months before the dotcom bubble burst on 10 March 2000.Analysts said the deal would give Microsoft a boost in its increasingly bitter battle with Apple and Google. Skype boasts about 170 million users every month and is adding 600,000 a day. But most calls are free and the service has struggled to make a profit. Last year it lost $7m.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, said that with Microsoft's backing Skype would be able to build a future where "talking to friends and colleagues around the world will be as seamless as talking to them across a kitchen table or a conference room".Buying Skype gives Microsoft a recognised brand name on the internet at a time when Google and Apple are both building up their internet phone and video services. "Google has Google Voice, Apple is building up Facetime, Skype is a great brand," said Colin Gillis, an internet analyst at New York-based BGC Partners.Gillis said Microsoft was likely to add Skype to its Xbox video games system, Office software and its mobile and tablet software. "Skype addresses some major holes for Microsoft," he said. "If they don't screw it up."Skype was founded in 2003 by Swedish tech entrepreneur Niklas Zennström and the Dane Janus Friis. The service has grown far beyond its techie roots and is already a mainstream product. The retail giant WalMart started selling Skype hardware in 2007. At peak times there are more than 23 million Skype users online.This is the second time it has been sold to a big tech firm. In 2005 eBay, the online auction company, bought it for $2.5bn. But eBay struggled to integrate Skype and argued with its founders and management, eventually selling it for $2.75bn to a private equity investor, Silver Lake, in 2009 but keeping a 30% stake.Friis and Zennström also backed the sale as part of a consortium that bought 14% of Skype. Just a year and a half later eBay has made its money back and the founders are sharing a $1.2bn payday. The Skype deal ranks as the biggest in Microsoft's 36-year history and follows multibillion-dollar strategic purchases by other tech giants including Intel, which bought the virus software specialist McAfee, and Hewlett Packard, which bought the handheld devices firm Palm.Investors are also fighting over the new generation of tech firms including Facebook, Groupon and Twitter. Google is believed to have made multibillion-dollar offers for both Groupon and Twitter.Private investors have fought to get a stake in Facebook, which is lining up a share sale next year that could value the firm at more than $70bn.
Our father, Professor AW Crook (Jim), who has died aged 89, was known around the world for his turbine work. In 1961 he joined the turbine generating division of Associated Electrical Industries (AEI) in Manchester, becoming its chief divisional mechanical engineer in 1966 during lively and challenging times. Turbo generators were increasing in capacity and, as one of Jim's colleagues commented, "a large turbo generator can be a very dangerous beast".In 1971 Dad became a professor of mechanical engineering at Brunel University, in Uxbridge, west London. He served from 1983 until 1988 as vice-principal, and on retirement was made an emeritus professor. He continued research and design with a practical bent. He valued hard work and the relentless gaining and implementation of knowledge in all spheres of learning.Born Alfred William Crook in Southampton, he was educated at the city's King Edward VI school. Inspired by the work of his uncle Jack, a ship's engineer, he studied physics at University College, Southampton (now Southampton University), where he met and married Joan Hadfield Street. When he had completed his degree, he was recruited for second world war service into the RAF Technical Signals Branch, 80 Wing.After the war, at the AEI laboratory at Aldermaston Court, Berkshire, he researched tribology – the science of interacting surfaces in relative motion – becoming a pioneer of elasto- hydro-dynamics. Joan died in 1959; and Jim later married Olive, an Aldermaston Court colleague. Together, they had fun-packed holidays, mainly on the Riviera. Jim admired all things French: the structure of French society; the engineering of the Citroën cars he drove; and the organisation of the French educational system, which enabled engineering students to learn in technical institutions, a model Brunel University was following when he was appointed.Jim was working on small-scale turbine development until his death and amused himself by working out complex mathematical problems on his computer, while caring for Olive. His publications and working documents are to be kept in the Brunel University Archive. Olive survives him, as do his three children – our brother John and us – and a grandson, Jim.
Privacy campaigners have accused the information commissioner of a "monumental error of judgment" for fining a London-based lawyer just £1,000 rather than £200,000 because his company, ACS:Law, had ceased trading.Andrew Crossley, the lone solicitor behind the controversial law firm, was fined just £1,000 on Tuesday after details of thousands of alleged filesharersleaked from his company's websitein September 2010. The information commissioner, Christopher Graham, admitted he would have imposed a £200,000 penalty if ACS:Law was still in business, which would have been the regulator's largest fine. Currently £100,000 is the largest penalty."As Mr Crossley was a sole trader it falls on the individual to pay the fine," the commissioner said. "Were it not for the fact that ACS:Law has ceased trading so that Mr Crossley now has limited means, a monetary penalty of £200,000 would have been imposed, given the severity of the breach."Simon Davies, director of the campaign group Privacy International, accused the commissioner of being "entirely unaware of the corporate loophole it has just promoted" for companies who breach the Data Protection Act."This is yet another monumental error of judgement by the ICO [Information Commissioner's Office]. What the ICO has failed to understand is that [this ruling means] the basis of corporate immunity is closure of a company," Davies said."The ICO seems entirely unaware of the loophole it has just promoted. This signals to directors of all companies that they can act unlawfully under the Data Protection Act, and all they have to do is make the company dormant and escape any serious punishment."The punishment stems from the aftermath of a "denial of service" attack by the activist group Anonymous on the website of ACS:Lawin September last year. The personal details of thousands of alleged filesharers were spilled on the web along with confidential emails from Crossley and other litigants.ACS:Law's website was targeted by several online forums for its contentious method of chasing people. The law firm sent tens of thousands of letters demanding "settlement" payments of about £500 from people it accused of illegal downloading. The company apparently recouped hundreds of thousands of pounds from the controversial "speculative invoicing" scheme before it finally brought 27 cases to court earlier this year. However, Crossley tried to halt the trial before he had to bring any evidence. In January, the solicitorstopped pursuing filesharers. Summing up in favour of the defendants and against ACS:Law – by then defunct – Judge Birsscalled the pursuit of alleged filesharers in this way "amateurish and slipshod"and said it had brought the legal profession into disrepute. He also accused Crossley of breaching the solicitors' code of conduct in his method of accusing people of illicit filesharing.The information commissioner on Tuesday said ACS:Law could have prevented the leak of information, describing the company's security measures as "barely fit for purpose in a person's home environment, let alone a business handling such sensitive details". He added: "Sensitive personal details relating to thousands of people were made available for download to a worldwide audience and will have caused them embarrassment and considerable distress."Explaining the rationale behind the £1,000 fine, the commissioner said: "Penalties are a tool for achieving compliance with the law and, as set out in our criteria, we take people's circumstances and their ability to pay into account."The ICO said Crossley "swore on oath" and given it "legally binding assurances" of his financial situation.Crossley, who is due to face a solicitors disciplinary tribunal later this year, could also have to pay up to £100,000 in legal costs to those he accused of illegal filesharing. One solicitor representing five of the defendants says its bill is £90,000.
