Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; How could we ignore the news that scientists believe they may have - finally - detecteddark matter? We couldn't. Theannouncement yesterdaypossibly marks the end of nearly 80 years of searching to find the material which, we're told, keeps the universe glued together. I'm rubbing my hands together in glee at the prospects for a sudden burst of development in physics. Surely teleportation can only be a few years away now.&bull; Canada's BlackBerry-makingResearch in Motionsurprised quite a few people when it announced asurge in profits for the past quarter, on the back of more than 10m handsets sold around the globe. And according to ComScore, the BlackBerry continues toextend its lead in mobile phone web browsing- with the iPhone now creeping up to a point where it has now overtaken Windows Mobile.&bull;Mark Shuttleworth, the open source pioneer who is a driving force behind the popular Linux OS Ubuntuannounced yesterday that he was stepping down as CEO of his company, Canonical. He still plans on being heavily involved in the Ubuntu community, but didn't really give a solid explanation on why he's stepping back now. For more insight, check out aninterview we did with him last year, and (for comparison)another one from 2002 focusing on his role as a space tourist.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
This video, aconcept pieceput together by my friends at the design collectiveBERG, has been doing the rounds today - and for good reason. It's an idea of what a digital embodiment of the magazine might look like in the near future, based around a touch-sensitive tablet/Kindle/iPod style gadget.And it is beautiful. In the video, the user navigates their way around a series of magazines, iPod touch style, using their fingers and there are some interesting tricks including a neat little fan-like pop-up menu. It's still very much a magazine, and some of the design cues might seem a little obvious, but when you compare this video tothis one produced by Sports Illustrated- similar, but less polished - you realise that perhaps they weren't as obvious as you think.Despite appearances, though, Mag+ (as they call it) isn't just a blue sky piece of design noodling. The project is being conducted by Bonnier, the Swedish media group that bought a string of high-profile US magazines - including Popular Science, Parenting and Outdoor Life - from Time Inc a couple of years ago.In the video, Jack Schulze explainsprecisely what drove them to make some of the choices behind the design, but I thought I'd ask them a few more questions.Is this what magazines might look like in the future? Is it just a pipe dream?Sara Öhrvall, the head of research and development at Bonnier, told me that this was a serious effort that could bear fruit sooner than you think."We are working with a two year timeline," she said. "We believe that there will be devices in the market as from 2010/2011 and we will be pragmatic so we can adapt our prototype concept to whatever technology is adopted by consumers."BERG's design directorMatt Jones, meanwhile, said that what they wanted to capture something of the comfort and warmth of the magazine format."For the video concept we focused in on the reading experience, and creating something that echoed the attributes of traditional mags - so there are a bunch of things still to be explored," he told me. "That's in the next phase, where our friends atKicker Studioin San Francisco are taking the vision further into interactive prototypes and more research. What was important for us to explore was whether it was possible to make something digital that you'd still want to curl up with."What does that mean exactly? Öhrvall explained that the company has done a lot of research to try and understand what it is about magazines that readers enjoy, rather than make certain assumptions about what people do and why."We have done extensive research about consumer behaviour reading print magazines, trying to understand the real drivers behind the emotional attachment people have to magazines... drivers important to translate to a digital world. Furthermore, we have looked into existing digital magazines and analysed why they have failed. We have also done market studies in Japan and South Korea where the use of media in digital media is much more extensive and advanced.This basic research may seem a no-brainer, but it's funny how often the media business relies on self-fulfulling guesses - people often glide over the differences between what customers want and what is convenient for the publisher, often confusing one with the other or amalgamating the two (that's something my colleagueRoy Greenslade alluded to in a recent piece).One other aspect that interested me about Mag+ was whatdidn'tinclude. What specific aspects weren't in the design spec? What have they left out of the project?"We have tried to avoid translation of physical magazine parameters that we don't believe are core to the reading experience in the digital world," said Öhrvall. Page-turning logic, often used in digital representations of print products like this, is one example."Some things we have left out because they will be included in prototype 2.0 - for example some social functionality. Our purpose of the prototype is to create a curated and relaxed media experience, some kind of silent mode, in a digital media world of information overload."I'm not entirely sure whether the finished product (if it ever appears) will be as slick as the one in the video - or whether it would prove as readable and comforting as a printed magazine might.And it's all predicated on a class of devices that is still largely theoretical. But as a way to envisage what might be possible for publishers to achieve? It's the most impressive attempt I've seen so far.
The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC), the Center for Digital Democracy and eight other organisations havefiled a complaint to America's Federal Trade Commissionabout the changes Facebook has made to its privacy settings.Facebook's changes encourage people to make information more widely available and easier to search. Previously, the system encouraged users to make information available only to their friends and people in the same networks. The simplified transition page does allow people to choose to keep their old settings, but the complaint to the FTC argues that the system is less private than it was before.Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg appeared to be a victim of the site's new privacy settings. The changes enabled everyone to look through his photo albums andValleywag, now part of the Gawker blog, published "some of the more interesting shots". In the UK, the Daily Mail published a picture ofZuckerberg cuddling his teddy bear.Some Facebook users will be in for a shock when they find that 350 million members can now see photos that they uploaded when they were perhaps only available to a few close friends. Photos, fan pages and lists of friends that are searchable could also show up on Google and other search engines, which in effect makes them available to billions of people.It could be a great attraction for potential stalkers.In a statement, Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt said that Facebook "discussed the privacy program with many regulators, including the FTC, prior to launch and expect to continue to work with them in the future."However, on theAll Facebook blog, Nick O'Neill has pointed out that the privacy settings could represent an even greater threat to users who live in countries such as Iran. He writes:Iran is known for pursuing and occasionally arresting those who speak out against the current regime in an attempt to curb further uprisings. There is no doubt that the state is monitoring Facebook usage including Facebook Pages and groups in an attempt to determine who are the greatest threats to the existing regime.For Facebook, of course, having more information publicly available makes it easier to target users with paid advertisements.
"SkyGrabber is offline satellite internet downloader," the page begins confidently, at once informing the native English speaker that the page wasn't written by one. In factSkyGrabberis a Russian programme – the site is apparently run by Cherkashyn Vyacheslav in Nab Podeba, Ukraine.SkyGrabber is a simple enough concept: grab the signals that spill from a satellite broadcast (or even narrowcast), aimed from a satellite towards a specific location, and turn them into TV feeds you can look at. Or as the website puts it: "You don't have to keep an online internet connection. Just customise your satellite dish to selected satellite provider and start grabbing."The US drones would send their video up to a US military satellite (the "uplink") that cannot be intercepted. The signal would then be beamed by that satellite or a linked one down to the controllers – who might be in Afghanistan or Iraq. Because that signal was unencrypted, anyone who tuned their satellite dish to the correct frequency and location in the sky could pick up the signal, and decode it. And because any satellite downlink signal spreads a little, the area where it can be picked up is potentially huge.The weakness has been known for a very long time. In February this year Adam Laurie, an "ethical hacker" who has spent a lot of time looking at satellite feed hacking, told the BlackHat conference that "anyone with a [satellite] dish can see data being broadcast" and that "things you would expect to be secure turn out not to be secure. The most worrying thing is you can just see all this data going by." He has been at it since the 1990s – and in 1997 could see French TV reporters beaming back closed circuit coverage of Princess Diana's death to the UK over unsecured feeds.The only surprise is that the US army is surprised – given that it has known since the 1990s that the "downlink" (from the satellite) of the drone video was unencrypted. The internet may have been invented in the US, but its knowledge has spread far and wide — and insurgents have used websites and computer networks to organise themselves for years.The thinking of the author of SkyGrabber is clear enough, given the other products he touts: they include Tuner4PC – for establishing internet connections via satellite uplink and downlinks – and LanGrabber, which "intercepts network downloads started by other users and saves information on your hard disk". The latter is what hackers call a "sniffer", seamlessly picking up the data that others are transferring and making a copy for you.
An internet startup says it is considering legal action against Microsoft, after the world's biggest software company admitted stealing its code.Earlier this week internet messaging company Plurkaccused Microsoft's MSN China operationof lifting code directly from its own program for use in a rival product.After a brief investigation, Microsoft responded byconfirming that it had stolen elements of Plurk's systemand apologising - blaming a Chinese developer hired by MSN China for the transgression."The vendor has now acknowledged that a portion of the code they provided was indeed copied," it said. "This was in clear violation of the vendor's contract with the MSN China joint venture, and equally inconsistent with Microsoft's policies respecting intellectual property."An apology may not be enough for the two-year old startup, however, which said that it was looking at "the full extent of our legal options" as a remedy."We are currently looking at all possibilities on how to move forward in response to Microsoft's recent apology statement," said co-founder Alvin Woonin a blog post today."We are still thinking of pursuing the full extent of our legal options available due the seriousness of the situation. Basically, Microsoft accepts responsibility, but they do not offer accountability."The MSN product, Juku, has been suspended pending further investigation, but Woon took particular issue with the extent that it relied on code stolen from his own team."This event wasn't just a simple matter of merely lifting code," he wrote. "Due to the nature of the uniqueness of our product and user interface, it took a good amount of deliberate studying and digging through our code with the full intention of replicating our product user experience, functionality and end results. This product was later launched and heavily promoted by Microsoft with its big marketing budget."Plurk, a messaging service along the same lines as Twitter, is registered in Canada but operates a small staff of around seven people worldwide. It has significant numbers of users across Asia, and claims particularly strong following in countries like Taiwan.Faced with a corporate leviathan attempting to muscle in on its territory, Woon said Plurk wanted to stand up for the rights of small companies."We write our own code and give back to the community when it is appropriate," he added. "We play the fair game hoping, like many young entrepreneurs out there, to be able to someday help solve other people's problems and grow our little company."
Mobile-game developer Gameloft will still cut investment in Google's Android platform despite an apparent U-turn on its controversial decision last month to scale back on developing games for the operating system.Gameloft's chief financial officer, Alexandre de Rochefort, told an investor conference in November that Android's limited ability to get Gameloft products to customers had been a deciding factor in cutting investment. "It is not as neatly done as on the iPhone. [Moreover,] on Android nobody is making significant revenue."The announcement drew immediate criticism, including from Telecoms analyst Peter Boyland of IHS Global Insight, who said: "While the iPhone is undoubtedly the iconic handset of the decade, its status as a 'must-have' is waning. While Android is still something of an unknown quantity, Google is fully committed to entering the mobile internet market, and is unlikely to allow the platform to fail without a fight."Perhaps heeding such warnings, Paris-based Gameloft made a volte-face within days, announcing that it would be bringing out a number of high-definition titles for the second generation of Android handsets and reaffirming its commitment to the current generation.Yet its investment in Android is still being reduced, and it's becoming clear that the company still considers the iPhone to be very much where it's at – at least for the moment.De Rochefort told the Guardian that the iPhone had had a dramatic effect on the mobile-gaming industry: "With regular mobile phones, those running Java and BREW, only 3% or 4% of users download games on a regular basis. On the iPhone, that usage rate rises to around 15%, and up to 18% in the UK according to recent research. It's clear that people are keen to play games on their phones – it's just that previously there has been no platform allowing them to do this in a way they were sufficiently excited about."The way I see the market growing is that more and more people are going to be equipped with iPhone-like devices, and we can thus hope to grow usage rates from 3% for most of our business, to maybe in the region of 10% – a tripling in market size."Gameloft, which was launched in 2000 by Ubisoft co-founder Michel Guillemot, has since gone on to become one of the world's leading mobile-game companies, with an expected $180m in sales in the current year and more than 4,000 employees. De Rochefort credits much of its success to its development capacity: "Our teams all work in house. We do not subcontract, which allows us to keep close control on the development cycle of the games and, at the end of the day, have a better quality. We also have put a lot of emphasis on being able to sell worldwide; we are the only non-Japanese company to sell mobile games in Japan."Gameloft's biggest selling mobile games have been, as de Rochefort describes them, "simple casual games," such as arcade puzzler Block Breaker Deluxe. As more powerful handsets reach ever-greater numbers of consumers, Gameloft has responded with increasingly sophisticated titles. "Basically there is an ongoing shift from 1MB apps – your regular Java app – to 300MB apps that exist today on the iPhone."The company's recent and upcoming releases for the iPhone include a port of the 1999 PlayStation classic Driver; a Halo-esque first-person shooter called NOVA; driving game GT Racing; and Avatar, an action platformer based on the new James Cameron film. Many of Gameloft's recent games have been very well received, both critically and commercially, and these latest titles seem to be no exception. NOVA, in particular,  looks extremely promising.There has been some criticism, however,  that a large proportion of Gameloft titles are either revamped versions of old games (as with Driver and the recently released port of Earthworm Jim), or else highly derivative games taking their cue from other titles, with little in the way of innovation.De Rochefort plays down such claims: "I admit we haven't reinvented games genres, but then very few companies have. At the end of the day, all video game companies are just refining genres and game types and trying to improve the experience for the consumer. New game concepts are very, very difficult to come by. There's only one Tetris, and the next Tetris might not appear for 20 years."I know some gamers would like to see new concepts all the time, but that's impossible. We're just trying to make the best games in their genre; the fact that the genre already exists means elements of those games will remind you of things you've seen in the past. You're not going to reinvent the wheel every time you make a game but, as a start, we can refine and improve the experience. This is something you've seen in the industry since the beginning, and it's driving the industry in the right direction."Having worked with a digital distribution model since its inception, Gameloft has recently begun branching out into releasing content for other platforms. De Rochefort says: "Over the last year and a half, we've seen a convergence between mobile phones and consoles. On the one hand, mobiles are getting closer and closer to console capacity – the prime example being, of course, the iPhone, which, in my opinion, is far better than the DS from a gaming perspective, and getting very close to the PSP now."At the same time, consoles are getting to be more like mobile phones, in that the three main manufacturers – Nintendo, Microsoft and Sony – have all added download functionality. The business model on these consoles is increasingly looking like what we've been doing for nine years on mobiles; mainstream games sold at €5 to €10, downloaded over the internet. This is exactly what we've been doing on mobile phones, and so it seems natural for us to go there."Consoles represented 5% of our sales in the first nine months of this year, and I expect that figure to grow, but it's going to take time. Our core business remains the creation mobile games."Looking to the near future, de Rochefort is unshakeably confident, in spite of the difficult economic climate: "We're selling games for around the £4 mark, and I believe these low prices will continue to immunise us from the worst of the recession. While it's difficult to accurately estimate the effects of the crisis, in the first nine months of the year our sales grew by 18%. Without the current economic situation, perhaps we could have grown it by 20 to 25%."Curriculum vitaeAge36EducationReceived his degree from ESSEC Business School in 1996.CareerSenior Vice President and CFO for Gameloft; joined Gameloft in July 2000 shortly after the creation of the company. Prior to joining Gameloft, worked at Schroder Securities in London as a Sell Side Research Analyst specialising in Technology Stocks.
Hundreds of Japanese gamers queued from dawn today to be the first in the world to get their hands on the latest addition to the Final Fantasy role-playing series, whose popularity Sony is banking on to boost Christmas sales of its PlayStation 3 console.The game's Japanese creator, Square Enix, said it hoped to sell at least 2m copies of Final Fantasy XIII domestically, which would make it the first PS3 title to sell more than 1m units in Japan. Analysts said worldwide sales of the latest instalment of the 22-year-old game could reach 5.6m.This is the first time the title has appeared on the PS3 platform; the US and European versions, which go on sale on 9 March, will also be available for Microsoft's Xbox 360, the second most popular games console after the Nintendo Wii. (Final Fantasy XIII is not appearing on the Wii.)The game has sold more than 92m units worldwide since its release in 1987.With a price tag of about US$100 (£60), the success of the game would provide a much-needed boost for game software sales in Japan, which declined 7.5% to 132.9bn yen (about £900m) in the six months to 30 September from a year earlier, according to Enterbrain, a Japanese magazine publisher and analyst.Some industry watchers expect the title to increase PS3 sales by 500,000 units. That will be important for Sony, which has languished in third place for sales of the PS3 since it was released – after significant delays and high production costs – in November 2006, nearly a year after the Xbox 360 and Wii. That allowed its rivals to consolidate markets, and Microsoft has focused recently on ensuring that some hit games are sold only on the Xbox 360, such as Forza Motorsport 2 and 3, Gears of War and Halo 3.But sales of the PS3 have now exceeded 4m, Enterbrain said this week, helped by the introduction of a cheaper model in September. The console now costs about half what it did when it went on sale three years ago –although the supply chain analysis company iSuppli estimated earlier this monththat Sony still loses an estimated $30 on each one.The price cut helped make the PS3 the top-selling console in the US during September, the first time it had outstripped sales of both the Wii and Xbox 360.In Final Fantasy's latest incarnation, which was five years in the making, players use a combination of magic and technology to help their characters battle enemies and progress through a futuristic setting."Of course, you can complete the game relatively quickly if you want, but if you take your time you'll be able to live inside the game for several months," said Square Enix's president, Yoichi Wada.
Twitter's "retweet" function has temporarily disappeared - which one might hope means that the company's greatworked-out-on-a-napkin experiment, which aimed to take the effort out of mouthing someone else's pearls of wisdom, has died a rapid death.Sadly not: according to NextWeb, it'ssimply been taken down for a bug fix. Damn - we had hoped that it might have realised that the bug was in the function, not the code.Why? "Retweeting" usually involves seeing something that someone you follow says, and then copying it into your stream of consciousness*. Before Twitter introduced a "function" for doing so, this meant laborious use of the "copy" and "paste" function, imposing nearly two seconds' brain effort on time-harried social media experts.But it also meant that those who thought about what they were working with could add their own comments, by quoting the tweet and adding their own thoughts to them.The fact that automated retweeting (rhymes with "bleating") wasn't popular, despite having been dreamed up inside Twitter,surfaced pretty quickly after its introduction in November:he new system is not without hitches. The biggest one is that the retweeted messages now appear under the original Twitterer's name and picture, so your followers might have difficulties recognising who the sender is and wonder who these strange tweeters are in their twitter stream. Secondly, you can't add your own comment anymore, so on the website mini-editorialisation is over for now.Lisa Baroneput it rather acutely: the retweet function, she said, isjarring. To suddenly see someone you don't know in your sacred space. That's how I feel about the new Retweet Feature on Twitter.  Not because I'm having a "Facebook moment" where change freaks me out, but because they just ruined and violated some of the core ways people use Twitter. The ones users had created themselves.Evan Williams insisted there was asensible reason why retweet (the function) worked differentlyfrom retweet (the human-powered form).What we're hoping now (even so) is that Twitter has seen the light and gotten rid of it.Because if it has gone back on its attempt to roll out an unpopular update due to user backlash, there might be a chance that it would go back on itsbad decision from Maywhen replies you made to particular followers stopped being visible to all your followers. Though that had been an option (either to see all of peoples' replies, or only to see those to people you also followed), Twitter forced the latter scenario on them. Damn. Fix replies, not retweets!* used loosely
Well, most of the bases were covered during our controversial Top 50 rundown. Many of you were angered that so many GTA titles made it in, but then, they were immensely popular and fondly remembered titles - the sorts of games you playa lotdespite yourself. Sure, there are probably titles we admire more, that we know are more 'worthy', but then there are those games we just play more, that reward us with guilty pleasure. That's all fine.However, there were some glaring omissions in the Top 50 - and here are ten of them. I would have put all of these in my own top 20. See if you agree...1. The Sims (2000, Mac, PC)- Over 100 million units shifted, a whole new form of gameplay invented – and it pulled in about three votes from Gamesblog readers! Okay, so The Sims has always been a 'casual' gaming phenomenon and the conveyor belt of sequels, add-ons and spin-offs hasn't helped the credibility of the brand. But still, this is clearly one of the most important titles of the decade, a sort of humanisation of Will Wright's whole sim philosophy, and it was genuinely addictive and intriguing stuff, for a while. And while we're on the subject of Will Wright, there was no Sim City 4 on the list either!Alternatively:Dawn of War (if we're talking PC strategy sims), Galactic Civilizations (ditto), Animal Crossing, Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral Town2. Battlefield 1942 (2002, Mac, PC)- I would say this is one of the defining online multiplayer games of the decade. Modern Warfare is fun, but nothing compares to 64 players rampaging around Wake Island as fighter planes strafe the shoreline with machine gun fire and tanks shell the bejesus out of each other. The huge maps were also a boon to tactical play (i.e. sneaking about shooting folk from a distance), and later iterations to the series added to that complexity with squads and commanders, bringing in unparalleled co-operative play.Alternatively:Killzone 2, Halo 2, Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2, Crysis, Geometry Wars Evolved3. Dead Rising (2006, Xbox 360)- Flawed, yes, but just soooo much fun. The first time you take out a line of zombies with the lawnmower or successfully bat the undead away with a shop window dummy is a defining experience in gaming hilarity. The sequel looks to be making the classic error of 'widening the experience' by setting it in a city rather than a mall, but lets hope Canadian studioBlue Castle Gamesknows what it's doing.Alternatively:Devil May Cry, Batman Arkham Asylum4. Shenmue (1999, Dreamcast (2000 in UK, so sneaks in)), Shenmue 2 (2001, Dreamcast, Xbox)- This was just such an idiosyncratic project. It cost millions, it didn't really fit comfortably into any genre, and for long periods of time you just wandered about, played arcade games or shopped. But the visuals were awesome, the world wonderfully elaborate and the sense of time unparalleled. Yu Suzuki was utterly uncompromising in his vision – he did what Peter Molyneux always promises, and what Heavy Rain desperately wants to achieve – he created an inhabitable world that lived – even if most of the life was weird and stilted and involved asking if anyone had seen any sailors at the dock…Alternatively:Yakuza, Dragon Age: Origins5. Perfect Dark (2000, N64)- Ah, how could it not be in the top 50? Taking inspiration from Philip K Dick, Thomas Pynchon, X-Files and Mamoru Oshii the successor to Goldeneye was another atmospheric, perfectly constructed shooter, filled with intelligent ideas. Maybe not enough Gamesblog readers owned N64s? At least you'll soon get the chance to play it via the forthcomingXBLA version…6. Super Monkey Ball (2000, Arcade, GameCube)- Like The Sims, this is another very good high concept title that's been critically diminished by its association with 'casual gamers' and a long run of inferior spin-offs. But try to think back to the first time Sega asked you to control a monkey in a see-through ball as it hurtled around a series of fiendish mazes? Importantly, the controls and the feeling of momentum were absolutely perfect, creating a fiendishly challenging experience. It will be interesting to see if the Balance Board-compatible Super Monkey Ball: Step &amp; Roll can revive serious interest in the series next year…7. Katamari Damacy (2004, PS2)- Keita Takahashi's beautiful, quirky masterpiece is a Gamesblog favourite that oozes love for the very idea of videogames. It's silly, it's self-conscious, it's senseless, but within five minutes of playing, you know exactly what to do and are already forming object-collection tactics.Thatis game design. Also has there ever been a more bizarre and hilarious depiction of the dysfunctional father/son relationship?Alternatively:Echochrome, Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan8. Braid (2008, Mac, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)- I would have loved to have seen this one chart. It is an important title, symbolizing the new crossover potential for indie titles in the world of digital distribution. It's also an astonishingly entertaining game, so wonderfully and eccentrically realised – the sort of thing that could only come from one person determined to see through their peculiar vision.Alternatively:PixelJunk Monsters, World of Goo, Tumiki Fighters, Darwinia, N, Mount and Blade, Dwarf Fortress9. Rez (2001, Dreamcast, PS2, Xbox 360)- In which designer Tetsuya Mizuguchi combined his love of dance music culture, his fascination with artist Wassily Kandinsky and some of the most appealing visuals of the 128-bit era and turned them into a thoroughly distinctive and unforgettable videogame event. Plus, this is the only game to come with its own vibrator.Alternatively:Jet Set Radio, Viewtiful Joe, The World Ends With You10. Dead Space (2008, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)- EA's scary sci-fi shooter effectively re-ignited the survival horror concept after the decline of Silent Hill and the relative disappointment of Resi 5. It was also an important game for other reasons – a truly new IP from a company often seemingly allergic to originality, and a game that hints at how interactive entertainment will be marketed in the future, with its preview comics, anime films and live-action movie adaptation.Alternatively:Silent Hill 2, Shin Megami Tensei: Persona 4
"Rise and shine, Mr. Freeman. Rise and shine. Not that I wish to imply you have been sleeping on the job. No-one is more deserving of a rest. And all the effort in the world would have gone to waste until... well, let's just say your hour has come again. The right man in the wrong place can make all the difference in the world. So, wake up, Mr. Freeman. Wake up and smell the ashes."Five years in development, with an estimated cost of $40m, Half-Life 2 was a gigantic game before it was even released. In the background lurked its massively acclaimed predecessor, a first-person shooter that dragged the genre out of its young, dumb twitchcore roots, producing an experience of depth and resonance. Half-Life took a crowbar to the staid narrative conventions of single-player adventures, providing a completely consistent first-person experience. Gordon never talks and we never see anything that Gordon isn't viewing in real-time – suddenly ten years of cut-scene development was struck asunder.Half-Life 2, with its protracted development period, its tie in with the construction of Valve's controversial Steam distribution engine, and the huge weight of expectations on its digital shoulders, could have been a bloated disaster. But from the moment Gordon is plucked from stasis to face the Combine, it is clear Valve has complete control over this intricately realised universe. City 17, Ravenholm, Nova Prospekt – these are nightmarishly complete visions of a post-apocalyptic hell. Inspired by Eastern European architecture, and surely the political turmoil suffered in the region over the last two decades, Bulgarian art director Viktor Antonov created a vision of a grand society in collapse, the Combine monsters looming over the landscape like monstrous insects around a carcass.But within it all, there was always humanity. The relationship with Alyx Vance, the return of Barney Calhoun and Dr. Isaac Kleiner, lots of great, genuinely funny dialogue. Then Dr. Wallace Breen, the collaborator, so much more than just a one-dimensional bad guy – a walking satire on politics, personal ambition and the rhetoric of suppression.And everything else. Blistering action, heart-stopping set-pieces, (literally) ground-breaking physics, bleeding edge AI… Half Life 2 was like a mega-budget disaster movie, written by George Orwell and directed by Andrei Tarkovsky. As Greg puts it, "Half Life 2 always felt like the European arthouse answer to the Hollywood bluster of Halo and Call of Duty. Yes, there is all the visceral combat you would expect from a first-person shooter but Half Life 2 interspersed this with slower-paced narrative sections that allowed you to breathe and take stock of your surroundings. And what surroundings they were. City 17, in particular, is one of gaming's most evocative locations. Your assailants too were way above the grunts seen in other shooters of the time. The best game of the decade? World of Warcraft wins my vote but Half Life 2 is an undoubted classic and if any other game had to win I'm glad it was this."And from Jack, "Making a worthy follow-up to Half-Life must have been a tremendously daunting task - so it's no surprise Valve took their time. But the anticipation and hype that a six-year wait created was, for once, more than satisfied upon the game's release. Half-Life 2 once again pushed the envelope for the genre, and set a new high watermark for FPS narrative. I remember being shown a brief three minute clip of the Gravity Gun back in 2003 - interacting with your environment like that felt like a huge step forward at the time. I played it through again only a few months ago, and it still stands up to scrutiny in 2009. Perhaps not my favourite game of the decade, but certainly one that deserves to hold top spot."Half-Life 2 is the game of the decade, not just because it's good, but because it encapsulates so much of what mainstream gaming has been trying to do for the last ten years; the aspiration to create believable, physically accurate worlds, then to make us a part of them. The narrative and technical achievements of this game and its episodic follow-ups have been equaled, perhaps, but not significantly bettered. We may see Half-Life's usurper in the coming decade – we may witness the next quantum shift in the medium. It will be fun getting there. This is why we play videogames, after all.
In little more than a year, applications for Apple's popular iPhone have become a sensation - with more than 100,000 downloadable programs that do everything from stargazing to virtual farting.But now one of America's biggest military contractors is taking the concept to extremes, by building a series of apps for use on the battlefield.At a conference in Arizona on Wednesday, US defence company Raytheon announced its plans to launch a new range of military-oriented programs that can turn the popular touchscreen mobile phone into a tool for use in war zones such as Iraq and Afghanistan.The first application in its plans, called One Force Tracker, uses satellite positioning and mobile networks to give soldiers constantly updating field maps that track the position of friendly troops and enemy fighters in real time.The program – dubbed a "situational awareness application" by Raytheon executives – would combine data from many sources to try and give an accurate picture of hotspots such as sniper hideouts and vantage points. Troops could also use their iPhones for secure communication, said the company."We are committed to providing innovative technology solutions for warfighters and all of our customers," said Jay Smart, chief technology officer of Raytheon's intelligence and information systems business.The application can run on ordinary iPhone handsets – a decision that came, Smart said, because building software for the gadget was cheaper and simpler than some of the expensive options specifically designed for military use."Raytheon's experience with mobile communications in the tactical environment and the government customers' need for low-power, simple plug-and-play applications led to the development of a real-time situational awareness application using Apple's touch technologies," he said.It is not the first time the iPhone has been linked with military uses, however. Earlier this year Knight's Armament Company, an American weapons maker that supplies rifles to the Pentagon, launched a $12 ballistics application called BulletFlight which helps snipers and sharpshooters to hit their intended target.Although it is most notorious for hi-tech weapons such as the Silent Guardian –a pain-inducing microwave gun- Raytheon, which based in Massachusetts, has a history of using popular technology for military purposes. Among its innovations are systems used in the unmanned aerial vehicles that arebased on video games consoles.One Force Tracker is not only for the battlefield, though. Raytheon told the Intelligence Warfighting Summit that the software could also be used – with some tweaks - by emergency workers such as doctors and firefighters responding to major incidents.
Five years ago the order of things as we know them started to fall into place; most of the services we're familiar with today were around, most of the companies were in place, most of the technologies we think of as cutting edge were already beginning to make a mark. Even Facebook was there, for goodness' sake (although I think we didn't make mention of it until2005).Turns out I made a mistake in yesterday's post. It was2004when I joined Online, not 2003... feels so long ago I had got the timeline mixed up. But still, the shift (which involved moving into a cold corner of the Guardian's main newsroom) felt like a big deal. If only I could remember when it happened!Anyway, let's get on with the next year in our roundup.2004&bull; The biggest story of the year was probably the stock market launch ofGoogle: the event that turned the company from a hot startup to a leviathan. After lots of planning, plenty of speculation, and a bit of a cock-up thanks toan interview in Playboy(yes, Playboy!) the IPO in Augustvalued the companyat some $24bn. Wall Street had the knives out at the time (they'd wanted more) butJohn Naughton dissected the reaction, which he called "vindictive sentiments". Two months later, shares had risen sharply, doubling the size of the company and shooting it past its great rival of the time, Yahoo.&bull; After its American debut in 2003, iTunesfinally made it to Europe- launching with a "lavish press conference in London that featured a performance from American diva Alicia Keys". It emergedjust before the launchthat a number of labels had pulled out (citing the "commercial suicide" that iTunes entailed) but they didn't take too long to be swayed. By September, however, the service was already coming under scrutiny with theOFT launching an investigationinto why UK users paid a 17% premium over their European counterparts.&bull; Regulatory pressure onMicrosoft, too, came to bear with the European Union levying the first of what would be many fines against Bill Gates and friends - this time for bundling digital media and server products in an abusively monopolistic fashion. The €497m finewas the biggest in European historyat the time, but it was described as a "traffic ticket" by critics who pointed to the billions the company had in the bank.&bull; Mobile was still getting bigger and bigger, and networks - having spent a gigantic £22bn on 3G licenses back at the turn of the century - were finallygetting ready to launchtheir own high speed mobile data networks - but they weren't necessarilytoo keen on the idea. Nor, it seems, were consumers... Which? put the cat among the pigeons when it told potential buyersthat they'd be better off waiting.&bull; And in October, a significant step forward was made toward space tourismwhen SpaceShipOne scooped the X-Prize. At more than 100km above the earth's surface, the craft broke records - and forged a deal with Richard Branson to build a fleet of craft in the process.That's it for this week - we're going to come back and look at 2005-2009 from Monday through to Christmas. Any thoughts, omissions or recollections of your own? Add them to the comments below.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Kicking off this week in unusual style because, well, it's an unusual Thursday. Why? Because it's the very last printed edition ofTechnology Guardian- more than 25 years after we first started. We take a look back at the noughtiesin technologyandin games. And given that it's the end of our life in print, we've also got a bit of a retrospective fromVic Keegan,other editors of the section- plus tips onwhere to find us from now on. You, of course, don't need that advice since you're here already.&bull; Big news in the trust busting world yesterday, which will no doubt set the tone for conversation in days to come. First Europesettled its browser case withMicrosoft- and then America's FTCsuedIntelfor anti-competitive behaviour. The latter is perhaps most interesting because it shows a willingness to take on cases that have been shied away from in the pastandbrings the issue of Intel's behaviour in the GPU market into question.&bull; And after troubled times in thePC industry, shipments were on the up in the third quarter of 2009.That's according to IDC, which said figures rose by 2.3% after three consecutive downward quarters. And netbooks have doubled as a portion of the market since this time last year, now accounting for 28% of all shipments.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
My bidding life on eBay is being made a nightmare by a user who pushes me to my bidding maximum on items by placing a huge bid to reveal my maximum bid, then retracting their bid, and then placing a bid just less than my maximum. I have phoned eBay and tried to report this person, but it still carries on.David AshcrofteBay says: "Except under special circumstances, bid retraction is not permitted" and that "this includes any manipulation of the bidding process to discover the maximum bid of the current high bidder or to uncover the reserve price". This is a form of "shill bidding" andeBay has a tutorial about it.You should report shill bidding to eBay using aContact Us formon the site but this isn't as easy as it should be, or used to be.After I complained on your behalf, eBay suspended the user's account. I pointed out that if bid retraction can only be used in "special circumstances", it's ridiculous to allow a user to make more than 500 retractions in six months. eBay says it will look into this issue. In the meantime, try to avoid dealing with users who have a record of bid retraction.A solution is to bid using "sniping" software that submits your bid a few seconds before an auction closes, so you can't be shilled. I have not tried any of these programs, but aGoogle searchfinds plenty of options.
I seem to have part-downloaded a Personal Security system scan, and boxes keep popping up telling me to pay $74 (£46) for security because they have already detected serious viral threats to my computer (which my up-to-date Norton antivirus apparently hasn't). It won't delete and the pop-up tells me "this is only a trial offer and the delete settings have been disabled".Tim SymondsGetting users to install rogue security software, which might be disguised as a video codec update, is a popular scam. Most of these programs can be removed byMalwarebytes, andBleeping Computerhas full removal instructions for this one. After you've cleared it, go to Windows Update and make sure your software is up to date, and change all your web passwords.Anyone who has paid for fake security software should contact their card supplier's fraud department and ask for the payment to be cancelled.
My trusty four-year-old Dell Latitude D800 running Windows XP Pro SP3 is now starting up with my chosen wallpaper photo on the screen and nothing else: no start menu, no desktop icons, nothing. I have no way of accessing anything. Help!Claire Owens SandIf Windows won't start normally, you should be able to start it in Safe Mode, usually by pressing F8 during the boot-up sequence. This will enable you to run a virus check (as this problem may well be caused by a virus), uninstall something you have installed recently, use a Restore Point to roll the system back, or whatever.But having a blank desktop suggests that explore.exe is not running. Press Ctrl-Alt-Del to run the Windows Task Manager, go to the Processes tab and see if explore.exe is running. If it isn't, go to the File menu, select New Task (Run…), type in explore.exe and click OK. If it is running, select it in Processes and click the button in the lower right, End Process. If explore.exe doesn't restart by itself, you can try running it manually.
I am a newcomer to WordPress and the tutorials are quite daunting. Is there any desktop style, offline editor that I can use before I get into a 12-month contract with a host and find that I'm totally rubbish at it!Stephen DonkinYou can experiment with the posting part of WordPress by opening a free account. You can also install a copy on your desktop: seeInstall WordPress offline on Your PC using Xamppby Abhishek S Jain. Also,davidtan.orghas a very brief guide for people who have a WordPress site but want to run a local duplicate copy to test themes, plug-ins and so on.
I can stop fretting about the  imminence of my 70th birthday, for Wikipediatells me that I am dead. It says that I have died very recently – only a week ago, in fact – and I would be interested to know what it thinks happened to me on 10 December, the supposed day of my death. As far as I recall, I did nothing at all that day except sit by the fire and write a column for G2, later rewarding myself with a large drink and an early bed. I have pinched myself again today, so I can state, as Mark Twain once did, that the report of my death is an exaggeration.It was a reader who drew the Guardian's attention to my  recently updated Wikipedia entry, which starts "Alexander Chancellor (January 4, 1940 – December 10, 2009) was a British journalist".Noting that the Guardian hadn't thought it worth commenting on my demise and that it had also published a column by me on the day after my death, the reader wondered whether someone had been "erroneously or maliciously editing the Wikipedia entry". Good question. I wonder, too.Malice is the more appealing explanation, for it would be fun to try to guess who was responsible and why. But error is the more likely one. The examples of premature obituaries or death notices in the media are legion, but are nearly always the result of some muddle over a name or misunderstood report. Sometimes they can have a salutary effect, as when  Alfred Nobel, inventor of dynamite, reading in his own obituary that he was a merchant of death,  decided to make amends by  setting up the Nobel prizes.But I have merited no  obituary so will just go on being a journalist for a while, though  perhaps being a little more cautious about putting my faith in Wikipedia from now on. Anyone can edit it, and even as I have been writing this, someone has kindly brought me back to life.
In 2005 it was widely assumed, by anyone not actually employed by Nintendo, that the Sony PSP would win the battle of the handheld games consoles. The PSP was sleek with a gorgeous widescreen display. The Nintendo DS looked like a toy. Even the inclusion of two screens wasn't enough to get anyone excited. But while the PSP has done well enough – it has sold more than 50m units – Nintendo's ugly duckling has grown into a phenomenon. The console has now shifted more than 100m units. The trend was recently confirmed when the DS overtook the PlayStation 2 to becomethe biggest selling games consolein UK history.But why has the DS done so well? You can credit three main factors: the welcoming interface, which has been crucial in opening up the appeal to non-gamers; with the DS you didn't need any of the traditional gaming dexterity to succeed – the ability to jab at a screen with a stylus was usually enough; the sleek, minimal styling of later models helped but most important of all has been the variety of content. The DS's catalogue is far more varied than the sports 'n' shooting console norm. Combine these and you have a console that has shattered long-standing gamer/non-gamer barriers.The big kickstart was the initial redesign. The DS Lite was launched in 2006 and started attracting an audience that had ignored the chunky original. Continuing redesigns and improvements have helped, but this is only part of the story. Around the time the DS Lite arrived, Nintendo launchedBrain Training: the self-improvement software had been a huge success in Japan and was quickly adopted in other markets.Brain Training and its sequels alone are probably accountable for half of those 10m UK sales. The huge success caused an avalanche of similar titles and soon the DS was swamped with fitness, puzzle and general self-improvement titles. The quality was variable but accessibility was near universal. There was the occasional Mario and Zelda to keep the gamers happy too, but the success of the DS has been driven by the sheer variety of software available for it. Titles such as Brain Training and Nintendogs offered rewarding entertainment to people who wouldn't consider themselves gamers.The stylus interface, and celeb-friendly marketing have been integral to the DS's success. Children's software has been hugely popular too. Less happily for Nintendo piracy has also contributed to those hefty sales figures.Along with Sudoku, crosswords and puzzle titles, – Professor Layton in particular – the DS has become the handheld games console for everyone. Well, nearly everyone. Hardcore gamers have often been turned off by the barrage of puzzle-party minigame releases, and there is no doubt Sony's PSP is the better bet for this audience. However, titles such asthe latest Zelda gamewill definitely appeal to veteran gamers while the marvellous Korg DS-10 music software proves the DS is far from a toy.Whatever the future holds for the DS, – and it will certainly involve numerous new iterations of both hardware and Brain Training – it is unlikely to see its UK sales record beaten by a competitor any time soon. No one, even those employed by Nintendo at the time, would have predicted that in 2005.
Once upon the dotcom boom, 3Com announced a product called Audrey. Audrey was to be an internet device that would sit in your kitchen, and which you would use to do little online tasks. It would cost about $499.It never arrived; and it's not even clear whether there are any Audreys still in existence. (Dreadful name, of course, didn't help.)Now, though, there's the Chumby. And the Chumby is everything the Audrey wanted to be, and much more. It's a small, mains-powered device, about the size of two of those juggling beanbags, and about as soft (or hard); it looks and feels throwable. It also has a little screen (3.5in, 320x240, which doesn't sound enough, but is plenty). And Wi-Fi. And an alarm clock function. And some USB sockets for connecting, occasionally, to a computer.What's cleverest about the Chumby, though, is the "widgets" you can bring up, which connect to channels such as Facebook status updates, Twitter, weather, and various internet content sites, notably Shoutcast and Pandora (for you US types) and "Radio Free Chumby". No iPlayer yet. You can play MP3s from USB sticks. But that's really missing the point of the Chumby.No, the point is realised once you set up a Chumby account and create some channels with widgets. The range is marvellous – there are more than 1,000 to choose from. I discovered that you can delight young children for hours on end by letting them loose on a widget-enabled Chumby. Mine discovered one called "Choppy's Restaurant", which is a series of daft and exceedingly bloody cartoon sketches that make The Simpsons' Itchy &amp; Scratchy cartoons look like, well, Tom and Jerry. Yet it's also harmless, pointless, funny stuff.Adults will probably prefer to run a through a gentler loop – of BBC website headlines, weather reports, Twitter and Facebook-related updates, and so on. You can input details using the slightly inconvenient onscreen keyboard, but it's a hassle you may not find worth the effort.Far easier to leave the Chumby as a mostly passive device that does its stuff while you're doing yours. It's not a focus of attention; it's like a tiny TV or radio, chattering away to itself.Of course, the screen isn't big enough to do proper internet searches or use it as a replacement for a computer. That's where the Chumby's design is clever: by going for the beanbag appearance, it has avoided any suggestion it's a computer. It's an appliance – an internet appliance.The price tag of £140 may make you wonder about it. Certainly, it's an indulgence; it's nothing you couldn't do with, say, a similarly priced iPod touch. But if you need to keep a couple of kids entertained for a few hours, there's nothing better.Pros:simple, robust design; huge content choice; good interfaceCons:a bit pricey; onscreen keyboard not greatfirebox.com
Microsoft has ended more than a decade of wrangling with European Union regulators by agreeing to let Windows users surf the web using rival applications.From the spring, European web users running Windows 7, XP or Vista who have Internet Explorer as their default browser will be presented with a "ballot screen" that will offer them adozen alternatives to choose from, including Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Apple's Safari.Under a five-year agreement, anyone buying a new Windows-based PC will see the same screen, meaning tens of millions of consumers could switch.Neelie Kroes, the European commissioner for competition policy, greeted the move as an early Christmas present for consumers.But it is a major blow for Microsoft. The rise of broadband internet access means applications such as word processors or spreadsheets no longer need to reside on a computer, and can instead be run online, with documents stored virtually.This makes the browser a vital gateway to the next generation of applications, relegating the PC operating system where Microsoft remains dominant."Web browsers have gained strategic importance as they have become the gateway to an enormous range of online services both for businesses and consumers," said Kroes. "This decision therefore has the potential to foster the development of platforms for applications which will rival existing ones and therefore offer consumers choice and variety."Now – for the first time in over a decade – internet users in Europe will have an effective and unbiased choice between Microsoft's Internet Explorer and competing web browsers. It is as if you went to the supermarket and they only offered you one brand of shampoo on the shelf, and all the other choices are hidden out the back, and not everyone knows about them. What we are saying is that all the brands should be on the shelf."A dozen browsers – including Internet Explorer – will appear on the pop-up ballot screen, with the top five listed prominently. Exactly which applications will be present depends on market share data, but Microsoft has been testing the screen since October and it has included Safari, Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Opera, AOL, Maxthon, K-Meleon, Flock, Avant Browser, Sleipnir and Slim Browser.Brad Smith, senior vice-president and general counsel at Microsoft, said: "Under this resolution, Microsoft commits that PC manufacturers and users will continue to be able to install any browser on top of Windows, to make any browser the default browser on new PCs, and to turn access to Internet Explorer on or off."Since it was created 14 years ago, Microsoft has been packaging Internet Explorer with its Windows operating system. As the system has become dominant – Windows is used on more than nine out of every 10 PCs – so has Internet Explorer, which now has more than 60% of the global market.The way Microsoft used to bundle products such as its media player or browser with Windows, and prevent rivals from ensuring their competing applications were fully interoperable with its products, has been at the heart of legal battles on both sides of the Atlantic.In the late 1990s, Microsoft fought what became known as a "browser war" with Netscape, whose Navigator application dominated the market before Internet Explorer was released. Microsoft used its Windows customer base to effectively shut Netscape out of the market and in 1998 the US department of justice accused it of stifling competition.The department initially suggested splitting Microsoft in two, and the case was not settled until 2004.That same year, the EU ended a five-year investigation by condemning Microsoft for illegal abuse of its near-monopoly, ordering it to remove its digital music player from the Windows operating system and slapping a fine of nearly €500m (£333m) on the firm.Since then it has accused the company of abusing its position by preventing rivals from linking with its software , which last year led to a record €899m fine. Microsoft is still appealing that decision but this deal effectively ends the EU's investigation.Microsoft also agreed to give developers access to technical documentation needed to build products that work well with Microsoft's Windows, Windows Server, Office, Exchange and SharePoint.
Seasoned gamers would say that every decade feels like a tumultuous one. This is, after all, the entertainment medium in which the major content delivery platforms – ie, the home consoles – are reinvented every five years. And if you're a PC owner trying to stay at the cutting edge – well, that'll be a graphics card and processor update at least every 18 months, thank you. Moore's law can be a bitch like that.But the Noughties has been a standout period – mostly for the acceptance of video gaming as a mainstream activity. Sure, it bloomed during the 90s as the well-marketed PlayStation console courted a generation of cash-rich twentysomethings with no family commitments and bags of free time. But this was still boys playing games together. It wasn't until the 2000s that the industry really started to hit the family living room, rather than the teenage bedroom or shared bachelor pad.We're being told this is all down to Nintendo's astonishingly successful Wii console, but the roots go much deeper. In February 2000, for example, EA launched The Sims, its agenda-setting interactive soap opera – which by 2002 was the biggest-selling PC game to date. The series has shifted well over 100m units and importantly for the widening appeal of video games, 60% of players are women.It was back in the early years of the decade, too, that Sony's London studio  was experimenting with the motion capture technology that would in 2003 become its EyeToy peripheral, a camera that could track simple player movements and translate them into onscreen action. Bundled with the mini-game selection EyeToy Play it was a big hit, introducing the concept of accessible "mimetic" interfaces. At the same time, numerous "dance mat" games such as Dance Dance Revolution encouraged a more physical approach to play, and with their licensed pop music soundtracks and social interaction again attracted female players.In 2004, Sony launched its landmark karaoke sim Singstar and a year later an almost unheard-of Massachusetts-based developer named Harmonix Music Systems brought us Guitar Hero, in which players used a plastic guitar controller to strum along to rock music tracks. These vital innovations combined to connect gaming with other more socially acceptable pursuits, while freeing gamers from the arcane tyranny of the joypad with its myriad of buttons and fiddly analogue sticks.The availability and explosive growth of broadband internet has also had an incalculable influence on gaming this decade. The technology was in its commercial infancy at the start of the decade, but  by 2007, an estimated 300 million users worldwide were accessing the internet via fast broadband connections. This led to the massive growth of online gaming, with first-person shooters such as Half-Life, Quake and Unreal  evolving to court a growing community of obsessive fans. Gamers from all over the world started to create their own levels for the leading titles, kickstarting the modern craze for user-generated content. The era also saw the rise of the massively multiplayer role-playing game (MMORPG) in which thousands of gamers simultaneously inhabit vast virtual worlds.Early versions such as Meridian 59 and Ultima Online set the genre conventions in the late-90s, but i t was Sony Online Entertainment's 1999 release EverQuest that propelled the MMORPG into the spotlight, attracting half a million players by the middle of the 2000s and earning the nickname EverCrack thanks to its addictive combination of adventuring and socialising. This was also the first major online title in which players were able to sell in-game items for real-world currency, and eBay was flooded with swords and magical capes. The practice was eventually industrialised, with gold-farming sweatshops cropping up in China and India, where staff played games for countless hours, earning in-game currency and items that were then sold on to players for real cash.In the wake of EverQuest came dozens of pretenders, including the engrossing sci-fi adventure Eve Online and fantasy favourite, Runescape. But one has made a greater impact than the rest – World of , based on the popular strategy gaming series created by Californian studio Blizzard EntertainmentWarcraft. There are now estimated to be 11.5 million subscribers, giving it a larger population than Sweden. In the background though, casual gaming has penetrated even this hardcore compound. Launched in 2005, Club Penguin – an online virtual world aimed at children – was bought by Disney two years later for $350m and now has 12 million users. And of course, broadband, together with the gradual refinement of Adobe's Flash plug-in, has also facilitated the rise of casual gaming portals such as RealArcade, BigFish Games and PlayFirst where players gather to chat and play intuitive addictive games, via their web browsers or fast downloads. The key force here is Popcap Games with its ridiculously successful Bejeweled, Peggle and Zuma puzzle titles: one of the latest iterations, Bejeweled Blitz, currently has up to 3.3 million daily active users.Back on console, though, and the phenomenally successful PlayStation 2, later joined by Microsoft's Xbox, used their significant processing power to usher in a new age of graphically rich narrative gaming. Franchises such as Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid and Final Fantasy brought cinematic portent to games with their lengthy animated story scenes and convoluted plots. In the west, however, there were some major story-telling innovations that would eventually end Japan's dominance of the games industry. The sci-fi shooter Half-Life introduced the concept of seamless in-game narrative, with plot points delivered via dialogue rather than obtrusive cut-scenes – this urgent new style would reach its commercial zenith with the rip-roaring Halo and Call of Duty combat series. At the same time, Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto titles completely revolutionised video game structure, providing a series of story missions over a vast, highly explorable environment. Suddenly, the linear, arcade-flavoured adventures churned out by Japanese developers such as Namco, Capcom and Konami looked less appealing. The introduction of semi- and completely open-world titles such as Fallout 3, Far Cry 2 and Assassin's Creed 2 has been one of the highlights of the past three years in gaming. With the increased graphics processing power of the next gen consoles and high-end PCs, games began to resemble animated movies, while blockbuster Hollywood films increasingly relied on computer generated effects, in effect becoming non-interactive videogames. Directors such as John Woo and Stephen Spielberg took active roles in game development, Woo with Sega's fast-paced shooter Stranglehold and Spielberg with the excellent, and decidedly uncinematic Wii puzzler Boom Blox. The actor Vin Diesel even set up a games studio, while Filmmakers such as Peter Jackson and James Cameron started to view the video game adaptations of their movies as crucial elements of the "overall artistic vision" – or if you prefer, "revenue potential". Nowadays we have studios such as Warner Bros, owning their own game publishing businesses, while game producers such as French giant Ubisoft and Electronic Arts are investing in movie development.The transition to the current generation consoles has not been seamless. Sony spent billions developing the PS3, implementing not only the complex multi-core Cell chipset, but also the then unfinalised Blu-ray technology. When the machine was launched in 2006, it was estimated that because of the need for a competitive price point, Sony was losing around $200 on every machine sold. Elsewhere, Microsoft was having its own problems with the Xbox 360. Launched in November 2005, the machine was a strong proposition buoyed by strong titles like Gears of War, Elder scrolls IV and Ghost recon Advanced Warfighter, and an excellent online gaming service, Xbox Live. But then broken machines started pouring back to suppliers, leading to the infamous Red Ring of Death scandal. A recent UK survey revealed that the hardware failure rate might be as high as 60% in this country.In the background, Nintendo must have been looking on with some satisfaction. This was the decade in which the great veteran of the industry decided to drop out of Sony and Microsoft's  ruinously expensive technology race. In 2004 it launched the Nintendo DS, a gimmicky handheld with a touchscreen interface. Critics didn't know what to make of it but through lovely games such as New Super Mario Bros, Mario Kart DS and Nintendogs it flourished, appealing to an ever widening demographic, culminating in the phenomenon that was Dr Kawashima's Brain Training – perhaps the first major release actively marketed at an older demographic. Then in 2006 came the Nintendo Wii, only slightly more powerful than 2001's Gamecube, but boasting a motion controller resembling a TV remote and games such as Wii Sports, which could be enjoyed by the whole family. Here, the processor and graphics power were irrelevant – it was all about accessibility and the smooth integration into the family entertainment agenda. Wii Fit is the coup de grace – a game that ostensibly makes you look and feel better. It is the antithesis of everything gaming was in the 90s – post-pub lad fare, the electronic equivalent of a kebab with chili sauce.There have been many more important innovations, of course. The rise of digital distribution, via PC services such as Steam as well as through Xbox Live, Wiiware and PlayStation Network, is reshaping the whole concept of games retail and development – publishers can now extend the life of their products indefinitely with new levels and missions, as well as bypassing shops and selling games direct to consumers. This has also given rise to the "freemium" model, originally massively popular in South Korea, where games are distributed for free, with players paying for customisation options and other extras.The slow growth of mobile phone gaming was given a great big shot of adrenaline in 2007 with the launch of the iPhone, and its App Store, where decent, visually impressive titles were finally easily available. What publishers are now looking at is the era of total cross-platform functionality – games that run across consoles, social networks, handhelds and mobiles, games that you can play on PS3, but then tweak or chat about on iPhone, games that you can tweet from, or phone into. The noughties was all about the development of multiple new ways to play games, the next decade will be about them coming together.
Shilling on eBayMy bidding life on eBay is being made a nightmare by a user who pushes me to my bidding maximum on items by placing a huge bid to reveal my maximum bid, then retracting their bid, and then placing a bid just less than my maximum. I have phoned eBay and tried to report this person, but it still carries on.David AshcroftJack Schofield replies:eBay says: "Except under special circumstances, bid retraction is not permitted" and that "this includes any manipulation of the bidding process to discover the maximum bid of the current high bidder or to uncover the reserve price". This is a form of "shill bidding" andeBay has a tutorial about it.You should report shill bidding to eBay usinga Contact Us formon the site but this isn't as easy as it should be, or used to be.After I complained on your behalf, eBay suspended the user's account. I pointed out if bid retraction can only be used in "special circumstances", it's ridiculous to allow a user to make more than 500 retractions in six months. eBay says it will look into this issue. In the meantime, try to avoid dealing with users who have a record of bid retraction.A solution is to bid using "sniping" software that submits your bid a few seconds before an auction closes, so you can't be shilled. I have not tried these programs, buta Google searchfinds plenty of options.Rogue security softwareI seem to have part-downloaded a Personal Security system scan, and boxes keep popping up telling me to pay $74 (£46) for security because they have already detected serious viral threats to my computer (which my up-to-date Norton antivirus apparently hasn't). It won't delete and the pop-up tells me "this is only a trial offer and the delete settings have been disabled".Tim SymondsJS:Getting users to install rogue security software, which might be disguised as a video codec update, is a popular scam. Most of these programs can be removed byMalwarebytes, andBleeping Computerhas full removal instructions. After you've cleared it, go to Windows Update and make sure your software is up to date, and change all your web passwords. Anyone who has paid for fake security software should contact their card supplier's fraud department and ask for the payment to be cancelled.Empty desktopMy trusty four-year-old Dell Latitude D800 running Windows XP Pro SP3 is now starting up with my chosen wallpaper photo on the screen and nothing else: no start menu, no desktop icons, nothing. I have no way of accessing anything. Help!Claire Owens SandJS:If Windows won't start normally, you should be able to start it in Safe Mode, usually by pressing F8 during the boot-up sequence. This will enable you to run a virus check (as this problem may well be caused by a virus), uninstall something you have installed recently, use a Restore Point to roll the system back, or whatever. But having a blank desktop suggests that explore.exe is not running. Press Ctrl-Alt-Del to run the Windows Task Manager, go to the Processes tab and see if explore.exe is running. If it isn't, go to the File menu, select New Task (Run…), type in explore.exe and click OK. If it is running, select it in Processes and click the button in the lower right, End Process. If explore.exe doesn't restart by itself, you can try running it manually.Trying WordPressI am a newcomer to WordPress and the tutorials are quite daunting. Is there any desktop style, offline editor that I can use before I get into a 12-month contract with a host and find that I'm totally rubbish at it!Stephen DonkinJS:You can experiment with the posting part of WordPress by opening a free account. You can also install a copy on your desktop: see Install WordPress offline on Your PC usingXampp by Abhishek S Jain. Also,davidtan.org has a very brief guidefor people who have a WordPress site but want to run a local duplicate copy to test themes, plug-ins and so on.Backchat• Carl Brancher quibbled, correctly, aboutme mentioning"the move from TFT to LED panels" (Ask Jack, 10 December) because, he says, "I believe almost all displays are TFT-LCD: what's changed is the construction and backlighting methodologies." Technically, many displays have changed from using very thin tubes (cold cathode fluorescent lamps) to LED backlighting, because light-emitting diodes use less power and don't dim as quickly. Companies, however, are selling LED screens rather than thin film transistor (TFT) liquid crystal display (LCD) screens to avoid having too many three-letter initialisms.• Jem Moore wanteda new laptop with a 4:3 screeninstead of a widescreen because screen depth is more useful than width for document processing.On the Ask Jack blog, goodolpete pointed out that if you add an external keyboard, you can turn a widescreen laptop on its side and rotate the Windows display through 90° to 9:16. Usually this is done by pressing Ctrl-Alt plus an arrow key. Other options can be set using Display Properties (right click on the desktop, select Properties). Go to Settings, click the Advanced button and look for the Rotation tab.This is the 449th, and final, printed  version of Ask Jack, but the service  continues via theAsk Jack blog
When the Guardian's first Technology section came out in October 1983, it was in a different political environment. The first issue interviewed the then information minister Kenneth Baker as he played at home with his BBC B computer. He was part of Mrs Thatcher's government, which, surprisingly, had endorsed a BBC-designed computer for use in the nation's schools to help education – very successfully too. It not only boosted computer literacy spectacularly, among younger people but also sparked a computer war among manufacturers – particularly Sinclair, which had failed to get the contract – that increased sales and  enabled a whole generation to cut their teeth on the new breed of mini-computers. Many went on to create the highly successful UK gaming industry – think Grand Theft Auto – and also ARM, the Cambridge company whose chips reside inside most mobile phones.The BBC would never be allowed to do the same today under a Labour government. The highly successful iPlayer is all about recycling BBC material. If the BBC were to market its own net computer there would be howls of rage from manufacturers saying it has no right to usurp the private sector. The sad thing was that no manufacturer of mini-computers ever became a global success – even though some could have been, and Sinclair was, briefly, the biggest manufacturer of computers (by unit) in the world.The first issue of Futures/Micro Guardian was edited byTim Radford, our science guru, with me as a nominal co-editor. It contained an article on Europe's contribution to the space shuttle and the first of the innovative maths columns by Keith Devlin, pointing out the similarity between modern computers and 13th-century English wine merchants – they both used the binary system, counting in units of two. Decades later, when I became editor of Online, it coincided with another era – the dotcom boom, which I still recall with wonder and disbelief. Wonder, because it spawned innovative companies, many of which have survived – ranging from lastminute.com to moonfruit.com, a web-building company now thriving both as a web builder and domain name company. Disbelief, because other companies such as boo.com, an online store, squandered tens of millions of shareholders' money without building anything that even looked like a viable business. Another, clickmango.com, hit the headlines because of Joanna Lumley's endorsement, but hardly reached the turnover of a corner shop before expiring in 2000. Many of the people who failed then, however, learned the lessons and are among current successes. Today's cosmopolitan web-based companies in the UK, mainly located in London, are more firmly based than during the dotcom boom. I wouldn't be surprised if some really successful global companies emerged.We could also be at the start of a new wave of government thinking, if little-noticed details of Gordon Brown's speech last week materialise. He promiseda radical shift of power to users of public servicessuch as health and education, ranging from giving parents online access to their children's school progress,to the release of public data(in line with ourFree Our Data campaign). Brown pledged Britain would become the world leader in the third generation of public services to be shaped and driven by users. That could be dismissed as pre-electoral bribery, except he does seem serious. He also promised the extension of broadband "to every home", a policy this newspaper has been pushing for more than 25 years. Its fulfilment is an essential condition for Britain being in the forefront of the digital revolution, on which so many jobs will depend. Asa regular columnist– first with economics and business and latterly technology – for around 35 years, it is a poignant moment to be signing off, though you can stillfollow me on Twitter, and the campaigns and reporting will be continued online. More interesting things are happening now than ever before in my reporting lifetime. The future of the economy will depend on how successfully we exploit them.victorkeegan.com
A few years ago, people who felt betrayed by the future suddenly gained a new rallying cry. After a lifetime of promises about robots and flying cars, we started to wonder: "Where's my jetpack?" Since then, the jokey slogan has found itself appearing everywherefrom T-shirtsto songs.It's a jab in the eye of every futurist who made firm predictions about what we'll see in generations to come, and it's easy to laugh at the fools who dreamed of such frivolities. After all, merely guessing at the future is a fundamentally foolish business.  That doesn't mean that we can't understand what is coming tomorrow, however, and prepare for the most likely futures by understanding how things happened in the past.That is where the rich history of the Guardian's technology pages becomes more than just an archive of old newspapers. Over nearly 30 years, there have been titanic changes in the way we view and use technologies. We've seen computers move toward the centre of our lives, much of our food is engineered, families can be created in a lab and keeping in touch is cheaper and easier – regardless of whether we do it physically or virtually. So what should we expect from the next decade?Of all the trends that will dominate our lives in the coming years, computing is the one that has set the standard – and followed distinct rules along the way.The unending influence ofMoore's law(a formulation that is both so beautiful and so ubiquitous that it has taken on an almost Shakespearean quality) dictates that our computers will become more powerful and less expensive as time goes on.This will mean, for starters, machines capable of ever-increasing feats of power: lifelike graphics, smarter understanding, greater intelligence. "Singularity" advocates such as Ray Kurzweil believe this will end in sentient computers – and while that is almost certainly excessive, we are already seeing extraordinary leaps in what machines can do. Academics are now crunching everything from terabytes of data pouring out of the Large Hadron Collider to data pushed to PlayStations to scour the universe for alien life.With ever-increasing amounts of computing power to throw at complex problems, the ideas that have baffled scientists and engineers for decades may finally start to emerge from the darkness. That opens up the chance of high-quality visual recognition systems and accurate translations that work so fast they resemble acts of magic.The trends set by Moore's law also mean that even the smallest devices will pack an increasingly powerful punch. Today, an iPhone contains the same amount of computing power as a Mac from 10 years ago; soon enough our handsets will enjoy the same processing power and capabilities as the high-end desktop computers we use now.Look to the cloudsThere is also an argument, however, that gadgets will become less powerful rather than more. Why? Because the immense computational power at our fingertips will also be available on demand thanks to cloud computing. With storage, memory and connectivity also advancing at a rapid clip, the built-in capabilities of your gadgets become less important than their ability to connect to a more powerful machine elsewhere.And if the real brain of your phone or TV or games console can be squirrelled away somewhere else, many consumer electronics might simply become screens that plug into the network and present you with the appropriate information. These developments could easily ramp up as those screens continue to evolve to become cheaper, lighter, thinner, more flexible and more robust.In addition to the gadgets we carry or use in the home, the plummeting cost of computers means it is almost certain that more of our world -– the things we touch, we build, we grow – will be able to incorporate these ideas. It's happening at various levels already: anyone carrying an Oyster card around on the Tube today, for example, has the same amount of memory in their pocket as one of Clive Sinclair's ZX81 computers from 1981.This sort of ubiquitous computing (even at the lowest end) offers the possibility that we can build networks of things that talk to each other constantly. This subtle layer of activity will take place outside of our perception, but will have profound implications for our everyday lives – with objects able to assess and regulate themselves and report back on what is happening to them.So, the idea of an internet fridge in every home may still be an amusing fiction in 2020, but for western city dwellers there is a high likelihood that miniature computers will be baked into every brick, every piece of clothing or item of food.Those objects could well include people, too. Biotechnology is another area of speedy development, and one that is just beginning to undergo the same revolution as the IT industry did in the 1970s. Understanding the processes of life, and treating organisms like we treat machines, suddenly opens new horizons all around us.Now the human genome is mapped, for example, we are understanding more and more about it every day. Personal genomic companies are springing up and medicine is on the verge of ambitious advances in both treatment and cure. Certain diseases and syndromes could become a thing of the past in the next decade, while others – if not eradicated – will certainly be more properly understood.Other areas, such as human enhancement and the production of artificial organs, are moving forward. Engineers are already able to "print" custom bones to order, though sometimes the change is much too fast for our ethical understanding to keep up. That is where the structures of the old world could step in order to slow progress down, as development becomes a game of politics not possibilities.Politics is also likely to hurt the area where development is, perhaps, most necessary of all: energy. Our oil-based economies are ripe for technological revolution, but the answers today seem only half-baked – and could quite easily stay that way.While there is a groundswell of entrepreneurs and academics working tirelessly to come up with new answers, it is hard to tell whether the energy landscape will look very different in a decade. The Copenhagen summit is just one example that shows how difficult consensus can be.Pull up to the bumperIn fact, as we engage in everyday behaviour – watching 3D films with distant friends over our tiny disposable flexi-screens, or getting advance traffic reports streaming in from tiny transmitters hidden in cars and by the roadside – the important theme could be how to use that technology to solve the problems presented by our dwindling natural resources.Despite the continually falling prices, as physical goods get ever cheaper thanks to the efficiencies afforded by technology, we may find ourselves struggling to hold back. So often we hear about "doing more with less" – soon that may be a battle cry, not a bumper sticker.Whatever happens, the one thing the world still has in abundance is ingenuity, and while we're unlikely to see those jetpacks any time soon, there's still plenty to look forward to.
US regulators today launched a legal action against Intel, amid fresh accusations that the computer chip maker deliberately stifled competition.The announcement by the Federal Trade Commission, which oversees the enforcement of competition law in the US, marks the latest in a series of worldwide antitrust cases against the Californian technology company - and is the most significant action taken by the regulator since it took Microsoft to court in the 1990s.The FTC said that its decision to sue Intel comes after a long string of allegations that the company forced and coerced computer manufacturers to use its technologies instead of those made by rival companies."Intel has engaged in a deliberate campaign to hamstring competitive threats to its monopoly," said Richard Feinstein, who heads up the FTC's bureau of competition."It's been running roughshod over the principles of fair play and the laws protecting competition on the merits. The commission's action today seeks to remedy the damage that Intel has done to competition, innovation and, ultimately, the American consumer."Among the allegations are claims that the company offered discounts to customers like HP, Dell and IBM on the condition that they drop products from its main rival, AMD. The company is also accused of deliberately deceiving its customers and "smothering" potential competitors.Intel has responded by calling the case "misguided" and suggesting that some of the allegations had been added after earlier negotiations to settle the case out of court had reached an impasse."The FTC's case is misguided," it said in a statement. "It is based largely on claims that the FTC added at the last minute and has not investigated. In addition, it is explicitly not based on existing law but is instead intended to make new rules for regulating business conduct. These new rules would harm consumers by reducing innovation and raising prices."In a briefing with reporters, Intel's general counsel Doug Melamed argued that the FTC was overstepping its legal mandate."Some of these issues were brand new to us," he said. "It seems to me that the FTC is seeking to restrict all kinds of pro-competitive price discounting."The lawsuit, he said, was designed to unfairly restrict the activities of large companies offering legal discounts to customers "and from protecting their intellectual property rights by controlling their licensing and preventing others from taking advantage."The case comes after similar actions against Intel in other jurisdictions, including a case brought by theNew York attorney general Andrew Cuomoand a record€1.06bn fine from European regulatorswho accused the company of "harming millions of European consumers".It also follows the news last month that Intel hadagreed a $1.25bn settlement with AMD, its major competitor, to bring to an end a series of complaints about its business conduct.Much of the FTC's case against Intel is similar to the one heard in Brussels, which produced evidence that the company had spent millions paying companies to avoid AMD's products - and against which Intel is appealing. However, American officials also added new allegations to the mix by saying that Intel had also presented certain performance information in a way that misled both customers and competitors."Intel secretly redesigned key software, known as the compiler, in a way that deliberately stunted the performance of competitors' CPU chips," the commission said. "Intel told its customers and the public that software performed better on Intel CPUs than on competitors' CPUs, but the company deceived them by failing to disclose that these differences were largely or entirely due to Intel's compiler design."The case significantly expands on previous claims by including not only CPUs - the central processing units that form the brain of the modern computer - but also GPUs, the chips used to power computer graphics. While AMD is Intel's main rival in the CPU market, other companies compete against Intel in graphics, including Nvidia and Via."We applaud today's action by the US Federal Trade Commission," said Nvidia in a statement. "We are particularly pleased to see scrutiny being placed on Intel's behavior towards GPUs, which have become an increasingly important part of the PC industry."
You'll have read about thedefeat for Microsoft at the hands of the European Commission over browsers.To wit:Existing Windows users in Europe, including XP users, will also get the ballot screen via a Windows Update download. This will invite them to choose from a list of the 12 most-widely used browsers: Apple's Safari, Google's Chrome, Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Mozilla's Firefox, Opera, AOL, Maxthon, K-Meleon, Flock, Avant Browser, Sleipnir and Slim Browser. The selection will be open to change every six months as market shares change.But you know that it's just going to be logos shown, each the same size. But how would it be if it were according to market share? We checkedNetApps market share stats- though of course you have toallow for different versions of IE, as it's not a single product.And here's how it turns out. Argue among yourselves about whether IE would ever have had that share if it hadn't broken antitrust law, of course...
All through the printed paper – notably in the G2 (tabloid) section on Thursdays, when we will have game reviews and the top 10 bestselling games chart (an innovation in print). We're aiming to produce more news stories and features for the main part of the newspaper. And at weekends there will be the Guide, with its usual page of unusual findings from the web, plus more reviews. And the Observer will also offer a fresh take on the topic (and a continuing place for technology stories).The key place to find our technology coverage of course is online – as has been the case for some years now, as we produce more than can be squeezed into a physical paper on most days.The first place to start is with Twitter, where the@guardiantechaccount (twitter.com/guardiantech) has more than 1.5 million followers and provides links to every story produced across the Guardian that relates in any way to "technology" in its broadest sense – whether that's people Twittering about the X Factor final, or how 3D engines are written, or the release of the Guardian's iPhone app (of which more later).The next place, if you want to see a rolling version of those stories, is at our "all stories" page –guardian.co.uk/technology/allwhere you will find a list of the stories; it's like Twitter but without the interaction.If interaction is what you're after, though, the place to go to is the front page, atguardian.co.uk/technologywhere the news and features of the day&nbsp;are laid out for you. There are plenty of subdivisions for you to examine – gadgets, the internet, computing – but it's often the case that the busiest places are the blogs.That's the Technology blog, atguardian.co.uk/technology/blogand the award-winning Games blog atguardian.co.uk/gamesblogand of course the PDA blog (which sits on the flourishing patch between media and technology) atguardian.co.uk/media/pda.Ask Jack is still here to help with his own blog atguardian.co.uk/askjackfor questions and answers.But wait, there's plenty more. For those who want to know more about particular topics or companies – Apple? Microsoft? Google? – we have a huge range of "keyword" pages. So for example there'sguardian.co.uk/appleandguardian.co.uk/microsoftandguardian.co.uk/google. Prefer news about mobile phones?guardian.co.uk/technology/mobilephones. And so on. Each has its own RSS feed – so (this is left as an exercise for the reader) you can generate your own Twitter feed for them.We would be remiss if we didn't remind you of the Tech Weekly podcast (you can figure out the frequency), which aims to enhance your world for half an hour: you can find it throughguardian.co.uk/techweeklyto listen directly or on an MP3 player.And finally, there's the new platform for reading the Guardian, including the technology content: the iPhone app, available for £2.39 at the iPhone App Store. It works offline on iPod Touches too. Read on ...
The past decade has been the story of three companies, and one increasingly powerful idea. When the decade dawned in 2000, Microsoft was a colossus, with 1999 sales of $19bn and net income of $7.8bn bestriding the online and offline world. It had the best-selling operating system; butin April 2000 it was ordered to split itself into two– an "operating systems" company and an "applications" company – by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who found it guilty of antitrust violations after a trial that revealed much about the company's vicious, no-holds-barred approach to competition. Jackson's ruling – which could have created a fascinating pair of companies – wasoverturned on appeal in 2001after comments he made during the trial to a reporter, Ken Auletta, were published in a book.That left Microsoft free to push on further. But the antitrust trial had broken a little of its spirit; from then on it was always looking over its shoulder for the US justice department (and then in front at the European Commission's antitrust department, which perked up when it saw its transatlantic cousin's success).Apple turnoverApple Computer, meanwhile, was struggling: despite the return of Steve Jobs to its top position in 1997, it was having little impact in sales terms with its computers (which was all it had; the iPod was not released until October 2001). Although the originaliMac had been a hitin fashion terms the company was making little headway financially. Its $6bn of sales (up 3%) and $601m profits (up 94%) for fiscal 1999 were at least growth, after three years when it shrank and made horrendous losses (though it still had $3bn in the bank).But in late 2000, it made a fateful – and game-changing – decision: it bought Soundjam MP, a popular MP3-playing program for the Mac, and the services of its head programmer, Jeff Robbin. Steve Jobs would later insist that his team had seen the future, seen the coming of miniature hard drives able to store gigabytes of data, had positioned Apple to take advantage of it. Either way, the gamble was to pay off.Meanwhile the internet had everyone excited – though it was still a world reached by dialup.A survey in October 1999 by Continental Researchreckoned that 18.6m Britons had internet access, spending an average of 17 minutes a day (8.5 hours per month) online.AOL and Time Warner leapt into what they hoped would be a synergistic $109bn merger, where people would lap up mass-media content via a walled garden internet connection. It turned out to be monumental hubris, one of the greatest destructions of shareholder value ever seen. Why? Because as the decade progressed, and particularly from 2001 onwards – when Wikipedia was set up by Jimmy Wales(below)and Larry Sanger,using the "wiki" software that had come of age– the power of the crowd, and people's ability to use the internet to their own ends, not those of content generators, became central to the internet experience.Allied to the growth of the crowd was the rise of Google – which uses the power of the crowd to determine where sites should be placed in its ranking. At the start of the decade Google was a good idea struggling to find a business model. During 2000it introduced text advertsthough they were, it admits, "rather primitive". Crucially, though, that year it won a contract to become Yahoo's default search provider. Having ended 1999 serving 7m search queries daily (compared to AltaVista's 50m), by the end of 2000 it was handling 100m. Nowadays, it makes more than 300m every day – 109bn a year.But Google was still a minnow in revenue terms; for 2000 its revenues were just $19m, but its costs were $34m – a loss of $17m. It moved narrowly into profit in 2001 ($86m revenues, $10.9m profit) but only truly motored in 2003 with the introduction of Google Mail, when it worked out how to generate ads against any text. That meant it could offer ads on any website, not just against searches, and its revenues – and profits – burgeoned.Then, in the middle of the decade, came broadband. Imperfect, frustrating, but such a relief compared to dialup that we stampeded online:Britons now spend roughly 120 hours every monthusing the net.And what are we doing? The decade saw an explosion in content generation by people who had previously had little opportunity to. Website building (such as the now defunct GeoCities), forums, and then blogs gave people a medium they'd never had before. Wikipedia benefited as people lent it their expertise: "crowdsourcing" became more and more powerful, breaking through to the public consciousness when thegrainy pictures from the London bombings in July 2005told the story the normal media couldn't.Hello, everyoneAs the decade wore on, that creative outpouring migrated to the new "social networks" such as MySpace and Facebook, where longer blogposts were replaced by bite-sized remarks; this reached its apotheosis with Twitter, limiting remarks to text-message length. Google and Microsoft's (struggling, but reborn) web search integrated Twitter feeds; and so the thoughts of the crowd became available to itself. AOL and Time Warner, meanwhile, were left in the cold, unable to compete for content creation with millions of individuals, and unable to corral them in high-profit internet walled gardens. This monththe merger was in effect dissolved: AOL was refloated, valued at $2.4bn; Time Warner, at $35bn. Where did the other $72bn go? It vanished into the crowd.But another form of silent crowd also emerged in the decade: botnets – hundreds or thousands of compromised Windows machines, used for sending spam, hosting phishing sites, and attacking specific sites. Windows XP's general lack of security meant botnets were the first instance of "cloud computing", available for hire by the hour by miscreants and spam artists. Botnets are the surest sign of the failure of the decade to cope with the downside of a crowd – that nobody takes responsibility. (It will be interesting to see whether Google's Chrome OS can roll back the tide of malware.)Apple went from strength to strength as the iPod gave individuals the power to choose the soundtrack to their lives. Its annus mirabilis began in Christmas 2003, when the popularity of the new iPod mini saw 733,000 sold in a quarter – nearly as many as in the previous two years. The iPod and the new iTunes Store drove Apple's reputation. It followed it in 2007 with the long-rumoured iPhone (and sibling non-phone iPod touch), cannibalising its own successful product while reaching into a new market. (It also sold more computers than ever before.) It ended its fiscal 2009 in September with revenues totalling $36.54bn – each quarter bigger than the whole of 2000 – and profits of $5.72bn. Dell, the premier PC maker at the start of the decade, scrabbled around, lost in a commoditised battle. Apple could now buy it outright using just the cash it has in the bank.Cloudy forecastBut Microsoft has seen its profits eroded. Though 2009 revenues were $58bn, and net income $14bn, it has looked under threat as the internet has become a greater part of our lives. If you have storage and computing in the "cloud" (as Amazon and Google offer), and if open source programs such as OpenOffice can do many of the jobs that Microsoft Office can, why upgrade? Google in particular is undermining Microsoft by offering what it does, but for less: first, with Google Mail, which offered 1GByte of storage for free, when Hotmail and Yahoo charged for more than 10MB. Then with its online word processing and spreadsheets. Then with its Android phone OS, undercutting Windows Mobile. And next with Chrome OS, undercutting Windows on notebooks. Most recently, Google has started offering DNS lookup services, something nobody would trust to Microsoft. Which is in itself telling as the decade ends: Google, though dominant in a technology we rely on, doesn't worry us as Microsoft did – and still does.But, asNick Carrhas observed, Google has realised that its future is on the internet, where it makes its money (through advertising and other services); thus every effort it makes is to get more people online. Microsoft's aim was to get a computer on every desk. The internet wasn't part of it.  The question for the next decade, as the crowd discovers itself, is whether Microsoft will vanish in the cloud – or if it will manage to redefine and reinvent its reason for existing. In retrospect, Thomas Jackson's suggestion of a split may have been a good one.
Jack Schofield | Futures Micro Guardian | 1985-1994The success of Futures Micro Guardian, for which I'd written a weekly column from the first issue in 1983, encouraged the Guardian to expand its IT coverage, but this wasn't just an editorial concern. The paper's commercial strategy was to try to dominate the graduate recruitment market, and in the 80s, IT was a growing business with plenty of job ads to chase. I joined the paper to launch Computer Guardian in September 1985, and we chased them.It had to appear on a Thursday because we aspired to make it something like the media, education and society sections that appeared on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays.I didn't have any problem being commercial: I'd spent a decade editing bookstall magazines where you either made money or you didn't survive. But it was interesting to join a paper owned by a charitable trust.It  was also like stepping back in time, because the Guardian didn't seem to have any computers. Like many computer journalists, I was already an online addict, and used BT's Telecom Gold service when editing Practical Computing, one of the early monthlies. I started publishing my email address in the Guardian and used that and Cix to receive copy electronically. This became even more useful when, post Wapping, our minicomputer-based Atex publishing system arrived. Before that, Computer Guardian pages were made up in Manchester, with stories being sent up a week before publication.Computer Guardian covered everything from talking teddy bears to supercomputers. Features on the opening broadsheet page were usually aimed more at the general reader, and we covered microcomputers from Acorn, Amstrad, Atari, Commodore and Sinclair. These were extremely popular at the time, mainly for playing games, so I added a column of games reviews. Features on the inside panels, next to the job ads, covered more professional and industry topics. Regulars included Keith Devlin's maths column, continued from Futures Micro Guardian, and the Workspace column written by a retired IT manager, the late Ralph Cornes.Over time, the two side's interests converged as IBM PC-compatible machines became affordable, and as both home and professional users adopted Microsoft Windows 3 after its launch in 1990. Indeed, in the use of online systems such as Fidonet bulletin boards, Prestel, CompuServe and Cix, some home users were ahead. Many readers were on Demon, which started via a Cix conference, before big companies woke up to the net.In the early 80s, it was axiomatic that microchips would change the world, as they got faster and cheaper every year. Having seen computers move from number-crunching to word processing, and then to graphics and video, I fondly imagined the PC eventually challenging television. Also, as more and more of the world was transformed by the microprocessor, it seemed it must eventually make sense for each bit of the Guardian to have its own technology coverage instead of hiving it off into a separate section. There's still a long way to go, but we've gone further than I really expected.Nick Passmore | OnLine | 1994-95I'm not sure I ever was officially OnLine's editor – Alan Rusbridger, then still deputy to Peter Preston, asked if someone would look after the launch and I volunteered. Alan had bought a modem in the US that he had to run off a huge 115v transformer and I always suspected he gave me the job because I'd helped get it working for him …The Guardian had form of course, Vic Keegan and Jack Schofield had been writing about computers in its pages since the mid 1980s but my own online qualifications were limited to a bit of lurking on Cix and having used AppleLink and its successor, eWorld. Also involved was Tim Radford, a science editor with a gift for popularisation and an extensive contacts book. (Tim took me to lunch with Professor Steve Rose to see if we could persuade him to write for OnLine rather than the Telegraph. We were hardly promising to make him rich, but I think he was only partly joking when he said he didn't want to write regularly for the Guardian because so many of his colleagues read it and would be eager to offer him free criticism.)We knew that if we were going to preach weekly about the possibilities and potential of the internet we should practise too. It wasn't obvious how, though: we launched with plans for a CompuServe forum and months were spent fruitlessly trying to negotiate a contract that would allow free two-way interaction with our "readers".Luckily, one of the brightest of the bright young things around the place at the time was Azeem Azhar, who started putting some of our content on the web and, with the help of a Mac extracted from Apple and a line from Pipex, set up Go2 (Guardian OnLine online) which went live in November 1995. Go2 was not just a home on the web for content printed in the paper but was added to through the week.Go2 was soon overtaken by and absorbed into the Guardian's wider ambitions for the web but it played its part in developing those ambitions.OnLine made another contribution to our technical development: in 1994, most of the paper was still written and edited in an Atex system – dumb terminals hooked up to modified DEC PDP-11 minicomputers – not only did most journalists have no access to the internet, a good proportion had never even used a mouse.OnLine was the first of our newsprint sections produced usinong the Quark Publishing System and gave us an opportunity to work out how to use QPS for "hard" news departments. It worked pretty well and in 1998/99 we installed it to replace Atex for the whole paper. As part of that change we had software written that created a structured (in SGML and later XML) feed of content for the website from every page as soon as the page went to press. Having that feed meant that, even with its very limited resources, the website could build the critical mass of content it needed to make itself one of the places on the web worth visiting every day.Bill O'Neill | OnLine | 1996-99I arrived in January 1996 from New Scientist where, as a leaving present, they'd grudgingly allowed me to attend a week-long Microsoft training course that had been booked for editorial staff. I don't remember gagging for the exposure but, after all, these were the halcyon days of Windows 95 and it must have seemed a useful way of working out my notice period. And it was, though not as I'd expected.Guardian journalists relied on an archaic text-based system supported by a network of terminals, called Atex, and though the system was clunky and temperamental, it did the job. Meanwhile, the Guardian OnLine section consisted of a couple of desks in a corner of the paper's newsroom in Farringdon, and a clutch of sparkling Apple Macs. I'd never seen a Mac outside of a publisher's design department and I was worried.The OnLine section also came with two bright young things who'd clearly been born with an Apple in their cots (as they would proudly attest). I quickly discovered that you didn't need a training course to work a Mac. Then, just a few days later, I found myself in the paper's daily morning conference arguing that a story in the business pages about the plummeting commercial fortunes of the Apple Computer company should be taken up by the Guardian's flagship comment section. The idea was taken up, not surprisingly in view of the likely number of Guardian readers who were also Mac users.And therein lies the germ of what somehow became the guiding principles throughout my tenure at OnLine's helm. I arrived keen to reveal the latest developments in technology (and science) and how they could change people's lives, but wary, in particular, of IT's burdensome marketing and PR hype. It was easy to accept that Microsoft would dominate and that Apple would go under, but rather boring.For most people, the internet (and the associated communications revolution) was still more of an interesting phenomenon, with exhilarating and frightening potential, rather than a must-have for modern life. But many of these potential and actual readers were computer illiterati buying their first machine, and needed intelligible guidance. They demanded hard facts shorn of tortuous writing, presented winningly and couched within a provocative line. Arguments would ensue – lots of them that bred more – but it seemed the way to go.OnLine's esteemed predecessor, published within the Guardian, seemed to have emerged from computer magazines and be aimed at folk who understood the jargon and liked to get their fingers inside the machine. Technological developments gave the new section independence and the paper's management allowed it breath-taking autonomy – just make it sexy, advised the features editor (and he wasn't talking "sexed-up"), and geeky (rather than nerdy), suggested a senior editor.And so OnLine emerged from the paper's editorial department as a very separate and independent supplement. All the editing and design, and much of the writing, was done on those Macs (PCs, by which non-Macs were then universally known, were not up to the job); contributors, inside and outside the paper, yielded copy that stimulated readers to join the revolution; and OnLine's artwork was put up for award.Then, quite suddenly, those territorial battles of the burgeoning internet age that made such good copy – Apple v Microsoft, Dell v Sun, security v surveillance, Linux v allcomers, copyright v free-for-all, and so on – seemed to lose their edginess. Apple was on the mend again and Jobs was even talking to Gates (perhaps he always was). In any event, it was time to tackle new challenges.Charles Arthur | Technology | 2005-2009Of the thousands of words that I've edited in Guardian Technology since November 2005, none has delighted me quite so much as the opening of Sean Dodson's article in May 2006: "In 1824 an English bricklayer named Joseph Aspdin rediscovered one of the great secrets of the ancient world." It has it all: mystery, storytelling, and most of all it's about the sort of technology that you can drop on your foot. (Don't quite recall what he rediscovered? Find outonline).It always seemed to me that the mutation of OnLine paired with Science (as "Life") into Technology, as the Guardian moved to its Berliner format, called out for an exploration beyond the computer keyboard, to examine topics, such as:ow-power lightbulbs, therealities of standby consumption, the usefulness of otherwise of theInternational Space Station,personal DNA sequencingandlaser fusion.But the internet is of course the driving force behind much of society today. And it seemed to me obvious that the Guardian's Technology section should try to direct some of that force to everyone's benefit.Soon after starting on the section, I talked to Michael Cross, who provided our public sector coverage, about how we might go about creating a campaign for the section to pursue. What mattered? We agreed that public sector (impersonal) data held enormous commercial value – but that to realise that value also meant persuading government to let anyone use it, so that everyone could benefit from it.The "Free Our Data" campaign kicked off in March 2006, and helped to influenced Tom Watson MP, who later ascended to the Cabinet Office under Gordon Brown: he in turn made the case throughout government."[Free data] has gone from being a minority sport to the mood music in the civil service," as one key figure told me recently. And, importantly, the campaign has succeeded: from April, key map and postcode data will be free, and more will follow. It has been worth the effort.Regrettably, we could not reinvent our business model in print as quickly as we could reinvent the government's approach to data. That huge sucking sound? Well, that's the internet taking away the job adverts that paid for the print edition.Paper, though delightful, is expensive to make. Shifting electrons around on a screen is far cheaper. Thank you for reading for so long – right to the conclusion. We've enjoyed it.The name gameFutures Micro Guardian20 October, 1983; edited by Tim RadfordComputer Guardian19 September, 1985; edited by Jack SchofieldOnLine19 May, 1994; edited by Nick Passmore to December 1995, Bill O'Neill to March 1999;OnlineVictor Keegan to August 2005Technology15 September, 2005 – 15 December 2009; edited by Richard Adams to November 2005; Charles Arthur to December 2009, continuing onlineBuying a computer, 1983"It might be cheap but sometimes it's nasty – Jack Schofield offers a guide to the first-time buyer:Choosing a machine for its software is not easy. You have to find a shop that stocks it, and is willing to demonstrate it at some length … Some machines are a better bet than others, but bear in mind there are no certainties. My shortlist of micros to look at would be – in alphabetical order – the Acorn BBC Model B (£400) and the Acorn -Electron (£200), the Atari 600XL (£160) and 800XL (£250), and the Commodore 64 (£230)."•Read the full article
Alas the latest isn't the greatestIt might be cheap but sometimes it's nasty. Jack Schofield offers a guide to the first-time buyer.20 October 1983Choosing a home micro is difficult — probably more difficult than choosing a business model. Among home micros there is no standardisation either of hardware or software. Each brand has its own dialect of Basic programming language. Even if different micros use Microsoft Basic — the de facto "standard "brand — each will have its own sound and graphics commands, and its own way of handling cassette tape and floppy disc storage.In fact virtually all the software — the commercially available programs — is incompatible. This is the case not only between different machines but often between different models, both old and current, from the same manufacturer.The situation is similar to the video recorder market. VHS tapes will not run on a Betamax machine, or vice versa. The old Philips 1500 and new 2000 ranges are similarly incompatible. With home computers, unfortunately, the problem is far worse because there are not three or four but some 25 different systems, with further subdivisions for semi- and non-compatible model variations. Just about the only company to avoid this morass is Atari, all of whose micros run the same software, but of course, not the same cartrides [sic] as their VCS video games machines.So there are two ways to choose your microcomputer.You can either select what you think is the best hardware, or else choose the one with the best, or the most, software.However, I would still not recommend the beginner to buy the latest machine, let alone wait for that wonderful new model which is always; but always, just over the horizon. For a start, most new machines have "bugs" — flaws in the Basic language, the operating system, and often the hardware, too. Many early buyers have had terrible struggles with their machines before the manufactures sort these out. Then, most new machines are short of "peripherals" — add-ons such as disc drives for storing programs, joysticks, printers, speech synthesizers, light pens and all the rest of the paraphernalia. Often there is initially little or no software and this normally takes about a year to appear in reasonable quantity.If you wait, most machines get cheaper. A year ago, for example, you could have paid £345 for a Commodore G4 with no software available; today it costs £199 to £229 and quite a lot of software is starting to appear. Similarly the Atari 800 has dropped from £450 to £300, and the TI-99/4a from £200 to £100. Only the BBC Model B is more expensive now than when it was launched.This does not mean you can choose any old machine, because old machines get discontinued, too. The Acorn Atom and Sinclair ZX-80 arc examples, while the days of the Vic-20 must be numbered.Very successful machines, however, are likely to last longer than less successful ones. And when they are updated, the new models are more likely to be compatible than not. Thus Apple kept faith with their users, maintaining broad compatibility with the Apple II — launched in 1977 — through the II Plus and IIe. Atari's new 600XL and 800XL are compatible with their 1979 models the 400 and 800. The Acorn Electron is at least semi-compatible with the popular BBC Model B.The ideal solution is to choose an established machine that is one to two years old and/or for which lots of software exists. The problem then is finding the software you like, and can afford, because then you simply buy the machine it runs on.This also makes sense because over the long term you are likely to spend more money on software and peripherals than on the original hardware.Choosing a machine for its software is not easy. You have to find a shop that stocks it, and is willing to demonstrate it at some length. If you require a specific type of program, this is essential. In the home-micro market, many good programs are only available for one machine. There are, of course, numerous rip-offs.For example, if you or your offspring is mad keen on the arcade games Centipede or Donkey Kong then you can buy these for the Atari. For other machines you can buy copies with names like Millipede, Centibug, Crawler, Super Snake, Katerpillar Attack and so on.Donkey Kong copies are called things like Donkey King, Crazy Kong, Zany Kong or Killer Gorilla — you get the idea. Many such imitations look quite like the real thing, but may play much worse. It's rather like buying a Star Wars video — or Beatles record — remade by lookalikes. Most will be awful. Some, very few, arc actually better than the originals. But you have to try a lot of them to find out.Some independent software houses like Melbourne House and Thorn EMI are starting to produce their programs for a range of different machines, so the situation is improving.If your requirements are more general, then you can take pot luck. For example if, you want to do word processing, there are now ten word processing programs for the Commodore 64. You could buy the machine with reasonable confidence that one of them will suit you. By contrast, there are only two usable word processors for the Dragon so you had better make sure you like one of them before you buy a Dragon for word processing.Once you get into the shop, the sales pitch will start. This machine has a 6809 cpu (central processing unit) 48K of RAM, 672 and 380 pixel graphics, 9 octaves of sound and so on. Ignore it. Look at three or four of the best available programs on the screen, and judge the results The problem with specifications is that they are not a reliable guide to performance. For example, the 6809 microprocessor is indeed more powerful than the more common 6502 or Z-80. But more people know how to program these, and far more good software is available for machines that use them. The 6809 is more powerful, but not better.The amount of RAM (random access or "read/write" memory, where you store programs and data) is a major selling point, but ask how much RAM is available directly for Basic programming. You will find the 64K Commodore 64 and the 48K Atari 800 both have about 37.5K free to Basic, while the 48K Lynx has about 13.5K Basic. Raw numbers can be misleading.The maximum resolution of the graphics is another selling point fraught with problems for the unwary. For example, the BBC Model B has a maximum resolution of 640 by 256 pixels. However, this mode restricts you to two colours, it requires 20K of precious RAM (which means there is hardly any room for the program) and a normal TV receiver can't display it properly anyway.Sounds need to be listened to carefully. For example, one micro offers 8 octaves of sound and another only 3.5 octaves. Nevertheless, both produce only 255 different frequencies (notes) from Basic. Another machine has four sound channels, but only one can be used at a time. Yet another has great sound potential, and no sound statements in Basic!If all else fails, take advice. Some machines are a better bet than others, but bear in mind there are no certainties. My shortlist of micros to look at would be — in alphabetical order — the Acorn BBC Model B (£400) and the Acorn Electron (£200), the Atari 600XL (£160) and 800XL (£250), and the Commodore 64 (£230). The weakest of these is the Electron. The Atari and Commodore models, however, need their own special cassette recorders for storing programs — an extra cost — while the BBC Model B needs an expensive extra chip if you want to add disc drives.For a cheaper option, perhaps the best value machine is the Sinclair Spectrum (16K £100, 48K £130), simply because it has the more, good-cheap software. It lacks a proper keyboard, has poor sound, and needs expanding — at extra cost — to bring it up to the level of the others. Nevertheless, it is a remarkably powerful machine for the money. The Oric is also worth considering: it has better sound and a better keyboard than the Spectrum, but nowhere near as much software.In fact, all today's home microcomputers are astonishingly cheap compared to their historic cost. Whichever you buy, you won't have to pay much for an interesting, and entertaining, step into the future.Jack Schofield is the editor of Practical Computing• You may also enjoy Jack Schofield's memories ofediting the Guardian's technology section
The EU's Competition Commission has dropped its browser-based anti-trust case against Microsoft afterreaching agreementwith the US-based software company about providing Windows users with a "ballot screen" that offers them a choice of browsers. The EU argued that including Internet Explorer with Windows gave it an "artificial distribution advantage"."More than 100 million European computer users stand to benefit from the Commission's decision today. An even higher number will benefit over the five year lifetime of the commitments made binding on Microsoft with today's decision," claimed EU Competition CommissionerNeelie Kroes."The Choice Screen [will] be available from mid-March 2010," she said.However, at least one of Kroes' claims is simply wrong. She claims that including IE "meant that neither computer manufacturers nor users could disable Microsoft's web browser and replace it with another browser of their choice." In fact, users have always been able to download alternative browsers, and they have beenable to choose non-Microsoft programs as the defaults since Windows XP SP1.In a statement,Microsoft general counsel Brad Smithsaid: "We are pleased with today's decision by the European Commission, which approves a final resolution of several longstanding competition law issues in Europe. We look forward to building on the dialogue and trust that has been established between Microsoft and the Commission and to extending our industry leadership on interoperability."The deal covers "specifically the region known as the European Economic Area, which includes 30 nations," says Smith.Existing Windows users in Europe, including XP users, will also get the ballot screen via a Windows Update download. This will invite them to choose from a list of the 12 most-widely used browsers:Apple's Safari, Google's Chrome, Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Mozilla's Firefox, Opera, AOL, Maxthon, K-Meleon, Flock, Avant Browser, SleipnirandSlim Browser. The selection will be open to change every six months as market shares change.According to AP, the deal "will also allow computer manufacturers to ship PCs without Internet Explorer in Europe." This is not what the EU's statement says, which is: "The commitments also provide that computer manufacturers will be able to install competing web browsers, set those as default and turn Internet Explorer off."If AP's report is accurate (I've asked Microsoft for confirmation*), this would seem to represent a significant defeat for Microsoft, because it has previously argued that, as the creator of Windows, it has the authority to decide what's included in Windows. PC manufacturers can, and do, add things to their Windows installations -- this has enabled them to charge software suppliers for the installation of massive amounts of "crapware," generally to the detriment of consumers. Also, users already get an option screen that allows them to select non-Microsoft programs. I could be wrong (the idea was mooted for Windows 7 this summer, and there wereEU-mandated N editions of Windowsthat flopped miserably), but I don't think PC manufacturers have been able to leave out standard parts of the Windows installation.* Microsoft says AP's report is "a simplification" and that the IE code will still be present.But it is also true that Microsoft has already removed numerous useful programs from Windows 7, offering them separately for download as theWindows Live Essentialssuite. Microsoft argues that these need to be updated more often than the Windows operating system, and must therefore be on a different development schedule from the three-year Windows cycle. The Internet Explorer browser clearly needs to be -- and now is -- updated more often than that.Either way, the deal appears to be a victory for outgoing EU commissioner Kroes, who has fined Microsoft €1.7 billion butdenied running an anti-Microsoft vendetta.The anti-trust case was prompted by Opera, a European browser developer, which filed an anti-trust complaint on December 17, 2007.According to theNetApps website, Opera's browser has a market share of 2.31%, and has already been overtaken by Google's Chrome (3.93%). It has been markedly less successful than Mozilla Firefox (24.7%), which has achieved 10x Opera's market share and is still growing, without the benefit of EU intervention.Microsoft has been shipping Internet Explorer as part of Windows since 1995.* See also the Guardian Business story,EU ends competition case as Microsoft offers choice of web browsers
In the month when the Nintendo DS became the biggest-selling console ever in the UK, this latest game release shows why.Forget shooting or sports, Easy Piano is a music tutorial program that comes complete with a mini keyboard you plug into the back of your Nintendo DS (it doesn't work with the newer DSi console). Gimmick? Possibly, but as plastic instruments go this is a good one. The piano is an 8-note full octave keyboard (C to C for those who are interested). The game itself is reminiscent of Rock Band and the rest. So expect to be pressing the keys in time with on-screen prompts. In the same way that Guitar Hero is unlikely to propel you to axe-playing stardom, Easy Piano will not turn you into Elton John. But unlike Guitar Hero you do actually learn some musical theory.Lessons about notes, bass and treble clef are given via mini-games.Total beginners will benefit, although the minigames themselves are not always as cleanly laid out as they could be. As well as Mozart and Beethoven there are more contemporary tunes such as the Rocky theme to play. The sound quality isn't always the best, though. The main selling point is the keyboard peripheral and here the news is good. The plastic keyboard is surprisingly robust and certainly not as cheap-feeling as you may expect.In fact, it is so usable that you wish it could be used on other titles, particularly the fantastic Korg DS-10 synth software. There is also a creation mode that allows you to create your own tracks. While rewarding enough if you have a bit of patience, you shouldn't expect miracles here. Much like the game itself, really. Easy Piano is no substitute for lessons or practice but as an introduction to music theory, and as a nifty way to try something different on your DS, this is a good place to start.
You might have heard ofiFixitbefore: they're the chaps that take great delight in doing teardowns of new gadgets - ripping apart, say, abrand new iMacto show you the constituent parts.That's all well and good, but if you're not actually familiar with what iFixit does the rest of the time then perhaps it's a good time to get acquainted.The site itself offers DIY repair manuals for all sorts of Apple products - pretty useful for those of us who have locked ourselves into Steve Jobs's walled garden. Instead of dragging that busted iPod or unhappy Mac to the Apple store to watch one of the so-called "geniuses" stare at it for a bit, you can get a screwdriver and fix it yourself.Now, this might not exactly chime with the general trend to consumer electronics as something people don't understand - and remember,we wrote about the death of the manual back in August- but it's liberating to do it yourself.Given how little time most of us spend actually fishing about inside our computers these days, there's a satisfaction in trying to push towards a more hands-on culture full of people who aren't afraid to take a crack themselves (anyone who is de facto IT support for their friends and family knows how useful it would be if everybody felt like they could fix their own computers).Anyway, the really interesting thing about iFixit is that the company hasjust announced that it's releasing its manuals under Creative Commons licenses- which means that they'll continue to be free forever, and that you are free to reuse, adapt and build on what's already there.Today, we are giving all that content to the world. Effective immediately, we are licensing all iFixit repair manuals under the Creative Commons BY-NC-SA license. To my knowledge, this is the largest free release of repair documentation ever. We are committing to make our repair manuals available to everyone in the world, forever, for free.Good on them.
So, here we are: the top ten. Well, 90% of it anyway. We'll be dealing with the greatest game of the decade tomorrow, but for now here are the titles that almost made it. There are a couple of surprises in here, and several shocking omissions. That's democracy for ya!Okay, get ready to feel vindicated - or enraged...10. Civilization IV (2007, PC, Mac)– There were no doubt a few grumbles of apprehension among Civ acolytes when a complete overhaul of the series was announced for this fourth iteration. But Sid Meier, as if he hasn't proved it enough over the years, knows what he's doing. Civilization IV, complete with a luscious graphics engine, myriad new units and significant tweaks to the city management and technology systems, is an absolute joy. Engrossing, challenging, thought provoking and constantly evolving in time with the player's own strategic development, it is a testament to the whole concept of the strategy computer game. I love it and I'm surprised and delighted that it charted so highly with Gamesblog readers. My favourite comment amid the votes, was this one from DiderorDidit: "Some games let you shoot a mans head off with a big gun, others show you the arc of humanity's progress whilst teaching you about the interplay of politics, religion, technology and war. If this game is not on the GCSE History syllabus I want to know why". I'll second that.9. Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare (2007, PC, PS4, Xbox 360, Wii)– Once in a while, a game comes along that feels absolutely right, within five seconds of picking up the controller. It's very rare, but it happens. This is one example. The weight, feel and sound of the gun, the movement, the detail of the environments – it was all there in an instant. And after that came the marvelous rampaging narrative, the amazing level design and a few moments of quite extraordinary atmosphere that commented on the very nature of playing – and dying – in a videogame environment. And the multiplayer… Oh boy, did Infinity Ward get this right. Brilliantly structured around a complex character class system, it more-or-less forced you to keep playing. A landmark, simple as that.8. Bioshock (2007, PS3, Xbox 360)– A controversial one perhaps. The critics fell over themselves to heap praise on this eccentric adventure; yet there were plenty of gamers who just couldn't get into it. But Bioshock is worth a place in the top ten, if only for its breathtakingly well-realised scenario, where art direction, philosophy and ethics all merge into a weighty intriguing tale of objectivist utopian ideals gone to hell. Brilliantly, you don't know who you are or why you are here, and the game seems to take a twisted pleasure in the nightmare of resolution that awaits. Also, the big daddies: the most iconic monsters in modern gaming? The final word goes to dylillama, who summed up his vote for the game like this: "The first time I descended into Rapture was one of the most memorable moments in my gaming past. The journey through it is unparalleled. Dripping (literally) with atmosphere, allowing so many different approaches to gameplay, and telling a beautifully melancholy and haunting story in a way that pushed forward the medium itself - it is a remarkable achievement."7. Resident Evil 4 (2005, Gamecube, PS2, Wii)– This was the Resident Evil that changed everything. Suddenly you had an agile lead character who didn't have to jealously guard every bullet like some sort of armoury miser, and a rank and file enemy - Los Ganados - who would run at you with axes rather than shuffling forward like pensioners at an unpromising buffet table. The game is teeming with smart horror movie references, taking in everything from 28 Days Later to Don't Look now, and it's suitable stuffed with memorable set-pieces and ridiculously evil bosses. "I read a review that said 'Obviously only 12 year old girls will be scared by this'" recalled Biffo00. "Well, 12 year old girls must be more used to huge guys with sacks on their heads sprinting towards you with chainsaws, 'cause I was terrified."6. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (2002, PC, PS2, Xbox)– Okay so GTA III made the all-important leap into 3D and introduced numerous elements that would become staples of the series. But it was Vice City that really set the Rockstar agenda, it was Vice City with its pitch perfect Eighties reminiscence, wanton violence and coke-high humour that really grabbed videogame culture and bitch-slapped it across a parking lot. This was an archly confident, self-assured and anarchic slab of entertainment, and for many, Vice City was effectively a place to stay for several weeks. As SimCitizen wrote, "It was a perfect mix of 'sandbox play' and nostalgia. It improved greatly on its predecessor (helicopters &amp; motorbikes!) and had some of the most hilarious radio sequences in the series (Australian/American war anyone?) and some inspired missions and extra weapons made this the best of the series for me."5. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (2004, PC, PS2, Xbox)– Moving the action on from mid-Eighties Latino club culture to early-Nineties gangland violence, San Andreas flipped the whole tone and feel of the series, bringing in a darker plotline and expanding every element. It is a bloated behemoth of a game, with a map so large you need a Rough Guide to navigate it and a cast of hundreds – most of them scum. In CJ, we have one of the most complete videogame characters of all time, not least because his fitness and physical appearance matter in the game – if you want respect in the hood, you can't wobble about in well-worn sweat pants, suddenly body image is a factor. There are also some stone cold classic missions (does the name Area 69 ring any bells?) dozens of mini-games, hundreds of customisable vehicles, a much-improved combat system… "All gaming life was here," wrote gettingnervous. "Loved the open world, loved CJ, loved the setting, loved being a gangsta, 'west side for life,CJ, for life'" Word.4. Portal (2007, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)– And to think, this sinister, sardonic and stunningly realised puzzler was effectively an album track, a bonus feature in the Orange Box compilation, created by students from the DigiPen Institute of Technology (hired on the strength of their Narbacular Drop showcase game). But very quickly it became obvious that Valve's idiosyncratic extra was a work of genius. Killerbee puts it best, "this was a triumph of wonderful puzzle design married to a great narrative and scripting. It would've been great as a pure puzzler, but the way it was intertwined with the Half-Life universe and, of course, the way GLaDOS's character evolves over the course of the game was unexpected and brilliant. It also ended on a fantastic song. And cake. Yes." What do I like about it? It makes me feel like a lateral-thinking scientific genius, like no-one else could have thought of the solutions I thought of. Now that is Nobel prize-worthy game design.3. Fallout 3 (2008, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)– Once you're in, you're really in. That's the thing about Fallout 3. The universe that Bethesda has created is so complete and immersive, you practically live the game. And of all the hyped open-world experiences released over the last couple of years, Fallout 3 is the most successful in conveying a sense of freedom to the player. Is it an RPG? A shooter? An action adventure? It is all of them in the measures that YOU desire. Add in masses of apocalyptic atmosphere, stunning enemies, humorous allies and a dog you'll love like a family pet, this is a dark, graceful epic that every single videogame player should experience. As Simian recalled with his vote, "I waited and waited for this game to be released, preordered months in advanced and for the first time ever I wasn't disappointed. From the first moment when you leave the vault though every accessible area this game amazed me."2. World of Warcraft (2004, Mac, PC)- I'll hand over to Greg for this one:If any game defined the noughties then World of Warcraft is surely it. It made online gaming mainstream - nearly 12 million players, prime time TV ads, etc - and almost single-handedly powered the PC gaming market.  Launched in 2004 WoW is still going strong in late 2009 and will certainly be around for years to come. But behind the dry statistics is a masterpiece of a game design that redefined our expectations of a virtual world. And make no mistake - Azeroth felt like a real destination. Never before has a game had such a convincing sense of place.Everyone who has visited Azeroth will have memories but for me the most precious are centered around those first few months of play. The first time I saw some Alliance players - I was a level 5 Undead warlock, they were gesticulating dwarves. The first time I flew on a bat and realized that the world was going on below while I soared above it. The chaotic back and forth battles at Tarren Mill. The first time I entered a capital city, marveling at both the architecture and number of other players. The feeling of satisfaction gained by getting the first blue and purple items. Above all, the sheer sense of adventure and explorative excitement as you wandered off into the wilderness with little idea of what to expect.Yes, the grind is an issue - how many hours did I spend traipsing around the bloody Barrens? - while the continued need to keep the very hardcore happy has meant that casual players are essentially unable to compete in player versus player combat. But World of Warcraft is an undoubted classic and easily my favourite game of all time, never mind the last 10 years.
Over the weekend, aseriesofstoriesbroke about a new phone (the Nexus One) that Google was trialling - and even planning to sell itself. We covered them,too.A story like that ticks a lot of boxes and draws out an almost Pavlovian response in gadget-watchers everywhere. Google? Yep. Phone? Yes. Bypassing phone networks? You bet.Now, however, there are so many pieces of the story floating around that it's becoming difficult to separate the things that we know from the things we don't. The latest slew of suggestions includea potential lawsuit from the estate of Philip K Dick(because the name "Nexus One" is an homage to the replicants in Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?); and thatApple is actually behind the 'Googlephone' rumour.Google,beyond its statement about dogfooding the other day, remains tight-lipped.So what do we actually know?- that Google employees are trialling an experimental new handset- that it's called Nexus One, and it's made by HTC- that it's been approved by US regulators with support for GSM and T-Mobile's 3G network- that Google has registered Nexus One as a trademark in relation to phones- that Google has plans to sell it, unlocked, directly on the webAnd that's about it, I think.Other things are either speculation, not true or don't appear likely (the Dick estate doesn't own a Nexus One trademark of any sort, for example).The thing about this swirl of ideas is that most of the elements of this are actually a case of business as usual. After all, there have been Google-branded handsets before, and the company is pushing its operating system, Android, like crazy. It's actually been heavily involved in the design of many Android handsets so far, and selling an unlocked handset is no big deal in Britain or Europe.But it's the combination of all of these parts, in one big old juicy package, that's got everybody salivating.Any more things we know about the Nexus One? Leave a comment, and I'll add them to the list.
Compared to the whirlwind that was theearlypartof thedecade, trawling through the Guardian's archives from 2003 seems like a relatively sedate affair. The worst of the crash was over, the post 9/11 recession was abating (though admittedly the general headlines were dominated by the Iraq war and the "sexed up" dossier allegations) and things seemed to be settling down into a pattern that seems pretty familiar today.For me personally, it was an important year. During the summer, I moved from the Guardian's Media desk to become the deputy editor of the Online section, as it was then known - that felt like a big deal (it was). Taking over from previous deputy Neil McIntosh (who went on to be a bigwig for Guardian.co.uk and now runs the Wall Street Journal's European website) I joined Vic Keegan and Jack Schofield.Anyway. Let's get on at look at some of the big techy news stories the Guardian reported in 2003. But before we do, commenterCosmofmpointed to this interesting video full of stats about how fast things have been growing and changing over recent years. I'll link to the relevant bit:2003&bull; Early in the year tragedy struck, when thespace shuttleColumbiaburst into flames shortly before it was due to land in Florida. The seven astronauts on board were killed, and debris from the explosion was scattered across hundreds of miles of Texas countryside. An investigation eventually determined that a piece of insulating foam had fallen off during the launch and made a hole in the wing - a hole that allowed hot gas into the craft on re-entry, eventually causing it to break apart.&bull; After rising to prominence in just a few years,Googlewas fast becoming the company to beat. Bill Gates apparentlyoffered to merge Microsoft and the search engine together. That was turned down, and later in the year Google announced itsits plan to float on the stock market.&bull; Despite this, however, thedotcom boom and bustwas still casting a long shadow over the technology industry years after it officially happened. A series of allegations that companies and banks had rigged stock market flotationswere finally settled for $1bnin June, giving penniless investors sucked into the boom at least a measure of payback. But still, the biggest single purchase of those heady days - the AOL/Time Warner merger - continued to be considered somewhere between "highly problematic" and "disastrous" three years after the event, with the companywriting off another £6bnas it struggled to sort itself out. Fortunately, the company's books were boosted in May, when AOL won $750m in a settlement from Microsoftover the way it crushed Netscape browserback in the 1990s.&bull;Appletook a significant step towards its domination of the new digital music market, announcing thelaunch of the iTunes store at an event in April. It sold more than 1m downloads within two weeks in the US, leading to speculation about a European launch and our own Owen Gibson to point out that the music industry had "belatedly realised that legal downloads might just preserve the status quo rather than destroy it". Microsoft launched itsown rival service over the summer.&bull; At home, one of the big stories was the push tobroadband. Not everything was going peachy, however: in February BT executivePierre Danon admitted that things weren't going to plan: "We started completely wrong," he said. "It was all wrong and we had to change". A series of price dropsgot on the nerves of ISPs, while even government minister Stephen Timms admitted thatbureaucracy was getting the way of getting more people on faster connections.
Wednesday's edition of ChatterboxQuotes of the week so farDecember 14"Don't know what to get myself for Xmas?1. Xbox 360 - LFD2 &amp; Mass Effect2. Hockey stick and shoes3. Electric Piano"Exercise? Music? This is the Gamesblog Shadowmind. The answer is 1.December 15"Speaking of canines... Mine are very pointy, very sharp."Amipal joins in with a very slow news day on which the whole blog talked about their dental work.Come on chaps, there's a very low barrier to entry here - let's top these today!
YouTube may begin offering subscription services that allow users to watch major new TV shows and films online, according to a senior Google executive.While a number of broadcasters - including Channel 4 and Channel Five - have already forged deals with the Californian website to show full-length programmes online, the company indicated yesterday that it may consider paid options as well.In an interview with Reuters, Google executive David Eun - who is in charge of partnerships with media companies - confirmed that paid subscription was an option as it tries to convince more TV channels and Hollywood studios to sign up."We're making some interesting bets on long-form content; not all content is accessible to us with the advertising model," he said.The move would be an attempt to forge agreements with more rights owners, many of whom are reluctant to put their content online without adequate compensation.Until now, the site has remained resolutely free for users and attempted to make its money through advertising. It has made limited deals toshow movies on the site, as well as agreements such as the one with Channel 4,which was announced in October. Rather than charging users, these deals are based on a revenue split from the commercials attached to the programmes and films.Despite these successes, however, the site - which Google bought for $1.65bn in 2005 - has not found it so easy to convince other broadcasters to follow suit. Hollywood studios have been notoriously testy about the possibility of putting more recent movies online with only the prospect of a share of advertising revenue in return."I think a free model is a very difficult way to capture the value of our content," said Chase Carey, the president of News Corporation - which owns broadcasters including Fox and Sky, as well as studios such as 20th Century Fox and Fox Searchlight -earlier this year.Instead, Google hopes that offering money raised through subscriptions can tempt broadcasters to put their content on the site. The possibility of a pay-per-view model - such as the one used by Apple's iTunes store or Amazon's on-demand video service - could also be on the cards.Google chief executive Eric Schmidt has said that making money from YouTube is a "top priority", withsome analysts estimatingthat the site will haemorrhage as much as $470m (£288m) this year alone.Although the site is a household name that commands hundreds of millions of visitors each day, it has found it difficult to successfully cash in - with advertising attached to viral videos and user-generated content collecting paltry amounts of revenue.Such a move could also help YouTube fend off growing rivals likeHulu- the US website that operates as a joint venture between NBC, News Corporation and Disney.Since launching publicly in 2008 with a slate of hit shows including House and The Daily Show, Hulu has become the second most-watched video site in America. It is thought be considering expansion plans outside the US, which would include a move to Britain.
&bull; After being accused of lifting code from messaging service Plurk - a story we told you about inyesterday's briefing-Microsoftconfirmed yesterday that it was, indeed,guilty of pilfering. The culprit? Apparently an independent developer hired by MSN China. The site's been suspended, but it may not be the last we hear of it.&bull; Plenty of chatter aboutAustralia'smove to implement compulsory web filtering. After plenty of controversy and a pilot scheme, the government has decided to go ahead with mandatory ISP-level screening of sites - aimed at protecting children from illegal material online. Given that it's the first Western government to bring in this sort of block, it's angered plenty of people - includingElectronic Frontiers Australiaand evenGoogle, which says "the scope of content to be filtered is too wide" (no mention of the company's complicity in filtering in China, however).&bull; The latest edition ofTech Weekly podcastis live! Just in time for Christmas, we've got an interview with roboticist Caleb Chung - the man behind robo-toys including the Furby and the Pleo. And we talk to Jeremy Allaire of video company Brightcove about why he's not just running another YouTube. The show's presented by the ever-cheeky Susi Weaser, with Kevin Anderson and yours truly on hand.Click here to listen.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Among the winners of this years Red Dot design awards one concept is catching the imagination of the online gadget community – the Eko traffic light. Damjan Stankovic's design is much like any other stop light except for one crucial difference – it incorporates a progress bar so you can work out how long you'll have to wait. It hasn't yet been commissioned in the UK, but similar versions are already  operational in other parts of  the world, including Thailand and Brazil.From touch-screen tills that crash at the merest hint of an "unexpected item in the bagging area" to the flickering electronic ads that surround Premiership pitches, the world is filling with annoyances stolen from the world of computing and the internet, so why not develop one of its better innovations?Spend enough time in front of a computer screen and you begin to find it difficult to function without progress bars. These precious guides to exactly how long something is going to take – be it the loading of software or the length of a video clip – are the very essence of functionality. Out there in the real world there's a frustrating lack of progress bars despite many obvious situations where they would benefit mankind – or at least distract us for a bit. It's not just traffic lights – post office queues, supermarket checkouts, concerts and political speeches would all be improved by a discreet graphic displaying how much we've endured and how long is left. For now, though, just like motorists halted for an indeterminate period, progress bar believers will have to wait.
Microsoft has suspended a new internet messaging service in China, after it emerged that the site was partially based on code stolen from a rival startup.The site, Juku, launched in November is similar in concept to other online messaging systems like Twitter. But earlier this week the team behindPlurk, a young internet company based in Canada and popular with users across Asia, accused Microsoft of directly copying as much as 80% of the code to run the program."If this was just a case of visual inspiration gone too far, we could probably have lived with it," Plurksaid on Monday. "That's not the case here. This is something far more sinister.After investigating the accusations, the world's biggest software company said it had confirmed that some of the code for Juku had been used without permission.In a statement, Microsoft apologised and said the transgression had been made by a developer hired by MSN China."Questions arose over a beta application called Juku, developed by a Chinese vendor for our MSN China joint venture. The vendor has now acknowledged that a portion of the code they provided was indeed copied," it said."This was in clear violation of the vendor's contract with the MSN China joint venture, and equally inconsistent with Microsoft's policies respecting intellectual property."Microsoft added that it was suspending access to the service and would be discussing potential resolutions with Plurk."it was never our intent to have a site that was not respectful of the work that others in the industry have done," it said.
Millions of White House emails that went missing during the Bush administration have been recovered following an extended court battle.Around 22m messages spanning more than 90 days were declared missing in 2007, shortly after a scandal arose over the decision to fire nine federal prosecutors who had not toed the White House line.The Obama administration said that its computer technicians had successfully recovered the lost data, in what campaigners called a victory in the attempt to clear up the "electronic data mess" left behind by Bush officials.The White House is legally obliged to maintain copies of all the communication it sends, including email, under the Presidential Records Act - brought in after the Watergate scandal in the 1970s as a way of preserving evidence of activities conducted by presidential staffers.But when public interest campaign groups launched attempts to recover the messages relating to the controversial sackings, it was revealed that millions of emails sent during the period in question had been lost.That news sparked allegations of deliberate obfuscation by Bush's opponents, and led to lawsuits by the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, and the National Security Archive - an independent group that collects public information from the US government.The groups said they were pleased with the result, which would help transparency efforts."We now know that many poor choices were made during the Bush administration," said Meredith Fuchs, general counsel to the National Security Archive. "There was little concern about the availability of email records, despite the fact that they were contending with regular subpoenas for records."However, the documents may not become available to the public until 2014 - and even then, only if they are deemed valuable under the Freedom of Information Act."We may never discover the full story of what happened here," said Melanie Sloan, CREW's executive director. "It seems like they just didn't want the e-mails preserved."Patrick Leahy, a Democrat senator from Vermont and the chairman of the Senate judiciary commission, said that the White House under Bush had made several attempts to dodge requests to recover the emails.It was, he said, "Another example of the Bush administration's reflexive resistance to congressional oversight and the public's right to know".
This week we get the closest we can to Santa, in the form of robotics whizz kidCaleb Chung. He's the man behind the lovable dinosaur Pleo, and the equal parts lovable and irritating Furby.Kevin Andersonfinds out what makes a good robotic toy and how his background as a street entertainer has helped advise him.We also hear fromJeremy Allaireof Brightcove, who provide video hosting for the likes of Channel 4, BSkyB and the Guardian.Mercedes Bunzfinds out whether they're more than just another YouTube.Plus there's this week's news including filitering of web content in Australia, the end of Teletext in the UK, the latest turn in the Oracle takeover of Sun, and details of the Guardian's new iPhone app.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
It's been five long years since Rockstar's original cowboy shooter, Red Dead Revolver, moseyed out onto shop shelves. Mixing the mission-based third-person gameplay of a cut-down GTA, with the locations, characters and visual style of a Leone spaghetti western proved a beguiling mix to gamers, and the title shifted a modestly impressive 1.5 million copies. A sequel was always a near-certainty and indeed back in 2005 Rockstar San Diego was showing off a demo on the fledgling PS3 hardware. Three years later, we're still waiting, but with a release slated for April and a scintillating new trailer available, things are moving in the right direction – which is why Gamesblog recently invited to a hands-on demo at Rockstar's London office.Set in the early years of the twentieth century, a couple of decades after the original title, Redemption follows reformed outlaw John Marston as he tracks his way through the southern States and into Mexico. The anarchy of the old west is gradually fading as modernised transportation networks extend the reach of government and law. But over the border a civil war is brewing…Created using Rockstar's RAGE engine, Redemption is an open-world adventure with an over-arching narrative and dozens of story missions, but also plenty to do off the beaten track. The action takes place in three huge interconnected areas: New Austin and West Elizabeth in the States and Nuevo Paraiso in Mexico, all of them riddled with towns, forts and outlaw hang-outs. Marston's role is shadowy at the moment - it seems he's hunting down members of his former gang, but we don't know why. As we're playing through the game Rockstar PR Manager CJ Gibson tells me that Martson is going to get involved in the Mexican conflict – we're just not sure how, or on what side.What they're showing me today is a patch of the Mexican desert – an expanse of dusty tracks and inhospitable scrublands surrounded by imposing mountains. It's an impressively detailed, living environment – insects buzz about, wild horses trot past and coyotes lurk in packs in the near-distance, sniffing out food. The developer promises around 40 different animals in the game, all adhering to a realistic ecological system, which revolves around the bigger beasts hunting and eating the smaller ones. Apparently, one way you can earn money in the game is to hunt animals, taking the meat and pelts to any near-by town.This is the first lesson about Red Dead Redemption – it has an active economy and lots to do to get involved. Between missions, you're free to explore as you please, and nosing about can lead to a variety of different mini-encounters – a bit like the random monster battles in a traditional JRPG. Early in my demo, we're riding through the wilderness when we spot a group of cavalry officers executing a prisoner – I can choose to intervene on either side or just watch the action.On another occasion, we spot a trader being held up by outlaws - this time, we gallop in and take them out. As with the original game combat is enlivened by the Dead Eye system, which allows you to momentarily slow time, highlight target areas on your victim's body and then blast them full of buckshot before they've even unholstered their Smith and Wesson. It's a familiar and rather well-worn mechanic, but the sepia-toned graphical overlay is a stylish touch and the extravagant rag doll physics sends your victim rocketing through the air like a crazed acrobat, which is fun to behold and suitably reminiscent of a Peckinpah bloodbath.Later, we're called upon to help capture or kill a couple of escaped prisoners. There's also a moment when a man on a deserted dust track tells me that he's been robbed, when we ride up close to him, he pulls Martson from the horse and attempts to ride off. Big mistake. As you progress through the game, you get to effectively level-up your horse, teaching it new tricks – ours will rear up and throw its rider if we whistle. Whistling also calls your horse to you if you get separated, so you get a nicely authentic bond developing.On completing a side-mission, a reward is provided. It might be cash, it might be useful goods, it could be a treasure map that'll lead you to greater riches at a later date (on one occasion we rescue a trader from thieves and he just lets us take whatever we want from a large trunk on his stage coach). Money can be taken to any settlement where you'll find a general store selling everything from weapons and ammo to bandanas. We head into Chicarosa, a run-down market town in which scary looking locals loaf about behind rickety wooden stalls, occasionally lopping the heads off live chickens. Again, there's tons of detail from the busted up paving stones, to the cackling hens running about and skinny dogs loping after them.Here we run into another form of side-mission: bounty hunting. As we're wandering past the town hall a local lawman pins a wanted posted to the wall – Ramiro de la Torre, wanted: $200 alive, $100 dead. To accept a mission you simply rip the poster off the wall. At that point, Torre's last known whereabouts show up on your map display in the bottom left, and you're off. Now you just need to track your target down, kill his pals, and use your lasso to capture and hog tie him. He can now be dumped onto your horse and ridden back into town. The more bounty missions you accept, the bigger the villains you're sent out for, and the better the rewards.But you don't have to be a slave to the authorities. Two threads run through the game: fame and honour. You earn fame by simply doing stuff in the game world: shooting people, carrying out missions – it's a reflection of your general progress. Honour is based around the nobility of your actions – do you help other characters or shoot them in the back? If you're good, you'll be offered more rescue missions and you get better prices in the shops. If you're bad, you'll have a price on your head and outlaw gangs after you, but you do get to shoot anyone you like and loot their bodies for booty. It's not clear yet whether your moral persuasion will effect the course of the main story missions, but surely Martson will have a different role to play in this world if you make him a psychotic murderer.Between encounters you can set up your campsite, which is effectively a mobile safe house/save point. Camps can be built on any flat land, as long as it's not too close to a town, and are used to store weapons, cash and other items. You start out with a modest fire and a stick to poke it with, but as you progress through the game you get to pimp your site with a tent and other extras.Already it's clear that Rockstar San Diego is determined to capture the atmosphere of Western cinema. There's a well-realised day/night cycle which, at dusk, turns the sky a vibrant red-orange as the rocky outcrops become tombstone-like silhouettes all around you. At night, stars swarm in the skies, lending the landscape a weird ethereal glow. And as with all the best Westerns, a sense of gritty drama pervades. There's a wonderful moment where I'm caught in a gun fight with several outlaws – as we shoot the last of them dead, the shadow of an eagle passes over the body – it's completely random, but it adds an ominence to the scene that brings the likes of Leone and Sergio Corbucci back to mind once again.At night, players also get to hang out in cantinas, where black jack, poker and drinking mini-games are available for extra cash. You can even step in and defend the honour of local women from frisky banditos if you like. After delivering our bounty to the jail, we decide to ride out of Chicarosa, but on the way I spot a group of locals gathered round a ragged man seemingly delivering a political speech – he's a rebel leader, part of the movement against the Mexican government, and some soldiers are closing in to arrest him.We decide to intervene; when acting against the law it's best to don a bandana across your face for anonymity. Having taken out the troops I'm a wanted man, the bounty on my head is shown on screen and a red circle appears on the map display showing the area in which I'm actively being sought. If I ride out of this perimeter and remove the bandana, I'm less likely to be spotted, but there's still that bounty. Apparently, there are three ways to deal with it; head to a local post office and pay it off myself, earn a pardon letter by helping a lawman, or just pushing on regardless, encountering ever greater resistance as the figure increases.Pretty soon the choice is made for us. While riding past a bandit encampment, we run into a lawman who's had two colleagues captured and dragged into the walled town. We agree to help and walk into a huge gun fight, with bandits firing from inside buildings, behind barrels and sandbags. It's exhilarating stuff, using the Winchester rifle to take out enemies from a distance and switching to the double barrel shotgun to blast them at close range. There are oil lamps and sticks of dynamite all over the place – hit one of those they go up in flames, making human fireballs of anyone in the vicinity. From a safe vantage point on a building rooftop, we take out the rest of the bandits, and claim a US Maarshal pardon. As we ride out of the town, vultures swoop down to feast on the bodies.Rockstar also showed me one story mission. Marston joins up with Abraham Reyes, the leader of the rebellion in an attempt to take and secure a fort, then protect it from reinforcements sent in by the president. Our first role is to ride a carriage filled with explosives into the gate; rebels rush in behind us and the objective changes to locating a weapons cache on an upper floor. As gun fights kick off around Marston we leap upstairs and locate a cannon pointing out over the battlements – the aim is now to take control of it and fire at the reserve troops galloping in horseback and in carriages. As the first cannonballs hit, soldiers and fragments of wooden stage coaches go flying in all directions with impressive physical detail. The fort is ours.As well as the single-player campaign, Rockstar is planning a wealth of multiplayer modes. They won't confirm anything, but I asked if it'll be like GTA IV – a large array of mini-games and offbeat modes accompanying traditional online deathmatch fare. I'm very much assured this will be the case.So far, then, based on 40 minutes with the game, Red Dead Redemption is looking like a beautifully observed Western shooter, with some nice open-world functionality and plenty of authentic atmosphere. Of course, since this project was started, Assassin's Creed 2, Uncharted 2 and Batman Arkham Asylum have all lifted the action adventure bar and it'll be interesting to see if this title can truly compete with the depth and range of new gameplay ideas on show in that glorious trio. As a wild west shooter, it certainly feels more sturdy than the recent Call of Juavez, and this sub-genre is yet to present a truly benchmark title. Rockstar San Diego will have a strong claim to that prize.
If you've used any applications or widgets from RockYou, formerly RockMySpace, then as a precaution you should change your email and social networking passwords. The site has been hacked, and around 32.6m passwords may have been compromised. Unfortunately, the passwords were held in plain text instead of using a non-reversible hashing system.TheHelpNet Security blogsays: "since the user names and passwords are by default the same as the users webmail account — such as Hotmail, Yahoo or Gmail — this is a major lapse in security."It could be even worse for people who use the same password for different web sites and services because that means more accounts could be vulnerable, and they now have more passwords to change.RockYouresponded to TechCrunch's reportof the hack with a statement, as follows:On December 4, RockYou's IT team was alerted that the user database on RockYou.com had been compromised, potentially revealing some personal identification data for approximately 30M registered users on RockYou.com. RockYou immediately brought down the site and kept it down until a security patch was in place. RockYou confirms that no application accounts on Facebook were impacted by this hack and that most of the accounts affected were for earlier applications (including slideshow, glitter text, fun notes) that are no longer formally supported by the company. RockYou has secured the site and is in the process of informing all registered users that the hack took place.Imperva, which was first to announce the attack, says the site was hacked using anSQL Injectionattack, which is a very popular technique. Basically it means inserting commands written in the SQL database query language into web site queries. This works with sites that use SQL databases to dynamically create pages for specific users. An example would be creating a display showing a number of products on a shopping site.OnBayWords, someone posted a response with examples of the data extracted from RockYou. He said:So i was reading this shit about how some lol company Imperva found a SQLi on Rockyou.com. Yea, right, you're the best. Too late guys, too late. I've got every account downloaded from this shitty site. You were too slow, but what can i expect from you?There is 32 603 388 customers. Pretty nice list with plain text passwords. It's so lame, and I'm sure that more than half does work for myspace and other sites.Don't lie to your customers, or i will publish everythingOne criticism of RockYou is that it allowed simple 5-character passwords. However, there's not much advantage to using long, complex passwords (including numbers and perhaps punctuation characters) if they are stored in plain text. The experience also suggests being extra wary about any site that emails you your password in plain text, even though this is a courtesy users may appreciate.Either way, the ease with which many sites can be hacked using SQLi attacks is hardly likely to encourage users to put all their stuff online as recommended by "cloud computing" enthusiasts.
MIT researchers have unveiled theCopenhagen Wheel, which boosts power using a Formula One-style  KERS (Kinetic Energy Recovery System). It also provides a sort of Cycling 2.0 system by tracking friends, smog, traffic, and how fit you're getting.The Wheel, shown at the Copenhagen Conference on Climate Change, has a bright red hub stuffed with electronics. Carlo Ratti, director of the MIT SENSEable City Laboratory and the Copenhagen Wheel project, says:When you brake, your kinetic energy is recuperated by an electric motor and then stored by batteries within the wheel, so that you can have it back to you when you need it. The bike wheel contains all you need so that no sensors or additional electronics need to be added to the frame and an existing bike can be retrofitted with the blink of an eye.The wheel also has a Bluetooth connection to the user's iPhone, which can be mounted on the handlebars. The system can "monitor the bicycle's speed, direction and distance traveled, as well as collect data on air pollution and even the proximity of the rider's friends," says MIT. It can also send you an SMS message if the bike is stolen.Christine Outram, the Wheel team project leader, says:One of the applications that we have discussed with the City of Copenhagen is that of an incentive scheme whereby citizens collect Green Miles -- something similar to frequent flyer miles, but good for the environment.The prototypes of the Copenhagen Wheel were developed with Ducati Energia and the Italian Ministry of the Environment, and the system should go into production next year.The press release doesn't provide any data that I can see about the weight of the new wheel (it could be 5Kg or more), or the efficiency of its KERS system, including heat dissipation. As Formula One teams have already found, KERS sounds like a great idea but it may not provide a big enough advantage to be worth the extra weight. It's also not clear whether there are any plans to support other mobile phones beyond the iPhone, because that could also limit the potential market.There's also no information on the possible price, but I'd guess it's likely to be £500 or more, based on a quick scan ofUK Electric Bike &amp; Trike prices.Finally, there's the security aspect. AsBernhardHofmanncommented on Twitter:Sexiest "Steal me" bike sign I've ever seenGiven that electric bikes and ebike conversion kits have had limited success, it's not clear that the Copenhagen Wheel will change the world, but it's worthwhile research.
Day two, and another varied selection of classics from the readers' poll. I would compliment you all on your excellent taste but neither Evo or Champman made it into the top ten Which is RIDICULOUS. Still, good to see the Gamecube getting a bit of a look-in, and as for developers, it looks like BioWare is cleaning up...30. Zelda Wind Waker (2003, Gamecube)- Taking the fundamentals from Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask on the N64, but giving the franchise an aesthetic recharge with a new cartoony look, Wind Waker was a fresh and compelling instalment of the much loved series. Most fans dismayed at the change in presentation were quickly won over.29. Guitar Hero (2005, PS2)- A huge breakout mainstream success, and a game that deserves a lot of credit for taking a simple concept and executing it so well. The novelty does wear off after a while, but there aren't many videogames you could break out at a house party without getting some strange looks. Like Wii Sports, it may not impress hardcore gamers but its significance in the growing popularity of gaming should not be overlooked.28. Uncharted 2 (2009, PS3)- Finally a game worth buying a PS3 for – Uncharted 2 was easily the most critically acclaimed game of 2009 and one of the more recent releases to feature on this list. The engrossing single-player mode coupled with excellent multiplayer online action make this probably the most fun you've had playing a treasure hunter since Indiana Jones on the NES. Larawho?27. Rome: Total War (2004, PC)- One of only a handful of strategy games on the list, Rome Total War is seen by many as the pinnacle of the genre. Informative, educational (gasp), but overall deeply rewarding and immersive, Rome: Total War let you command huge armies and rewrite history, all from the comfort of your desktop. A big consumer of time, if you don't like football, this may well prove to be your Football Manager. This from commenter germit: 'Huge scope, epic conflicts and, best of all, flammable pigs'.26. Left 4 Dead (2008, PC, Xbox 360)- FPS fun but with a tense zombie-shooting horror twist proved a surprise hit and has won legions of fans in the past couple of years. While the story mode may not be up to much, the game's online multiplayer options make it the first port of call for those bored of Call of Duty. As Gamesblog reader, sorbicol puts it, 'the best online co-op game I've ever played, coupled to the closest cinematic experience I've had in a game as well'.25. Metroid Prime (2002, Gamecube)- Another rare Gamecube entrant, Metroid Prime won over fans of the classic Nintendo series, skeptical that it would still 'feel' like a Metroid game as a 3D first-person shooter. But with great level design and fun puzzles, Samus had never looked better. Now available for the Wii as part of the Metroid Prime Trilogy pack.24. Mass Effect (2007, Xbox 360, PC)- Bioware maintained its usual level of high quality when making this science-fiction RPG. Well-realised characters, a fantastic storyline – Mass Effect is one of the greatest sci-fi RPGs of all time. Commenters appreciated both the moral choices available in the game, and the great 80s synth soundtrack.23. GTA 3 (2001, PC, Xbox, PS2)- The first Grand Theft Auto was a cult success, GTA 2 was received with something of a nonchalant shrug. It's fair to say, then, that this third release was an important one for the franchise – and it certainly delivered. While it's been superseded in terms of quality and ambition by its sequels, it was still a major leap forward for both makers Rockstar and for PS2 gaming with its sandbox-style gameplay and frantic pace.22. Elder scrolls: Morrowind (2002, PC, Xbox)- A huge fantasy RPG with hundreds of hours of sidequests, Morrowind won huge acclaim from fans of the genre thanks to its open world dynamics and malleable narrative. You could do pretty much what you wanted, and in any order. Many fans still consider it superior to its successor, Oblivion, which you voted slightly higher up the list – and the wide range of mods available means it's still played a great deal today.21. GTA 4 (2008, Xbox 360, PS3, PC)- The GTA 4 launch was a huge event and rightly so: the momentum built up by previous releases meant the franchise's first sixth-generation outing had to be something special. Thankfully, it was. While it may not be the most fondly remembered of the series, Niko Bellic's exploits offered hours upon hours of sandbox fun along with dozens of varied and challenging missions. While it had its minor irritations (Roman calling every half hour asking to play a minigame with you chiefly among them) the scope of the game, and the way in which it realised its gorgeous cityscape make it easily one of the best releases of the last few years.20. Football Manager (2000-2009, PC)- It's difficult to sum up the appeal of the Football Manager (formerly Championship Manager ) in a short synopsis. For football fans, people given to nerdish, obsessive tendencies at the best of times, it offers an unparalleled chance to immerse yourself in your favourite sport and experience genuinely addictive footie role-playing, for days, if not weeks at a time. A management sim – and time consumer – without peer.19. Knights of the Old Republic (2003, PC, Xbox)- Bioware and the Star Wars universe was always a combination that was could create something special. It's a sign of KOTR's quality then that this exceeded expectations and is looked back on still as not just a great Star Wars game (probably the best) but a great RPG in its own right.18. Shadow of the Colossus (2005, PS2)- A follow up to Ico, this time adding massive beasts and horse riding across desolate landscapes in to the mix. Another haunting, beautiful game that transcended genre to create a moving interactive experience. Homesgal described it as 'gorgeous, immersive, and affecting'.17. Ico (2001, PS2)- A young boy with horns runs around a mysterious castle, solving puzzles. Doesn't sound like a promising premise, but Ico offered much more, creating a unique, haunting environment that stuck with fans long after finishing it. Frustrating at times, but ultimately a gorgeous creation - and who will ever forget the first time they held Yorda's hand and ran?16. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion (2006/7, PC, Xbox 360, PS3)- Perhaps seen somewhat unfairly as a poor relation to its Bethesda sibling Fallout 3, Oblivion offered sprawling RPG freedom within a vividly realised fantasy world. Like its predecessor Morrowind, it's a huge, atmospheric game with hours upon hours of sidequests available. This from Minion: 'Not may games or films scare me but every time I enter a cave or Ayleid ruin I feel genuine fear from the atmosphere that Bethesda have crafted so well'.15. Super Mario Galaxy  (2007, Wii)- The character who previously set the high watermark in both 2D and 3D platforming was always going to struggle to make a mark amongst a new generation of (more powerful) consoles –  but Mario Galaxy didn't need dazzling graphics or sweeping cutscenes to sparkle. The seamless incorporation of the Wii remote into the action coupled with ingenious level design made Galaxy one of the most fun and original platformers ever.14: Halo: Combat Evolved (2002, Xbox)- Halo could be seen as a fairly controversial entrant this high up the list – it didn't have a particularly good single-player campaign, and probably isn't the best FPS of the decade. However, what it did manage to do was bring multiplayer online gaming into the living rooms of thousands and away from PCs, setting the stage for the likes of Call of Duty to follow. Apart from Goldeneye, before Halo the multiplayer FPS simply wasn't a mainstream concern. Halo is often seen as the main reason for the Xbox's success, breaking sales records on its release in 2002 – if Halo hadn't done well, there may well not have been an Xbox 360...13. Baldur's Gate 2 (2000, PC)- Very high up in many commenter's lists (described by McBegbie as 'pure RPG genius' and zaarin2003 as 'easily the best RPG of all time') Baldur's Gate 2 set a high watermark in role-playing gaming that hasn't really been met since. Addictive gameplay, compelling plot and likeable characters were all combined within a superlatively well-realised fantasy world that sucked you in like few others have in the world of videogames. The fact that there's a still an active community for a game released almost ten years ago speaks volumes for its enduring quality.12. Pro Evolution Soccer (2000-2009, all platforms)- For a long time Konami had the football sim market completely sewn up with this enduring series – a feat made all the more impressive if you take into account the amount of failed pretenders to the Fifa throne (Actua Soccer, Virtua Soccer, Adidas Power Soccer etc). While the quality of the series has waned in recent years and EA's franchise has improved greatly, PES offered some of the finest football games ever made along the way. It's tough to pick a single release from the series, though 4 and 5 (released in 2004 and 2005 respectively) are often regarded as being the most fun to play.11. Deus Ex (2000, PC)- While Half-Life set the standard for science fiction first-person gaming, Deus Ex took the genre in a slightly different direction, combining more RPG elements with a cyberpunk futuristic plot involving the Illuminati, Triads and, er, superpower-granting nanotechnology, to create a gaming experience of memorable freedom and atmosphere. Both forward thinking and excellent fun.Tomorrow: Keith with numbers 10-2
