It's Thursday. Uncharted 3 anyone?
MPs warn that Britain's largest mobile operator, Everything Everywhere, will make a substantial profit from the multi-million-pound auction of public 4G phone spectrum when it finally goes ahead next year.They recommend that Everything Everywhere, which comprises the Orange and T-Mobile networks, should be compelled to ring-fence some of the money it makes from the much-delayed auction for future investment.The suggestions come in a report from the Commons Culture, Media and Sport select committee published on Thursday.The4G auction has been repeatedly delayedas mobile phone companies have bickered and used the courts to challenge Ofcom's attempts to sell it.The culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, has been criticial of the delays, which have put the UK behind Germany and the US in the deployment of the high-speed networks. A number of mobile carriers in the US now have 4G networks, while the UK has none.The committee also urges the communications regulator Ofcom to expand its "unambitous" target for 800MHz mobile broadband up from 95% to 98% of the population, covering an extra 2 million Britons.A spokeswoman for Everything Everywhere said the company would await the government's response to the report."We fully support industry collaboration to ensure that the forthcoming spectrum auctions are held as soon as possible so the benefits of faster data speeds reach consumers quickly, but understand that the complexity of the issues involved has meant that further consultation about the auction rules by Ofcom has been necessary," she said."As part of the merger of Orange and T-Mobile to create Everything Everywhere, we are required to sell some 1800MHz spectrum, for which we pay £33m in license fees to government each year. It is our intention that all proceeds from the sale of this spectrum will be invested into our UK network to benefit our customers across the country."The hugely contested rights to 4G radio spectrum – which enables connections at speeds of up to 100Mbps, about 25 times faster than the average broadband connection now in use at home – will be put on the block in late 2012.Two types of spectrum are being auctioned, 2600MHz and 800MHz. The latter, which is currently being used to broadcast analogue TV signals, is the most valuable because it works well over long distances and is cheaper to build a network around.It will come available as analogue TV transmitters are switched off, as has already happened across large parts of the UK.The culture committee deals a further blow to Everything Everywhere in its report, concluding that the reallocation of the 900Mhz spectrum owned by Vodafone and O2 has not resulted in a "significant or permanent distortion of competition".Everything Everywhere and Three have argued that the older networks, Vodafone and O2, have an unfair advantage in reaching customers over large distances because the 900Mhz low-frequency spectrum was handed to them for free in January.John Whittingdale, chairman of the committee, commended Ofcom for the way it had handled the disputed auction process, but claimed that the networks themselves were responsible for delaying the auction and holding back Britain's digital infrastructure."Ofcom has had a very difficult job adjudicating between competing and polarised interests, and we are concerned that constant disagreement and special pleading from the four mobile network operators appears to have further delayed the spectrum auction," Whittingdale said."We believe that the basic rules for the auction which Ofcom has laid down are sensible and fair, and that further delays will result in the UK falling further behind in this vital area. The auction needs to proceed as soon as possible."The report urges Ofcom to investigate a way to prevent Everything Everywhere from profiting substantially from the sale of publicly-owned spectrum.Whittingdale said: "Where a mobile provider is set to gain a windfall from the sale of what was originally a public asset, government and Ofcom should find a way to ensure that at least some of the proceeds are invested for public benefit."The committee backeda call from a cross-party group of MPs earlier this yearfor Ofcom to expand the 800Mhz spectrum to 98% of the UK, from the 95% the regulator proposed in March. The report said that reaching 99% of the UK would be "achievable" but would cost up to £230m and would likely push up prices for customers."Access to fast broadband services will become increasingly important in the future and those without coverage, particularly in rural areas, will be left at a disadvantage," Whittingdale said. "We believe that Ofcom needs to go further than it currently proposes by setting a condition that at least one of the new licence holders must achieve 98 per cent coverage across the country."
Owners of iPhones which show short battery life will get an update from Apple "within the next few weeks", the company said on Wednesday as it began testing a new version of its iOS software with developers.The move follows reports by a number of customers using the new iPhone 4S, released a month ago, and also some who have updated their iPhone 4 or iPhone 3GS phones toiOS 5, released on October 12, that they have seen surprisingly short battery life, in some cases lasting only a few hours from a full charge.Apple issued a statement on Wednesday night in which it said: "A small number of customers have reported lower than expected battery life on iOS 5 devices. We have found a few bugs that are affecting battery life and we will release a software update to address those in a few weeks."At the same time it provided developers with a new version of the iOS 5 software for testing which is applicable to the three iPhone models able to run it, and also for the iPad 1 and iPad 2, and equivalent versions of its iPod Touch device. In the description for the update,according to Apple Insider, it notes that it "contains improvements and other bug fixes including… bugs affecting battery life".The version will undergo wider testing with developers to find any outstanding problems or bugs before it is issued more widely.The Guardian reported on Friday thatApple engineers had begun contacting individual usersto try to pin down the causes of their problems. One who had been contacted said that they had been asked to enter specific keypad codes which appeared to allow Apple to download diagnostic information directly from the phone. One told the Guardian: "I am getting around 10-12 hours standby (without using the phone), and then when I am using the phone for browsing, the battery percentage drops 1% every minute."Some users found that turning off certainsystem location servicesimproved the battery life. But so far no clear reason has emerged for the problem.Developers who used the iOS 5 "seed" over the summer after it was unveiled did not report any problems with battery life draining - but when the product was finalised and issued, the problems emerged.Apple's engineers are still actively working with customers on finding the source of the problem, in some cases accessing customers' systems with permission to retrieve log files from the systems.The new version of iOS5, developers say, also:• adds multitasking gestures for original iPad• resolves bugs with documents in the Cloud• improves voice recognition for Australian users using dictation• contains security improvements.The application of the "security improvements" is not yet known but could be related to the voice assistant Siri, whichcan be usedto dial phone numbers and do other actions even when the phone is locked.
I have fond memories of the old photo booth. Because you rarely needed to use one, perhaps once as a child for your passport, it felt like a treat. You would sit in the booth on your own, the orange concertina curtain behind you, and give your best grown-up face for the camera.Then there would be a 10-minute wait, and even when the magic machine finally spewed out the strip of photographs, impatient fingers were not allowed to fish them out until the dryer had stopped. Thelatest booth by Photo-Me, the British company and the world's leading booth manufacturer, has been designed by Philippe Starck and appears in selected shopping centres on Thursday. The French designer hasn't changed much about the outside, but inside it is more technologically advanced than ever. The seat – a red plastic pebble that glows – is fixed and the camera adjusts to the user's height. It has a USB port so you can save your photographs (only the "fun" ones, featuring different backgrounds and effects, not the serious passport photographs which remain the company's biggest earner), and use the touchscreen to "share" – though in this sense, I prefer "inflict"  – photographs on to Facebook and Flickr, and email. Smile!
Britain has backed away from confronting China over cyber attacks preferring instead to emphasise the threats and opportunities it said all countries faced through the rapid growth of cyberspace.William Hague, the foreign secretary, said on Wednesday that theLondon Cyberspace Conferencehe hosted was not "judgmental" and that the source of cyber attacks was "very difficult to verify".He said he was not going to publicly name the "guilty men" responsible for such attacks. He went as far only to acknowledge "a difference" between western governments and China towards freedom of expression "off line as well as on line".Privately, British officials say western governments will back off criticising China given its potential for helping the west, and the eurozone in particular, out of their economic problems.Officials privately are also not so diplomatic as ministers, blaming China for attacks on British government computer systems. Hague said in February that the Foreign Office had repelled a cyber attack a month earlier from "a hostile state intelligence agency". Sources told the Guardian at the time that the attack was believed to be from Chinese intelligence agencies.Lady Pauline Neville Jones, the prime minister's special adviser to business on cybersecurity, said earlier this week that Russia and China were some of the worst culprits involved in cyber-attacks."It's damaging in the end to try to play both sides," she said. "If you are a company that comes from a country like China you can suffer if in the end people believe it's threatening to employ your products."Hague on Wednesday said four messages for governments had come out of the conference which was attended by 700 delegates from more than 60 countries. They were:• a rapid rise in cyber crime is a growing threat to every country;• governments cannot treat cyberspace as if it belonged to them;• state-sponsored cyberspace attacks are not in the interest of any country in the long term, and;• those attempting to hinder transparency and the free flow of ideas will fail."More and more citizens in more countries are going to expect to be able to hold people to account by being able to have vastly more information available about what governments are doing than ever before", Hague said. "State-sponsored attacks are not in the interests of anyone in the long term," he added. Hague acknowledged that China and Russia advocated tighter regulation of the internet through a code of conduct.Hague insisted at a press conference at the end of a press conference that the British government would not shut down social media in the event of criminal investigations by law enforcement agencies. Their action would "not include the shutting down of social media".
So the trailer is out and ready to watch. Andas speculated, Grand Theft Auto V looks set to be a satire on the Hollywood dream, with an unnamed narrator arriving in a town clearly modelled on Los Angeles, looking for the quiet life but unable to leave his criminal past behind.The Vinewood sign from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is clearly visible in one section, suggesting that at least some of that game's environment and milieu will figure once more. The private jet scorching through at the end hints that we'll be able to  pilot aircraft again.As with Grand Theft Auto IV, it appears that developer Rockstar North is looking to add social commentary to the mix. Several moments show homeless people huddling beneath overpasses and begging for change. The contrast between the wealthy and the poor seems to be a key theme.So, what do you think? Excited? Concerned? Ambivalent? Let us know...
Angry Birds has topped 500m downloads, cementing its position as the world's fastest selling mobile game.Announcing the milestone, Rovio – the company that developed the game – said there were no signs of slowing down for Angry Birds, which is available on the iPhone and Android smartphone platforms, as well as Apple's iPad and Windows PC."This is a fantastic landmark achievement for us, and we're extremely delighted to see such an incredible amount of people enjoying our games,"said Mikael Hed, chief executive of Rovio.The company is now redoubling efforts to capitalise on its success with both the game as well as the merchandising that includes soft toys, clothing and books. It is about to open its first Angry Birds retail shop in Rovio's home country, Finland, and is looking at opening an office in China.It is also developing a big-screen version of Angry Birds, reportedly hiring former Marvel chairman David Maisel to produce a film for release in 2015.In September it emerged thatStarbucks was also in talkswith Rovio in a joint promotional venture which would see leadersboards in the coffee shop chain.
Those mourning the close of this year's GameCity festival should head immediately to Plymouth. Tomorrow sees the beginning ofExtended Play, a new festival based at the National Marine Aquarium that seeks to inspire developers and game design students based in the West of England.Like GameCity, it's a mix of talks on various elements of the game design process and wider celebrations of game culture. The opening event takes place tomorrow night, with a keynote fromTigachief Richard Wilson, but the main conference kicks off tomorrow featuring talks by Jo Twist of Channel 4 Education, Phil Stuart from the brilliant game studio,Preloadedand Ian Livingstone, the life president of Square Enix and a national treasure of the British games industry.Also, at 5pm you'll be able to catch a panel discussion about the state of the games industry, starring Gamesblog pals Andrew Smith from Spilt Milk Studios, Ed Fear from Curve and Simon Barratt from Four Door Lemon, as well as Paul Croft, co-founder and director of Games at Mediatonic... and me!There's also a gamejam taking place throughout the event and club nights held at The Roundabout, featuring an array of DJs and electronica acts. Bristol has seen quiet a few interesting games and interactive art events over the last few years, but it's great to see another intriguing festival appearing in the West. The conference sessions are free (apart from the keynotes), but you have you have to register tonight!I'll have more from the event over the next few days.
AOL has increased its global ad revenues by 8% year on year in the three months to the end of September, while still reporting an overall loss for the period.The internet content company pulled in $317.7m (£198m) in advertising revenue, its second consecutive quarter of global growth.This was fuelled by 15% year-on-year growth in digital display ad revenue. Within that, display advertising in the US rose by 14% and internationally by 28%.The company said the boost in the display revenue was in part because of being able to increase pricing on premium ads, and an increase in premium ad inventory, following theacquisition of The Huffington Postand tech industry news siteTechCrunch.However, one note of concern was that AOL's owned and operated web properties only boosted their advertising by 1% year on year.Observers noted that the company has only managed to increase the average monthly visitors to AOL sites by 1 million year on year to 107 million.The Huffington Post Media Group had 97 million average unique users in the quarter, flat compared with a year ago.AOL, which has been tipped asone of a number of potential suitorsfor the ailing Yahoo, reported a decline in total revenues of 6% year on year to $531.7m, still ahead of most analyst expectations."[We are] substantially closing the gap to revenue and eventual profit growth," said AOL chairman and chief executive Tim Armstrong.The company was dragged down by the continued decline of its dial-up internet business, which saw revenues shrink 22% year on year to $192m.Overall AOL reported a third quarter net loss of $2.6m. AOL spent $130m buying back shares.
Plans by the hacker collective Anonymous to expose collaborators with Mexico's bloody Zetas drug cartel – a project it dubbed "#OpCartel" – have fallen into disarray, with some retreating from the idea of confronting the killers while others say that the kidnap of an Anonymous hacker, the incident meant to have spawned the scheme, never happened.The apparent climbdown by the group came as one security company, Stratfor,claimed that the cartel was hiring its own security experts to track the hackers down– which could have resulted in "abduction, injury and death" for anyone it traced.Two hacker members of "Operation Cartel", which said earlier this week that it would expose members of the murderous cartel, have now indicated that they are stopping their scheme to identify collaborators and members because they don't want anyone to be killed as a result.Stratfor hadwarned on 28 Octoberthat there could be disastrous results from the plan: "Loss of life will be a certain consequence if Anonymous releases the identities of individuals cooperating with cartels. The validity of the information Anonymous has threatened to reveal is uncertain, as it might not have been vetted. This could pose an indiscriminate danger to individuals mentioned in whatever Anonymous decides to release."The threat from the cartel had already worried some Anonymous members. The collective has no formal organisational structure; it exists through hundreds of members who communicate through chatrooms. Plans for attacks tend to float up through the discussions in the chatrooms, and can be carried out by a few or a few thousand participants, depending on the support ideas receive.Thus there was widespread support among participants for "Operation Payback", aseries of attacks on PayPal, Mastercard and Amazonearlier this year after they blocked financing for – or, in Amazon's case ceased, hosting of – the Wikileaks website.But it is unclear how widespread support is within Anonymous for theoriginal plan to expose "collaborators" – allegedly including police, taxi drivers and journalists– who work with the Zetas.The Zetas have shown that they can be ruthless if information about them is posted online: in September, police in the Mexican border city of Nuevo Laredo found a woman's decapitated body alongside a handwritten sign saying she was killed in retaliation for postings on a social networking site. The message was signed with a "Z," the Zetas' trademark.Earlier that month, the bodies of a man and a woman were found hanging from an overpass in Nuevo Laredo with a message threatening, "this is what will happen" to troublemaking internet users.Some tweeters using the threat's#OpCartelhashtag said the whole idea is too dangerous to carry out."He denounced the op after safety concerns. He thought about it and saw it was too dangerous," posted a tweeter under the name GeneralSec. "DragnDon"tweeted back: "The fear that surrounds this idea is astounding. Fairweather revolutionaries?"But other hackers have also questioned the entire pretext for the planned exposure. The original video, which said that the hackers would begin releasing the data from 5 November, claimed that it was a reprisal for the kidnapping of an unidentified Anonymous member in the coastal city of Veracruz, an oil state on the Gulf of Mexico with a major port of the same name.Veracruz has seen a surge in drug violence in recent months in what authorities say is a battle between the Zetas drug cartel, which has controlled the territory for at least a year, and its rivals. Dozens of bodies have been discovered in recent weeks, including a 35-year-old dumped on a highway in rush-hour traffic in Boca del Rio city last month.However, a number of doubts have been raised over the claim of the original kidnapping. There is no police report filed to link to the original claim of a kidnap: "Not one person can name the victim, the date or a witness,"observedMach2600 on Twitter."The tragedy that happened to the two bloggers had nothing to do with Anonymous. Sad, but [the kidnaps claims are] not them. The other kidnap victims are all accounted for in one fashion or another. None of whom were at PaperStorm."PaperStorm was an Anonymous-organised event in December and March that encouraged members to post paper flyers in their cities. The original video claimed the Anonymous member was taken "when he was doing PaperStorm". But no confirming evidence has appeared.With both their motivation and their motive looking shaky, some have also been questioning what Anonymous would have to aim at. "The problem is, hack what? There are no drug cartel websites, that I know of, that would be hackable," said Raul Trejo, an expert on media and violence at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.Anonymous-style videos from Veracruz have been posted online for at least two months, but none before has drawn as much attention, and none of the others threatened violence, or promised to take on a drug cartel."What the video is announcing is not hacking, but rather much more violent acts," Trejo said.As the Zetas's actions show, any fears would be well-founded. "Are we afraid? Clearly so. Do we fear for our lives? Obviously. Notwithstanding that, we think it is time to say 'enough,'" according to a statement from the purported organisers posted on the website Anonymous IberoAmerica. "We will go ahead with the operation, because people have asked us to."The movement, if it is one, may have more success than did the bloggers in Nuevo Laredo, who posted information on drug cartel shootouts and safe houses under online aliases. Somehow, and nobody has yet said how, the Zetas apparently found out their real identities.The Anonymous IberoAmerica website says it will form a "special task force" by invitation only to find out and publish information about cartel collaborators, a potentially deadly undertaking since rivals often kill identified members of the Zetas.The website even included a series of security steps, such as urging members to send messages through a proxy server, and never to identify themselves as part of Anonymous.The page also offers a supposedly secure widget to help protect users.So far only one act has been attributed to the group: It apparently created a website decorated with jack o' lanterns that accuses a former state prosecutor of being a Zeta.Perhaps the most telling detail is that the Anonymous IberoAmerica site is now soliciting anonymous tips on cartel collaborators. That suggests that, if the promised revelations materialise, they could be nothing more than common rumours or gossip sent in by tipsters or foes of those named.Note: updated quote from @GeneralSec to change from "They said.." to "He said..."
Kinect is celebrating its first birthday. Originally designed as an Xbox 360 game controller, in June this year Microsoft opened up an SDK to allow people to develop apps for it, providing they weren't commercial in nature.This week, the companyannounced that anyone, commercial or not, will be able to develop apps for Kinect. The question is, will we suddenly start to see Kinect as a genuinely useful business tool?Science fictionAlong with the release, Microsoft's engineersput out a video(that's it above) talking about what they callThe Kinect Effect. In the video we see a surgeon using Kinect to bring up digital medical scans, a student in class manipulating DNA, a father playing with a book with his son, musicians playing instruments, and so on. It's impressive and inspiring stuff.The Kinect video follows hot on the heels from one last week –a vision of Office 2019. (In fact, it's slightly grandly called "Microsoft in 2019".) The "vision" video is much more aboutinteraction, as opposed to Kinect which - if you reflect on the video – is typically about individuals working independently with their own data.In both videos there's a classroom vignette. In the Kinect one, a student stands alone and pulls apart a strand of DNA. In the Office 2019 one, students touch and sketch on a shared surface and flowing information between the two environments. Most of the story of the Office 2019 video takes place in a video, however. Again, data is shared and flows between teams and individuals – albeit in a magical future world where half our lives is not spent ticking onscreen boxes where we assent to share data. But I digress.Importantly, the Office 2019 video appears to be inspired by ideas fromMicrosoft Surface, a technology that takes natural touch technologies such as on smartphones and tablets but on a bigger scale. Rather than a small screen, you have a large table – ie, a "surface" – comprising a projector and sensing technologies. It should be noted, however, that Surface is horrendously expensive, as we shall see.In terms of the present, many of my clients now use iPads in sales demos rather than sitting the clients in front of a projector. The reason is obvious – giving the client the product to prod and poke and play with builds a relationship both with the software and with the vendor. What used to be a meeting is now a workshop with greatly enhanced interactivity. In many ways, it's what you do when Surface-like technologies from the Office 2019 video are outside the mainstream.Where does Kinect fit in?The Kinect Effect video, the Office 2019 video and my clients' drift away from using projectors in meetings to iPads are trying to show us how the tech in the world that we live in is changing. What the iPad taught us, and why it's so popular, is that the facade of mouse and keyboard isn't as important as it once was, especially when working in groups. As we move forward we'll tend towards technologies that allow us to prod and poke and pull at our data and ideas in a totally natural and free-form way.In the Office 2019 video, the way that data flows around teams and between individuals is important and inspiring. Importantly, we know as engineers that we can do thistoday. There isn't anything futuristic about the actualsoftwarein that video. It's all basic stuff. At the heart of it, that Office 2019 video is just about new display technologies and increased bandwidth.But we all want that impossible future shown in that video. It looks great, it's logical and confident. We know we're getting there. There's no chance we'll get that display technology within the next eight years, but that's by-the-by.The problem that we havetodayis that Surface is really expensive. You're looking at a price tag of £8,000 for just one table, £10,000 if you want a developer kit. Kinect, on the other hand, is dirt cheap. £100 for the unit plus £500 for a projector and screen and you're done. You can even get a dedicated PC to run the whole show for £200. From the smallest meeting room for the smallest business to the largest boardroom you can put a Kinect in it with a discretionary budget item of around £800-£1,000.An obvious question is, "why aren't we?" We have the technology and skills to write the software shown in the Office 2019 video today. We can't afford Surfaces, but we can afford Kinects. But as that's true, why have I – and I suspect I'm not alone – not seen one in use in business in the past six months?I suspect that, sadly, Kinect is a problem in search of a solution. Using one in an operating theatre makes immense amounts of sense – you don't have to worry about sanitising something that you don't touch. Giving a presentation and waving PowerPoint slides by makes plenty of sense too, but that's a feature that'll take Microsoft 10 minutes to add to Office. (That's if Kinect works in a crowded room.) But you only have to think for a moment to realise that an infrared or Bluetooth clicker is far easier to use than Kinect; a click on a mousepad button even simpler. And those are all going to be cheaper and more reliable than a Kinect.The iPad isn't a problem in search of a solution – it's got its story the proper way round. This is why my clients, and I suspect yours, use them to bring people closer sales demos. Not touching something is not a natural state for a human being. Touching something is. My kids, both too young to use a mouse, can use an iPad without any obvious conscious effort at all and I don't ever remember watching them try and understand it. That's because since they were born they've been touching and using objects. Wiping their finger across a screen to change a photo is just as natural as lifting a spoon to their mouths or stacking bricks on top of each other.But by contrast, moving an object on a screen by touching something that's not thereisn'tnatural. I think this is why Kinect hasn't found its own way into mainstream use yet; our future world of 2019 will be based on touch and tactility. It won't, I think, be based on us waving our arms in the air. Unless you're a surgeon, or you direct planes, or you're a semaphore messenger.So, my advice: if you've got money to spend on building commercial apps for Kinect, invest it on the sort of display technologies that we'll need in our impossible futures.
If UK startup Mindshapes'£3.1m funding roundwas one sign of the burgeoning market for smartphone and tablet apps aimed at children, the activities of big brands like Sesame Street and LeapFrog is another.Sesame Street has been working with Nokia's Research Centre in California on an educational app for the new Lumia Windows Phones. It's called Nokia Interactive Rich Reading, and stars well-loved character Elmo."Children learn to read best when they are sitting down reading a story with their parents or grandparents. The purpose of this app is to give them that opportunity, even if their Dad is away on business, or their grandma lives in a different city," says Nokia Research Centre's director of exploratory research Mirjana Spasojevic, in apost on the Nokia Conversations blog.The app will include five animated books aimed at 2-5 year-olds, and according to Nokia will add video conferencing features in a future update. Elmo – filmed against a green screen for his inclusion in the app – acts as a digital companion as children read the stories, rather than a straight narrator."Elmo is there to be friends with the children and help them along. If a kid is stuck on a page about raisins, Elmo will say "I like raisins…"  but he won't read out the words to them," explains Spasojevic.LeapFrog is also targeting the educational apps market, building on its history making toys and electronic games. The company has its own LeapPad tablet for children, but is hedging its bets, with the launch of a range of iOS apps. Three more have just been released on the App Store.Two are musical:LeapFrog Songs: Sing Along with Us!andLeapFrog Songs: Toddler Rhythms.LeapFrog's iPad music apps want to get children singing alongAlso aimed at 2-5 year-olds, the apps have 13 and 15 songs respectively for toddlers to sing along to, presented by cartoon characters and animals – "sax-playing skunk, maracas-shaking moose..." – while introducing vowel sounds, numbers and emotions.A third app,Scout &amp; Me, is more of a virtual pet application, as children play with a puppy and count butterflies.The apps from Sesame Street and LeapFrog place an emphasis on fun play, but educational elements are high in the mix too. They will be pitched into an increasingly competitive App Store for these kinds of apps, with other big brands like Disney, traditional children's book publishers, and startups including Mindshapes, Toca Boca and Callaway Digital Arts.These apps are helping iPad in particular become a credible e-learning device. Asurvey recently conductedby analyst firm Piper Jaffray of an admittedly-limited sample of 25 educational technology directors in the US found that all were using iPad in schools, with many suggesting that within five years, they expect to have more tablets per student than they currently have computers.iOS is currently getting the lion's share of kid-apps, although when Android tablets start to sell in greater numbers, they may also join the action. Nokia's partnership with Sesame Street shows it, too, is alive to the potential in this area.In the US, Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook Color is establishing a niche with children's book-apps, while dedicated devices like the LeapPad and VTech's InnoTab are hoping for a slice of the market too.
Sony is likely to plunge to a ¥90bn (£722m) full-year loss, just months after reassuring markets it was on track to make significant profits, as the strengthening yen, Thailand's floods and poor TV sales hammer the company's bottom line.The Japanese electronics and entertainment conglomerate reported a ¥27bn loss in the three months to the end of September, and rapidly downgraded its forecast for the year, putting the firm on track to report its fourth straight annual net loss.Sony, whichsaid in Julythat it would make a ¥60bn profit in the year to March 2012, also slashed its forecast for operating profit by 90% from ¥200bn to just ¥20bn.Sony's plummeting fortunes are the latest sign of trouble in the consumer electronics sector, with its rival Panasonic warning that it is on track to report its worst financial performance in a decade.Panasonic forecast an annual net loss of ¥420bn – its biggest in 10 years – wiping out previous forecasts of a ¥30bn profit this year.The company, which is facing the same litany of problems as Sony with a soaring yen and weak TV sales in the US and Europe, is aiming to hurry through a massive restructuring. The 17,000 jobs that were planned to go by March 2013 will now be axed a year ahead of schedule.Sony said that the Thai floods will cost it ¥25bn due to damage to its factories in the country and the ensuing difficulty in procuring parts and components for its TV and PC divisions. The natural disaster in Thailand comes during a year that has seen Sony's business hit badly by the Japanese earthquake and the PlayStation hacking affair.Sony Music reported a 6.6% fall in revenues to ¥103.6bn due to the appreciation of the yen and lower sales of albums outside the US, despite hit albums during the quarter including Adele's 21 and Beyonce's 4.The group's Hollywood studio, Sony Pictures, proved to be a bright spot in the company's results with operating profits of ¥20.6bn in the quarter countering a loss of ¥4.8bn in the same period last year.However, the company admitted that without the one-off ¥21.4bn proceeds from selling the merchandising rights to Spider-Man the division would have reported an operating loss. The company said that despite the strong performance of The Smurfs in the quarter, theatrical revenues declined year on year against a strong releases in the same period last year. TV revenues were "significantly higher" year on year. The company lowered its summer forecast for full-year operating income for the division by ¥5bn.Sony's consumer products and services division, which includes its PC, TV and PlayStation businesses, experienced another tough quarter, plunging to an operating loss of ¥34.6bn.Sony said sales of TVs fell in weak US and European markets. PC sales were lower due to "price competition", while compact digital camera sales also fell.Last month Sony announced that it wasto take full controlof its mobile phone joint venture Sony Ericsson, buying out its Swedish partner for €1.05bn (£920m), in a bid to catch up with smartphone rivals such as Apple and Samsung.According to a geographical breakdown of Sony's figures, sales in the three months to the end of September fell 10% in Japan, 12% in the US, 16% in Europe and 11% in the Asia-Pacific region.Revenue from TV sales in the three months to the end of September fell 18%, turnover from personal and mobile products fell 11% and gaming revenues fell by 7.7%, reflecting price cuts for PlayStation &nbsp;3 consoles.Consumer products &amp; services – which includes TV, PC, camera and PlayStation businessesRevenue:12.3% fall to ¥780mOperating loss:¥34.6bnSony PicturesRevenue:17% increase to ¥169mOperating profit:¥20.6bnSony MusicRevenue:down 6.6% to ¥104bnOperating profit:down 22% to ¥6.3bn
Wednesday! How is everyone? What are you playing and why?
Will Knox – LexiconSinger-songwriter Will Knox's new EP Lexicon is available to buy on iTunes, but it's also an app in Apple's App Store. The £2.99 app is a comic book based on the EP's five songs: "an effort to bring music, lyrics and artwork closer together in a new age of digital technology" according to its listing. The app also includes a code to be used to get a free download of the EP from Knox's own website – Apple's approval of this may lead other artists to do this sort of thing.iPhone / iPadDoctor Who EncyclopediaDoctor Who? There's an encyclopedia app for him on iPad, produced by digital agency Brandwidth, working with BBC Books. It promises "everything that has ever happened, un-happened and happened again in the world of the Eleventh Doctor", with in-app purchases used to buy bundles for the Ninth and Tenth Doctors. Expect character biographies, places, objects, image galleries and links to buy episodes from the iTunes Store.iPadDuke Nukem 3DDuke Nukem may not be so hot on console nowadays, but he's hoping to make a comeback on mobile. This Android first-person shooter runs across smartphones and tablets, and costs £0.61 for the first episode, with two more available as in-app purchases. The game's inclusion of ads has been controversial though: after negative reviews, they have been removed.AndroidGarageBandApple's music-making GarageBand app has been available for iPad since the launch of the iPad 2 earlier in 2011, but it has just been turned into a  Universal app so that iPhone and iPod touch owners can join the fun.iPhoneFox Digital CopyFilm studio 20th Century Fox has a new Android app to play people's movies on their smartphones. "This app gives you the ability to transfer your favorite 20th Century Fox films to your Android mobile phone, as well as access your Digital Copy library through your Android device," explains the listing.AndroidNOW! Official UK Top 40 ChartThis brand new app is still in beta: you can download it from the App Store, but you'll need toemail to get a registration codeto use it. The idea: you pay £1 a week as a subscription to get the UK Top 40 singles downloaded to your iPhone to play as many times as you like, with tap-through links to the iTunes Store to buy favourites before they fall out of the chart.Update:It turns out the app wasn't meant to go live yet, so it has been removed from the App Store. Expect an official launch in the coming months though.iPhoneRumble In The JungleHachette UK has released this iOS book-app which introduces a host of colourful jungle animals, based on the printed book by Giles Andreae and David Wojtowycz. Hugh Laurie is on board for voice narration.iPhone / iPadPicamoNovember, Movember, gunpowder, treason and unsightly moustaches everywhere you look. Still, it's in a good cause. Picamo is the work of Ogilvy Group UK and The Blue Hive, offering 30 "realistic moustaches" to digitally superimpose on photos, before sharing them on Facebook and Twitter. Profits from the 69p download price go to charity.iPhoneBarclays ATP World Tour FinalsThere's an official app for this year's ATP World Tour Finals tennis tournament, sponsored by Barclays. It will offer live scores, match stats, videos, photos, schedules, group standings and a guide to the event itself.iPhone / AndroidPhilips SimplyShareConsumer electronics firm Philips has launched an Android app for accessing music, photos and videos on people's home networks, sharing them across multiple smartphones and tablets. It requires an activation code to work – that can be found inside SimplyShare-branded Philips products.AndroidWalmart for iPadUS retail chain Walmart has a new iPad app enabling people to browse, search and buy products from their tablet. The app also ties into the company's e-commerce site, with a Shopping Cart shared between the two.iPadAl Jazeera Sport LiveMiddle Eastern broadcaster Al Jazeera now has a live sports app for iPad, showing live Champions League football, as well as matches from Spain, France and Italy. The app is free, but premium channels require a subscription.iPad
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew Apple Store app launches Thursday; here's how it will change Apple's retail operations &gt;&gt; BJRIntrigued to see take-up of this.Samsung: show us the source code, Apple &gt;&gt; Smart OfficeAnd now in Australia: "In Federal court today Samsung counsel Cynthia Cochrane said her client would need the source code for the iPhone 4S and agreements Apple had with major carriers Vodafone, Telstra and Optus in order to make a legal case for a ban before the court." We aren't lawyers, but aren't court cases meant to start with the evidence and then move to the claim, rather than vice-versa?Hacktivist "The Jester" draws crowd at Hacker Halted &gt;&gt; Infosec IslandTurns up - sort of - at hacker conference and explains his motivations, his opinion of Anonymous, and more.Apple's App Store shame &gt;&gt; Adi Kingsley-Hughes"Take a trip over to the iTunes App Store and take a look at the top grossing games. Notice something odd?" Not immediately until the point is made that they're free to download. So how are they high-grossing? Because of the in-app purchases. So what's the problem? It's that many are aimed at children - who will buy a 99c or a £9.99 or a £99 (really) extra without worrying. You can disable this in the device settings, but it's one to watch for.Apple wins two new high profile multi-touch related patents &gt;&gt; Patently AppleRelate back to the 2007 iPhone, but the fact that they relate to multi-touch is probably significant for what happens in any patent battles with Android. Hunker down. It's thermonuclear war out there.Windows 7 continues to roll as XP fades away &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott: "These trend lines illustrate how spectacularly Windows Vista failed in the marketplace. Vista hits its peak of usage, not surprisingly, in October 2009, the same month that Windows 7 was introduced. After three years on the market, it had not cracked the 20% mark--Windows 7 hit that number after only a year. As of October 2011, Vista's share has declined to 8.8%, and it will probably be below the 5% mark next year at this time. "By contrast, Windows 7 has reached roughly 35% share in just two years and shows no signs of slowing. I've drawn trend lines on this chart to estimate when the shares for Windows XP and Windows 7 will cross. That should be in about six months, although recent numbers suggest that Windows 7 is picking up steam." Vista is receding so quickly that it will be below Mac OSX some time in spring next year.The inside story of how Microsoft killed its Courier tablet | Microsoft &gt;&gt; CNET NewsJay Greene has been writing about Microsoft for what seems like forever. It's notable that J Allard still isn't willing - or able - to talk publicly about his time at Microsoft. This is the first of a two-part piece on how a product never saw the light of day. (Charles Arthur adds: it gels with what I've found out about the same project in the research I've been doing for my forthcoming book on Microsoft/Apple/Google. Same key players, same rationale. Greene has done a fantastic job here.)Android browser User-Agent issues &gt;&gt; Android Developers blogFrom December 2010, and also relevant to the discussion about Android previously on this site: "Currently, Android devices provide the following (in addition to standard info) in the User-Agent: 'Android', a version number, a device name, a specific build, Webkit version info, and 'Mobile'. For example, Froyo on a Nexus One has the following User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; U; Android 2.2.1; en-us; Nexus One Build/FRG83) AppleWebKit/533.1 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/4.0 Mobile Safari/533.1 "The 'Mobile' string in the User Agent indicates that this device would prefer a version of the website optimized for Mobile (small form factor devices), if available." No mention of spoofing iOS or the iPhone there at all.Extrapolating &gt;&gt; xkcdAnd of course read the alt text too. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Mobile/tablet operating system market share &gt;&gt; NetmarketshareWorldwide data about smartphone usage, as measured by hits on HTML sites (WAP pages aren't included; see the methodology at http://marketshare.hitslink.com/mobile-methodology.aspx .) iOS seems to rise in October, post-iPhone 4S. What's noticeable is that Windows Phone/Mobile isn't noticeable. Nokia has a lot of ground to make up. (Thanks @johnclifton for the link.)Android UI video demo shows off multitouch, Google Maps, Quake &gt;&gt; GizmodoFrom November 2007, and linked from our article about how Android has eaten up the UK smartphone market. Note that the headline is wrong: it doesn't show multi-touch, but it does show gestures (swipe; double-tap to zoom). Both models control the screen via buttons on the phone; Steve Horowitz says he's been "living with them for about six months". Wonder if Mike Lazaridis at RIM saw this and shouted "they're totally copying us!" Also: we suspect Sergey Brin isn't going to get that film part as the sauve guy who wears a grey cotton top. Sure, he can wear a cotton top. But...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Groupon founder Andrew Mason has had a lot of explaining to do this week as he met investors hoping to get them on board for a flotation of his online discounts company.In less than 18 months Groupon has gone from being championed in Forbes magazine as "The Fastest Growing Company Ever," to a company top analysts are calling a busted flush. Back in December Masonsnubbed a $6bn (£3.7bn) offer from Google for his two year old firmwhen investors were valuing the business at more than $20bn. Then it all went wrong.Regulators criticised its accounts, top execs quit and critics piled in. Groupon pulled plans for one of the biggest initial public offerings in years. Now it's back with a discount price offer of its own.Perhaps as soon as Friday Mason, 30, is hoping to sell 30m shares, or less than a 5% stake, at between $16 and $18 each, raising up to $540m, according to a regulatory filing. The price will value Groupon at about $10.8bn – half what it was supposed to be worth at the start of the year. It also means Mason is no longer a paper billionaire, at the new price his share in the company is worth $844m at the top end of the range.To listen to Mason's critics, the firm and his holding are not even worth that. Some 30 million people worldwide subscribe to Groupon's daily deals email offering discount to local businesses from restaurants to yoga classes. In two years it has become by far and away the leader in its category and has expanded to 43 countries.Sucharita Mulpuru, Forrester Research analyst, is unimpressed: "Groupon is an email list, and a bad one at that," she says. Even the $6bn Google reportedly offered for Groupon last December was too high a price, said Mulpuru."Netflix has subscribers, Lovefilm has subscribers, they are paying customers. Groupon has an email list.Fewer than 30 million people have bought a Groupon ever. And all you know about those people is that they are prepared to buy something at half price, that's not such valuable information. You could get better information from any department store," she said.As far as Mulpuru is concerned Groupon is a company that is about to hit a wall, growth is slowing and growth was all it had. "The whole Wall Street/start-up culture is based on a handful of metrics and a story. People looked at Groupon and got all ga ga about this growth rate. It might be costing $1.50 to make $1 but look at the growth," she said.After all its recent setbacks she said investors may be thinking: "At $20bn it was totally ridiculous, at $10bn, well maybe Andrew Mason is the new Jeff Bezos [Amazon's founder], he didn't really have a plan to start off with," she said. "Well good luck with that."Many of Groupon's problem are of its own making. Two seasoned executives, one from Yahoo, the other from Google, have quit the chief operating officer role in the last 18 months. The latest, former Google sales vice president Margo Georgiadis, resigned after five months and her departure coincided with Groupon's announcement that it was restating its revenue dropping it by around half.Then Mason ran into trouble with regulators after he wrote a 2,500-word email to the staff defending Groupon against critics that was leaked to the press in what some argued was a violation of the "quiet period" rules that surround companies planning an IPO. The company had to pull its original IPO plans. But other larger forces have also been at work as the European financial crisis has rocked stock markets across the world and reigned in many other IPOs.David Sinsky, general manager of data at Yipit, a site that aggregates daily deals from a variety of providers, believes there is plenty of room for growth for Groupon. "There are a lot of opportunities for this company," he says. "Local merchants are very happy with their daily deals. More than 70% are happy with their experience, according to our research," he said. In the last quarter they have expanded into new categories, including music in a deal with concert promotions group Live Nation, and shown they can grow quickly in new areas.The problem is that no one knows yet what that growth is worth, said Sinsky. Anyone can set up a rival to Groupon and unfortunately for them those anyone include Amazon and its former suitor Google, which beefed up it rival service this week.Groupon has been promoting Groupon Now! A mobile service that the company said would prove its "most important innovation to date" when it launched in May. But according to Siskind's report: "Now! generated just $1m of gross billings in September, despite being available in 25 markets – only $40k per market. In other words, the product that Groupon is telling investors to view as the future of the company, still represents less than 1% of Groupon's total gross billings in North America."In happier times promise of performance might have been enough to whet the appetite of investors. Massive growth and, at best, minimal profits is a common theme for tech firms. Very few turn out to be Google, far more turn out to be WebVan, an online grocery business that went bankrupt in 2001. Thanks to the latest global financial crisis last year's dotcom bubble seems to have burst before it was blown. When – and if – Groupon goes public, its reception will be a big test for the new generation of tech stars. Groupon's discount offer might be catching.
The aim of the Tech City Talks series has been to identify how much meat is on the initiative's skeleton: to what extent is this an issue that No 10 is truly behind – demonstrating a can-do attitude to tackle the needs of the UK's digital technology sector - or a 21st century Cool Britannia featuring today's geek rockstars?Part of our intention here at the Guardian has been to ensure that the people in charge engage with the real, underlying issues that are being discussed in the coffee shops of east London and beyond. Especially those that they have the unprecedented power to change. This week's theme – intellectual property and copyright in a digital age – is the most obvious example. The UK is globally recognised as a world leader in innovation in areas such as music, fashion, design and art, yet British makers are struggling to make a buck in a landscape where their highly valued work can be infinitely replicated. How do we balance between the competing needs of the creative industry: to protect themselves, but stay open enough to ensure continued innovation?On the panel to discuss rights and ownership isEd Vaizey MP(minister for culture, communications and creative industries),Professor Ian Hargreaves(chair of digital economy at the Cardiff School of Journalism, Media and Cultural Studies),Feargal Sharkey(chief executive of UK Music),Jonathan Haskel(professor of economics at Imperial College Business School) andJeff Lynn(chairman of Coadec).Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
There may not have been overnight queues of fans like those for the release of a new iPhone or iPad, but Steve Jobs produced another hit with the final work to bear his name: the only authorised biography of the Apple co-founder soared to the top of the UK bestseller charts in the week of its release, according to sales figures released on Tuesday.Walter Isaacson'scritically acclaimed biography, published 19 days after Jobs's death, sold more than 37,000 copies – more than any other fiction or nonfiction paperback or hardback in its first five days on sale, according to Nielsen Bookscan, the official industry measurement system for retail sales. The BookScan figures include sales of physical books from the online retailer Amazon, where the hardcover version, on sale at half the suggested £25 price, has toppedAmazon's bestseller chartssince it was released on 24 October. They do not however include electronic versions of the book, which was 15th inAmazon's Kindle downloads chart, behind the Chris Evans autobiography, Memoirs of a Fruitcake, which was released on 14 October.The book is already the 27th bestselling biographies of the year, a category led by Kate McCann's story about the abduction of her daughter Madeleine. Released in May, that sold more than 72,000 copies in the three days after it was released, and has so far sold 242,000.Steve Jobs: The Exclusive Biography, published in the UK by the Little Brown book group, outsold the second most popular book in the Nielsen charts – Kathryn Stockett's novel The Help – by more than 15,000 copies.Jon Howells, spokesman for Waterstone's, said the Jobs biography was shaping up to be easily one of the biggest selling books for Christmas."This sounds like a phenomenal first week sale for a biography," Howells said. "Usually when you see huge sales for a book about a life story it's an autobiography which the subject is usually promoting. When it's a biography you don't usually see such massive sales."It shows just how incredibly interesting Steve Jobs is and how the fandom of Apple is translating from iPods and iPhones and into a book about the cult of Steve Jobs. There is no doubt that it will be easily the biggest biography sale of the week and one of the big books for Christmas."
Surprising, transfixing, inclusive, joyful… I always run out of superlatives on the subject ofGameCity, the Nottingham-based games festival that closed on Saturday. For this sixth incarnation, the organisers (led by the seemingly omnipresent director, Iain Simons), laid on another diverse collection of public events, fascinating talks and bizarre after-hour experiments, with Eric Chahi's evening of games and molecular gastronomy seemingly symbolising all aspects of the four-day celebration.There was a lot of stuff I missed (Pat Ashe on Several Amazing Things About Tetris and Charlie Higson's reading from his new zombie novel, The Fear, spring to mind), but here are the things I caught, and thoroughly enjoyed.The Gamesblog BreakfastsOkay, I'll get this out of the way. It had little to do with my own chaotic organisation or presenting 'skills', but this year's breakfast debate sessions at the Broadway café were an absolute pleasure. We were lucky enough to have Uncharted 3 co-lead designer Richard Lemarchand, Fez creatorPhil Fish,Retro City Rampage's Brian Provinciano and Andrew Smith, the designer of addictive iOS hit,Hard Lines, for several mornings, and they were excellent guests.We talked about games that made us angry, games that made us cry and the games that made us enter the games industry. Best of all, the audience chipped in with some thoughtful, often hilarious experiences of their own (personal favourite: one gamer's 'can't we just be friends' relationship with an over persistent NPC in Dragon Age). Robin Hunicke, Simon Parkin and indie developersMitu Khandaker, Mike Bithell and Kate Killick also popped by to philosophise on the nature of play. And Richard even brought his parents one morning!Robin Hunicke on JourneyAs an introduction to thatgamecompany's design philosophy, Robin's one-hour talk in the Council ballroom was engrossing and enlightening. She spoke about her team's desire to write games built around other areas of the emotional palette than adrenaline, and about how removing identity and voice chat from the co-op elements of Journey would allow gamers to explore alternative means of communicating and sharing. She also discussed the careful development of the game's feel, moving the character design from a folded paper look, to a more cloth-like aesthetic, and adding particle effects for the sand, and cloud patterns for the skies. The world now has a sort of textured depth, while remaining stark and faintly intimidating.Robin explained that the point of Journey was to make the player feel small compared to this endless environment, and the concept is communicated not just through some striking set-piece locations but through simple tactics, like always showing the lead character slightly to the left or right, removing the figure from the centre of the experience, and ensuring the vast landscapes are the most powerful visual component. Beautiful.Jakub Dvorsky on BotaniculaThe latest project from cult Czech studioAmanita Designis a surreal, amusing and visually astonishing point-and-click adventure, involving five weird characters attempting to save a gigantic tree from a parasitic invasion. Puzzles are built around delightful animations, and around the unique powers of each controllable figure, which include a mushroom, a twig and a feather. There are hidden animated treats everywhere, the tree inhabitants are weird and exotic, and the music (by the Czech art folk duo, Dva) dynamically changes with the mood of the location you're in.Clicking on a group of birds gets them to sing in unison; pecking at the bark pulls out extraordinary bugs; and all the while nasty black spider creatures stalk the branches turning the leaves to withered skeletons. It's just a lovely, intricately realised eco-system. "We're not game designers, we're visual artists," said Jakub about his small team. And I think he's one of the only game creators who could get away with not sounding pretentious with those words.Richard Lemarchand on UnchartedThe co-lead designer of the Uncharted titles gave two incredibly interesting talks, one on the development of Uncharted, and another entitled 'Beauty and Risk: Emotion, Indie Games and Uncharted'. He discussed the many influences on the Uncharted titles, from Indiana Jones to Italian artist, Giovanni Battista Piranesi, and about how the team wanted to capture both the excitement of the great pulp adventures, and also the humour and lightness of touch.To achieve the rounded characterisations, the mo-cap sessions were planned like theatrical productions; actors had lengthy read-throughs together, then blocked out scenes and improvised dialogue. He also talked about the game's settings; how people have an intrinsic love of big natural systems like waterfalls; hence their prevalence in the games. Good games, he suggested, have a perfect mix of repetition and variation – he quoted Frank Lantz, director of the NYU Game Center, who talks about how games expose the mechanisms of our thought to us. Lemarchand just has such a deep understanding and love of what games are – as systems, as experiences and as art. Inspirational stuff.Proteus and the other indie games in the main tentIt was wonderful to catch so many interesting indie projects being shown to (and appreciated by) the public, rather than revealed in the rarefied atmosphere of an industry indie event. Andrew Smith was there with his solidly constructed Snake-alike, Hard Lines;Angry Mangohad Mush on display; Mike Bithell brought the latest version of friendship-based platformer,Thomas Was Alone; and Alistair Aitcheson had his utterly charming and highly competitive multiplayer iOS puzzler, Greedy Bankers vs The World.One of my unexpected favourites wasProteus, an island exploration sim featuring Commodore 64-style visuals and a procedurally generated landscape. There are no tasks to fulfil, you just have to explore the wilderness, enjoying the dynamically driven ambient soundtrack, which alters depending on which plants and animals you're near. There's something strangely hypnotic about the 'game', like being a psychedelic tourist in a retro digital holiday resort. It is... well... an interactive travel documentary directed by The Orb.Designed by the two-man Twisted Tree Games, Proteus will be released as an 'EP' with an 'LP' to follow…One Song LeftOkay, I almost forgot this one, but only because of the trauma of having to get up three hours after it to present the final Gamesblog Breakfast.Friday night saw a unique karaoke event, organised by the stars of radio'sOne Life Leftshow. Ste Curran, Simon Byron and Ann Scantlebury, together with lots of their listeners, devised extremely funny variations on familiar songs, with all the lyrics changed to be game-related – and then they sang them onstage at the Chameleon Pub. My favourites were Blur's Parklife re-imagined as Half-Life, and Dave Green from Bafta singing MAME to the tune of Fame.Afterwards, Phil Fish and Richard Lemarchand got on the decks to see us through to 3am with a selection of thumping house tracks – and a Smiths song. This sort of thing doesn't happen at E3...Oh, before the Karaoke started, we also got to try the absolutely amazing physical gaming experiment, Johann Sebastian Joust, by theCopenhagen Game Collective. Up to eight players get a PlayStation Move controller each and the idea is to shove your opponents to trigger the movement sensor in their device, thereby switching the light off and removing them from the game. But of course, you have to do that while maintaining the relative stillness of your own controller. Meanwhile, Bach music plays in the background: when it slows down, the controllers become more sensitive to movement, and when it speeds up they are less sensitive, requiring an ever evolving set of tactics.Brought to GameCity by indie events expertsWild Rumpus, this truly was a fascinating glimpse into human interaction with many different tactics and cheats emerging through the evening. Sony need to work out a way of releasing this immediately.
The average home broadband user downloads 17 gigabytes (GB) of data each month, equivalent to streaming 12 hours of high-definition content from the BBC's iPlayer, as data use has increased sevenfold over the past five years, says a new report.At the same time 97% of UK premises – and 66% of the country – can get a voice signal outdoors from each of the mobile networks O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone, while 73% of premises and 13% of the country can access 3G data signals,according to research by the communications watchdog Ofcom.Internet service providers confirmed that customers' data demands have increased dramatically as people have begun to adopt video catchup services and "cloud" services such as YouTube, Flickr and Facebook.Virgin Media told the Guardian that customers on faster lines use proportionally more data: those on its 10 megabit per second (Mbps) lines use about 19GB a month on average, while those using its 100Mbps lines consume 130GB. As the figures are averages, though, some people using filesharing networks may be downloading considerably more, said a Virgin spokesperson. TalkTalk said the average user downloads 13GB. BT declined to give figures.For some people, the growth in demand for video puts them in the path of "data caps" imposed by internet service providers. BT's basic broadband service allows users to download 10GB of data, after which they are charged at £5 per 5GB, while Sky's cheapest service, Everyday Lite, has a 2GB cap. Most of the major ISPs' faster services have 40GB monthly limits.By contrast demand for mobile broadband data is still comparatively small, at 240 megabytes (MB) per connection, Ofcom says.Almost every phone line in the UK can now get a broadband connection, but Ofcom's data shows that 14% of residential connections run below the 2Mbps that the government thinks is the minimum necessary for a "connected Britain", and which it wants every household to be able to get by 2015.By contrast "superfast" broadband connections, offering speeds of 24Mbps or more, now pass 58% of UK premises; BTsaid earlier this weekthat it intends to accelerate the rollout so that it will pass two-thirds of premises by the end of 2014, rather than 2015.Ofcom has also introduced a number of mapswhich will show the availability and speeds of fixed broadband, mobile broadband, mobile coverage, mobile cell masts, digital TV coverage, digital radio reception and local TV coverage.The report is the first that Ofcom is providing to the government in order to give a snapshot of the UK's communications infrastructure and provide a base against which Ofcom can measure in subsequent reports.The maps show that the areas of lowest 3G geographic coverage are in the highlands of Scotland and mid-Wales which are both sparsely populated with hilly terrain.Ofcom is currently working closely with the government to consider how the £150m it has allocated to help address mobile not-spots can deliver the greatest benefits for UK consumers.The new maps also include digital terrestrial television (DTT) coverage and digital audio broadcasting (DAB) radio coverage. The report shows that DTT reaches 89% of the country and DAB 91% for public service broadcasting channels.
The UK has issued a direct challenge to China and Russia over regulation of the internet, with William Hague insisting that cyberspace must not be "stifled by government control or censorship".In a strongly worded opening address to an international conference hosted in London, the foreign secretary told delegates that the internet "must remain open and not become ghettoised" – rebuffing the notion that new international treaties were needed to police online activity."Nothing would be more fatal or self-defeating than the heavy hand of state control on the internet, which only thrives because of the talent of individuals and of industry within an open market for ideas and innovation," he said.Hague told delegates that cyberspace should not be "subject to separate rules and processes in different regions set by isolated national services, with state-imposed barriers to trade, commerce and the free flow of information and ideas".This, he said, would be deeply counter-productive. Both China and Russia have pushed for new international treaties governing cyberspace. China has also been heavily criticised for censoring the internet by blocking news or comment that it deems damaging.This summer, David Cameron appeared to blame social media for the spread of the London riots, raising the prospect that ministers may try to shut down sites such as Twitter during times of unrest.Hague, though, said that it was his "passionate conviction that all human rights should carry full force online".He added: "Not just the right to privacy, but the right to freedom of expression. Human rights are universal. Cultural differences are not an excuse to water down human rights … We reject the view that government suppression of the internet, phone networks and social media at times of unrest is acceptable."The London Conference on Cyberspace was the brainchild of Hague, and delegates from more than 60 countries, as well as pioneers of the internet, such as the founder of Wikipedia, Jimmy Wales, and the president of Facebook, Joanna Shields, among the speakers.Cybercrime, the spread of damaging malware, and the use of cyber warfare by states have pushed questions about the rules governing the internet to the fore.The conference is a first attempt to get all interested parties around the table to discuss potential ways forward, though it is not expected that anything binding will emerge during, or in the immediate aftermath, of the two-day meeting.In his speech, Hague acknowledged that "many of the countries and representatives here will have very different views. But the reasons to co-operate are far more compelling than the issues that divide us".He linked global prosperity to the expansion of the internet but warned of its dangers too.Hague said online crime was "growing exponentially" and claimed that more than 6m unique types of new malware were detected by industry in the first three months of this year alone.This activity was making it harder to protect people, and countries with weak cyber defences also made themselves vulnerable to state-sponsored attacks.But Hague said the answer to these issues did not lie in repression.He said Britain will "always be on the side of people aspiring for political and economic freedom, in the Middle East and around the world. In the place of today's cyber free-for-all, we need rules of the road".Without them, a darker scenario could well prevail, he said.Individuals, companies and states would all suffer.Concluding the speech, he set out the varied problems the world was facing."Rising costs to business from cyber crime … companies being held to ransom by hacktivists, and the theft of intellectual property sapping prosperity and innovation."For individuals, a heightened risk of exposure to crime as efforts to clamp down on crimes such as child pornography in one part of the world are rendered ineffective by illegal practices on networks in other countries. Disruption in service due to state intrusion or crude censorship in some parts of the world, the general uncertainty, fear and loss of confidence in a compromised cyberspace."And for governments, threats to critical infrastructure, the loss of tax revenue or the defrauding of government services, the theft of confidential national information and vulnerability to attacks in cyberspace. If these scenarios come to pass, they will undermine the wider benefits of our networked world."
In a luxury Washington, DC, hotel last month, governments from around the world gathered to discuss surveillance technology they would rather you did not know about. The annual Intelligence Support Systems (ISS) World Americas conference is a mecca for representatives from intelligence agencies and law enforcement. But to the media or members of the public, it is strictly off limits.Gone are the days when mere telephone wiretaps satisfied authorities' intelligence needs. Behind the cloak of secrecy at the ISS World conference, tips are shared about the latest advanced "lawful interception" methods used to spy on citizens – computer hacking, covert bugging and GPS tracking. Smartphones, email, instant message services and free chat services such as Skype have revolutionised communication. This has been matched by the development of increasingly sophisticated surveillance technology.Among the pioneers is Hampshire-based Gamma International, a core ISS World sponsor. In April,Gamma made headlineswhen Egyptian activists raided state security offices in Cairo and found documents revealing Gamma had in 2010 offered Hosni Mubarak's regime spy technology named FinFisher. The "IT intrusion" solutions offered by Gamma would have enabled authorities to infect targeted computers with a spyware virus so they could covertly monitor Skype conversations and other communications.The use of such methods is more commonly associated with criminal hacking groups, who have used spyware and trojan viruses to infect computers and steal bank details or passwords. But as the internet has grown, intelligence agencies and law enforcement have adopted similar techniques."Traditionally communications flowed through phone companies, but consumers are increasingly using communications that operate outwith their jurisdiction. This changes the way interception is carried out … the current method of choice would seem to be spyware, or trojan horses," said Chris Soghoian, a Washington-based surveillance and privacy expert. "There's now a thriving outsourced surveillance industry and they are there to meet the needs and wants of countries from around the world, including those who are more – and less – respectful to human rights."In 2009, while a government employee, Soghoian attended ISS World. He made recordings of seminars and later published them online – which led him to be the subject of an investigation and, ultimately, cost him his Federal Trade Commission job. The level of secrecy around the sale of such technology by western companies, he believes, is cause for alarm."When there are five or six conferences held in closed locations every year, where telecommunications companies, surveillance companies and government ministers meet in secret to cut deals, buy equipment, and discuss the latest methods to intercept their citizens' communications – that I think meets the level of concern," he said. "They say that they are doing it with the best of intentions. And they say that they are doing it in a way that they have checks and balances and controls to make sure that these technologies are not being abused. But decades of history show that surveillance powers are abused – usually for political purposes."Another company that annually attends ISS World is Italian surveillance developer Hacking Team. A small, 35-employee software house based in Milan, Hacking Team's technology – which costs more than £500,000 for a "medium-sized installation" – gives authorities the ability to break into computers or smartphones, allowing targeted systems to be remotely controlled. It can secretly enable the microphone on a targeted computer and even take clandestine snapshots using its webcam, sending the pictures and audio along with any other information – such as emails, passwords and documents – back to the authorities for inspection. The smartphone version of the software has the ability to track a person's movements via GPS as well as perform a function described as "remote audio spy", effectively turning the phone into a bug without its user's knowledge. The venture capital-backed company boasts that its technology can be used "country-wide" to monitor more than 100,000 targets simultaneously, and cannot be detected by anti-virus software."Information such as address books or SMS messages or images or documents might never leave the device. Such data might never be sent to the network. The only way to get it is to hack the terminal device, take control of it and finally access to the relevant data," says David Vincenzetti, founding partner of Hacking Team, who adds that the company has sold its software in 30 countries across five continents. "Our investors have set up a legal committee whose goal is to promptly and continuously advise us on the status of each country we are talking to. The committee takes into account UN resolutions, international treaties, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International recommendations."Three weeks agoBerlin-based hacker collective the Chaos Computer Club (CCC) exposed covert spy softwareused by German police forces similar to that offered by Hacking Team. The "Bundestrojaner [federal trojan]" software, which state officials confirmed had been used, gave law enforcement the power to gain complete control over an infected computer. The revelation prompted an outcry in Germany, as the use of such methods is strictly regulated under the country's constitutional law. (A court ruling in 2008 established a "basic right to the confidentiality and integrity of information-technological systems".)"Lots of what intelligence agencies have been doing in the last few years is basically computer infiltration, getting data from computers and installing trojans on other people's computers," said Frank Rieger, a CCC spokesman. "It has become part of the game, and what we see now is a diffusion of intelligence methods into normal police work. We're seeing the same mindset creeping in. They're using the same surreptitious methods to gain knowledge without remembering that they are the police and they need to follow due process."In the UK there is legislation governing the use of all intrusive surveillance. Covert intelligence-gathering by law enforcement or government agencies is regulated under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (Ripa), which states that to intercept communications a warrant must be authorised by the home secretary and be deemed necessary and proportionate in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic wellbeing of the country. There were 1,682 interception warrants approved by the home secretary in 2010, latest official figures show.According to Jonathan Krause, an IT security expert who previously worked for Scotland Yard's hi-tech crime unit, bugging computers is becoming an increasingly important methodology for UK law enforcement. "There are trojans that will be customer written to get past usual security, firewalls, malware scanning and anti-virus devices, but these sorts of things will only be aimed at serious criminals," he said.Concerns remain, however, that despite export control regulations, western companies have been supplying high-tech surveillance software to countries where there is little or no legislation governing its use. In 2009, for instance, it wasreported that American developer SS8 had allegedly supplied the United Arab Emirates with smartphone spyware, afterabout 100,000 users were sent a bogus software update by telecommunications company Etisalat. The technology, if left undetected, would have enabled authorities to bypass BlackBerry email encryption by mining communications from devices before they were sent.Computer security researcher Jacob Appelbaum is well aware what it is like to be a target of covert surveillance. He is a core member of theTor Project, which develops free internet anonymising software used by activists and government dissidents across the Middle East and north Africa to evade government monitoring. A former spokesman for WikiLeaks,Appelbaum has had his own personal emails scrutinised by the US governmentas part of an ongoing grand jury investigation into the whistleblower organisation. On 13 October he was in attendance at ISS World where he was hoping to arrange a presentation about Tor – only to be ejected after one of the surveillance companies complained about his presence."There's something to be said about how these guys are not interested in regulating themselves and they're interested in keeping people in the dark about what they're doing," he says. "These people are not unlike mercenaries. The companies don't care about anything, except what the law says. In this case, if the law's ambiguous, they'll do whatever the law doesn't explicitly deny. It's all about money for them, and they don't care."This tactical exploitation stuff, where they're breaking into people's computers, bugging them … they make these arguments that it's good, that it saves lives," he said. "But we have examples that show this is not true. I was just in Tunisia a couple of days ago and I met people who told me that posting on Facebook resulted in death squads showing up in your house."The growth in the use of these methods across the world, Appelbaum believes, means governments now have a vested interest in keeping computer users' security open to vulnerabilities. "Intelligence [agencies] want to keep computers weak as it makes it easier to surveil you," he says, adding that an increase in demand for such technology among law enforcement agencies is of equal concern."I don't actually think breaking into the computer of a terrorist is the world's worst idea – it might in fact be the only option – but these guys [surveillance technology companies] are trying to sell to any police officer," he says. "I mean, what business does the Baltimore local police have doing tactical exploitation into people's computers? They have no business doing that. They could just go to the house, serve a warrant, and take the computer. This is a kind of state terror that is simply unacceptable in my opinion."Jerry Lucas, the president of the company behind ISS World,TeleStrategies, does not deny surveillance developers that attend his conference supply to repressive regimes. In fact, he is adamant that the manufacturers of surveillance technology, such as Gamma International, SS8 and Hacking Team, should be allowed to sell to whoever they want."The surveillance that we display in our conferences, and discuss how to use, is available to any country in the world," he said. "Do some countries use this technology to suppress political statements? Yes, I would say that's probably fair to say. But who are the vendors to say that the technology is not being used for good as well as for what you would consider not so good?"Would he be comfortable in the knowledge that regimes in Zimbabwe and North Korea were purchasing this technology from western companies? "That's just not my job to determine who's a bad country and who's a good country. That's not our business, we're not politicians … we're a for-profit company. Our business is bringing governments together who want to buy this technology."TeleStrategies organises a number of conferences around the world, including in Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific. Every country has a need for the latest covert IT intrusion technology, according to Lucas, because modern criminal investigations cannot be conducted without it. He claimed "99.9% good comes from the industry" and accused the media of not covering surveillance-related issues objectively."I mean, you can sell cars to Libyan rebels, and those cars and trucks are used as weapons. So should General Motors and Nissan wonder, 'how is this truck going to be used?' Why don't you go after the auto makers?" he said. "It's an open market. You cannot stop the flow of surveillance equipment."
British startup Mindshapes has raised £3.1m in a Series A funding round to fuel its ambitions in the burgeoning market of apps for children.The investment came from the company's five founders and unnamed angel investors. It follows the release of seven apps for iPhone and iPad since the company was founded in October 2010, including Jack and the Beanstalk, Hickory Dickory Dock and Casper Scare School.Mindshapes has ambitions beyond individual apps, though. The company is preparing to launch two virtual worlds early in 2012: Magic Town and Language City.The former will be accessible through an app and web browsers, and will have a focus on storytelling and picture book characters, with deals in place for brands including Elmer, Winnie the Witch and Little Princess. The latter will be browser-only, and is described as a "task-based, language learning virtual world".Chief executive David Begg says that the new worlds are a logical extension of the principles that led him and his co-founders to create Mindshapes in the first place."We wanted to find a means of getting kids to engage more deeply with characters in a story-based framework for learning, giving them exactly the sort of development experiences that are critical for children that age, but very open to technology in all its formats," he says."We approached it from the storytelling angle. There is an enormous range of characters out there, and a fascinating set of stories for kids. So how do we apply storytelling in a more learning and developmental context?"As we explained when wefirst covered Mindshapes, several of the founding team previously worked at social games publisher Playfish, which was acquired by Electronic Arts in November 2009. Other members of the team have experience at Sesame Workshop, Scholastic, HarperCollins, CBeebies, Sega and Sony – an interesting mix of children's TV, books and games that is coming together with kid-apps in 2011."We don't want kids to be in front of a screen for the entire day," says chief commercial officer Christian Dorffer. "We want technology to inspire them to do things that you as a parent would like them to be doing. Stimulate their imagination, get them to ask questions. It's just like a preschool teacher using storytelling to get kids to be creative. It's not just linear games or memorising things by heart."Begg thinks that the current explosion in apps for children is a double-edged sword: it's establishing a market for these apps, but also overwhelming parents with a flood of products to choose from – many of which aren't very good at all. A problem, of course, that afflicts the wider apps market too.Both Begg and Dorffer talk about Mindshapes' aim to get children playing and talking together around apps, as well as stepping away from the screen: "In time, more things we deliver will be oriented around linking a child's technology and screen experience with the outside world around them, as well as using the device for social play," says Begg.With 2-3 months until launch, Begg and Dorffer are unwilling to say too much about the new virtual worlds, although they confirm that Magic Town is aimed at 2-6 year-olds, with a number of "top publishers" signed up to provide content and characters. Stories, games and other activities will all be part of it. Dorffer says that the National Literacy Trust and Book Trust are also on board as partners.He adds that it's important that Magic Town isn't just an app, pointing out that for all the focus on iPhones and iPads from developers, they cannot be the sole platform for a storytelling platform aimed at children."In some ways, if you think about the kids who have the greatest need for being read to, a lot of them don't have iPads and can only be reached through different types of technologies," he says. Hence Magic Town's planned availability through web browsers, although Begg suggests that in time as cheaper tablets are launched, "they will more and more become the cheap alternative [to computers] for accessing content and technology".He also hails the current mood of experimentation among developers and publishers making apps for children, saying it is important to focus on more than simply what will make money in the short term. Both Begg and Dorffer see brands emerging over time, though, as parents gravitate towards companies or characters that they trust to have a high quality level in their apps."Everybody is trying to figure out how they're going to be playing in this space, and kids love to have an emotional connection with the games they play and the characters in them," he says. "We firmly believe that brands will do well in this space, but they may not be the big classic children's brands. New brands will also emerge."Begg points to Angry Birds and Moshi Monsters as examples of new brands that have sprung up in a short time on new platforms."It's a complete shake-up," he says. "We are no longer beholden to the power of the big TV and film brands. Characters and stories can evolve out of many different routes. Hopefully we'll be the initiators of some of those."
While 2011 has been the year of the smartphone, 2012 looks set to be the beginning of a major push by the likes of Sony, Apple and Samsung to sell their customers families of interconnected screen devices, serving up digitally stored entertainment libraries.People will be urged to throw out their remaining CDs and boxed sets and store music, films, TV shows, even family photo albums on the servers of multinational corporations. Content must now not only be acquired, but there will be fees for the computing space in which to store it.Sony's announcement last week that it was to take sole control of its Sony Ericsson phones venture was a key element in what chairman and chief executive Howard Stringer calls his "four screen" strategy.The media and entertainment conglomerate now has smartphones to add to its Bravia TV sets, Vaio PCs and tablet computers, not to mention games consoles. And of course it has a music label and a Hollywood studio producing the Spiderman franchise to supply the content.Samsung has no studios, although its television sets, tablets and smartphones are outselling many better known brands.The real game changer is expected, as ever, to be Apple. The consumer electronics world is holding its breath as it awaits the launch of a television set, which industry watchers believe could be on sale by the end of next year.Apple launched its iCloud service along with the iPhone 4S last month. It will store for free any content bought via iTunes, and, for a price, users can add extra items. The iCloud will then make that content available on any Apple devices we happen to own.At the moment it is only set up to store music, books and applications like emails and documents, but films and TV shows must surely follow.Apple's fourth screen is likely to usher in the idea that not only should our bookshelves and CD racks be cleared, but that all the consumer electronics devices in any given household should be purchased from the same manufacturer so that they can share content without hiccups.Very convenient, but not everyone will want to entrust their libraries and memories to the cloud. And what about cloud hopping? How easy will it be to transfer that precious cargo from one company to another, or to access it from a device not made by the host?There will be consumer protection issues. Regulators can only step in if one player becomes dominant and it is still hard to imagine two or three companies producing the majority of our consumer electronics. But the four screen strategy, if it catches on, could squeeze out many smaller players. We may soon be forced to chose a family. And, as Apple knows, many are already making that choice.
A selection of six apps for you today:IM+ for BlackBerry PlayBookBlackBerry PlayBook users frustrated at the ongoing absence of BBM messaging on RIM's tablet at least have an alternative in IM+. It's an instant messaging client connecting to AIM, Windows Live Messenger, Yahoo, ICQ, Jabber, Google Talk and MySpaceIM, while also listening to voice messages from Skype contacts.BlackBerry PlayBook7 BillionWith seven billion humans now cluttering up the world, National Geographic has released an iPad app outlining some of the implications of population growth, using videos and interactivity.iPadAIX Armani Exchange VideomixArmani wants iOS users to put their own fashion shows on, choosing from its AIX 20th Anniversary Collection, selecting a video background, music and models before sharing the results on Facebook and Twitter.iPhone / iPadEvent Check-inORM London has launched Event Check-in, a professional iPad app for event organisers. It helps them create a guest list, check them in at the event, and then crunch the data afterwards. It works with a separate QR code scanner from SocketMobile.iPadChime.in for AndroidWe wrote about Twitter rival Chime.in when its iPhone app launched earlier in October. Now it's available for Android too. The idea: micro-blogging, but with the ability to dig in to specific topics, making it easier to find, say, X Factor tweets (or, if you look at it another way, easier to avoid them).AndroidSecureSafeSecureSafe claims to be "the Swiss safe deposit box for your documents and passwords", looking to provide a more secure way to store and view these from iOS devices.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoodbye HP &gt;&gt; Phil McKinneyChief technology officer and ally of WebOS departs HP. He says: "My passion is to help innovators get better at innovating and I've spent the better part of the last dozen years fulfilling that mission. My time at HP started out as an advisor on innovation that turned into a request to join for a year or so to "help grow the innovation culture at HP". That was 9 years ago. I can honestly say that I've done everything that is within my power to fulfill that objective."How Groupon Was Founded &gt;&gt; Business InsiderImpossible to tell how much of this is true, but a fascinating insight into what BI calls "the world's most controversial company" days before its IPO.The New Gambit, Priority One: get a huge logo on... &gt;&gt; Paul Carr's NSFW CorporationMade by the same person who did the Fail Whale for Twitter. Not that that's a bad omen or anything. It's meant to be a good omen.Google Puts A Price On Privacy &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandComplex but important story relating to Google's increasing use of SSL: that means that it can't (or shouldn't) pass on referrer information. But is that good or bad? And is it going to... charge for access to that information which once was free?Minecraft - Weeping Angels Mod Spotlight &gt;&gt; YouTubeDon't blink. Don't turn around. Yes, they're in Minecraft as well.Taking government APIs seriously &gt;&gt; Helpful Technology"To me, transparency doesn't get me as excited as open data (and still less than open government in the US sense), so it's a shame to see transparency and open data used pretty much interchangeably. Of course scrutiny matters - and there are plenty of reasons why it's good to know how much government spends, and with whom - though I think transparency of those government processes matters less than politicians think it does. "As an illustration of this, take the open data set of civil service jobs. A couple of years ago, the Cabinet Office created an excellent API to their searchable listings, which I used to build a simple proof of concept app, enabling anyone to sign up to an RSS feed or email alert of vacancies at a specific organisation. I built it into a commercial service I've run for a few years now - Government Jobs Direct - and built up a database of several thousand jobhunters signed up to alerts. "Then one day a few weeks ago, it all stopped working."2011: July - October Political Notes: on Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; Richard StallmanRichard Stallman has more thoughts: "[Steve] Jobs saw how to make these computers stylish and smooth. That would normally be positive, but not in this case, since it has the paradoxical effect of making their controlling nature seem acceptable."HTC takes the lead in the US smart phone market &gt;&gt; CanalysApple sales slowed, but it's RIM which has a particular problem. Data extends to the rest of the world too: Samsung and Apple are expanding fast in China.Problem in Wordpress; bigger problem, doing something about it... &gt;&gt; Kevin TownsendThe Timthumb vulnerability is still around, despite having been reported way back in August.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Cyber-attacks traced to China targeted at least 48 chemical and military-related companies over the summer in an effort to steal technical secrets, an American computer security company has said, raising the temperature of complaints about pervasive internet crime emanating from the new superpower..The targets included 29 chemical companies and 19 others which make advanced materials used by the military, said security firm Symantec in a report. It said the group included multiple Fortune 100 companies but did not identify them or say where they were located."The purpose of the attacks appears to be industrial espionage, collecting intellectual property for competitive advantage," said the report.The claim comes as a conference meets in London to discuss cybercrime and internet attacks, led by the defence secretary William Hague, and after the chief of the GCHQ listening agency warned that threats against government infrastructure from foreign hackerswere at "disturbing" levels.Security experts say China is a centre for internet crime, whether government-sanctioned or not. Multiple attacks against governments, companies and human rights groups have been traced to this country, though finding the precise source is nearly impossible. China's military is a leader in cyberwarfare research but the government hasrejected allegations of cyber-spying, and says it also is a target.The latest attacks occurred between late July and September and used emails sent to companies to plant software dubbed "PoisonIvy" in their computers, Symantec said. It said the same hackers also were involved in attacks earlier this year on human rights groups and auto companies.Symantec said it traced the attacks to a computer system owned by a Chinese man in his 20s in the central province of Hebei. It said that when contacted, the man provided a contact who would perform "hacking for hire."The company said it could not determine whether the Chinese man was a lone attacker, whether he had a direct or indirect role or whether he hacked the targets for someone else. It called him "Covert Grove" based on a translation of his Chinese name.Security consultants say the high skill level of earlier attacks traced to China suggests its military or other government agencies might be stealing technology and trade secrets to help state companies.The chairman of the US House of Representatives Intelligence Committee, Mike Rogers, said last month that Chinese efforts to steal American technology over the internet had reached an "intolerable level." He called on the US and other governments to pressure Beijing to stop.The claims by Symantec add to the drumbeat of intensifying use of the internet for industrial and military espionage between nations. China was suspected of being behind the"Titan Rain" attacks which in 2006 targeted the US military and UK parliament, and earlier this year of anattack on the International Monetary Fund, which apparently was hacked to uncover secrets about money flows.Equally, western intelligence agencies are suspected of havingcreated the "Stuxnet" computer worm to target nuclear centrifuges in Iranand delay that country's efforts to acquire a nuclear capability.In August another security firm, McAfee, said it had found afive-year-long hacking campaign that it called Operation Shady Ratagainst more than 70 governments, international institutions, corporations and thinktanks.In February, McAfee said hackers operating from China stole information from oil companies in the US, Taiwan, Greece and Kazakhstan about operations, financing and bidding for oil fields.Thousands of Chinese computer enthusiasts belong to hacker clubs, and experts say some are supported by the military to develop a pool of possible recruits. Experts say military-trained civilians also might work as contractors for companies that want to steal technology or business secrets from rivals.China has the world's biggest population of internet users, with more than 450 million people online, and the government promotes web use for business and education. But experts say security for many computers in China is so poor that they are vulnerable to being taken over and used to hide the source of attacks which might originate elsewhere.Last year,Google closed its China-based search engineafter complaining of cyber-attacks from China against its Gmail email service in which Chinese dissidents were targeted.That case highlighted the difficulty of tracking hackers. Experts said that even if the Google attacks were traced to a computer in China, it would have to be examined in person to be sure it wasn't hijacked by an attacker abroad.
It's Tuesday – how was your Halloween?
The last words of the late,much-laudedand much-quotedSteve Jobshave been revealed almost a month after theAppleco-founderdiedat the age of 56.Jobs, who once memorably described death as"very likely the single best invention of life", departed this world with a lingering look at his family and the simple, if mysterious, observation: "Oh wow. Oh wow. Oh wow."Details of his final moments came from his sisterMona Simpson, who has allowedthe New York Times to publish the eulogy she delivered at his memorial serviceon 16 October. In it, she explains how she rushed to Jobs's bedside after he asked her to come to see him as soon as possible."His tone was affectionate, dear, loving, but like someone whose luggage was already strapped onto the vehicle, who was already on the beginning of his journey, even as he was sorry, truly deeply sorry, to be leaving us," she writes.When she arrived, she found Jobs surrounded by his family – "he looked into his children's eyes as if he couldn't unlock his gaze," – and managing to hang on to consciousness she said.However, he began to deteriorate. "His breathing changed. It became severe, deliberate, purposeful. I could feel him counting his steps again, pushing farther than before. This is what I learned: he was working at this, too. Death didn't happen to Steve, he achieved it."After making it through one final night, wrote Simpson, her brother began to slip away. "His breath indicated an arduous journey, some steep path, altitude. He seemed to be climbing."But with that will, that work ethic, that strength, there was also sweet Steve's capacity for wonderment, the artist's belief in the ideal, the still more beautiful later."Steve's final words, hours earlier, were monosyllables, repeated three times."Before embarking, he'd looked at his sister Patty, then for a long time at his children, then at his life's partner, Laurene, and then over their shoulders past them."Steve's final words were: 'Oh wow. Oh wow. Oh wow.'"Simpson, a novelist and English professor, also used the eulogy to pay tribute to some of her late brother's beliefs – and idiosyncrasies."Novelty was not Steve's highest value," she writes. "Beauty was. For an innovator, Steve was remarkably loyal. If he loved a shirt, he'd order 10 or 100 of them. In the Palo Alto house, there are probably enough black cotton turtlenecks for everyone in this church."Although the precise meaning of Jobs's ultimate utterance is hard to pin down, it will further fuel interest in a man who continues to captivate the business and creative worlds even after death.His biography, written by Walter Isaacson, istopping many book chartsand is eventipped to become the bestselling book on Amazon this year.The company's latest offering, the iPhone 4S, is faring less well, however, withmany users complaining of rapid battery drainon their new smartphones.
In just 18 months, Android has come from nowhere to become the mobile OS powering just under half of all smartphones sold in the UK – andhalf the people owning a mobile phone in the UK have a smartphone.In the process it has bested Nokia's Symbian (since declared dead, though still stumbling to its grave), RIM's BlackBerry OS (which is fighting back) and Apple's iPhone (which, given its comparatively high price until the latest cuts to the iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4, was never likely to dominate long-term).It's an amazing run for Android which is likely to carry on into 2012, since it's taken four years to reach this point (longer if you count Nokia's, RIM's and Microsoft's offerings from 2005/6 as smartphones) but the number of smartphones being sold is accelerating.What these figures don't show you is that the entire market is growing; Kantar ComTech WorldPanel, which provides the statistics, declined to give absolute sales figures (they want to have something to tempt clients to buy the full reports). A minor note: these figures go up to 2 October, just before the iPhone 4S launch; expect that Apple's share will recover slightly. Even so, Android is just going to keep growing.It's very likely that in the next two years you'll see smartphones reach something like 90% penetration in the UK - if only because fewer shops and carriers will be selling feature phones, for two reasons: (a) they make less money selling them in the first place (b) carriers get less money from phones that don't have data plans.Android is almost certain to sweep the board here: it could hit up to 70% market share in one or two years (remember, market share is "share of handsets being sold", not "share of handsets in peoples' hands"). That's because Android handsets from cheaper manufacturers such as China's Huawei and ZTE will come in at the bottom of the market (it's noticeable how the "Other" segment has fallen to zero in the past year). Pretty soon you're going to be able to get a smartphone for almost nothing in your local supermarket. And you can already get really cheap PAYG data options from Three or GiffGaff.For the record, I think it's great that smartphones are becoming pervasive. Putting the internet in everyone's hands, wherever they are? (If only the mobile carriers wouldstopholding up the 4G auction.) That's got to be a really good thing.Does it matter, though, whether the pervasive OS is Android, or what share this or that OS has, beyond the willy-waving horse race that some people love to indulge in? Here's Henry Blodget over at BusinessInsider, whoslams on the CAPS LOCK to pronounceATTENTION APPLE FANS: Samsung Blowing Past Apple To Become The Biggest Smartphone Vendor Is Not Good News". (By which he means not good news for Apple. Though by implication, it would also be Not Good News for RIM and Nokia either.)Blodget's take:As the history of the tech industry has demonstrated again and again, technology platform markets tend to standardize around a single dominant platform. Although several different platforms can co-exist while a market is developing, eventually a clear leader emerges. And as it does, the leader's power and "network effects" grow, while the leverage of the smaller platforms diminishes.In the case of Android, this growing power will not lead to enormous profits for Google, because, right now anyway, Google is not selling Android. (Instead, Google is building a "moat" around its wildly profitable search business and making it easier for people to use Google search from their phones. This may change when Google acquires Motorola and starts selling integrated handsets itself.)But the better Android phones get, and the more market share Android gains, the more Android's network effects will increase, and the more Apple's leverage over the iPhone ecosystem will diminish. And that can only be bad news for Apple's ability to continue to command exploding profits from iPhones, app developers, musicians, media companies, and others who now must pay it big distribution fees because they have no other choice.Similarly, the bigger other global handset manufacturers get relative to Apple, the less (relative) leverage Apple will have over partners in the global parts-and-manufacturing supply chains.There's three things there. Let's take the last one first: supply chains. Apple didn't do badly in 2007 when it was an entrant to the mobile phone supply chain, and it's got enough money in the bank that it can guarantee supplies any time it likes. (That's what it uses its cash reserves outside the US to do: buy up future outputs from various factories.) Most smartphone manufacturers don't have much scale; that's unlikely to change. Samsung is likely to get bigger (though it would be helpful if it would be more forthcoming about how many phones and how many tablets it has pushed out the door). That won't stop Apple making phones, though. And by proxy, it won't stop RIM or Nokia making phones - Nokia is still the world's largest in handset volume. Only mismanagement can mess that up.Now to the first point, about "the history of the tech industry". Actually, the history of the tech industry is a wide and varied thing, which doesn't show any clear lessons about dominant platforms. Yes, you dogetdominant platforms, but that doesn't prevent other players existing within niches and making good money from it. Cite 1: Apple, making nice money, thanks, from the PC market. Cite 2: Microsoft, making nice money, thanks, from the server OS market, despite Linux being the most-used. The leverage of Apple and Microsoft in those respective spaces is helped by the existence of standards, and it's those - plus the internet - which make the "platform" idea less powerful on smartphones.Think of it like this: if the PC market had started when the internet was already pervasive, then operating systems would have had to have internet standards built in; that would have forced more interoperability. It was the threat that Netscape might force interoperability on all computing platforms that scared the bejeezus out of Microsoft in the 1990s. So smartphones, which are arriving when the internet is pervasive, will live by different standards.Horace Dediu, who runs the consultancy Asymco, puts it like this: imagine a world where 5 billion people have a smartphone. In that case, a 10% share translates to 500 million users. Even a 1% share is 50 million. If you couldn't make a profit from 50 million users, you probably shouldn't be in the business at all.And just a side note on that "wildly profitable" Google search from their phones. All the web stats, and Google's own stats, indicate that - for now anyway - about two-thirds or more of mobile web browsing and searching is mostly done by iOS users (iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad). In some places it's much higher. Now, past performance is not necessarily a guide to the future (you only have to look at the graph to see that). But you have to ask too: what exactly is the "network effect" that Blodget thinks Google will get from Android? People writing apps? They already do; but it hasn't dented the bigger platforms.The interesting challenge will be for Nokia and RIM, which have to establish themselves at the higher end of the market as everything shifts to smartphones. But in a growing market, the only problem is how to supply enough people. Android's a whopping success. But that doesn't shut anyone out - yet.
Just under half of the UK population now owns a smartphone, and Google's mobile operating system Android is powering half of those those being sold – followed by RIM's BlackBerry models with 22.5% and Apple's iPhone at 18.5%.The pace of smartphone sales is accelerating rapidly, too. In the 12 weeks to 2 October, they comprised just under 70% of mobile phones, according to new research from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech.The findings mark a key shift in the availability of mobile phones and internet connectivity in the UK, as millions more people become connected through handheld devices with access to data services on the move.But for Finland's Nokia, the past three months have seen its smartphone sales drift even further downwards, so that its Symbian OS – which is being phased out – made up only 6% of sales, compared to nearly 20% a year ago. Apple also saw its share of sales fall dramatically, from 33% to 18.5%.However both have cause to look ahead to the next set of data. Nokia has just relaunched its smartphone offering, introducing phones whichgo on sale from mid-November using Microsoft's new Windows Phone software.For Apple, Kantar's data measurements ended two days before it launched its newest iPhone 4S handset,which has since seen record demand. Apple chief executive Tim Cook said in October that the company had seen a rapid slowdown in sales ahead of the launch as people waited for the new device.Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst at the research company Gartner, said though that many of the smartphones now in peoples' hands are just being used as "glorified feature phones" – the previous generation of phones, which could not run apps or connect to the internet."People are still pretty much using them for calls and texts," she said. "What's needed is for people to be educated more by the handset companies about what they can do with the device."Apple is good at showing people how they can use apps, but other companies need to move away from saying they've got five-megapixel cameras or whatever. But I think next year we will see people using these devices more effectively as more apps become available on low-end devices, especially as those become more powerful."Android's share of the UK market has roughly doubled since the same period in 2010, when it had 29% of the market. Among Android handset makers, Taiwan's HTC took the lead in the UK, with 45% of the sales for Google's software in the past 12 weeks.But Samsung, which recentlyclaimed the crown as the world's largest maker of smartphones, is catching up, reports Kantar, with 38% of Android sales, boosted by its Galaxy SII and Ace handsets.Sony Ericsson saw its share drop from 20.5% of Android sales a year ago to just 8.5% over the three months to October – which will give Sir Howard Stringer, who last week announced afull buyout of joint venture partner Ericsson, extra impetus to restore the phone company's fortunes.Nokia and Microsoft now see their future as co-dependent in the mobile space – and the challenge for Microsoft was emphasised by the latest figures, which show that a year after it launched its Windows Phone OS with a number of handset makers, it only had 1.4% of sales.A number of mobile carriers have ceased selling the previous generation of handsets, and Nokia now stands as the principal driver for Microsoft's efforts in mobile.Dominic Sunnebo, Kantar's global consumer insight director, warned that the next year could see a lot of jockeying for customers.""Over the next six to 12 months, the current group of Android owners will be coming to the end of their contracts and looking for an upgrade," he said."Our data shows that when these consumers upgrade they tend to remain fairly loyal to Android itself – 62% buy another Android mobile – but considerably less so to the handset manufacturer."
China has dismissed allegations that it may have beenresponsible for hacking US satellitesas "not worth a comment" and accused the US commission, which made the claims, of ulterior motives.Foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a regular news briefing in Beijing on Monday that the US-China economic and security review commission "has always viewed China through coloured lenses".The draft of an annual report by the commission, publishedby Bloomberg last week, included the claim that in October 2007 and July 2008 hackers used a ground station to interfere with the operation of two US government satellites used for earth observation. The commission did not explicitly accuse the Chinese government of orchestrating the attacks, but said they were consistent with Chinese military protocol, according to Bloomberg.Lei denied the allegations. He said: "This report is untrue and driven by ulterior motives. It is not worth a comment. China is also a victim of hacker attacks and we oppose any form of cybercrimes including hacking."The annual report warned that hackers on four occasions used a ground station in Spitsbergen, Norway, to interfere with the US satellites Landsat 7 and Terra (EOS AM-1). The commission said it was concerned that the hackers were testing how vulnerable the satellites were to a cyber-attack.The Landsat 7 satellite reported 12 minutes of "interference" in October 2007, and the Terra suffered two minutes in June 2008. In July 2008 the Landsat 7 reported another 12 minutes' interference. Finally in October 2008 the Terra was affected for nine minutes."Such interference poses numerous potential threats, particularly if achieved against satellites with more sensitive functions," the draft report said. "Access to a satellite's controls could allow an attacker to damage or destroy the satellite. An attacker could also deny or degrade as well as forge or otherwise manipulate the satellite's transmission."The claims follow a long-standing pattern of allegations made in reports by the commission, whose purpose is to investigate the national security implications of the US's trade with China.Iain Lobban, director of the government's listening centre, GCHQ,told the Timeson Monday that UK was the target of a "disturbing" number of cyber-attacks.The UK foreign secretary, William Hague, said in February that the foreign office had repelled an attack from "a hostile state intelligence agency", whichGuardian sources at the time revealed was a reference to China.• This article was amended on 1 November 2011 because the original picture caption said it was an image of Washington, DC. This has been corrected.
Here's your weekend reading aboutcreative ownership in a post-scarcity world.Hargreaves Review: Digital Opportunity(Intellectual Property and Growth) (IPO)Hargreaves Review of Intellectual Property Commons Select Committee Hearing (1 November 2011)Coadec's reponse to Hargreaves(COADEC)Hargreaves review: Viewpoint - UK Music CEO Feargal Sharkey(Music Week, March 2011)U.K. Study Says Private Sector Undervalues Creative Industries(Billboard Magazine, October 2011)Film, Television &amp; Radio, Books, Music and Art: UK Investment in Artistic Originals(IPO) (by Peter Goodridge &amp; Jonathan Haskell, July 2011) (pdf)Intellectual Property Research Centre(Imperial College)The Role of Intellectual Property Rights in the UK Market Sector(IPO) (Shikeb Farooqui, Peter Goodridge, Jonathan Haskel, July 2011) (pdf)Release the Music: Should the term of copyright protection for sound recordings be extended?(Open Rights Group, August 2007) (pdf)Musicians win copyright extension to 70 years(The Guardian, Sept 2011)Fair Dealing(Wikipedia)Feargal Sharkey: 'We need to change our business for young music fans'(The Guardian)Jeremy Hunt urges web firms to join anti-piracy drive(BBC)Creative Industries Minister Ed Vaizey berates BT(Music Week, July 2011)Ed Vaizey talks about website blocking(ORG)Ed Vaizey's view form the Commons(Music Members' Magazine)If you have anything to say about intellectual property, creativity and innovation, please add your comments below.The recommendedTwitterhashtag for this event is#TWTC3.Seeour Eventbrite pagefor more information on how to attend tonight's debate, and how to sign up for the other talks in the series.
YouTube has unveiled its latest challenge to the TV industry with the launch of 100 online channels of original programming from partners including the Wall Street Journal, Madonna, Ashton Kutcher and online magazine Slate.The launch marks Google-owned YouTube's most significant push into high-quality content as it seeks to shift the emphasis of the world's largest video sharing website from its roots in user-generated content.YouTube's venture, for which Google will fork out up to $100m to producers as an enticement to launch channels, will see about 25 hours of new, original programming a day.The majority of about 100 new online channels that YouTube has signed up will launch next year.Those channels include Antony Zuiker, the creator of criminal drama CSI, rapper Jay-Z, former NBA star Shaquille O'Neal, Rainn Wilson, one of the star's of the US version of The Office, and skateboard legend Tony Hawk.Media organisations launching channels include Thomson Reuters, Slate, satire site The Onion and Cosmopolitan owner Hearst.TV production companies and film studios getting involved include Lionsgate, the US company behind Mad Men and Nurse Jackie, which is creating a fitness channel, and X Factor co-producer FremantleMedia, which is to launch a pets and animals channel.According to reports, YouTube is paying $100m to producers as an advance on the advertising revenue that the videos will bring in. Advances are thought to be as much as $5m per channel and content creators are thought to be in line for more than half of all revenues made.On Friday, Google also announced a new version of Google TV, adding search tools that expand results to include shows on cable or web-based services like Netflix and Amazon.Robert Kyncl, global head of content partnerships at YouTube, characterised the channels' launch as a step change equivalent to the way that the cable TV industry expanded viewing from a handful of channels to hundreds, such as MTV, CNN and ESPN, that now "define media"."Today, the web is bringing us entertainment from an even wider range of talented producers, and many of the defining channels of the next generation are being born, and watched, on YouTube,"said Kyncl in a blog post. "For advertisers, these channels will represent a new way to engage and reach their global consumers."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
There was a time when computing was expensive. Time on sprawling mainframes in strip-lit basements was shared among companies and researchers.To compute, you needed deep pockets.Today, an app developer can buy the computing power they need for all but the biggest jobs for a hundred dollars. Startups can dream up new apps, test their hunches and put their code into the field with the minimum of fuss. They can pivot and weave, kick the tyres of their creations, iron out weak points or spot the foundations upon which to build.The faster a concept comes to life, the faster the plug can be pulled if it's not working.This ability to fail fast is dealing app developers a winning hand. It's why big companies are in trouble and it's the subject I'm looking forward to discussing with app developers at thePower of Oneevent this November.How small tech companies are disruptingEverywhere you look, hungry startups are making inroads that put fear into larger, established competitors.Take one of the most conservative areas of business: finance. Just over two years ago, a small startup called Square launched a payment app and piece of hardware that turns the humble smartphone into a powerful point of sale device.Suddenly, a merchant running a street kiosk or a regular stallholder at a farmer's market can take credit card payments. No upfront investment, no risk, just straightforward payments.So which of the telecoms giants, hungry for new revenue streams, launched this simple app? Of course, it wasn't an established player in the telecoms market, or even a payments specialist like Amdocs, which has handled telecoms billing for years.It was Square, a company founded by Jack Dorsey, who was also one of the founders of Twitter. Square is a global business that still has only70 employees.And what have the more established players done in response to this precocious startup? Have they applied their massive R&amp;D budgets to creating apps that are even easier for merchants and consumers to use?On the contrary. As Verifone found to its costearlier this year, it's often easier to try and kill the upstart than compete. Yet, as of this moment, Square is still growing fast and remaining agile in that very special way that only small organisations can.Never learned to fear failureIt's great to see a nimble little startup like Square take on the establishment, but that's not to say that success is certain. Far from it, success may take decades to come, and by a quirk of startup logic, is more likely to associate itself with the entrepreneur than the startup.Startups may come and go, but good entrepreneurs are worth their weight in computer code. This is why accepting failure is so vital, not only for entrepreneurs but investors.For a new generation of young entrepreneurs, such asDaniel Grosswho joinedY-Combinatorin Israel when he was 18 years old, there is nothing to fear because they haven't really had time to achieve anything yet.When you have nothing, you have nothing to lose.In a way, this gives people like Daniel an advantage. They haven't yet had time to learn to fear failure. That's a special frame of mind. And it's one startups need and the best investors understand.On the finite number of possible failuresMarketing guys never fail. They build no-fail structures. But that is a mindset that also restricts your capacity to succeed.Entrepreneurs need to operate within a different structure.I recall when ICQ was sold to AOL for $407m in the late 1990s. It gave me a sense of what was possible and, inspired, I set out to find success on my own. Since then, I can say I've failed at everything I've tried.I take it very personally, the importance of failure. And I've worked with investors who take it equally, if not more seriously. I've heard Yossi Vardi, the super angel behind ICQ , say in the past: "The number of possible failures for any entrepreneur is finite. Eventually, you won't fail."The best investors understand the importance of failure to the discovery of something outstanding. Each time I've failed, Yossi has said to me: "I'm not upset with you that you failed. All I ask is that you try again."Cast aside perfectionIt's really easy to go for the big bucks. Salaries and bonuses offer you comfort and predictability but are really a golden cage.I discovered recently that it was Steve Jobs who said: "Stay hungry, stay foolish." That is perfect advice for someone starting up a business. You have to be prepared to bet your life on something. It's easier when you're Daniel Gross. But even when you're in your 30s, 40s, 50s – you need that hunger.There's a slogan I think comes from Facebook: "Done is better than perfect." Mark Zuckerberg is known for telling his teams to just "get it out there" and iterate. There's a man comfortable with risking failure.Success is not about achieving perfection.Take an idea. Distil it to its simplest form. And get it out. If you're onto something, it will stick. If not, try something else. Don't be afraid of cutting things from the project.What it takes to breed successFreedom is more important than support in the life of a startup.Israel punches above its weight in the startup leagues. This is certainly not down to government funding. I could point to large corporations in Israel that have benefited from tax breaks. The Israeli government rewards inward investment just like any other.But startups aren't thriving here thanks to public funding.Then look at other forms of indirect investment that a government can provide. Education is a cornerstone of any strong economy. And if you look at nations like India, you can really see the benefit of investing in education. There's a nation emerging with a huge army of computer science PhDs and code junkies.India boasts some of the world's fastest growing conglomerates. But it just doesn't seem to be a hotbed of startups in the way Israel has become.Why?There's something else at the heart of Israel's story of success: the freedom to take difficult decisions. And I put this down to the army.Youngsters in Israel leave school and join the army for three years, were we learn to manage budgets and take big decisions about how to achieve objectives. It wouldn't be unusual at all for an Israeli soldier to be given a $10m budget to manage from about day one. Then, when faced with a challenge, you have to solve it. You're thrown in at the deep end without prior knowledge.Perhaps that's experience that helps you to stay young and foolish.Finding inspirationIf I could go back a generation, to put myself in the shoes of any of the great tech entrepreneurs of the past few decades, there are two places I think I'd want to go.Apple or Microsoft.These aren't businesses that took a well-understood industry or sector and led it to the next stage of its evolution. They were both companies that pioneered in a field that didn't even exist.Incredibly, they worked without easy access to the computing power that we now find so plentiful. No internet access helped them connect with fellow pioneers.They operated in the dark, focused purely on developing the single idea they'd had.I'd love to go observe just how Steve Jobs and Bill Gates did that. Perhaps the restrictions they faced gave them a sense of freedom that we'd struggle to match now. Certainly, they made a virtue of those most precious of characteristics: being young and being foolish.Yosi Taguri has been a developer since the age of 11 when computers had 8 bits and less than 64k of memory. He has a hobby of making people look a bit silly using apps and extremely enjoys the art of talking to people. On the serious side he has a vast experience in building large-scale solutions on different platforms and working with early stage companies to realise what can be done with cutting-edge technologies. In the past two years he made the iOS and Android platforms his new mistress.
Mark Zuckerberg knows that this time next year Facebook will be a public company, or preparing itself for a blockbuster public offering.Ina rare interviewthis weekend, the 27-year-old founder of the social networking site spoke candidly about culture, commitment and clingers-on at Silicon Valley's hottest ticket.Most interestingly, Zuckerberg said he would have bypassed the Valley if he were that 21-year-old Harvard student starting Facebook tomorrow. "If I were starting now I would do things very differently," he told Y Combinator partner Jessica Livingstone in the interview."I didn't know anything. In Silicon Valley, you get this feeling that you have to be out here. But it's not the only place to be. If I were starting now, I would have stayed in Boston. [Silicon Valley] is a little short-term focused and that bothers me."It was here that Young Zuck got nostalgic. Harking back to the sophomore summer of 2004 when he moved intothathouse in the Valley, Zuckerberg dismissed The Social Network's portrait of it as a party den beset with booze and attractive Californians, but added that Facebook was only months away from feeling like a proper company."It was not like in the movie, there was no drinking. We all just lived in a house, iterated, kept going," he said. "It wasn't until we got our first office in Palo Alto that things became more like a company. We never went into this wanting to build a company."You get the impression that the next 12 months for Zuckerberg are going to be a specific form of hell. Before the end of this year, he will shift the company's entire Palo Alto operation – currently split between two offices, one for developers and another for the corporate types – to one huge campus in nearby Menlo Park. In April, Facebook will be forced by regulators to report its first set of financials, and within months Zuckerberg will be off to tout the company around Wall Street. And if thereportsare accurate, Facebook will go public with a value of about $70bn before the end of 2012. That's some big corporate change.What does Zuckerberg make of all this? "If you go through some big corporate change, it's just not going to be the same," he told Livingstone, referring tothe rejected Yahoo bid in 2006. "If we sold to Yahoo, they would have done something different, if you want to continue your vision of the company, then don't sell because there's inevitably going to be some change."The interview ishere, it starts 42 minutes in and lasts about 40 minutes.
Minecraft has won the first everGameCity Prize. The Nottingham-based video game festival announced the decision at a ceremony on Saturday night.The world creation game was up against the likes of Portal 2, LIMBO and Pokemon Black in a competition judged by a diverse panel including MP Tom Watson, writer and comedian Charlie Higson, and South Bank Centre Artistic Director Jude Kelly."The GameCity Prize, like the GameCity festival, is about exploring and celebrating video games as being at the vanguard of inclusive, contemporary creative arts," said festival director Iain Simons.He and his team devised the awards to be a video game equivalent of the Mercury Music Prize or literature's Man Booker prize.Minecraftis the creation of Swedish indie developer Markus Persson, also known as Notch.The sandbox-style PC title allows gamers to construct elaborate buildings and objects on procedurally generated landscapes. It was originally released as a beta version in 2009, and now smartphone and Xbox 360 versions are in development."We're very excited to have won the first GameCity Prize," said Persson, "especially since the nominees contain some of our favourite games recently. It's a great honour to be compared to those games."Much-respected for its emphasis on user creativity, Minecraft has around 15 million subscribers, who have between them uploaded around 3m videos to YouTube showing off their creations.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 29 OctoberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (29)PC (10)12 (1)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (42)23 (2)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (40)Wii (6)PSP (4)54 (3)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (94)PSP (6)25 (5)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (94)Xbox 360 (6)36 (4)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)37 (6)The Sims 3: Pets (12+)PC (72)Xbox 360 (17)PS3 (9)3DS (2)28 (9)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (89)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (1)319 (11)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Xbox 360 (41)Wii (34)PS3 (21)3DS (4)310 (8)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (37)411 (7)Pro Evolution Soccer 2012(3+)PS3 (56)Xbox 360 (30)PSP (7)PS2 (5)312 (14)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (24)DS (24)Xbox 360 (23)PS3 (17)2513 (13)Mario Kart Wii(3+)Wii (100)11314 (10)Gears Of War 3(18+)Xbox 360 (100)615 (12)F1 2011(3+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (49)PC (2)616 (16)Dead Island(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (34)PC (2)817 (15)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)PC (4)1018 (–)Kinect Sports: Season Two(3+)Xbox 360 (100)119 (17)Driver: San Francisco(12+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (44)Wii (4)920 (–)Wii Music(3+)Wii (100)4UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 11 apps for you today:ZeeboxiPad social TV app Zeebox is getting a lot of buzz this week, having launched on the App Store as a "new, social, interactive, immersive and amazing way to watch TV". It's part tablet-friendly TV schedule, showing what's on now and next, and part social aggregator, showing you what people are tweeting about specific shows. It can even act as a remote control for connected TVs: the idea being you can spot what shows are causing a social buzz and switch to them there and then.iPadTreasures of the BodleianThe University of Oxford's Bodleian Libraries house a host of literary treasures, which are now being made available in app form by developer Toura – which also works with the British Library on similar apps. Expect to find Shakespeare's First Folio, telegrams from the (sinking) Titanic and Jane Austen's handwritten manuscripts, among other documents. Videos and podcasts are included. The link above is for the iPhone version, but there's anHD iPad editiontoo.iPhone / iPadThe IndependentUK newspaper The Independent has released an iPad app, offering its news, current affairs, sport and arts photography, along with other content from the newspaper. "Now, along with an ever-growing website, the app is another generation for everyone who takes their reading seriously," promises its App Store listing.iPadIntel Pair &amp; ShareIntel is making iOS apps now? Interesting. Pair &amp; Share is touted as a way to send photos from an iPhone or iPad to a PC, to show them off, with friends also able to connect wirelessly to share their own pics. It requires a companion application to be installed on the PC, mind.iPhone / iPadTwonky MusicAndroid app Twonky Music is the work of PacketVideo, following its recent Twonky Beam Browser app. This app enables people to play music from their phone or their home network, while also streaming it to home devices using Apple's Airplay, UPnP and DLNA technologies. It pulls down artist news, tweets and lyrics while playing songs, and also has Pandora-esque personal radio built in.AndroidImagining the CityQueensland University of Technology is behind this app, which is described as "a location-based book of short stories set in inner city Brisbane, Australia. The idea being people can read stories at specific locations, with author's notes, images and audio recordings also thrown in.iPhoneSmartr News for iPadAnother day, another social news-reading app for Apple's tablet. Smartr News aggregates stories linked to by Twitter and Facebook friends, then presents them in a visually-spiffing user interface, complete with chat features.iPadHarden's Restaurant Guide 2012All 2,500 reviews from the Harden's UK restaurant guide books are available in this £6.99 Universal iOS app, based on 85,000 reports from more than 8,000 customers. Besides presenting the reviews, the app enables diners to submit their own reports for next year.iPhone / iPadLondon Jazz FestivalThis year's London Jazz Festival has its own app, developed by Xomo Digital. Expect gig listings, a personal scheduler, maps and location-based search, and the ability to post photos socially from within the app.iPhone / AndroidBejeweledBejeweled isn't a new BlackBerry game, but it's newly-free, courtesy of Research In Motion's apologetic free apps initiative following its recent service outage. The gem-swapping game is a bit dated, but still addictive.BlackBerryAR.HunterAR.Hunter is the latest iOS game designed to work with Parrot's AR.Drone iDevice-controlled copter. The idea: a two-player game in the real world where they run around trying to kill or not-be killed (virtually), complete with a "detection cap" for one player to wear so it can be targeted by the AR.Drone.iPhone / iPad
Monday! Anyone got any thoughts on Battlefield 3?
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA Sister's Eulogy for Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comMoving.Windows Phone Is back, full of great tricks &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue likes it: "Windows Phone 7.5 is gorgeous, classy, satisfying, fast and coherent. The design is intelligent, clean and uncluttered. Never in a million years would you guess that it came from the same company that cooked up the bloated spaghetti that is Windows and Office."Can Open Hardware Transform the Data Center? &gt;&gt; Data Center Knowledge"Is the data center industry on the verge of a revolution in which open source hardware designs transform the process of designing and building data centers? The Open Compute Project, an initiative begun in April by Facebook, is gaining partners, momentum and structure. Yesterday it unveiled a new foundation and board to shepherd the burgeoning movement."Met police using surveillance system to monitor mobile phones &gt;&gt; The Guardian"Britain's largest police force is operating covert surveillance technology that can masquerade as a mobile phone network, transmitting a signal that allows authorities to shut off phones remotely, intercept communications and gather data about thousands of users in a targeted area."Brandon Bible Forum: where's that CSS file from? Oh, I seeA fun exercise is to dig through the CSS files that Brandon has, um, linked to and figure out where the image has been added - and how Alfredapp.com avoids displaying it, since it's using the same CSSBach's cello music rendered visually &gt;&gt; BAROQUE.MERemarkable HTML5/Javascript dynamic representation of Bach's cello suites. Beautiful.DevilRobber Mac OS X Trojan horse spies on you, uses GPU for Bitcoin mining &gt;&gt; Naked Security"Copies of the legitimate Mac OS X image editing app GraphicConverter version 7.4 were uploaded to file-sharing networks. However, they came with an unexpected addition. Hidden inside the download was a copy of the OSX/Miner-D (also known as 'DevilRobber') Trojan horse. "If your Mac computer was infected by the malware, the first thing you might notice is performance becoming sluggish. "That's because OSX/Miner-D tries to generate Bitcoins, the currency of the anonymous digital cash system, by stealing lots of GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) time. GPUs are much better than regular CPUs at performing the mathematical calculations required for Bitcoin mining. Yes, this Mac malware is stealing computing time as well as data." The need for Mac anti-malware protection is, as Cluley says, becoming clearer. At least if you download files from file-sharing systems in the hope of getting something for nothing.Paul Allen: The Singularity Isn't Near &gt;&gt; Technology Review"By working through a set of models and historical data, Kurzweil famously calculates that the singularity will arrive around 2045. "This prediction seems to us quite far-fetched. Of course, we are aware that the history of science and technology is littered with people who confidently assert that some event can't happen, only to be later proven wrong--often in spectacular fashion. We acknowledge that it is possible but highly unlikely that Kurzweil will eventually be vindicated. An adult brain is a finite thing, so its basic workings can ultimately be known through sustained human effort." Hope this doesn't spoil your plans.Benford's Law and the decreasing reliability of accounting data for US firms &gt;&gt; Studies in Everyday Life:Things are bad, in short. Benford's Law is like fingerprinting for financial fraud, given enough digits.https://raw.github.com/gist/933cc4f7df97d553ed89/24386c6a79bb4b31fb818b70b34c5eab7f12e1ff/gistfile1.txtFascinating read about life inside Amazon. Jeff Bezos doesn't come out of it smelling of roses, though he does come out on top. Very much so.HP says It will not shut down WebOS &gt;&gt; BusinessInsider"HP's PC boss Todd Bradley appeared on Bloomberg West last night to talk about the company's decision to keep the PC business. Of note, he said yesterday's rumor in the Guardian that HP will shut down its WebOS division is completely false. Bradley said it's "an unfounded rumor." Why yes, Mr Bradley, we are bookmarking this appearance of yours on Bloomberg TV.Dolphin HD browser snared in security breach &gt;&gt; CNET NewsDeclan McCullagh: "MoboTap, a Pasadena, Calif.-based mobile developer, told CNET today that Dolphin HD for Android transmitted the Web addresses back to the company's servers but that they were not stored. The addresses were used to determine whether to format Web pages in 'Webzine' format, MoboTap said. "The privacy and security implications arise when a user connects to a secure Web site (usually shown by "https://" and a closed lock icon). The second, surreptitious connection to MoboTap is unencrypted, allowing an eavesdropper on a Wi-Fi network to learn what's happening." Could allow session hijacking. Theoretically.How to justify Groupon's valuation &gt;&gt; Felix Salmon"Think of it like this: up until now, Groupon has been selling daily deals to customers. And it's now ready to pivot, and start selling customers to merchants on many other fronts."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A "significant but unsuccessful" cyber-attack was made on theForeign Officeand other government departments this summer, according toGCHQ.Iain Lobban, director of the government's listening centre, said the UK's "continued economic wellbeing" was under threat because of a "disturbing" number of  such attacks on the government, industry and members of the public.Writing inthe Times, he said sensitive data on government computers had been targeted, along with defence, technology and engineering firms' designs."I can attest to attempts to steal British ideas and designs – in the IT, technology, defence, engineering and energy sectors, as well as other industries – to gain commercial advantage or to profit from secret knowledge of contractual arrangements," said Lobban. "Such intellectual property theft doesn't just cost the companies concerned. It represents an attack on the UK's continued economic wellbeing."We are also aware of similar techniques being employed to try to acquire sensitive information from British government computer systems, including one significant (but unsuccessful) attempt on the Foreign Office and other government departments this summer."Lobban did not give further details, but added: "Criminals are using cyberspace to extort money and steal identities, as well as exploit the vulnerable. Increasingly sophisticated techniques target individuals. We are witnessing the development of a global criminal market place – a parallel black economy where cyber dollars are traded in exchange for UK citizens' credit card details. Tackling cyber crime matters and it is a very real threat to our prosperity."Lobban's article comes before a conference in London on Tuesday on cyber-security, including political leaders and technology experts. Among the delegates will be Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, and Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia.William Hague, the foreign secretary, told the Times there had been an "exponential rise" in incidents, with welfare and tax databases among systems "liable to attack"."Countries that cannot maintain cybersecurity of their banking system, of the intellectual property of their companies, will be at a serious disadvantage in the world."In one criminal operation, interrupted by British intelligence and crime agencies,1m stolen identities were being traded. The discovery this summer, by GCHQ and theSerious Organised Crime Agency, prevented £300m of debit and credit card fraud, according to Hague.Organised crime networks were in an "arms race" trying to steal money and ideas, in which "new techniques are adopted every day". The government was putting £650m into preventing attacks over the next four years, and was already combating problems each hour or each day, Hague said."It is vital that businesses work with the government to become aware of all the threats they face and work with us on their defences."Governments did not and should not control the internet, said Hague, but he hoped for a "common sense of what the acceptable norm of behaviour in cyberspace" ought to be. The "vast" benefits of the rise of the internet must be balanced with the risk, he said.In May, the Guardian revealed how theUK was developing a cyber weapons programmeto counter growing threats to national security. Hague told a security conference in Munich in February that the Foreign Office had repelled a cyber-attack a month earlier from "a hostile state intelligence agency". Sources told the Guardian at the time that the attack was believed to be from Chinese intelligence agencies.
One of Microsoft's most senior lawyers has accused Google's Android software of "standing on the shoulders" of companies such as his own in the smartphone wars, and that the flurry of patent lawsuits going on between companies involved in the field is only natural in a rapidly developing field.In aninterview with the San Francisco Chronicle, Horacio Gutierrez, the deputy general counsel for Microsoft, says that patent protections are necessary to give companies the incentive to spend millions of dollars and years of effort on new products.He says that software patents are necessary, because so much focus has shifted from hardware to software: "The question of whether software should be patentable is, in a sense, the same as asking whether a significant part of the technological innovation happening nowadays should receive patent protection."Gutierrez argues that Microsoft developed and has patented really critical features including "the ability to synchronise the content that you have in your phone with the information in the server of your company or in your computer at home". He adds that there are plenty of others: "Features that just make the phone much more efficient, things that are deeply embedded in the operating system." He argues that modern smartphones are a fully-fledged computer with a sophisticated, modern operating system.The complaint means that Google and its Android handset partners have a growing number of companies ranged against them as patent litigation has intensified over the past 18 months.Apple is suing a number of Android partners, notably including Samsung and HTC, while Microsoft has extracted per-handset licence payments from HTC and Samsung, as well as similar Android-related payments from companies as diverse as Wistron, General Dynamics, Acer, Viewsonic, Itronix and Onkyo. By some calculations, Microsoft is gettingmore revenue from patent-related payments from Android than from its own Windows Phone operating system.Google bought the Android handset maker Motorola Mobility in August, apparently to acquire its long-standing patent pool relating to mobile phones, after failing to acquire a patent pool from thebankruptcy sale of the Canadian company Nortel, which went to a consortium including Microsoft, RIM and Apple.Gutierrez says the suggestion that certain features (such as an indication of how far a page has loaded) may seem obvious to people who don't understand how systems have to be built: "Many times when you express those ideas at a high level, they seem obvious to anyone who really doesn't understand the particular ways in which certain effects are achieved in software. It's not just one feature, but a whole series of features in a phone or another mobile device that really make up the whole experience of the user."Gutierrez rebutted the suggestion in an interview with James Temple of the San Francisco Chronicle that the software giant has a campaign against Android. "Every time there are these technologies that are really disruptive, there are patent cases. People who lived in that particular time would look and say, 'What a mess, we certainly must live in the worst time from an [intellectual property] perspective. The system is broken and something has to be done to fix it,'" he said. "That's the situation we're in right now. If you think of a mobile phone or a tablet computer today, they're not your father's or your grandfather's cell phone."He adds that different pathways to achieve the same ends would be independently patentable – which would imply that if a company can show that it uses a different method from the patented one to achieve an effect, it would have an absolute defence against a patent infringement suit.In June, Microsoft  lost a key software patent case which it had taken all the way to the Supreme Court, after it wassued by the Canadian company i4iover certain features of earlier versions of Office.Google is facing a lawsuit from the database giant Oracle, which in 2009 bought Sun Microsystems and the rights to its Java code, over allegations that Android doesn't comply with the licence for Java.Google's chief lawyercomplained in July that software patents are "gumming up innovation"The interview with Gutierrez is in two parts,hereandhere.
My name is David and I am a happychondriac. I've mellowed with age and would describe myself as content. But perhaps the feeling that you should be happier than you are is a disease that you can learn to manage, but not eradicate. So why would I use an iPhone app that records just where, when and how I've failed to be happy?I have been usingMappinessfor about six weeks. Developed by George MacKerron while doing a PhD in the department of geography at the London School of Economics, it gathers data on how our surroundings and activities affect happiness.It asks you to rate how happy, relaxed and awake you are at random through the day. You slide the dials to the left or right depending on your state of mind, who you're with and what you're doing.Then it allows you to view the data you've built up. The longer you've been using it, the more interesting this gets. You begin to realise that you really are an evening person, and that you just can't get enough of Thursdays. For a while I was happiest drinking alcohol. Now, oddly, it's waiting or queueing.The app has harvested data from just under 3m  responses (there are 45,000 users). Some of it's predictable: it won't come as a shock to readers of John Betjeman to learn that Slough is the unhappiest local authority area. The coast apparently makes people very happy and green places more than urban areas. An "intimacy, making love" category was added following requests – it's by some margin the happiest activity .Once I'd got over the initial excitement – answering questions about myself is something I do quite like – I began to resent Mappiness. It never seemed to ping me when I wanted. It would happen when I was sitting in front of my computer at work, as opposed to, say, abseiling or riding a horse through the surf. I worried that I would seem miserable. And then there's my innate cautiousness. I might be feeling quite pleased with myself. But was I really "happy"? That's a bit much, isn't it? I would nudge the slider a tiny amount to the right. Often I would just tap it so it stayed pretty much in the middle.It seems that, day to day, I don't experience a huge range of emotion. I'm mostly, well, not too bad. But does this matter, I ask philosopher John Gray. "There is the idea that a life is failed if the person who's lived that life doesn't feel it to be happy," he says. "It's come to be felt that happiness is a sensation or a mood. If you go back through history, not just philosophers but novelists, essayists, Montaigne for example, they didn't think that a happy human life was one that necessarily excluded periods of distress or moods of despondency. If you think of happiness as a sensation then you're focusing on a momentary state, rather than applying the idea of happiness to a life as a whole."Surely that's not to say that unhappiness is something we should always sit back and accept? "I don't think a feeling of being trapped in misery can be good for anybody. But once you're out of that situation, what you seek might not be a position in the world in which you never suffer unhappiness, it might be the most meaningful life, or the most exciting one." Fair enough. "The etymology of happiness is, I think, based on "hap" – chance or accident. You're probably capable of being happy in a much wider range of lives than you think."The best thing about this whole exercise is the map of Britain on to which users have uploaded the images they're asked to capture when feeling particularly happy. The result is an illustration of  just how idiosyncratic happiness can be: pictures include a cat on the bed, a canal, the inside of a bar. Looking at them, happychondria's grip loosens. I might be miserable on the holiday of a lifetime, but the sight of a fox in the dark or a privately remembered joke are the things that will really make me smile.
"Unexpectedly easy," boasts theexpensive-looking adfor Vlingo voice talk on Samsung's flagship Galaxy SII smartphone. Now you can text your friends hands free, using only your badly-dubbed Hollywood voice. How easy isthat?Er, not so fast. Here's the problem: Samsung and Vlingo have made it virtually impossible to disable Voice Talk – meaning Galaxy SII owners have to hack their own phone to turn it off. And they don't like it.That's demonstrated by themost popular commentonVlingo's official announcementof the "major partnership" with Samsung is: "I am really sick of it and I need to know how can I disable it, Anybody can help me?"I know the feeling. Countless times have I wanted to smash the (otherwise impressive) phone into smithereens after accidentally double tapping the phone's home button to be greeted with a robotic "What would you like to do?".Another comment on the Vlingo blogsays: "Could you advise how to disable the double tap the main button to get Voice command? I appreciate you want this to be on as it's part of your deal with Samsung but it's annoying the Hell out of me and I'm the owner of the device, thus what I want comes above your agreement."Turn you off, please ... Vlingo voice talk on the Samsung Galaxy SIIQuite right. Attempting to disable Voice Talk in the phone's settings achieves nothing. Selecting force stop on voice commands – assuggested by Yad Faeq– only opts you out of Samsung and Vlingo's separate Voice Talk terms and conditions. But an accidental double tap still asks you: "What would you like to do?"It appears that the only way to disable voice talk is byrootingthe £400+ phone. That almost certainly invalidates your warranty - and indicates that somewhere along the line Samsung and Vlingo forgot about the regular customer.Is disabling Siri on Apple's iPhone 4S just as painful? Nope - it's just four clicks. (Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Siri -&gt; off.)The difference between the two, of course, goes way beyond the handset.Apple acquired Siri andspent 18 months making sure it was customer-ready before making it the cornerstone of the new iPhone. (There's a passage in the Steve Jobs biography where he tries it out ahead of the launch: even he didn't manage to flummox it.)By contrast Samsung announced its "major partnership" with Vlingo four weeks before the Galaxy SII – which is based on software from another partner, Google – was released in the UK. The corporate jostling between Samsung, Vlingo and, possibly, Google has resulted in either a huge oversight, or a cynical deal. Either way, the paying customer is left frustrated.Samsung and Vlingo had not returned a request for comment outside regular business hours; this post will be updated when we hear more. For now, enjoy CNet UK's Apprentice-style test of Siri and Vlingo:
The rock'n'roll generation's era lasted from Heartbreak Hotel to the death of Steve Jobs (an ex-counterculture dropout whose whole ethos was informed by rock'n'roll, and a love of Dylan and the Beatles, among others). Music was important to us, it was how we defined ourselves and it was what made us different to our parents, who felt alienated by its loudness, nihilism, hedonism and anti-authoritarian stance.But now all that has come to an end. My kids can't annoy me by playing loud music – I'm more likely to annoy them by saying that it's all been done before, and isn't really any different to the stuff I was listening to when I was their age. Modern music is one huge buffet from which modern kids can pick and choose any bits they like from the past 50 years. Everything is accessible and nothing is fresh. Music just isn't that important any more – or so it seems.Instead my kids are part of the digital generation, born to the bip-bip-bip of Space Invaders and 80s electro-pop. Their world revolves around the microchip. If you buy a new computer, you can take it out of its box, plug it in and instantly you are sitting there, like Captain Kirk, at the helm of an enormously powerful machine that can take you anywhere in the universe. A modern computer can be your office, your communications device, your reference library, you can listen to music on it, you can make music on it … and, of course, you can play games.To my kids, computer games are the most important thing in the world. In the same way that we might have waited for the new Rolling Stones album or the latest Clash single, my kids now wait expectantly for the new Fifa simulation, or the latest Gears Of War, and the amount of time they put into playing these games is terrifying to someone of my generation.That's the important part, though. That is how they've rebelled. It is the thing they do that I did not do when I was their age. I do play a lot of games, but gaming has not completely taken over my life.For my boys, games are more important than TV, films, music and books. Because, of course, games incorporate all of those elements so comprehensively and so seductively.OK, I must stop now and confess that I have no daughters. Maybe girls are different? I know games aren't such a big part of their world (although the biggest selling and most popular games of all time, such as The Sims and FarmVille, are those that appeal to girls more than boys). And speaking purely subjectively, my wife is obsessed by Angry Birds and Tiny Wings. Games are not going to go away, they are simply going to become more immersive, more beguiling and more time-devouring. They are taking over. So I was delighted when they asked me to be a judge for the new GameCity prize.GameCity is a computer games festival held annually in Nottingham, and the prize is the first major one of its type. The idea is to lift games out of the hands of the nerds and industry insiders and award them the cultural status of music, films or books. The aim is partly to find a way of talking about games, to find a language to stand alongside the languages of film or literary criticism, but it is also to make games respectable and accessible to the wider non-games-playing public.The range of judges, including musician Nitin Sawhney, actress Frances Barber and Labour MP Tom Watson, reflected this ideal, coming as we did from the fields of music, literature, theatre, academia, politics and journalism. What we were asked to do was find a game that you could show to someone who had never played anything before and say: "Look at this: this is what you've been missing out on, this is what games are capable of."It was an interesting selection as the shortlist had been compiled from suggestions by the industry itself, and was perhaps aimed too much at games nerds. It was interesting that none of the mega-blockbuster franchises were on the list. There was no Grand Theft Auto, or Halo, or Red Dead Redemption, no Assassin's Creed or Call Of Duty (in some cases because they didn't fit into the prize timeframe). It was a shame that there were no RPGs (role-playing games) with stories to tell and huge intricate worlds to explore – nothing like LA Noire to really show the novice gamers just what modern games are capable of. There was a feeling that the industry insiders who had made the list were perhaps trying too hard to be clever.In the end we gave the prize to Minecraft, a world-building game that is as simple or as complex as you want to make it. It seemed to fulfil the criteria of a game that you would want to keep coming back to. It's creative, immersive, neatly designed (everything is a cube) and will be fondly remembered for a very long time. It's a game you get obsessed by and end up playing in your sleep, chopping down trees, mining resources, creating blocks, moving blocks, building blocky castles, avoiding Creepers. In truth it's perhaps not so much a game as a creative resource and as it's played in your web browser the graphics are not hugely complex. But, for me, that was part of its appeal. I hate games that use beautiful and elaborate visuals to try to distract from the fact that the gameplay is actually pretty rubbish. I would much rather a game plays well but doesn't necessarily look amazing (though the best games do both).As an author who also plays games, and the father of three boys who read books and play games, I often get asked whether I think games will kill off the novel, and the answer is no, of course they won't. Books have survived the coming of films and TV, rock'n'roll and sudoku, and they will survive the coming of computer games. But they will be influenced by them, just as all those other media had their own impact and influence on books and, let's not forget, were hugely influenced by them.The best games have taken stuff from books (where would computer games be without Tolkien, for instance?) and any novelist worth their salt should be taking stuff from games. What you don't want are books that slavishly replicate the experience of playing a game because, well, why not just go and play a game instead? In the same way, you don't want a game that gets bogged down with interminable cut-scenes and has only one, very rigid, way of being played. There are cleverer and more elegant ways of designing them, as demonstrated by the brilliant GTA series.I am fully aware that if I write a book for kids, however, I am competing for their time and attention with computer games. I know that my books have to give young readers the same kick they get out of playing Call Of Duty: Black Ops in zombie mode. So they are as full of action and adventure, bloodshed and zombies as any Xbox game, but they also do the one thing that games cannot do – they put you inside the minds of characters so that you can understand how they think and feel.That's the essential difference between books and games. Games create worlds for you to play about in. The best of them are about you, the player. You are either God, in control of everything, or you are a grunt on the battlefields of the second world war, desperately fighting to stay alive. The best books are the ones that are about other people. Novels get inside people in a way that no other medium can. Reading, whether it's from the pages of a book or the screen of a Kindle, is a very intimate, private and immersive experience, utterly different to any other medium. And that is why we will always read. And when we are not reading, we will play games.© Charlie Higson, October 2011Charlie Higson was on the judging panel for the inauguralGameCity prize, a new arts award for video games. The Fear, the latest in his zombie adventure series for teens, is published by Puffin
"From today painting is dead" is an aphorism often attributed to Paul Delaroche, a 19th-century French painter, upon seeing the first daguerreotypes (thoughWikipedia maintainsthere is no compelling evidence that he actually said it). In a way, it was a misjudgment on the same epic scale as Thomas Watson's celebrated observation that the total world market for computers was five machines. What Delaroche was presumably getting at was that painting as a naturalistic representation of reality was terminally threatened by the arrival of the new technology of "painting with light". If that is indeed what he meant, then he was only partly right.What brought Delaroche to mind was the announcement of theLytro light field camera, which goes on sale next year. Based on some discoveries made by a Stanford student,Ren Ng, the camera turns the normal process of compose-focus-shoot on its head. Instead you just point the Lytro at whatever you want to photograph, and then you can retrospectively focus in on any part of the image. As theNew York Timesexplained: "With Lytro's camera, you can focus on any point in an image taken with a Lytro after you've shot the picture. When viewing a Lytro photograph on your computer, you can simply click your mouse on any point in the image and that area will come into focus. Change the focal point from the flower to the child holding the flower. Make the background blurry and the foreground clear. Do the opposite – you can change the focal point as many times as you like."The science behind the camera is both arcane and fascinating. The idea of a "light field" – the amount of light travelling in every direction through every point in space – is a central concept in imaging science. It fully defines how a scene appears. The first light fields were captured at Stanford University over 15 years ago and required a roomful of cameras tethered to a supercomputer. But Moore's Law (which says that computing power doubles every 18 months) has now worked its magic and&nbsp;the supercomputer has been shrunk&nbsp;to something that can fit in a consumer&nbsp;device.The company behind the technology calls it "focusing after the fact".It explainsthat since the camera captures the colour, intensity and direction of all the light, "you can experience the first major light field capability… Focus and refocus, anywhere in the picture. You can refocus your pictures at any time, after&nbsp;the fact".If it sounds counter-intuitive, then that's because it is. A picture produced by the Lytro looks uniformly blurry and unsatisfactory. But click on any part of the image and that part springs into pretty sharp focus. (There are someintriguing samples on the company website.) To anyone with a conventional photographic training, the idea of "focusing after the fact" will sound like heresy on steroids. After all, most of us were taught that the correct sequence is compose-focus-shoot. And for many purists an out-of-focus image provides a priori evidence of incompetence.On the other hand, if you're a technophile then light-field photography is just the latest example of how digital technology overturns conventional wisdom. Just as the rise of user-generated content replaced a key tenet of traditional publishing – the idea that one edits first and then publishes – with the notion that one publishes first and lets the "editing" happen at the edges, as readers choose or ignore your content (what Clay Shirky called "the mass amateurisation of publishing"), so now we have a technology that basically says "catch all&nbsp;the light and then decide how you want to frame it later".So would it be appropriate to say, pace Delaroche, that from today focusing is dead? I don't think so. Just after I'd first seen the announcement that the Lytro was going to be on sale after Christmas, my gaze lighted on one of my favourite photobooks –An Inner Silence: The Portraits of Henri Cartier-Bresson– whose work was created in the traditional way in a darkroom with chemicals. It has some truly wonderful, insightful portraits by a great master of analogue photography, but by my reckoning in at least 10% the subjects are slightly out of focus. And here's the strange thing: in most of those cases the fuzziness doesn't really matter. So perhaps an obsessiveness with sharpness is a symptom not of aesthetic sensibility but of nerdish perfectionism. And to say that Cartier-Bresson was a lesser artist because he couldn't focus is a bit like saying that the impressionists couldn't paint. In other words, dead&nbsp;wrong.
It is a most basic fact of life: we will all die. There are no creams, no pills, no incantations that can change this. However, more and more of us have the opportunity to perpetuate ourselves by the grace of overenthusiastic automated Facebook reminders and the digital archives of identity that we upload with pieces of us.After we die, we leave behind an estate that tells a particular story of who we were. We have no control over how we are represented, perceived or passed around: the post-death identities of highly public, controversial figures such as Muammar Gaddafi are appropriated for political agendas and images ricochet around news outlets and the web; more popular people such as Steve Jobs are bequeathed elevated cachet offline and on; and the less well-known but just as deserving, such as recently deceased computer scientistDennis Ritchie, maintain an afterlife among the faithful who cluster around biographies and tributes.As for the rest of us, pre-web, we'd have faded away pretty quickly. Now, it's possible to have our own public perpetuity. This can be disconcerting to those we leave behind. Many of the stories I've heard about digital death experiences come from bereaved people who are jolted by the activity surrounding a loved one's online profile, or the skeletons that were hidden in an online closet. One person who contacted me about his experience of 21st-century death commented: "It's a very weird thing, Facebook after death: it's a strange, living memorial to which anyone can add and contribute – and which the family cannot control." Social network accounts become windows into the worlds of their former owners, exposing the good and the devastating facts – such as hidden relationships or mental health problems – of a person's life.Most social network services allow family members to access a deceased loved one's account, to turn it into a memorial page, to archive it or to delete it. This can preserve the online identity as part of the whole person, something that, pre-Facebook,&nbsp;wouldn't have been part of the mainstream idea of "self". Virtual memorials can be a real source of comfort to loved ones. The same commenter told me: "Following the recent first anniversary of [my brother's] death, it was emotional – and not unpleasant – to log back on and see people posting anniversary messages and to see that he was still in the thoughts of so many people."We are now embedded in online social networks, which means they can be speedy conduits for informing people whose lives were touched by the deceased person. Others told me that, although they'd only known someone online, when they'd heard about their death, they felt compelled to go to their funeral.Death is big business and there is an emerging industry that wants to help us deal with our digital assets before we die. The fourthDigital Death Dayconference takes place in Amsterdam in November, aimed at a motley crew of undertakers, human-computer interaction researchers and social network administrators. It hopes to answer questions about new forms of estate and legacy planning, the implications of the web for end-of-life and after-death care and the ways the terms and conditions of online tools are constructed to take into consideration the end-of-account requirements of their customers.People are already lining up to advise us on what should and shouldn't be included in a last will and testament, offer hacking services for the bereaved to gain access to locked-down computers and social networking accounts, and flog augmented headstones so grave site visitors can discover more about an entombed person's life by scanning it with a smartphone. Our digital assets are incredibly rich resources, and the archive of emotional and biographical assets that we leave behind is growing&nbsp;every day. Parents document&nbsp;everything about their children's lives and upload it to the web, from first moments to first days at school, and beyond.Once we have control of our online selves, we continue to pour the minutiae of us into infinitely deep memory books. "I'm not espousing that we chronicle every little aspect of our lives: that would be ridiculous, redundant and boring," says John Romano, one of the authors ofYour Digital Afterlife, "but there are things that we value that we put online. And there are times when representation online is the only way that it's stored.""It used to be the things that were most important to us had tangibility," continues Evan Carroll, Romano's co-author. "Now that we're doing these things digitally, the content – no matter what format it's in – is still important." These are potentially valuable emotional assets, personally and socially, and their worth only truly realised by the people who survive us. For this reason, Carroll and Romano recommend taking a regular audit of what's important – photos, videos, status updates, blog posts, online banking passwords – and entrusting an executor with the details of how to access them.Death in the age of the web reminds us how much the technology has become part of the fabric of our personal and social identities. Once we're gone, what we leave behind is a rich resource of  who we are. We may not survive  beyond the release of the next social network, but our inevitable&nbsp;ends are being extended by our digital lives.
