Big Blue not blueIBM's profits jumped by 65% to $2.39bn in its second financial quarter, thanks partly to a $700m gain from the sale of its global networking business to American phone company AT&amp;T. IBM's revenues were much better than expected at $21.91 bn, which is more than Microsoft managed for the whole year. IBM's hardware sales of $9.4bn were helped by a 50% increase in PC sales.Statistically, however, Microsoft did even better thanks to the launch of its Office 2000 suite. Fourth-quarter sales climbed by 39% to $5.8bn, while profits jumped 60% to $2.2bn. Over the full year, Microsoft's revenues grew by 30% to $19.8bn, and it made a profit of $7.8bn.  Microsoft ended the year with $17.2bn in cash, so it may be looking for some large investments, like the $5bn it put into AT&amp;T.  For comparison, Apple's quarterly results, announced   on July 14, revealed that sales grew by 11% to $1.6bn. Profits reached $203m thanks partly to an $89m gain from shares in the British chip design firm, ARM Holdings. Apple took a shareholding in Arm when it was spun off from Acorn, when Apple adopted the processor for its Newton handheld computer.Chips upIntel is about to launch faster versions of the Pentium III processor, and 600MHz PCs are expected to appear at the beginning of August. Later it will, as usual, cut the prices of its older Xeon, Pentium and Celeron chips, perhaps by 10-15%. All this is bad news for Intel's rival, Advanced Micro Devices. Last month, AMD started shipping the 600MHz K7 processor, now called Athon,    which is faster than current Pentiums. AMD had hoped that sales of more expensive K7 chips would lift it out of the financial mire - it would have lost $162m in its last quarter, but for the $259m sale of a subsidiary. Intel slashed the price of Celeron (Pentium II) chips to fight off the K6 in the low-cost PC market. It can't be expected to ignore the K7 when AMD starts to ship the new chip in volume.IA or IA?National Semiconductor duly launched its highly integrated Geode chip last week (left), using IA as an abbreviation for "Information Appliance". This could annoy Intel which already   uses IA to stand for "Intel Architecture". However, at least the Geode is an Intel-compatible chip: it's a development of the Cyrix M2 that NatSemi obtained by buying and then selling Cyrix. Not all Intel's chips are Intel-compatible in the same sense. Intel has spent a decade building Risc chips, and is working hard on the Arm business it bought from Digital Equipment Corporation. Neither family is x86/Pentium-compatible.Fritz winsFritz has won the Frankfurt Chess Classic, beating seven grandmasters including Judit Polgar, the world's best woman player. Fritz doesn't have a surname: it's a computer program. Siemens, the German industrial giant, reckons it helped by supplying a Primergy 870 computer with four Intel Xeon processors Next year, it's hoped Fritz will be able to beat the top three international chess players in a Siemens Giants challenge.WebCam IIIUntil recently only a real geek could tell one webcam from    another, but the market must have got big enough to support a features war. For example, Creative Labs says its new Video Blaster WebCam III  has a sensor with more than three times the resolution of previous webcams, a better lens, and a unique snapshot button for taking still images for &#163;69. It also comes with Polaroid PhotoMax software, which can be used to retouch and print images or create "photo fantasies".HandyMIT's computer lab is developing a handheld computer, the Handy 21, that can replace a number of separate  devices. The development is part of the Oxygen project, described at length in the next (August dated) issue of the journal, Scientific American.MIT's John Guttag says it's a basic tenet that "whenever possible, we build general-purpose devices rather than special-purpose devices", though many companies are now focusing on "information appliances" that trade breadth of functionality for ease of use.
British Telecom's world-beating multimedia payphone, launched in London last week, looks suspiciously pregnant. Some flat-screen public information kiosks   are only a few inches thick, so why does the Multiphone bulge in the middle?According to BT's payphone team, the hard part of the design wasn't producing a phone with high-speed internet access. That's easy    for a phone company which can run ISDN-2 lines to the kiosk to provide an "instant    on" capability. The hard part - and this accounts for the shape - was including a   reliable printer and a large roll of paper.BT expects people to use the Multiphone in stations - the first was installed in Waterloo - and other areas to look up local hotels and restaurants, and display maps. Then they will want to print them out, not spend ages writing things down.The Multiphone will have to keep printing things out without overheating and without the paper jamming, or running out constantly.It must also withstand a certain amount of physical abuse, but that, BT says, is a familiar problem. At the launch attended by model   Caprice (shown left), and MP Ken Livingstone, BT's payphone manager invited Our Ken to test the toughness of the screen. He bashed it vigorously with the telephone handset - "Reliving his youth," quipped the man from BT - and neither broke.With the Multiphone, for 10p a minute you can talk and surf the net at the same time. For internet access, it runs the QNX 4 real-time operating system recently jilted by Amiga (What's New, July 15) with the Voyager browser. It doesn't support Java, Shockwave and other non-standard feature. However, BT says the Multiphone software can be updated by downloading code from a central server,   and the software may change during the roll-out of about a thousand Multiphone kiosks across the UK between September and March.More worryingly for regular computer users, the on-screen keyboard has no Copy or Control keys. That means you can't simply grab text and paste it into a search box or email message, but must "type" everything in. (Although BT does operate some payphones with proper keyboards that slide out on a tray, it decided not to incorporate these in the Multiphone.)BT sees the Multiphone as a development with potential. It hopes the system will be adopted in   other parts of Europe, and is already planning a joint venture with Telfort, its partner in the Netherlands.It is also planning a version with a built-in video camera, that people will be able to use for video-conferencing. Although there won't be much business in phone-to-home video in the short term, there is a potential market for helpline services and other call-centre operations.
How quickly do you expect a company you call for information to pick up the phone? Two rings? Five? But what if you send an email instead? A new study shows you are lucky to get a reply. Software that responds to email automatically could be the answer.London-based marketing agency Rainier found that nearly half of all FTSE100 companies used their websites as little more than online wallpaper - either not replying to messages or making it hard to get in touch.Of these, 26, including the British Airports Authority, NatWest and Tesco, hadn't replied to an email asking for basic investor information after 100 days.Stephen Waddington, a director of Rainier, says: "Having a website without having a direct feedback mechanism is like having a   freephone helpline, but no receptionist."The problem is that companies often rush to put up a website without thinking about the extra manpower required to deal with emails.Eva Pascoe, managing director of Zoom, which sells Topshop and other clothes online, says: "We're getting 20,000 emails a month. Far more than we ever expected."The first few weeks were horrendous. "Myself, another manager and John Hoerner chief executive of Arcadia (which owns Zoom) were in the office till midnight   answering messages. That's because we know from our experience of catalogue shopping that if a customer does not get a reply within a few days, you've lost them forever."One UK retail bank estimates that the cost of answering 30 email messages a day for a year (assuming that 20% of them were reviewed by a supervisor) is &#163;60,250. And the cost of dealing with the web-email mountain is rising.Lastminute. com, which lets customers book holidays    at the last minute, says its site receives 3,000 emails a month and the number is growing at 25% a fortnight. To Brent Hoberman, the company's managing director, "it is important that we answer inbound emails   promptly and in our own style". Yet he concedes that "answering email is a time-consuming necessity which carries many associated costs".Rainier found that of the 58% of FTSE 100 companies that replied, 23 took less than   three hours (which it considers acceptable), 21 took between three hours and a day, 10 took one-three days, and a further four took more than three days.Slow responders included Boots (30 days, 21 hours 43 mins), Standard Chartered (20 days), Ladbroke (nine days, 44 mins), and Severn Trent (six days, 20 hours, 52 mins).Anna Maria Trusky of the US-based Bureau of Business Practice says marketing and sales divisions "may not know how equipped customer service is to handle customer requests. For example, the customer service manager may be the only one who is web-enabled".However, it is possible to automate many of the routine enquiries sent to web sites ensuring a reply in less than 15 minutes or in some cases instantly. Most feedback from customers who use the Zoom.co.uk site is via an online form which is sent back to Zoom as an email. This helps to structure the reply, and displays different subject lines according to the options selected by the customer.So Zoom has already been able to speed up the information flow by routing emails to the right customer service or call centre staff based on the subject line.It has also prepared some standard replies to common requests , such as for   brochures. And it is using two databases (Oracle and MySQL)to store messages from customers, so that when it gets back to them it can look up its previous correspondence with them.But, says Pascoe, customers also want to be able to send more open-ended messages. So the next big step is to introduce software based on natural language processing.Zoom plans to start a detailed trial of natural language processing package Brightware software shortly and, if it fits the bill, start using it next spring. It has also considered US natural language processing (NLP) product, The Post. Other email-answering products include Kana (a call-centre solution), Egain and Mustang.According to Mike Wheatley, US-based Brightware's managing director for international business, natural language processing is based on artificial intelligence techniques. "Instead of just looking for keywords like less intelligent software, Brightware looks at clusters of words to work out their meaning. A cluster like "problem with my holiday" would differentiate a complaint from a simple request for a travel brochure."The software is also rule-based so it can be refined over time. It works by identifying the type of message and sending an appropriate reply. But if the software is not sure of the reply, it will attach a "best-guess" answer and forward it to a supervisor. If the supervisor agrees with the choice, then the email can simply be sent on to the customer. If the supervisor disagrees, he or she can go into the system and refine the rules.Brightware reckons its software can reply accurately to 60% to 80% of messages, and attach best-guess answers to the remaining 20% to 40%.This has a number of benefits. To begin with, automating such a large percentage of messages can save companies hundreds of thousands of pounds.A spokesman for a UK bank, which is using Brightware's software says: "It is answering 50% to 80% of emails reliably. In some categories 100%. And it is easy to ensure that the standard replies comply with all the banking regulations." The software is also being used by Abbey National, and by US-based Mortgage.com, which sells mortgages on the net.Pascoe says that for Zoom the issue is speed of response rather than saving money. The company does not plan to get rid of any of its customer service staff when it starts to use Brightware.Moreover, she believes "there will always be a proportion of messages that are answered in person, because retailing is about emotional fulfilment".Brightware costs &#163;95,000 but there are also cheaper "autoresponders"on the market that will fire off up to 10 follow-up emails after an initial enquiry has been made to a website. One example is Marketer's Dream Autoresponder from the Florida-based Big Web Development which costs $297.Now there's no excuse for the website equivalent of a phone that just rings and rings and rings.
WitchcraftyIs The Blair Witch Project the first movie that millions of people will see because they loved the website, rather than going to the website because they enjoyed the film? Or is it all a put-up job? The film is about four film students who disappear in mysterious circumstances, and the site atwww.blairwitch.comis certainly interesting. But an article published inSalon magazineon Saturday does raise the reasonable question: how could a low-budget indie horror movie inspire more than 20 fan sites, a mailing list, a web ring and a usenet group before it even opened? It's clear from the Official Warner Brothers site for the last Kubrick film,Eyes Wide Shut, that it doesn't need any web-marketing. But the unofficial The Kubrick Multimedia Film Guide atwww.indelibleinc.com/kubrickand    Usenet newsgroup alt.movies. kubrick are filling the gap.View to a killEarthCam has put a camera in a no-longer-accessible place in a sixth floor window in a former Texas School Book Depository in Dallas, Texas. The view of Dealey Plaza would excite little interest, of course, were it not the "sniper's perch" believed to have been used when US president John F Kennedy's motorcade passed. The webcam can be accessed atwww2.earthcam.com/jfkor you can take a link from Kennedy museum that now occupies the site in Dealey Plaza National Historic Landmark District:www.jfk.orgCritical eyeThe information posted on websites needs to be looked at critically, and now there's an entertaining, educational quiz to encourage children to do that. Quick (Quality Information Checklist) has been produced by the Health Education Authority and CHIQ and posted atwww.quick.org.ukcomplete with notes for teachers. The simple but very effective presentation by Showme Multimedia Ltd really shows up the mediocre design of two earlier sites: Discern, developed by the University of Oxford's    Division of Public Health &amp; Primary Care atwww.discern.org.ukandInternet Detective, an online tutorial designed for academics.Idea fundNesta, "the UK's first national endowment", has been set up with &#163;200m of lottery money to invest in excellence, nurture our creativity, and support our brilliant minds. "Sci-Art programmes" like the one backed by the Wellcome Trust seem to be particularly welcome. Creative types in need of cash can find details atwww.nesta.org.uk. Nesta stands for National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.Yell it outThe 1999 Yell Awards have now been handed out to a few deserving websites, and several less deserving ones. It's too late to argue with the judges now, of course, but you can see what did and did not win at BT's Yellow Pages site,www.yell.co.uk/yell/yellawardsOrganisedExcite has finally followed Yahoo!, Netscape's Netcenter, Amazon and other sites with a free net-based organiser    service, Excite Planner, which is also integrated with its free email service. It has a calendar, address book, to do list and notepad, and like Yahoo, uses TrueSynch software for synchronisation. Go tohttp://planner.excite.comMicrosoft is still trailing, but it has taken over Jump.Le shopWStore, a price-competitive French on-line shop, has just opened a UK branch atwww.wstore.co.ukWe Brits must be more net-literate than the French because WStore has made the UK site less informative and harder to use, as well as less attractive than the French original atwww.wstore.comIncidentally, WStore also failed the standard   Webwatch attempt to buy a box of Zip disks: the UK site says they're out of stock; the French won't deliver to the UK.Earth tourDynamic Earth bills itself as "Scotland's most exciting new visitor attraction", and its site atwww.dynamicearth.co.ukwww.dynamicearth.co.ukshould attract more paying customers. It offers a "virtual tour" around the Edinburgh centre's 11 earthscapes, using QuickTime and Shockwave for videoclips and animated effects.Old newsThe British Library Newspaper Library has put a timeline History of the British Newspaper Since 1620 atwww.bl.uk/collections/newspaper/britnews.htmlThe design is amateurish - it's one long page - but the historical details and 17 illustrations are fascinating.Song lineEMI's Chrysalis label has launched a website atwww.emichrysalis.co.ukto host "microsites" and links for a roster of artists that includes Pink Floyd, Roxette, Dark Star, Kraftwerk and Robbie Williams. The intention is to add material produced by fans as well as toys, games and other content. The sites have a Chat Bot that is supposed to take on each artist's character so that fans can imagine they're chatting to the real thing.
In the uncharted territory of the Wild Wild Web there's a gold rush. Companies are staking claims. Some are breaking new ground, taking risks,    attracting significant capitalisation, while others wait to see a strike before they invest. But are the rewards worth the effort and the risk?The real winners in the gold rush are those who develop a relationship which keeps the customer coming back. Amazon.com has still to make a profit and yet has a huge market capitalisation. Why? It's all to do with future profit potential from the 7m-plus customer base, the relationship which exists and its potential value. Amazon. com customers show a 64% repeat purchase rate.The company is replicating the success with amazon.co.uk. So what should UK and European companies be doing now to 'tame' the www and carve out territory?  If you don't have a website, get one. Not having a URL is the equivalent of being ex-   directory. Make sure you have thought through why you want a website and how you will use it in your business, set objectives which are measurable and promote your presence online and offline all the time and in a consistent way. Too many businesses have poor offline and online marketing programmes, then wonder why they don't generate the site traffic they expected.If you don't know how to do it, get someone who does. A good internet marketing consultant will get you noticed for small amounts of money. Site traffic brings numerous additional business opportunities . Look strategically at how your business operates and seek to automate processes and migrate these to the web. I have worked with businesses which have set up a website for &#163;2000, operate 24x7,    have integrated secure online ordering and payment processing in place and are making huge returns on investment. Most will not talk to you about how its done, they are making so much money they want to keep it a secret!You can slash the cost of sales by migrating traffic to the web, But be sensitive to your existing channels; you won't want to alienate them. Find out what will work for your business now by testing different sites. The cost of entry is small if done this way and will save you lots of money later.Use research in all its forms to discover what people want from you, when, where and, importantly, why. Build your online brand, it could be your greatest future asset. Perceived wisdom suggests that consumers will select a maximum of six to eight core brands in the digital    world from whom they will purchase a large percentage of their future goods and services and a series of 'niche brands' linked to particular lifestyle interests. The big players know this, that's why they want to control this area.The integration of call centres and the web in managing real-time communications will accelerate. New channel strategies will be required as businesses and customers move online and    new marketing programmes will be required to get you noticed in an increasingly crowded world. But there is a danger that all this technology can get in the way of personal service.In the new digital world customers choose, not companies. Different customers do want to be treated differently but they do not want over-engineered solutions.  The "keep it simple, stupid" principle is important. Design everything from the customers' perspective and make the experience something they will want to repeat. That way you'll win them and keep them.  Ken Sturgeon is managing director of Ronin Corporation, a marketing research and consulting company and is an internet marketing consultant.&#149; Ken Sturgeon is managing director of Ronin Communications, a marketing research and consulting company and is an internet marketing consultant
Souped-up engineV-Rally 2Sony PlayStation &#163;44.99 Infogrames (0161-827 8000)  The four-letter word that best describes V-Rally Championship Edition 2 is "more", but "better" fits, too, and some might even stretch to "brilliant". Two years ago, the original was a huge hit, selling 2.5m copies. The new version is faster, has much better graphics, and, most important of all, it's easier to play.V-Rally was unforgiving: touch a kerb and you probably turned the car over. It's still pretty easy to fly end over end in V-R2 - not the best approach with a Nissan Micra - but you have to hit something chunky. The smoother   graphics mean there aren't as many chunky things around, and there is very little of the clipping that was so prominent in the first version. Nor does the landscape seem to pop up around you all the time.And while V-Rally gave a great impression of speed, V-R2 could be the fastest driving game on a PlayStation: the in-car view is almost frightening, and I found myself ducking when running into   trees. The realism is increased by the sound effects and sensible use of vibration from the Dual Shock controller. You can also slide the car round corners, more like Colin McRae Rally.More? Oh, 20 official cars from the World Rally Championship, 92 tracks across 12 countries (plus a track editor so you can create your own), and six modes including the first PlayStation four-player split-screen gaming. There is also a choice of female drivers, and you get to jump about on a podium after winning races.A lot of people must have found the original V-Rally too difficult and they either stuck to time trials or gave up: arcade racing was too much of a lottery. V-R2 is a lot less frustrating. It's not what less dedicated gamers would call easy, but it presents a very fair challenge.
Nell naked, not LaraPlayboy has to blank out mentions of Tomb Raider and Lara Croft on the cover of its August issue, in the UK, following a ruling last week in the high court. The magazine features nude pictures of model Nell McAndrew, who played Croft for publicity purposes. Core Design (the software house) and Eidos Interactive (the publisher of the series) launched the case to protect Lara's squeaky clean image. However, McAndrew was only the fourth of five women who have played Lara, and there are pictures of them all over the web. The Croft Times atwww.cubeit.com/ctimesis a good source of stories and links, though the Nude Raider website has been closed down.More retroAmerican toy company Hasbro expects to start launching Atari games in October. Hasbro bought the remains of the pioneering 1970s games company last year, getting rights to more than 75 historic titles including Centipede, Missile Command, Pong and Breakout. (Breakout was written by Steve Wozniak when Steve Jobs was working for Atari, before they co-founded Apple.)Activision - originally an Atari breakaway - is also getting into the retro gaming market with an Intellivision Classics compilation pack for the Sony PlayStation. The Intellivision games console was a success in the early 1980s.Pac MostMore news on Billy Mitchell, the 34 year old gamer who scored a perfect 3,333,360 points at PacMan (Gameswatch, July 15). It wasn't an accident. It turns out that Mitchell set the world record score for Donkey Kong when he was 17, and he still holds the Donkey Kong and Donkey Kong Jr records. He spent two days trying to get the maximum    possible score at PacMan, and the perfect game lasted almost six hours.Wireplayed outBritish Telecom seems to have decided that its Wireplay online gaming system would do better with a smaller publisher. BT is selling the business to Gameplay.com for an unconfirmed &#163;5.5m. Two years ago, Gameplay's Mark Bernstein launched a web-based games system, E-Online, in opposition to Wireplay.Fly NabooWould-be Skywalkers playing the older Star Wars game, Rogue Squadron, can now take the controls of a smart, fast Naboo starfighter, as seen in the new movie. The "cheat codes" have been published on theLucasArtsandNintendowebsites. And may the Force be with you.Poor sportsThe Sports Council has dashed Britain's hopes of eventual Olympic success by thwarting an attempt by the organisers of UK PC Games Tournament to register PC gaming as a sport. Indeed, it seems they wouldn't even send them an application form: seewww.ThePlayingFields.co.uk
Quote of the week"It was amazing to see 'Two Jags' Prescott at the British Grand Prix on Sunday... Can we now expect to see a bus land on the Hanger Straight? And speed humps at Copse? Maybe he'll pedestrianise the pits? I hoped to put these burning questions to the fat man as he queued to get out of the circuit. But sadly, it seems he went home in a helicopter. Well, you would, wouldn't you. I mean... the traffic's awful these days" - Jeremy Clarkson, the SunKnights errantAutoparts readers will recall that we recently reported on the four intrepid RAC patrolmen who bravely set out to break the world distance record for towing a vehicle. Well, they've only gone and done it! They covered 5,250 miles in nine days, taking in Taunton, Edinburgh, Fishguard and Colchester. We're almost as delighted for them as Neil Kinnock obviously is.
Despite having a brand name that's about as aspirational as a criminal record, the Hyundai Coupe has been a big sales success, with 10,000 examples finding homes in Britain over the last three years. Now there's a new, faster, more expensive coupe, the F2 Evolution, and Hyundai have grafted on any number of motor sport connections and brand associations in an effort to increase their car's street cred.The Hyundai Coupe is already competing in the Formula 2 World Rally Championship, which explains why they've stretched every sinew to connect this road-going car with the rally version. It's the rally connection we can thank for the new car's name and endless F2 logos, but Hyundai are also keen to drop the names of the various luminaries who have been associated with their new coupe's design and development.For example, Peter Stevens, the man who designed the McLaren F1, has been brought in to redesign the front and rear spoilers on the F2, and there are only two possible explanations for the great man having such minimal design input. Cynics might say that a couple of spoilers were all Hyundai could afford to buy from the man with the golden pen, but the more charitable would maintain that Stevens didn't have to do much anyway - because the main reason the Coupe has sold so well is because it already looks really sharp. (Although apparently the Coupe was only voted the sixth sexiest car in a 1998 survey.)The F2 Evolution is better equipped, more powerful and generally more rally-car-like than the &#163;17,000 2.0 SE on which it's based - but is it really worth an extra &#163;2,000? And, more pertinently, is this really the best coupe to spend the better part of 20 grand on?Well there's no doubt that the F2 Evolution is faster than the standard car, though the bazooka-sized exhaust pipe may hint at more performance than this car actually has. A 0-60mph time of 8.1 seconds is brisk rather than fast, although the F2 Evolution's in-gear acceleration times are more impressive than that figure suggests. The Hyundai handles well, too, although the steering doesn't give you much instant feedback and the modified gear-change still has a slightly overlong throw. I drove the car for the better part of a day, but even at the end of it I didn't feel completely at home in the way that I do in the best of the Coupe's competition, and that feeling was exacerbated by the car's cramped interior and slightly low-rent trim.So what about the competition? Given that this car is really only a two-seater I'd be tempted by the Ford Puma instead. It doesn't have the F2's outright go, but the Ford is &#163;4,000 cheaper and more fun to drive. If you crave the Coupe's kerbside appeal then Hyundai's &#163;14,000 1.6i Coupe is the one to buy, though if it were my money I'd still plump for the Ford.
It's a funny thing, but Walter Bagehot, the Victorian journalist who invented Britain's unwritten constitution, never once mentioned one of the most important cogs in the machine: the one that literally keeps the wheels of Whitehall moving. It is the Government Car Service, an institution as prestigious and discreet in its way as the Atheneum Club or the SAS.Steve Norris, the former London transport minister, likens the GCS's drivers to the Mafia: strong, silent types who will take the code of omerta to the grave even in a gabby age like ours. Gerald Kaufman, another ex-customer, is almost weepy at the memory, even though his favourite driver, Charlie, was always slipping off to union meetings. "They've got the most powerful and well-informed network of information in the whole government machine," says Kaufman, who compares them to MI5 or MI6. Except that the drivers probably keep secrets better than the spooks. GCS employees were offended at the rumour (quite untrue) that Jack Straw's decision to refuse Mohammed Al Fayed a British passport was leaked to the Daily Mirror from what was overheard at the wheel of a GCS car."It's a terrific family. They have their own code and they're very strict about it. They know the whole cabinet reshuffle long before the ministers do. The last thing they do, thank goodness, is talk to the press," explains Steve Norris.Norris has more reason than most to be grateful for this discretion. "I had a driver who, faced with two press men who wanted to take my photograph in circumstances I was not wild about, threatened to go out and basically 'take 'em 'aht'. 'Do you want me to do these guys over, guv?' Terrific, and he meant it."In fairness to Walter Bagehot, there wasn't a GCS in the 1870s. No prime ministerial four-litre Daimler, no Jag for the deputy prime minister of the day. No humble Ford Mondeo, Vauxhall Vectra or Rover 400 for the parliamentary under-secretary for paper clips, let alone a Nissan Primera. That option only became available last November, but no minister has yet dared pick one.In Bagehot's day ministers were usually men of means who had their own carriage. Lord Curzon once tried to catch a bus, but it wouldn't take him where he wanted to go. In 1924 Britain's first poor premier, Ramsay MacDonald, used the tube and tram (even to Chequers), except when he was in a hurry, when he would hail a cab in Whitehall. His sudden appearance in - yes - a Daimler caused a scandal. The Daily Mail identified it as a gift from Sir Alexander Grant, an old friend and chairman of McVitie's. Cries of "biscuits" hounded MacDonald. Official cars duly crept in and the second world war saw the creation of the GCS, run by women volunteers ("young ladies", says the Cabinet Office, which now supervises the 199-vehicle service).After 1945 they even got paid. In 1952 men were admitted. Ken Clarke's driver was a West Indian who came for a month and stayed for 14 years. The Tory MP Peter Bottomley became famous in GCS circles for insisting that his driver observe the Highway Code at all times. And Bottomley's wife, Virginia, made GCS history in her own way. When the men drivers got new full-length coats and the women were only offered short ones, she took the issue to the cabinet - and won a long coat for her driver, Liz King. There was also the woman driver who took exception to the gallantry of Lord James Douglas-Hamilton. An aristocrat of the old school, the minister refused to let his driver open the door for him. He insisted on opening it for her until she officially complained.Stories abound about the Government Car Service, as my BBC producer, Paul Vickers, and I found when we researched a programme called Props of Power for Radio 4. There's the famous one about the ex-minister, so used to being chauffeured everywhere that after he loses his job in the reshuffle he keeps getting into the back of his own car at home waiting for it to start moving unaided.Most ministers cherish their drivers, knowing what a difference they can make to their lives. Alan Clark's Diaries recall him spending another fruitless day trying to outmanoeuvre Tom King, his boss at defence, and finding that Pat, his driver, had "loyally and inscrutably guaranteed to put &#91;his memo&#93; through the door of number 10" for Mrs T to read.There's a definite hierarchy in the driving pool. "When I joined the DTI in 1988, I interviewed a number of them. Except they were really interviewing me," says Tory MP Eric Forth. As you'd expect, Tony Benn used to discuss everything with his driver, Ron Vaughan. "He was very wise. He used to bring human factors into the problem... I went to his wedding and his funeral."You can catch a glimpse of the drivers in news bulletins sometimes, chatting after parking outside number 10. When Margaret Thatcher climbed into the Daimler the day she got the bullet, she had tears in her eyes. But what she said to Denis will not be revealed from the front seat. "A lovely woman to drive," one driver recalled in a rare burst of frankness. Michael Cockerell, political biographer at the BBC, insists: "Thatcher was not a bully. She bullied her own side, never her staff. Drivers were very keen on her."He slyly adds that Harold Macmillan (once Cockerell's grandfather-in-law) used to laugh at his own car in retirement because it had an audio instruction reminding him to put on his seat belt. "I call this Maggie Thatcher, always telling me what to do and, whatever I say, it doesn't stop," he joked. Harold Wilson became so attached to his driver, Bill Howsden, that Ted Heath let him keep him (and the car) when he unexpectedly became leader of the opposition again in 1970. He kept him to the end. Jim Callaghan's driver was called Joe Hazzard - "the aptly named Joe Hazzard" as the joke went among his friends.Of course, habits change with governments. When the Conservatives lost power after 18 years, it was said that many GCS drivers had forgotten how to drive north of the Euston Road - almost all the Tories were based in Kensington and Chelsea.It was always rumoured that one or two Tories were "dropped around the corner" by their official driver on those assignations that eventually landed them in the News of the World. Labour ministers present a different problem. Some try to be kind by saying, "Take the night off" or "I'll come in by tube to keep in touch with ordinary voters." Don't they understand about overtime? When one innocent said he'd take a taxi from Victoria he found his GCS car virtually parked on the platform. The service costs &#163;7.5m a year, and ministers who try to be independent get pulled into line. "Security, all those files, minister," their officials explain.Peter Bottomley claims his drivers sometimes let him drive. Steve Norris says it's right to sit in the front seat with the driver. For one thing, you can read your notes without getting car sick. For another, Norris still gets a friendly toot from the horn of a Mondeo as he walks through Whitehall.I too have cause to be grateful to the GCS. Sometimes after a ministerial lunch in Covent Garden or Soho, I'm asked, "Do you want a lift back?" If my bike is chained to a nearby railing I say, "No, but I'll race you to Westminster." I usually seem to win - and it's not just the traffic. As we head up the home straight past the Cenotaph, I swear the drivers ease off the accelerator. There's grace under pressure for you.&#149; Props of Power is on Radio 4 at 9.30am today.
Closing vast stretches of our network of lanes to motorists will deprive thousands of the opportunity to enjoy remote and beautiful areas and could ultimately restrict all our access to the countryside. Banish from your mind the stereotype of battle-equipped off-roaders with their four-wheel drives with winches, ropes and drivers as thick as their tyres. Rather think of a group of dedicated enthusiasts who fastidiously research the routes, adhere to a code of practice to ensure no damage to the countryside and who drive at speeds that would bore your grandmother.What these drivers are doing is maintaining ancient rights of way that are a vital part of the fabric of our countryside. Often they have fallen into disuse because of local authorities' desire to save cash. Remember, many of these routes remain a vital transport link for (admittedly small) numbers of country dwellers. By using these lanes for recreation, the drivers are helping to maintain everyone's right to use them.It's helpful to put into perspective the numbers of vehicles using these routes. I've travelled thousands of miles on them and it's rare to meet another vehicle, never mind gangs of menacing 4X4s destroying the peace of the countryside.But surely farmers, ramblers and landowners hate vehicles using these lanes? If you believe the well-orchestrated anti-4X4 groups, then yes; but if you use the lanes you get a different picture. On the ground the people you meet are friendly and pleased to see responsible users keeping the lanes open. And it's not all one-way traffic. Across the country 4x4 users gather once a year, on Greenlane Day, to maintain the surface of the routes and repair holes. Try getting reps on the M25 to turn out for a spot of maintenance.Changes in the use of the countryside mean it is right to look at whether we should allow vehicles to use certain lanes and, in some cases, to reclassify them. But already a voluntary restraint scheme operates which is followed by all users if lanes are not suitable for driving due to weather conditions.There is even more criticism for the four-wheel-drive fraternity of Kensington and Chelsea who, you would think, would be the last drivers on earth to need their cliff-climbing, mud-plugging go-anywhere capability. But what Tara, Harriet and Amanda have cottoned on to is the inherent benefits that 4X4s offer upwardly mobile urbanites over trendy convertibles.In the urban jungle the high driving position, all-wheel traction, interior space and user-friendliness outweigh the fact that you'll never use the off-road technology at your disposal. Furthermore, statistically, bigger vehicles offer better crash protection, and should the worst happen they can be repaired after collisions that would send a normal steel-shell car to the crusher. They also usually have better residuals than average, so Tara and co have more to spend in Harrods.Because of their construction, four-wheel-drives with chassis have a longer life span (look out for the number of old Land Rovers you still see on the road) than standard cars. They are also easier to keep on the road in the long term as all the bits effectively bolt on to the chassis. Lastly, in the nightmare stop-go traffic and an average speed of 5mph, the fact that you've got a boxy, heavy vehicle makes little difference to fuel consumption. Maybe Tara, Harriet and Amanda are smarter than they look.&#149; Carl Rodgerson is editor of Land Rover Owner International magazine.
Small investors beware! There is a possibility that some listed companies will be hit by unforeseen aspects of the Millennium Bug. If the problem is big enough and obvious enough, the share price would take a dive too. January could turn out to be a difficult time in the stock market.It is difficult for investors to know which stocks are the most vulnerable. But there are some indications. Stockbroker Merrill Lynch has done more than any other broker to highlight the possible effect on share prices. Its next major update on the area is to be published on 20 July.The Share Centre is also watching the issue and commenting on particular industry sectors. In reports over the past few months, its magazine  The Shareholder has made the following comments:Banks: 'The potential for millennium problems in the banking industry is huge... It is fortunate then that UK banks have, to some extent, been ahead of the game, with most initiating Y2K procedures back in 1996.'Alcoholic beverages, brewing, pubs and restaurants: 'There is a widespread confidence among the major companies about technology issues. Some have taken the opportunity to modernise systems and improve efficiency.'Chemicals: 'Most UK chemical operators have made significant progress.'Construction: 'On the whole, building material and construction companies are ready.'Food retailers: 'Some supermarkets appear very confident. But this is a heavily supplier-reliant business and this is where the uncertainty comes in.'As usual, there is little help for small investors in the turgid prose of company reports and accounts.While the Share Centre says: 'We believe there is a wide  variation in the preparedness of plcs to cope with the millennium,' you would not guess this from reading their annual reports. Most say they are 'taking action', while investors are kept in the dark.
9 Sep 99This could turn out to be a trial run for 1/1/00 since some old software systems could not cope with days beyond this date.30 Sep 99Date by which all financial services companies are supposed to be ready (giving three months grace to those that aren't).31 Dec 99Computer experts will watch for problems in New Zealand and Australia which, because of time differences, will enter 1/1/00 half a day before the UK.1 Jan 00Crunch day, the start of the new millennium.4 Jan 00Back to work for millions of people who have been off for 12 days: some problems will only emerge when people return to their workplaces.Mid-JanThe time by which Action 2000 hopes that most problems will have been resolved.29 Feb 00The leap year out of order - another testing day. Will software systems cope with this extra day, which comes just two years after the last leap year? Some video machines, for instance, may not be programmed to cope. The year 2000 is a leap year because every 00 year is one.31 Mar/5 AprFinancial year ends and other significant dates could prove problematic for computer systems that are run just once a year - tax calculation programs, for instance.
Most domestic appliances will be unaffected by the Millennium Bug. Action 2000 says: 'The TV, fridge/freezer, washing machine and most other appliances will carry on working normally so you should have nothing to worry about.' There will be no problem in bits of equipment that do not have long-term timers in them that need to go beyond 1/1/00.Potentially suspect items are:&#149; Videos. Most are thought to be programmed to cater for 1/1/00 and 29/2/99. Action 2000 says: 'The few that may be affected will work normally when controlled manually.' Most can probably be reset manually.&#149; Fax machines. Most are soundly programmed. But even if they display the wrong date, they can probably work.&#149; Cameras, camcorders, videophones and watches. Most are   easily reset (look at the manuals) if they have year/date functions.&#149; Burglar alarms. Most work on a day and month system but do not record the year - so problems should be minimal. Check with suppliers or contact the National Approved Council for Security Systems on 01628 637512.&#149; Communal buildings. Lifts, entry systems and communal heating and lighting systems could be affected if they are on long timers. Check with landlords if you are worried.Your home insurance is unlikely to cover home appliances hit by the Millennium Bug. The insurance industry does not wish to be vulnerable to this kind of risk.Free copies of 'The Millennium Bug: Facts not Fiction' are available from the Action 2000 helpline on 0845 601 2000. Several other leaflets and packs are also available, including information for small businesses.
IBM buysIBM - the world's largest computer company, with a turnover of $82 bn - seems to take over another company every week, and this week's target has been a thorn in its side for a decade. IBM is buying Sequent in a deal worth $810m. Sequent will operate semi-independently under chief executive Casey Powell, who founded the company in Oregon in 1983. Sequent is attractive to IBM because of its advanced technologies. It makes powerful server computers using lots of Intel processors - Powell used to work for Intel - and these are expected to take a growing share of the server market when Intel launches its next-   generation 64-bit processor, code-named Merced. IBM has 25% of the sever market (30% in Western Europe) and isn't planning to give up its market-leading position.It's all Go at DisneyAnother company wielding its chequebook to stay ahead is Walt Disney, which is finally buying the 57% of Infoseek it doesn't already own. Infoseek was one of the pioneers in the internet search engine market, and combined with Disney to create a "portal" or gateway site called Go.com earlier this year. Go already acts as an umbrella for other Disney sites such as ESPN, which covers sport, and ABC News. Disney Chairman Michael Eisner said: "We are investing in this for the future. If you believe that people are watching movies in the future, not only on DVD and VHS, but on the Internet, we have to be there."As seems so often the case, the new will be a continuation of the old by other means.
Apple Computer is set to unveil its revolutionary consumer laptop next week, which will combine cutting-edge design with new engineering techniques in a package priced below the company's existing PowerBook range.An industry analyst who has been briefed by Apple engineers says the machine, pitched at students and home users, will be introduced by Apple interim chief executive Steve Jobs at the MacWorld exhibition in New York next Wednesday.Despite speculation last month that the project could be cancelled because of technical problems, it is now thought the new machines could go on sale in the US in September, and be available in the UK before Christmas.Richard Doherty, director of research at the Envisioneering Group in New York, told OnLine the new machine will deliver "most of the Macintosh Powerbook experience, in a much more affordable, economical, lighter and durable package".The price of the machine, thought to have a 12 inch screen, is not yet known, although it is expected that Apple will be aiming to compete with the $1,700 (&#163;1,062) notebooks currently on sale. Prices could fall as demand increases, bringing the new machines into the price range of the sub-notebook market currently dominated by Windows CE devices."Our ongoing research with consumers and business professionals alike shows that should the PowerBook be delivered in this new portable, it will appeal to many users who have turned to Windows CE devices, because it will have more PC final functionality, and compatibility, than many of the $800 - $1,000 notebooks that are out there," says Doherty.At the heart of the portable will be a new technology to put most of   the computer's components on a single chip -a feature which Doherty thinks will not be widespread in the PC world "for some time".He adds: "To get improved battery life and processing power, Apple has engaged in a massive re-engineering of the electronic componentry inside, which will also allow them to price it for consumers and for some organisations, who will order these in lieu of PC or even Powerbook products."Almost everything but the processor has been put into a single chip, which reduces the cost and raises the reliability, while reducing the power it needs."That's very hard for the PC community to do, because when there is too much chip integration,   especially by a company like Intel, people say that's too monopolistic. But for Apple, with just under 10% market share worldwide, it's just plain good business sense."News of the announcement comes as Apple is about to reveal its second quarter results. These are expected to show that Apple has managed a seventh successive profitable quarter.The company has now completed the first stage of a re-alignment led by co-founder Jobs, who returned to Apple mid-1997 as it bled red ink and fussed over a large and fault-ridden range of products.He set about reorganising the company, abandoning unprofitable projects and focusing Apple on four key areas: corporate desktop and portable machines, and domestic desktops and portables. The resultant G3 range of desktop machines and sleek new high-end Powerbooks have revived Apple's reputation in the corporate market and halted Apple phase-outs in key areas like publishing and education.But by far the most interest has been in Apple's answer for the domestic desktop market: the iMac. Launched this time last year, the comparatively cheap, colourful, all-in- one computer quickly became the US's top selling computer by taking Apple back to its original message - computers for the rest of us.Using that message, it effectively targeted a new generation of "non-nerd" computer users, while still offering respectable technical specifications.Building on that success, the company is expected to unveil the next generation iMac in time for the Christmas rush, which will sport a faster processor and larger screen.There have also been suggestions the company may produce Apple-branded Palm V handheld computers in iMac-matching colour schemes.That will be Apple's first dalliance in the handheld market since Jobs killed off the flawed and unprofitable Newton project.
How and when did you first discover computers?After I entered Tokyo university of arts, I thought I needed to study the computer because I was already interested in the work of Ianis Xenakis and his concept of using the computer to compose. That was 1970.Do you use a PC or an Apple Mac?I use a Mac for music and PCs for things other than music. I was using the Mac for 12 years but I met the chairman of Microsoft Japan, Mr Furukawa, who is an excellent man. He changed my image of Microsoft. Before I met him I thought Microsoft was an evil empire or something, ha, ha, ha.How important are computers?Uuuuuuum, they seem important. But actually I can live without them. I just came back from Kashmir, I didn't take my laptop because I knew it would be hard to get online. It was hard to even get electricity.Any particular favourite software you'd like but can't have yet?I like some AI software for composing which doesn't really exist yet. Max for the Mac and Koan might be the closest so far.Any favourite websites?Just the usual ones like news siteswww.wired.com/news/,www.nikkei.co.jp/andwww.asahi.com/I quite like to shop books and videos atwww.amazon.com/and for Japanese books at http://bookweb.kinokuniya.co.jp/ Oh yes, I take a look at my friend's diary site http://d.spanner.com/ and the new Nasa site,www.hubbleconstant.com/Any favourite gadgets?I would like to get Sony's pet robot Aibo: &lt;A HREF="'http://www.world.sony.com/robot/top.html"' TARGET=_NEW&gt;www.world.sony.com/robot/top.htmlOn a desert island, a human or a computer for company?A woman or child.What about the future for computers?I want a computer with no crash.What really irritates you about computers?New machines come up in every three months. New technology comes up every day on the Net - that irritates hunger of my soul. Ha,ha,ha.The internet - a good or a bad thing?It's a good thing. But I can't get the same excitement as I could three years ago. Because of all the giant corporations entering into the business, it is making the internet similar to all the other media.What are you working on at the moment?I'm writing an opera first time in my life. It's called LIFE and is going to be performed in September in Japan.
With their fleeting views of people, objects and places dispersed across the globe, webcams are the condensed essence of the world wide web. Ranging from the raunchy to the silly to the sublime, they bring quick glimpses of elsewhere to our computer screens, making it possible to download another life or have it streamed right to us. They spur many of us to willingly violate our own privacy as we broadcast ourselves to unknown desktops.And they compel people to watch things purely for the sake of watching. Embarrassing things: things you never care about in the real world - a day in the life of a refrigerator, the activity in a cat litter pan, the front of the Twin Pond Motel in Farmington,   Maine, the construction of the Millennium Dome. And, of course, various sexual activities, some of which you must pay to see but a surprising number of which are broadcast for free by people who think global when they think exhibitionism.All this is available to web viewers because, about three minutes after the invention of the web, someone realised you could attach a video camera to a computer and show things, live.While the porn industry was quick to understand the value of this great leap forward for personal technology, most people simply enjoyed the novelty value of viewing odd things like the famous coffee pot in the computer laboratory at Cambridge University. One of the first internationally-known webcams, the pot -    and its history -are still there atwww.cl.cam.ac.uk/coffee/coffee.html.Initially, beaming the pot out to the world at large was a technical feat restricted to the upper ranks of geekdom -someone had to cobble together computer programs that would link the bits of equipment and then send out the images through a server.Now, anyone with a modicum of computer knowledge can purchase a commercial webcam set-up, or assemble the hardware and download, free, the software needed to get a basic site up and running. Other webcam enthusiasts are happy to explain, step-by-step, how to do it yourself: try Sam's Web Cam Cookbook atwww.teleport.com/~samc/bikefor friendly advice on everything from basic systems to mounting a webcam on a bicycle. You can get the software at Cam Central,www.camcentral.com/links/software.htmlOf course, the wide availability of webcam ingredients has led to an explosion of webcam sites on which almost anything can be watched almost anywhere at almost any time of the day. For a sampler of the sheer volume of webcam sites, tryCammunity,Cam Central, orI-Spy. Alternatively, search for "webcams" on Yahoo!  for a long list of sites.A perennial webcam favourite is the basic window- on-the-world set-up - a camera mounted to offer a view of a particular place on the globe. At the macro end of the scale are satellite views of earth, but more typically, viewers are offered a live view of a city skyline, a downtown landmark, or a panoramic shot from a camera mounted on a tall building. You can tour the world via webcam using sites like the worldcam compendium at AT&amp;T Labs in Cambridge, England,www.cam-orl.co.uk/world.html. Nasa also keeps a range of webcams running, including some on satellites, one in Mission Control, and one on the space shuttle. Trywww.ambitweb.com/nasacams/nasacams.html for a site that attractively consolidates the Nasa cams.The Discovery Channel in the US provides links to a set of science-oriented webcams,www.discovery.com/cams/cams.htmlincluding animal cams on sharks, naked mole rats, bats and other creatures that children in particular will like. Or for a sometimes quirkily entertaining view of    the behaviour of humans, trywww.ny-taxi.comfor a live view from a New York cabbie's car.DuelingGeekCams, lets you look at the activities of two geek friends as they sit at their computers. Not exciting enough? Then visit Roscoe the Cat atLitterpan Alleythough most likely you'll get Roscoe's cat litter pan without Roscoe actually in it. And for the grand finale, you can see how far the Millennium Dome has progressed at the BBC'sDome Cam.And if you've wondered why nearly all webcams send single images that get updated at regular intervals rather than a continuous stream of video, there are two reasons. First, it's far more difficult to set up a webcam that streams video rather than sending a single snapshot to a web server.And second, most modems still send and receive data at a rate which is too sluggish for video. But with high-capacity networks not too far, expect webcams to provide ever more active windows onto odd, intriguing - and sometimes, just plain boring - corners of net life.
Driver, he saidFollowing the huge success of Driver, the 70s-style car-chase game for the Sony PlayStation (Gameswatch, June 24), GT Interactive has started work on a sequel. It seems the original will also be converted to run on other machines, with a PC version appearing in September. Driver has already shipped a million copies, mainly in Europe, and has just been released in the US along with a TV advertisement featuring Antonio Fargas: Huggy Bear from Starsky &amp; Hutch. There's also awebsite(you can skip the Flash intro).Rats!Sony will unveil the first of six animated cartoons about the Scratch Cats tomorrow on its website atwww.playstation-europe.com/scratchcats. The cartoons (above) are designed to promote Pure Entertainment's game, Rat Attack, which Minsdscape plans to publish for the PlayStation in September. Pure is hoping to make its felines a "property", by launching another six Scratch Cats games and licensing them for comics, toys and television. It's a   multi national effort. Pure is British, Mindscape is American, Sony is Japanese, and the Shockwave cartoons are being created by Silicon Artists Inc in Madrid, Spain.Maximum munch-kingYou can stop playing Pac- Man now. Billy Mitchell from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, has scored the maximum 3,333,360 points while playing at the Funspot Family Fun Center in Weirs Beach, New Hampshire, according to US reports. This magnificent achievement will be recorded in the next edition of Twin Galaxies' Official Video Game &amp; Pinball Book of World Records.Free CaesarImpressions is now giving away Caesar, its six-year-old city government game, for those willing to undertake the modest800KB download, partly to promote its forth  coming prequel,Pharaoh. You may also need the Adobe PDF file of Caesar's manual and installation instructions. Meanwhile Westwood Studios has posted a few screen shots of Nox, a role- playing game that is expected later this year. Go to:www.westwood.com/games/noxland say hello to Hecuba.
Rough rideF-1 World Grand Prix IINintendo 64 &#163;39.99In this updated version of last year's racing simulation, even Michael Schumacher would most likely skate across a gravel trap and slam into a wall of tyres. But then his car would bounce around a bit, tyres would fly through the air, and he'd be able to get back into the race without having lost too many places.Realistic? It's a good job the cars are resilient, because in this official F-1 World GP II title they're absurdly twitchy, so it's almost impossible to stay on the track. Some of the hairpins are virtually undriv able, so be glad you can take shortcuts across the grass.The way ahead becomes somewhat fuzzy with the N64's limited graphics, so there's often no way to see which way the road goes, unless you're following another car.Still, overtaking is no problem: you can just barge other drivers out of the way. And if you're really anti-social, you can drive the wrong way round the track and stage spectacular head-on crashes.Yes, you can have fun with this game. But if you want to play it seriously, allow a couple of weeks to learn how to drive and to memorise the 1998 season's 16 F-1 tracks: your friends will be amazed, though they'll probably be amazed you bothered.
Are you using a search engine that's ignoring 97.5% of the pages on the world wide web? Would you be shocked to discover that even the best search site isn't indexing about 84% of all the pages of information available?The figures, produced by Dr Steve Lawrence and Dr C Lee Giles for the NEC Research Institute and published last week in the scientific journal Nature, shocked many users. But if the web currently has about 800m pages, as the researchers claim, then AltaVista is indexing only15.5%, HotBot 11.3%, Yahoo 7.4%, Excite 5.6%, and Lycos a feeble 2.5%.The search engine with the best coverage is the little-knownNorthern Light, which still only covers 16% of the web. (Alltheweb, a relatively new search engine atwww.alltheweb.com, was not included in the research.) However, Northern Light   also had the highest number of invalid links at 9.8%, compared with HotBot's 2.2%.Even combining the indexes of all the major search engines - which is what "metasearch engines" like Mama and Dogpile do - covers only 42% of the web, though this now looks like the best way to search for less popular sites. NEC, the Japanese electronics giant behind the US-based NEC Research Institute, is developing a metasearch engine called Inquirus.The authors say: "Larger indexes cost more to create, and slow the response time on average. There are diminishing returns to indexing all of the web, because most queries made to the search engines can be satisfied with a relatively small database. Search engines might generate more revenues by putting resources into other areas (for example, free email)."Over the past two years, many sites that became popular by offering search facilities   - Infoseek, Lycos, Yahoo etc - have put more effort into becoming "portals" or web gateways by adding personalisation and other features. Ironically, sites designed as portals may now be better places to search. Snap! - started by Halsey Minor, who first conceptualised the portal idea - covers 15.5% of the web while the Microsoft Network portal, which was originally going to be called Start, manages 8.5%.Search engine expert Danny Sullivan of Calafia Consulting says: "Being bigger isn't necessarily better. Users want relevancy, not just another 100m documents to drive them nuts when they do searches."Sullivan - who edits two newsletters about search engines, and runs a website, SearchEngineWatch - says that one of the most popular searches is for the word Hotmail, and a lot of people search on Hotmail's address,www.hotmail.com!"There are a lot of new users out   there who don't understand how the web works," he says, "and even when they know the address of a site, they don't know how to enter the information."Also, rather than searching for obscure information, many people are using search engines just to find sites for companies like Marks &amp; Spencer, says Sullivan."That's why Google.com is becoming so popular: if you just want to look up sites, it   finds them for you," he says. Google does well on "relevancy" by ranking sites according to the number of links that point to them from other sites, though there are other approaches, such as DirectHit and Centraal's Real Names.Most search engine companies have a "minister of defence" who is trying to keep a lot of web addresses out of the database, says Sullivan. Someone running pornographic sites once submitted   a million addresses to Alta Vista, and an online bookstore with 700,000 books could easily have 700,000 addresses, one for each book. "The search engines are under a great deal of pressure from people who are trying to manipulate them," he adds. "There will always be a group of people who try to take advantage of them, and push the limits as far as they can."Carl Howe, research director with Forrester Research in Cambridge, Massachusetts, says another problem is that search engine "spiders" - the software robots that "crawl" the web to find pages - "consume bandwidth". Companies with commercial websites pay for the bandwidth (the amount of data traffic) their sites consume. More search engines using more robots to search more websites more often would create better indexes, "but I don't think people would put up with the bandwidth consumption", he says. Some sites already ban spiders."I think we're running into a fundamental problem, which is that the more human knowledge spans the web, the less likely we are to be able to find things," says Howe. "Perhaps it's better just to accept that there's going to be specialisation. Perhaps we should think about dividing the web up between search engines, by subject matter, by target audience, by content or whatever. Why should Americans index European sites? Why not have a European search engine do it?"That's an approach hundreds of specialised search engine providers have already adopted. Ed Burt, managing director of SearchUK, says: "Ever since we launched, we've been saying that attempts to provide a global index are doomed to fail. The web will always grow faster than a global search engine, but if you only do, in our case, UK sites, the situation suddenly becomes a damn sight easier to manage."SearchUKindexes sites with a .uk or similar address, and already covers more than 6m pages. What about UK sites with American .com or .net addresses? "We check them by hand," says Burt.But he is wary of the idea of trying to index everything, even within a limited domain. "That may be a bit of a misunderstanding of the role of a search engine," Burt says. "Our job is to point you in the right direction. It may be that we can get you to the shop,   but after that you have to use the shop's own search engine to find things within the site."As the Nature article says: "It is not necessary for a page to be indexed for it to be accessible: a suitable query might locate another page that links to the desired page."Barry Parr, California-based director of the internet and e-commerce programme at International Data Corporation, an industry research company, says he was startled to find that the leading search engine covered only 16% of the web "and certainly startled to see it was Northern Light: they must be ecstatic. But it's not as alarming as &#91;the Nature article&#93; might lead you to believe. When good information becomes available, people share it very quickly in the old-fashioned way, by 'word of mouth', and the internet accelerates that process. If something sparks people's imagination, it's pretty hard to keep a lid on it. Look at theDancing Hampster site: probably everybody in the world saw that within a week or two!"That may work for something humourous, but for commercial suppliers, "building a website is not enough", says Parr, and they can't rely on search engines to provide customers. "The people we talk to spend at least as much promoting their websites as they do building them, and spending tens of millions of dollars is pretty much penny ante to get into the game."
If you heard the Electric Yetis were taking on the InterBears, you might suspect you had just stumbled across the preview to the next Star Wars prequel. But just such    a clash could take place on playing fields in Leicester this weekend at WorldNET - a full-scale football tournament between wired football fans from around Britain. And while the high-  paced games, flying tackles and off-field drinking exploits will very much be in the real world, the gathering will owe its existence to a bustling part of the virtual world.More than 1,000 footballers, supporting 40 different teams (the tournament hosts, the Electric Yetis, back Leicester, while the InterBears support Glasgow Rangers) - will be gathering for the two-day competition.They are all members of internet mailing lists devoted to their teams, and the annual competition has become the chance for them to pull on their heroes' strips in anger, and battle for cup glory.Not that things are taken   too seriously, of course. One of the tournament's organisers, Anne Newbery, says the event - now in its fourth year - is as much a social occasion as it is a footballing one. "The results on the pitch don't seem to matter too much," she says. "It's about getting fans together, sharing a few pints and forgetting old rivalries. It's very good natured."The event is a unique gathering of people who would otherwise not socialise, and Newbery says that this is down to the communities forged on the internet during the highs and lows of the football season."You get people from all ranges of occupations and ages, and on the inter net they're all mixing together as equals. In the pub it's different - you won't get doctors mixing with students, perhaps it's snobbery, or they just wouldn't get on. But people seem to mix well with email, when they're talking about their team."Indeed, such is the lure of meeting up with virtual friends, some listees are coming to Britain especially to play in the tournament, helping ensure its popularity - only 12 teams look part in 1996 - continues to grow."It's becoming harder to accommodate everyone now," admits Newbury. "We need 10 pitches and a clubhouse onsite with enough facilities for 1,000 or more people over two days - it's hard."But it will be worth it, she   says. Apart from the great get-together of fans, the tournament's organisers hope it will do some good in the real world too. They hope to raise enough cash to buy Leicester seven year old Bradley Norman, who has cerebral palsy, a motorised wheelchair.WorldNET '99 - The Leicester Fiesta - takes place at Leicester's Victoria Park on Saturday and Sunday. For more details go towww.worldnetcup.co.uk
Off lineOnline readers tempted by the prospect of wireless internet connections (Jumping on the broadbandwagon, July 8) beware. Two years of flaky wireless home telephony (courtesy of Scottish Telecom, now proprietors of Demon Internet) make me very sceptical of the reliability of wireless connections. Having had two dish-based lines installed - one for phone, the other for fax and internet use - I have experienced regular, unexplained dropped lines and, on voice calls, the disappearance of one half of the conversation!Numerous visits by Scottish Telecom engineers have failed to ensure a reliable service despite an almost perfect signal and clear line of site to the base station."Don't understand it," says Customer Service. But an engineer lets the cat out of the bag - it seems that when demand in a particular cell is heavy, the base station drops half of an existing call and   allocates the bandwidth to new calls! Scottish Telecom denies this but has offered to pay the costs of reconnecting me to BT landlines - an old but tested technology.Robin MacPherson,EdinburghTry then buyVic Keegan and Neil McIntosh are quite right when they identify the reluctance of people to purchase goods on the net because of the perceived poor security of credit card transactions (When shoppers get the shakes, July 8). They have, however, overlooked a second reason: people like to handle what they are about to purchase and, possibly, haggle over the price.Mike Davis,MerseysideWrong noteIt's typical of the music industry to get lathered up about MP3. In reality it's going to be the same as home taping. Yes, people will copy music, distribute to friends and across the net but diminish CD sales it will not.The less-than-brilliant (compared to a home  hi-fi ) sound quality from MP3 on a PC or RIO player, the hassle of downloading and the lack of something physical to own means that people will still want to buy their favorite music on CD.Even more ridiculous is   EMI's notion that people will pay &#163;8 then wait four hours (&#163;2.40 @ 1p/min) for the 50MB download and squander precious hard drive space instead of buying a CD.The best use for MP3 is "try before you buy", enabling customers to listen to new music before shelling out for the real thing.Toby Vinnell,BirminghamNot so freeIn Jack Schofield's What's New, he says that one has to fax Microsoft the certificate of authenticity to get the Win98SE update. I called the number given and was given a website for the pre-printed application form. No mention of certificate, and none mentioned on the website.I am not so sure about the "free" bit. At &#163;16.82 for post and packing, that should leave them a bit left over after paying 50p for the CD, 50p for the envelope and 50p for the stamp. If every user in the UK applies, they should make about &#163;15m. I sent for it anyway. The web site is:-www.microsoft.com/uk/windows/win98_2nd_form.htmPeter Kent,AberdeenshireWebsite tipNice article by Jack Schofield (Weaving your own website, July 8). But one important tip (in my opinion): don't be   tempted to put everything into one big table, to try to control the layout, especially if there are graphics involved.A browser will show absolutely nothing until all the bits and pieces are downloaded. If this takes more than five or 10 seconds, the reader will get bored waiting and go somewhere else!If you must use a table, make sure there's something useful above it, to read while you're waiting.Romilly Bowden,Bognor Regis, West SussexJack Schofield suggests getting your own domain name, but he does not go on to say from where. Could you please publish some details of domain name providers and their costs.Ralph Hodgson,London N4Jack Schofield writes:usually companies that sell web space also arrange domain names, If you're using free web space, companies like Netnames will buy and host the name for a fee, but shop around: prices vary. Another example is Domain Names on FreeServe's home page(www.freeserve.net). You can also buy a .com domain name online from InterNic's website, and pay using a credit card. (The cost is $70 for two years - about &#163;45.) But then you still have to pay a company for "webforwarding": ie to host and point it at your free web space.
The Microsoft software empire was scrambling to shore up its defences yesterday in the face of an assault by internet guerrillas calling themselvesCult of the Dead Cow. The cult used a Las Vegas hackers' convention to launch a new tool aimed at seizing control of computers runningMicrosoftWindows operating programmes.The cult is distributingBack Orifice 2000(BO2K) - a pun on Microsoft's Back Office software package - online, claiming it will allow hackers to infiltrate the computer systems of anybody using Windows 95, 98 and NT versions.The computer bug can be hidden in an e-mail and, once downloaded, operates as a Trojan horse inside the target's system, allowing it to be controlled by the hacker from a separate computer.Computer analysts say the system gives the hacker greater mastery of the target system than the authorised user's keyboard.TheFBI, Microsoft and computer security companies all reportedly sent agents to infiltrate the seventh annualDefCon conventionin Las Vegas at the weekend, to try to discover the identity of the Cult of the Dead Cow members and acquire early versions of the BO2K in order to produce software antidotes and vaccines.However, several of the agents were publicly unmasked at the raucous convention during a "Spot the Fed" (FBI agent) competition.The cult's minister of propaganda, whose online pseudonym is Death Veggie, claimed that the bug was designed to force Microsoft to improve its defences."Our position is that Windows is a fundamentally broken product," he, or she, declared.The launch of the BO2K bug is the latest skirmish in a long-running, intensifying online war between "black hats" (hackers) and "white hats" (computer security experts who design anti-virus programmes).A leading white hat, Jeffrey Carpenter, a member of the government-backed computer emergency response team atCarnegie Mellon universityin Pittsburgh, said that BO2K "is one of several programs which, if installed on an organisation's computers, can give control of the computers to outsiders with malicious intent".Jason Garms, from Windows NT security, denounced the launch of the bug. "I certainly categorise what they're trying to do as being malicious. This program they have created has absolutely no purpose except to damage users."By Sunday morning several computer security firms had begun advertising detection software for the BO2K bug. Tony Perkins, editor of theRed Herringmagazine in San Francisco said: "Even Microsoft is scrambling a little bit."The software giant has sent warnings to customers telling them to avoid downloading e-mails from unknown sources, and encouraging them to keep their virus software up to date.In its previous escapades, the cult claims to have changed the orbits of more than one communications satellite, and to have hacked into theCIAand thePentagon.The cult threatens to "dominate and subvert the media wherever possible. And we intend to infect all of you".True to their word, anyone curious enough to log on to their website will find their computer automatically infected with a virus.Related story:31 March: No hiding place
John Todd was walking home from work one clear, cold night in November 1997, probably thinking about his wife Helen, who was then two months pregnant, or his nine-year-old son Josh. As he prepared to cross Blue House Lane in Washington, Tyne and Wear, Mr Todd, a fitness instructor, would have been aware of the speeding car, but could have done nothing to prevent what happened next.The Ford Mondeo, travelling at an estimated 60mph in a 30mph zone, swerved to avoid a slower vehicle, crossed to the wrong side of the road, round a pedestrian refuge, and hit Mr Todd side-on. Nobody saw the impact, but witnesses said they heard a terrible thud. Mr Todd, who was 6ft 3in and 15 stone, was thrown several yards into the air and landed 75 feet away. He died at Sunderland Royal Hospital two hours later.The family's bitterness over his death was exacerbated last February when the motorist, Ian Graham, was cleared at Newcastle Crown Court of causing death by dangerous driving. The fact that he was a police constable driving a Panda car and racing to answer a 999 call was of little consequence to Mrs Todd. That PC Graham couldn't hear his police radio in the moments before the crash has added to her sense of injustice - it was the control room telling him he did not need to go to the incident.Accidents involving police cars have become one of the most contentious issues facing forces after a series of well- publicised cases, most recently the collision in Islington, north London, which has left Channel 4 newsreader Sheena McDonald recovering from serious head injuries.Most people concede the police cannot be bound by the normal rules of the road if they are to fight crime effectively. But the number of deaths every year in crashes involving police cars - between 15 and 20 on average - has led the Labour MP Gordon Prentice to accuse officers of "macho Starsky and Hutch" driving and demand action from the home secretary, Jack Straw, to end the "carnage."Statistics show 2,123 people were injured in such accidents last year, and the frustration felt by the victims and their families has been heightened by the defensiveness of police forces, the differences in driver training between regions, and the seeming reluctance of juries to convict officers who are "doing their duty".Some forces are taking the initiative: the Metropolitan Police announced last week it was intending to fit black box recorders, similar to the ones used on aeroplanes, into its pursuit vehicles. Most, though, are being less proactive. Last Thursday the independent Police Complaints Authority urged police chiefs they must not ignore the problem.In its annual report it said forces "were generally aware of the public concern about such tragedies", but noted that some will not ask the PCA to supervise investigations into accidents, preferring to do it themselves.The PCA said it was essential that fatal or near-fatal crashes were properly looked at because "although in most of the incidents in 1998/99 the evidence has shown the police driver to have complied with official guidelines, there have been disturbing examples of dangerous driving". It added: "The law permits officers to break traffic rules but only to the extent justified by the degree of risk indicated by the call for their assistance."The PCA believes there should be strict national codes on police driver training, particularly for powerful pursuit cars, and that there should be formal regular assessments of skills. Although the association of chief police officers has drawn up guidelines on these issues, it has been left to individual forces to choose whether to implement them. Two forces are leading the way. Concerned by the 5,710 collisions involving their cars last year, the Met believes the black boxes will help investigators reconstruct accidents with greater accuracy. Commander Carole Howlett, in charge of the Met's safe-driver policy, has warned officers that "no emergency is so urgent as to justify risking a collision".The West Midlands force has issued its officers with new guidelines which should drastically cut the number of high-speed pursuits by using helicopters for overhead tracking, and has introduced the Stinger device, which deflates tyres when cars run over them. The force has been under intense scrutiny since the death of Neil Homer, 21, in December 1995, killed when a police car involved in a chase sped through two sets of red traffic lights and smashed into his vehicle at 93 mph.The passenger in the police car, PC Robert Dallow, also died. PC Lezlie Collins survived and was convicted in February 1997 of causing two deaths by dangerous driving. He served six weeks of a three months jail term and, in one of the poorer pieces of public relations, was allowed to return to duties, before retiring early due to stress.Mr Homer's father Dennis remembers the disbelief in court when the jury foreman announced the guilty verdicts and Judge Peter Crawford passed sentence. "There was silence. I don't think any of the policemen present in court thought he would go to jail. Juries don't like finding policemen guilty and judges don't like sending officers to prison. But for me, it was the very least he deserved. I understand police officers have to do their jobs, but they do not have a licence to be reckless. I lost my son and I will not be able to forgive or forget what happened."Mr Homer has studied numerous crashes involving police cars and has advised victims' families. He says uniform, national training is essential to eradicate the "red mist syndrome". "Some officers seem to lose all sense of what is going on around them when they are in pursuit at high speed. They don't listen to the voice of common sense. The red mist comes down."It's a problem acknowledged by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, which has urged forces to select its pursuit drivers carefully, weeding out anyone without the right temperament and attitude."I will always believe that the accident that killed John could have been avoided," said Christine Murphy, Mr Todd's older sister. "PC Graham apologised in court for what had happened, but my brother died through no fault of his own. Sometimes it is difficult to accept that there seems to be one law for police officers, and another for the rest of us."
Last Friday, Volvo admitted that they colluded with their dealers to fix the prices of new cars, although the company insists that the price-fixing took place in an isolated area and some four years ago. Nevertheless Volvo's admission will be seen by many as proof that British new car prices are indeed a rip-off, and it will trigger an immediate question in many motorists' minds: namely, should I buy a new car now, or should I wait to see if prices fall in the wake of the Volvo revelations.It's a question which applies to all the carmakers, because as well as the Office of Fair Trading investigation into Volvo's activities which triggered Friday's admission, the Competition Commission has been investigating pricing across the industry. And with UK prices still above average European levels most of the big car companies have been busily "realigning" their prices in Britain over the past few months. In Volvo's case that has consisted of fitting extra security equipment to some models, which Volvo claims has a retail value of 500-600, without increasing the list price of the cars.So is there something still to come off Volvo's prices and more to go on the specification? "I don't think we've got further to go" said Volvo's spokesman, who pointed to the fact that sales are up this year as proof that their cars must already represent good value. But not everyone agrees, among them Pat Lawless, a car broker who contributed to the 1998 Panorama programme which originally blew the whistle on Volvo's price-fixing activities.Lawless is hardly an impartial witness, since he makes his living from buying new cars from a variety of sources and selling at discounted prices, but he is undoubtedly a close observer of pricing trends. "What most car makers are doing is to increase specifications without increasing prices," he said, "and that saves them the loss of face that comes from actually cutting prices. But I'd guess that British prices still have another 15% or so to fall."Despite this, Lawless concedes that some new, improved-specification models from the big car makers already represent fair value, and he points to the Ford Mondeo Zetec and the Vauxhall Astra SXi. "Look out for new models in the range," he advises, "and compare specifications as well as prices; because with the Zetec you'll be getting most of the goodies that are on the Ghia model for 2,500 less."But before we all rush to our Ford dealers and hand over 15,390 for a Zetec we need to remember that most of these new models aren't cheaper in cash terms than the previous ones, and indeed CAP, the car price "bible" publisher, says that on a 40-car sample they found the average list-price reduction over the past year has been just 45.Given that tiny reduction, Lawless advises buyers to haggle hard before they hand over their cash, and explains that on a Mondeo Zetec the Ford dealer has a margin of 10% to play with, plus a range of bonuses and incentives which are currently worth up to another 753. Lawless says he can supply the car for 13,123 on the road, a saving of well over 2,000 on list, and that if you walk into a Ford dealer and do your own haggling then you should look to pay around 14,000 for your shiny new Zetec.There's no doubt that a hard haggle is in order, because there's widespread consensus that prices do indeed have further to fall - which means that any car you buy now will probably depreciate faster than you might expect, because newer models will represent better value. And the difference could be significant, as Ramesh Notra of CAP explained. "We expect the difference between the list price of new cars and the transaction price, which is the average price that's actually paid, to narrow significantly.  And in the case of family cars that difference is currently several thousand pounds."So should we all wait until prices fall before we buy? "No," says Ramesh Notra, "if someone needs a new car they should buy it now. It's not worth waiting for prices to fall further if you can negotiate a good deal now." And as a suitably chastened Volvo spokesman admitted, with the merest hint of a sadder-and-wiser chuckle, there's probably never been a better time than right now to drop into your local Volvo dealer and ask him exactly what he's willing to do to get your business.
Champagne corks were popping last Monday at EMI's corporate headquarters in Hanover Square. One of its most important acts, The Chemical Brothers, had gone straight in at number one in the album charts.But more significantly for its long-term financial health, Britain's biggest record company had just signed a deal with withLiquid Audio, the American software supplier, to start encoding its back catalogue to make it available on the web.Although the deal is being touted as the future of music, the issue of downloadable music threatens the structure of an industry with a turnover of nearly &#163;3bn in Britain alone.The news preceded the announcement that the big five record companies: EMI, Sony, Polygram, Universal   and Warner, along with major consumer electronics and IT companies, had signed up to the Secure Digital Music Initiative (SDMI), the music industry's attempt to stop the rising tide of internet piracy."In just four months, three industries have come together to agree on the first SDMI specification for building platforms that operate in the digital music market," said Dr Leonardo Chiariglione, executive director of SDMI.The SDMI is an agreement by the music, consumer electronics and information technology industries to adopt specifications for portable devices of digital music, like the Rio portable MP3 player. The final specifications will be announced by the SDMI today.It is clear that hardware manufacturers intend to embed a "screening" device within their portable players   that will filter out pirated MP3s. Whether the SDMI will work is another matter. As games manufacturers know only too well, to develop encryption software and screening devices is one thing, to get them to work is another.At the moment anyone can convert their CDs into MP3 files, the compressed sound file that can be downloaded in   minutes. Although it is technically illegal to do so, there is little to stop users emailing MP3s to their friends or posting them on the net. Many sites, some legal, some not, already exist.Diamond Multimedia, which produces the Rio, has got itself into trouble with the music industry which sees it as being a facilitator of pirate MP3 files. The British Phono graphic Industry (BPI) even backed legislation to make the Rio illegal in Britain at one point. Diamond has backed down and agreed to make its next generation of players SDMI-compatible. But the problem doesn't stop there.Andy Strickland, editor ofdotmusic, a leading web-based music magazine, thinks that the SDMI deal is not without its problems: "There will be plenty of hackers trying to work out the security features," he says. "There is a clandestine appeal to the appropriation of MP3s. The industry has been very paranoid up until now about internet piracy and while I welcome any attempt to protect musicians' rights, I can't see people who have already bought a Rio upgrading to the new standard. I think a lot of piracy will remain."One byproduct of the SDMI deal, if it is accepted as standard, might mean that the exorbitant prices that British consumers pay for music might have to come down. Consumers will be    unwilling to pay the higher price for MP3s if they can, say, buy music from US or European sites. In certain cases it is already cheaper to buy CDs on the internet from sites likecdnow.com.At best the SDMI agreement is a sign that the music industry is belatedly accepting that the future of music lies with the digital download, and less in "physical" formats like CD, DVD and mini disc.At worst it is being seen as a white elephant that will fail to protect copyright from hackers. Some industry observers think that the real problem with SDMI is that it is too little, too late. That the record industry took too long to agree on a standard. The question is: will consumers be prepared to buy SDMI while free MP3 files can be found on the web?The complete text of SDMI's Portable Device Specification Version 1.0 will be made public after it is ratified at the SDMI Plenary meeting today and will be posted on the SDMI web sitewww.sdmi.org.
Stand by for something which will radically change our lives: how we work, how we play, how we entertain ourselves - even the things we work at.It's called broadband - jargon for very fat data pipes for homes and business - and it's going to be here, for most of us, very soon.  That much was guaranteed on Tuesday when Oftel, the UK's telecommunications regulator, announced it was ending BT's monopoly over local phone lines.The decision to open up competition on the local part of the UK's phone network means that we can now sit back and watch as BT - along with a clutch of big name companies like Telewest, NTL, Energis and aggressive US giant MCI WorldCom - race to serve up a variety of broadband technologies at consumer prices.These new networks will be able to carry vast amounts of data, delivering movies on demand, video conferencing and the kind of super-fast internet access which will make today's BT Home Highway ISDN connections look sluggish.Those who have used it say it will change how we use the internet, how we watch TV and how we communicate with each other. It is little wonder that    David Edmonds, Oftel's Director General, is in bullish mood. Having issued his thinly veiled criticism of BT's sluggishness in responding to public demand for faster telecommunications, he is predicting the new competition will make the UK a world-leader in broadband."This announcement means that, if we have fallen behind other countries, we are going to overtake virtually everywhere else very quickly," he says. "I have a personal view that the UK, by the end of 2001, will have a better communications network at a local level than any other    country of which I have knowledge. If you look at what is proposed, I think it gives us a huge competitive advantage over a relatively short period of time."But we will not need to wait until 2001 for action. On Monday BT - its hand forced both by the imminent arrival of serious competition and by surging demand for high bandwidth fuelled by Britain's internet boom - announced a multi-million pound order for high bandwidth equipment to upgrade 400 exchanges serving 6m households.That equipment should be in place by April    next year, and BT has already signed up two companies - Video Networks and VirginNet - to supply video on demand and internet access at high speeds over the new technology, called ADSL (see panel on facing page).  Subscribers will be able to access a library of 1,000 films    from &#163;1.99 a title, downloading them through the phone line to watch on their TV. Live entertainment has been scheduled - but not until 2001, when a ban on BT broadcasting is lifted.BT has refused to comment on the broadband issue beyond its official response to the Oftel proposals. This said it would co-operate with Oftel and the industry, and "press on with its bold plans for rolling out the new technology". But a former BT executive says that the company has had to rapidly change its plans in the face of a sudden increase in demand.John Harper, former managing director of BT's inland division, says: "It's common knowledge in the industry that BT has suddenly accelerated its thinking on ADSL. "There were reports around two months ago that BT's chief executive, Sir Peter Bonfield, chided his senior directors for not following their hunches on fast moving technologies. My interpretation is that was probably Bonfield waking up to what was happening, and telling his people to get on with it."Harper says the Oftel report, and the change that will bring about, is "an    extremely good thing. It's long overdue, and I think David Edmonds, the new regulator, is extremely imaginative." But he adds that squabbles between BT and its rivals, who will be expecting access to BT's local loop for the first time, are inevitable."It's absolutely predictable that there will be years of argument over how BT wants to charge competitors for the use of its plant. I would have gone the whole hog and given the responsibility of running the whole network to a separate company." That's a view shared by the Campaign for Unmetered Telecommunications, a pressure group fighting for flat-rate charging for phone calls. "We're very happy - Oftel have done a reasonably good job," says spokesman Erol Ziya."But we are worried that there are all sorts of opportunities for BT to obstruct and delay things while they have control of the exchange equipment themselves." While BT and its rivals fight over their telephone lines, cable companies will hope to steal a march by rolling out their own new broadband services, some of which will be available later this year.  They will hope to gain an early lead in the home multimedia race, even though their cables serve only around 50% of UK homes, and 16% actually use their existing services - compared with 85% usingBT's lines. Peter Hall, who is leading cable operator Telewest's digital rollout, says that cable companies have been testing the next-generation of their services for years, waiting for the right time to launch them for real.  That time is approaching fast, he admits, although he has a cautious approach when suggesting what the public wants."We'll be launching digital TV services in the fourth quarter of this year, and we expect a fairly rapid roll-out across all the Telewest regions," he says. "We've got a very broad bandwidth available to us - 60 channels, each capable of carrying 34Mbits of activity, and we can carry them down to quite a small group of homes."But people are fairly conservative in general - it has taken them a long time to take to multi-channel TV, and we're not going to see an interactive revolution in the next year or two. What people will want are things like video on demand, with true video cassette performance without the trip to the video store, and those kind of services will become very broadly used. And I think there will be much broader use of email through the TV and into the home."We will be able to deliver interactive services, although we're going to be cautious how we do that. Rather than    simply give people the broadest access to the internet, which quite frankly is becoming a little unmanageable at the moment, we're going to try and give people selective navigation through a 'walled garden', which is the only natural way to do it through the TV."So confident is Hall that Telewest's plans - and cable in general - will be a success, that he thinks the other technologies will be relegated to niche applications. He cites the range of applications which will become available - from streaming video through online gaming, to home control - and says: "If you're really looking at how the home will connect with the rest of the world, then cable becomes the natural winner."We don't have to wait for tomorrow's technology solution, and the infrastructure is already built. We don't have to launch satellites, or build transmitters, or anything like that." His final comment refers to the final form of broadband on the horizon - more distant than the others - which will eschew wires altogether, and bring you multimedia through the air.Hughes Network Systems has already developed a satellite-based internet access system, where web pages and files requested by users via an ordinary modem dial-up con nection are bounced off a satellite to their own receiver.  The company's chief scientist, Arthur Christian, says the new broadband buzz-word for them is MWS - Multimedia Wireless Systems, since the decision by European regulators to open up a wide amount of radio spectrum for the system.  Users will be able to send and receive data over the airwaves, thanks to a small aerial mounted on their wall or roof. And it should be fast, he says."From the sort of technology we're looking at, it will be comparable with the sort of bandwidth that cable data modems will be offering. "I expect that we will see systems with 40 megabits of capacity going out in a radio cell, shared between the different users in the cell, as happens with cable modems. "Once the spectrum allocation issues are resolved, wireless will become a much hotter topic than it is now; I'd very much advise an attitude of watch this space - this is going to be the hot one in a year or two."
Rabbit rabbitFreeserve keeps adding more services on its way to becoming the UK's leading "portal" or internet gateway, and now it has launched a Chat Channel at www.freeserve.net Later this year it plans to offer 3-D chat in a virtual world using theWorlds Awaysystem  that   many will remember from CompuServe. Start dusting off your avatars now...RiffageRiffageis a new and "hip" music site which is notable because it has been opened by Ken Wirt, who launched the Rio portable MP3 player when he worked for Diamond Multimedia. Riffage is aimed at catering for the burgeoning market for MP3 sound files. It provides a way for consumers to find indie and niche music they won't find in traditional shops, and offers bands a way to reach an audience in return for 15% of revenues instead of 50% or so. And if you you might also try the somewhat similarwww.reify.orgMinimalistJust how much can you pack into a box only 45 pixels square? The answer is much more than you probably expect.PixelTimeoffers some delightful miniature art in its galleries atTranslation?Transparent Language, which sells LanguageNow translation programs for PCs, is offering a free text translation service atwww.FreeTranslation.comType in or copy/paste your   text into the box supplied   and you can, for example, translate English into French, German, Italian, Spanish   and Portuguese. The new Transcend RT technology seems to work fairly well.RIPThe Loved Ones, which opened on Monday, is "the first serious attempt by a British company to offer a long lasting and professional virtual memorial facility on the internet". It's also a commercial operation: erecting a virtual headstone online atwww.TheLovedOnes.comcosts at least 8 ($12) a year with a minimum of five years. (Is   that "long lasting"   in Internet terms?)   As it happens   there's already a   highly-regarded   free alternative: the   Virtual Memorial   Garden run by Lindsay Marshall at http:// catless.ncl.ac.uk/vmg/ since 1995. The VMG site is tastefully done, has room for both people and pets, and the memorials are often moving, and even for passers-by, sometimes heartbreaking.LovebytesVictoria and David in Love, the world's leading website devoted to the Posh/Becks romance, hasn't received any snaps of The Wedding, and hasn't been updated for a month. Online readers who attended this tasteful function should consider sending info to Denise Buzolin Cruz,   the 15 year old schoolgirl in So Paulo, Brazil, who runshttp://move.to/VictoriaAndDavid(orwww.geocities.com/Paris/  Arc/9191). Denise supports Sao Paulo FC but thinks Man United's players are "cuter".YurekaYureka is billed as the internet's first "find engine", which means it reduces searches - which are actually performed by MetaCrawler and well-known search engines like AltaVista - to a manageable number of likely results. It's not exactly clear what it does, apart from reduce duplicaton. However, the search box provides a quick way to enter intelligent search strings, sohttp://yureka.comis worth at least a trial visit.Safety PINSaflink could  be the first company to open a website protected by a "biometric" - a measurable characteristic that uniquely identifies an individual, such a fingerprint, voiceprint, iris scan or whatever. The American company has put up a pretend financial site that uses speech recognition atwww.safbank.comso anyone can try it. The problem is that by the time they've downloaded all the necessary software (and probably restarted their Windows PCs) and registered, most visitors could well have lost interest and gone somewhere elseWise wordsSun Tzu's ancient handbook The Art Of War has been posted on the web in the original Chinese. But clicking on any character brings up a dictionary, and there is also an English translation. If   your pinyin is pretty snappy you can even chat online athttp://zhongwen.com/bingfa.htmTune upThrow away that air guitar: Songplayer plans to launch a new version of its music tuition software next week atwww.songplayer.comThe (downloadable) software helps you play along with tracks from your CD collection on guitar or keyboards.Help welcomeThe National Mobility   Centreis opening a website   with information for the disabled. The site has been created by volunteers, and more would be welcome.Swing kingGrab a vine and swing over   to the Tarzan website atwww.tarzan.comfor details of Disney's next big animated feature. Not sure if it's a "must-see", but with voices supplied by the likes of Nigel Hawthorne and Brian Blessed, it's a must-listen.Six of the bestFinding who, what and whereThe world's phone bookswww.teldir.comWho is or was whowww.biography.comStreet guide to Britainhttp://uk.multimap.comThe ultimate word hoardwww.onelook.comUK and European trainshttp://bahn.hafas.deInternet Movie DataBasewww.imdb.com
Linux testsSo, what-do-you know? A reconstruction of the carefully set up Microsoft-sponsored tests (Linux loses, July 1) show that NT (prop: Microsoft Corp) is better than Linux (prop: nobody and everybody).Of course, there are probably a few articles that you hadn't seen. The first is by Christopher Lansdown, explaining why the results don't actually matter because the numbers involved are so high that they are talking about web-serving at incredibly high bandwidths. Seehttp://cs.alfred.edu/~lansdoct/mstest.html.The second concerns a set of benchmarks performed by the German computer magazine c't in which they compare NT and Linux web serving under a variety of real-world conditions. In these, Linux consistently outperforms NT when tested using static pages both cached and non-   cached in system memory, and blazes ahead when considering the use of dynamic content using CGI. Seewww.heise.de/ct/english/99/13/186-1.Tristan RoddisLondon W1R 9WBTwo important points can be deduced from the results of these tests. Even on the less powerful machines, both Linux and NT could handle bandwidths above 100 Mbps. It is unlikely, therefore, that the choice between these operating systems would ever be the limiting factor in the responsiveness of a website.Second, the tests were carried out using static pages, which means the results are largely irrelevant to most commercial situations. The main problem with speed tests of webservers is that real-world speed is governed more by database technologies and bandwidth than by either operating system or server application.Nigel WettersEarlsfield, SW18 4RYRight ideaI was interested to read that Chinese users insist that all the necessary applications ready to be used immediately when they buy a PC or Mac.Would that we could insist in the west. Roll on the day   when we can buy a computer and start using it as with a car!  There is certainly a niche for Liu Chuanzhi in the west.Mary McKennaMim@sheffield.ac.ukFlame againFlame Grilling by Heather Welford, (Online, July 1) is IMHO an outstanding example of ignorant journalism.Heather stands astonished at reported encounters with Rude Newsgroup Person, who dares to be rude to a "home-based mother-of-three" ("Well I never, wouldn't be so bad if he'd slagged off a single man working from an office without a hyphen to his name...") So which newsgroups does this cyberdemon inhabit? "Read any newsgroup.... and you'll soon spot it..." Heather gushes.Any newsgroup? Come on, Heather, how many have you read? Newsgroups reflect society - if you read a newsgroup called uk.abuse.nerds you will find abuse.If you read one dedicated to erudite comment on a specialist subject, that's what you get. Have a look at, let's say, rec.music.makers. squeezebox.It might send you to sleep, but it's not rude.Max RankinHolmbury St Mary, Surrey
Familiar UK email and web address endings such as .co.uk for companies and .org.uk for non-profit bodies could soon be joined by others including .union.uk for trade unions, .per.uk for personal names and even .football.uk for football clubs.Nominet, the co-operative industry body which oversees the UK domain name system on behalf of internet service providers, has convened a policy board to review its naming rules created three years ago. Proposals were drawn up this week to be circulated to Nominet members for approval over the summer.Every computer attached to the internet has a globally unique internet protocol address, a series of numbers separated by dots. The domain name system was invented so people could use words as user-friendly aliases for their IP addresses. The system is co-ordinated internationally by a body calledICANNand a series of other registries beneath it.There are currently 11 basic "second-level" domains beneath the .uk "top-level" domain. They are .co.uk; .org.uk; .net.uk; .ltd.uk and .plc.uk for limited companies and plcs registered with Companies House; .ac.uk for academic institutions; .gov.uk for government bodies; .police .uk for police forces; .nhs.uk for health service bodies; .mod.uk for defence bodies; and .sch.uk for schools.A few institutions also have their own second level domain including .parliament.uk. Parliament fought against being in the .gov.uk domain for constitutional reasons: it is distinct from government. (Buckingham Palace was not so proud. Royal.gov. uk was allowed.) The British Library has .bl.uk.Nominet has received several approaches to create new second level domains, including .union.uk, .football.uk and .fire.uk for fire services. The main problem it faces is that of domain name piracy or cybersquatting. Cybersquatting is the shady practice whereby someone registers a company or organisation name, brand or trademark before the rightful owner (registration is on a first come, first-served basis)   then demands payment to release the name. With each new second-level domain created, every company name or trademark is once again up for grabs even if a dispute has been settled across existing domains.Nominet handles around 20 disputes over domain registrations per month, which it tries to solve through its own adjudication system and independent mediation. If this fails court action can result. Nominet managing director Willie Black acknowledges the number of disputes is likely to rise with each new domain, and says the way to minimise trouble is by creating domains representing only groups with clear-cut interests. "Each domain should represent a specialist community of interest, which would make it more difficult for cybersquatters to register," he says.Some in the international business community oppose the creation of any new domain name spaces without even more stringent curbs. The World Intellectual Property Organisation is pressing for a tighter system in which a list of "famous names", including company names, would be ring-fenced to stop anyone other than their owner registering them as part of any internet domain name.However, Dr Black says such a system would not be practical, and Nominet will    not be supporting it. Meanwhile Nominet's French counterpartAFNIChas announced the creation of two new second level domains:  for any French registrant and .nom.fr for personal names.The personal domain name idea (being considered by Nominet as .per.uk and by ICANN internationally as .per) would allow the Dupont family, for example, to register dupont.nom.fr for customised email or web addresses. Families sharing the same name will register variants such as Dupont-1 or Dupont-Avignon if they lived in Avignon.AFNIC says the personal domain will help pave the way for the development of home automation, by enabling people to contact their appliances when they were away from home by emailing oven@dupont. nom.fr and asking it to start cooking the dinner, or heating@ dupont.nom.fr and asking it to turn itself down on an unexpectedly sunny day.Jean-Yves Babboneau, director of AFNIC, also hopes the move will provide a badly-needed boost to individual home use of the internet in a country where the huge past success of the national computer information system Minitel, in its day a world leader but not compatible with the net, has made people slow to switch.
Anybody can create a web site. No special software is needed - you can create pages with a simple text editor, such as Windows' Notepad or the Mac's Simpletext - and there's no shortage of web space. Most internet service providers (ISPs) bundle free web space with their dial-up accounts, including America Online (AOL), BT Internet and Dixons FreeServe.There are also dozens of sites offering free space to all-comers. Angelfire, Fortune City, GeoCities, Tripod and Xoom are examples. The trade-off is that the free space provider will sell an advertising banner on your site - though, like Yahoo! last week, they may also claim rights over content that you might not like.Some ISPs and most suppliers of free web space provide templates that enable users to create pages without learning any HTML (Hypertext Mark-up Language), the web's language. This is the quickest and easiest approach and has just been adopted in    the new home page services offered in the US by AOL ( hometown.aol.com ) and Microsoft ( hompages.msn.com ).   Unfortunately it's also the worst. If you use a template, your site will look much like all the other sites that use the same template. Also you'll have to construct and update the site online, which will add to your phone bill. And if you're not willing to put any effort into site design, why should visitors pay any attention to your content? Using a template does avoid the problem of learning how to upload text and image files to the web server, usually done with an FTP (file transfer protocol) program. But if you want to use your own photographs and artwork, and aren't using Front Page    2000, you'll probably have to learn how do that eventually.It's also possible to create a web site off-line, on your own computer, without learning any HTML. The simplest way is to use a word processor with a "Save as HTML" option, such as Microsoft Word. Skilled web designers may well recommend that you avoid using HTML generated by all office programs, regardless of make, and the code does tend to look disgusting. But trawl round the web and you'll find thousands of perfectly adequate web pages created with Word, and the latest Word 2000 makes a decent stab at doing the job.Even so, it's worth the extra effort needed to use the web equivalent of a desktop publishing program to generate your pages. Robert Neuschul, technical director of internet design consultancy Imagineering Technologies, recommends Macromedia's Dreamweaver and Adobe's Go-Live, both of which are available for PCs and Macs. Front Page 2000 - which is included in Microsoft Office Professional - is also a good    choice. Neuschul says it's a definite improvement over previous versions."I wouldn't use it myself," he says, "but for a beginner or for someone wanting to do a small commercial site, it's a very good starting point, especially if the company is using the rest of the Office 2000 suite." One drawback with Front Page is that some of the facilities require programs to be run on the server. These "Front Page extensions" are provided with Microsoft's Windows NT server, and are available free for Linux, but not every web space provider supports them. If yours doesn't, you can't use them.Another drawback with all three programs is that they cost money. If you're a beginner, you may prefer to start with the free programArachnophiliaor cheap shareware (try before you buy) software such as Coffee Cup'sHTML Express. And if you want to write your own HTML, you can make life easier by using a proper HTML editor such asSite-Aid. It's not    only free, it looks reassuringly similar to Front Page. The other essential bit of software is an FTP program, since the FTP that Microsoft provides with Windows runs under DOS. The most popular offerings includeGlobalscape's Cute FTP,  and Ipswitch'sWS FTP.There's also the very cuteTerrapin FTP programfor Windows 95/98/NT, andMonicafor the Mac.It doesn't   really matter which you use as long as you can make it work. All the programs you need to create a web site can be downloaded from the net. If you plan to download lots of things, start with Headlight Software'sGetright, which will redial and restart downloads even if you get cut off. (Aureate Software'sGo!Zilla, is a free alternative.) But it's probably quicker and easier to start with a cover CD from Future's Net magazine, which carries a    range of software for Windows 95/98 and Windows 3.1.When it comes to designing web pages, the golden rule is KISS, or Keep It Simple, Stupid. Neuschul's advice is:&#149; Do the thinking before the coding: use paper and pencil to "storyboard" your site.&#149; Don't make any page bigger than it needs to be, and don't be afraid to make more pages and link them to your main page.&#149; Don't put anything on a page unless it's essential. In particular, avoid large images that take ages to download.Amateur sites often consist of one huge web page with a scattering of pointless images and animations on a confusing background. Visitors are far more likely to leave for a better site than scroll to the bottom. Good professional sites, by contrast, tend to have plain backgrounds and lots of links to content organised in sub-pages. One way to learn about web design is to use the browser's "view source" command to see how other people have done it.Stealing someone else's site is illegal, immoral and will make you come out in spots, but it's quite common for people to nick bits of code and adapt them for their own purposes. Paul Ockenden, technical director of internet specialist CST Group, says: "Think about copyright. You can't just go stealing words and pictures from other people's sites.By all means use 'view source' to see how they've achieved certain effects, but make sure your site is all your own work." But there are also hundreds of suppliers that offer free code and images for people to incorporate in their pages. If you want a counter (to provide a running total of visitors), a tracking system (to analyse traffic, and tell you where visitors came from), a guest book, a bulletin board or some other feature, you can probably get it just by pasting their code into your page.Useful examples include eXTReMe digital'sExtreme Tracking,FreeFind'ssearch engine , andBeseen'smessage board and chat room software.TheFree Siteprovides a good guide to free stuff, andBig Nose Birdis another essential resource.   Usually the quid pro quo for free features is that your site must carry a button or banner that advertises and links back to the supplier.If you get stuck, theNCSA- where Mosaic was created - has a comprehensive primer, while Yale University has an excellentStyle Guide. Alternatively try Hotwired'sWebmonkey,Website LunatiCor the greatBruce Tognazzini, who founded the Human Interface Group at Apple.When you've finished building your website, you'll be able to go through the pages on your computer as though they were online. Don't be deceived by the speed: a modem connection isn't as fast as your hard drive. Try to get each page down to 35K or less, including graphics, so that visitors won't have to wait for things to download. If you've got a large image and don't think you can make the file any smaller, upload it toGIF Optimizer, which will shrink it. Also check is that your pages display correctly in a reasonable range of web browsers including Microsoft Internet Explore (IE), Netscape Navigator, and Opera. (If you are wise you will have avoided using frames, Java and JavaScript, which can cause many more problems than they solve.)It may be asking a lot of beginners to check their pages when so many "professionals" plainly can't be bothered. But there is a simple way to catch a lot of problems. When you've uploaded your pages, send the address to theWeb Site GarageorNetMechanic, which will check the site for you.The World Wide Web Consortium    also offers anHTML validator. Once you've put your web site online, you will probably want other people to look at it. If it's a family site - pictures of the kids, or whatever - all you have to do is email the address to people who might be interested. If your site might be of interest to a wider audience, you may want to publicise it. Try to get links to your site posted on some of the more popular sites that already deal with the same topic - that's how the web works, as a network of interlinked sites.Good sites generally don't want to link to bad ones, but they will swap links if your pages are interesting. You can also email the address to people who create sites of nothing but links, and join a Web Ring, where anything from half a dozen to several hundred sites are linked together. The number and variety of webrings is astonishing ( www. webring.org ). Then wait three months and see how it goes. If your site is entertaining, or offers information that is unique or not widely available, then it may get lots of visitors. Perhaps it deserves a wider audience. If so, tear it apart and start again.By this time you should have learned enough to do a better job, and you can eliminate fundamental design mistakes only by starting from scratch. There are many more things to consider when designing a second site. These include the use of "meta tags" (which let you describe your site, and are essential for success with some search engines), alt tags (which tell people what an image is before it is downloaded), advertising banners, affiliate programs, search engine rankings and much more. But content is the most important of all.As Ockenden says: "Find a reason for the site to exist: there are too many sites about nothing out there. People don't want to visit sites about nothing." Finally, if you want a site to be taken seriously, it's now almost essential to spend $70 on your own domain name: you'll get more visitors as, say,www.totalsouthpark.comthan you would aswww.angelfire.com/sc/wacksboy.At the very least, use a redirection service such asFindhere.com, which will provide a more memorable address of the formwww.whatyouwant.findhere.comThis also has the advantage that you'll be able to move your site from one free space provider to another without changing the address.
Monkey businessApe EscapeSony PlayStation  Sony &#163;34.99Have you ever been kicked to death by a turnip? Or diced one with a light sabre?Ape Escape is a supercute Japanese game that could easily have come from Nintendo, and the background tunes hark back to the first appearance of Mario in the original Donkey Kong.The graphics are bright but blocky and don't have the detail that was so nice about Nintendo's Donkey Kong Country.But then, Ape Escape isn't a 2-D platform game. It lets you move freely in a full 3-D environment with smooth camera movements,    though the dreadful clipping does mean floors tend to disappear, and you can almost swim through the bottom of a pool. Oh yes, the programmers have been playing Tomb Raider, too, and have created   some really nice watery effects.To win at Ape Escape you, Spike, an indefatigable young tyke, have to travel through time to recapture numerous intelligent (and cheeky) monkeys in your nets - a simple but effective scenario.As well as having eight worlds and more than 20 levels for variety, Ape also includes several mini-games. It's a running, jumping, crawling, climbing, swimming, rowing, skiing, boxing type of thing.When you manage to catch a monkey, the PlayStation's analogue controller vibrates, but the game can be played only with these Dual Shock controllers. If you don't have one yet, Sony sells them separately in translucent blue, emerald and crystal.There are compatible alternatives from independent suppliers, but it does bump up the cost of a fine game.New balls pleaseAll Star Tennis 99Nintendo 64 &#163;39.99  Ubisoft (0181 944 9000)With its empty corporate seats and exorbitantly-priced strawberries, Wimbledon fortnight is a curious season where previously indifferent sports fans pay homage at SW19. In an attempt to foster longer term interest Ubisoft gives us All-Star Tennis 99.This offers the usual tournament options as well as some arcade extras. The most novel of these is bomb tennis, where ball meeting court creates a ticking explosive.Graphically things are as inconsistent as the British   summertime. The characters move smoothly enough but the animation is rudimentary. A willingness to dive at every opportunity merely highlights the lack of detail with the gravity-defying skirts failing to titillate even the most avid tabloid tennis voyeur.Grunt fans are treated to a full range of player emissions but the crowd noise is unintentionally hilarious, with fans sometimes egging on nonexistent players.Multiplayer mode repeats   its role as saviour of sports games. Although there is too much wild button pressing, human opponents are the best way to appreciate the game, with doubles as enjoyably chaotic as the real thing.All Star Tennis? With Chang instead of Sampras this is stretching the truth somewhat, and although a licence is no guarantee of gaming excellence, you can't help but feel uninspired with the players on offer. The lack of real competition volleys All-Star Tennis to the top of the N64 tennis ratings. But this top ranking is undeserved, because of the bugs and rough-edged graphics. On a quiet day the multiplayer game would scrape a match on Court One. But really, All-Star Tennis is one for the outer courts only.Britannia rules, OK!Ultima Online: The Second AgePC CD-Rom &#163;39.99 Origin/Electronic ArtsThe mortal affliction that is Ultima Online has already claimed one in 50,000 of the world's population - and that number is about to grow.The Second Age isn't so much a sequel as a story so far, bundling a few new features and areas together with all the patches and add-ons to the original online role-playing game (RPG).But its heart and soul are unchanged: as a character in the virtual kingdom of Britannia, you choose a   career, hone your skills, trade, make friends, buy a house, go on quests, battle dragons...  All this is by turns irritating, thrilling, boring and hilarious.Getting started is still way too much like hard work - becoming a decent fisherman, for example, involves something in the order of 100,000 mouse clicks. But then the sheer scale and variety of the experience - combined with the kick of interacting with thousands of players worldwide - make Ultima Online more of a way of life than a game.The main obstacle for us benighted Brits is the money. Game plus phone bill plus internet service charges plus monthly fee equals no birthday present for the boy this year. Still, how much did you really love him anyway?
Every article about e-commerce seems to take it for granted that the US is far ahead of Europe. It's impossible to read something on the topic without seeing Amazon and Dell, and the typical e-commerce strategy advocated seems to be "look   at the US and wait 18 months". I think Europe is developing an inferiority complex here, leading to a self-fulfilling prophecy of US dominance.While it's true that the US currently generates the overwhelming majority of web-based commerce, the situation may not be as one-sided as the forecasts show. In the US it is hard to find a website that you can't buy from and the inventiveness of the e-commerce pioneers is astounding. In time, Europe may be as vigorous. But it's also possible that European e-commerce is developing in a different direction where the PC, credit card and web are not the central factors.A significant difference between internet access projections for the US and Europe is the access devices consumers will be using. In the US, broadly speaking, the personal computer (PC) and "internet TV" products such as NetChannel and WebTV are growing a multimedia TV sector that will account for the majority of consumer spending on net   access devices in 2001. Comparable projections for Europe show access split fairly evenly across three technologies: the multimedia PC/TV (as in the US), the GSM handset (ie mobile phone) and interactive digital TV (idTV).The multi-media PC/TV is round the corner. It doesn't matter whether the devices are more like TVs (except that they'll crash during the Cup Final) or PCs (except that you'll be able to do word processing only at certain times of day)! The key point is that the TV channel is not wholly integrated with the data channel: the device supports both TV and data services, but isn't able to truly exploit their synergies.True idTV integrates audio, visual and data services completely so that TV pictures, to take the obvious example, are just one kind of data. Service providers might choose to broadcast some material as TV, some as web pages and some as games for playing off line: the integration across media will be unlike   anything experienced to date and the main beneficiary of digital terrestrial, satellite and cable will be net services not conventional TV.There are interactive digital TV services launching in several countries and idTV is expected to dominate net access in the UK.More than two million subscribers to Canal Plus digital TV in France can already buy from TV merchants by putting their Carte Bancaire in their set-top box: you can't beat that for ease and convenience. How long before you're getting Boots points for watching particular programmes or commercials? ("Insert your card now for 10 Advantage points!")TV aside, the take-up of mobile phones is such that it is possible to argue that in many European countries the GSM/PCN digital mobile handset is evolving towards the "network computer" much faster than PCs, NCs or WebTVs are in the US. Data transmission speeds are set to increase in the near future, reaching   2 megabits/second with the introduction of the Universal Mobile Telephony Service (UMTS) in 2002: full motion video to your phone!The GSM Short Message Service (SMS) is proving hugely popular: text messages ("g-mails") are running at a billion a month in Western Europe and doubling every six months. And the GSM handset is a wonderful transaction device. In Finland, you can already buy a Coke from a vending machine by ringing it from your mobile. In Sweden you can trade shares using your mobile. In Spain, you can get your bank balance sent to your phone whenever your ATM (automated teller machine) card is used, and so on.Across all of these access device sectors is a unifying technology in which Europe has a well-established lead: smart cards. With the UK banks' decision to roll out more than 100m smart payment cards - my new Barclaycard already has a chip on it - there is an opportunity for them to   become the consumers' indispensable friend and single access token to online services across all devices.What could be more natural than putting your smart Visa card into your BIB set-top box to purchase from the home shopping channel? If you need &#163;10 in digital cash to pay your taxi driver, where else would you expect to put your Mondex card but your mobile phone? Which is an easier method of accessing home banking: remembering usernames and passwords, or putting your smart Switch card into your PC and punching in your PIN?It's boring reading about web commerce in the US all the time, as if this is the only model for future commerce in a wired world. What's going on around Europe points to a richer and more diverse environment: one in which European companies actually have a lead.David Birch is a consultant and director ofwww.hyperion.co.ukHyperionin Guildford, Surrey.
Can you imagine what a website designed by bank managers might look like? Welcome to the world of online banking!I have been using the Royal Bank of Scotland's service for almost a year, having graduated from their telephone banking. And I wouldn't be without it now. It's so convenient to pay bills and check my balance at any time of the day or night from my home PC.Not all major UK banks allow online access, but   those that do tend to offer the same services: checking your balance, online statements with up-to-the-minute information, bill payments, standing orders and direct debits, transfers between accounts and ordering cheque books.If, like me, you want payment for a bill to leave your account at the last possible moment you can set up a transfer up to 120 days in advance. This saves having to remember to post a cheque on the right day, and the inevitable reminder or interest charges when you   forget. Plus, you don't run out of cheques.You can also search for transactions (useful when you can't remember if you paid a bill), print custom statements between any two dates, and check if money has actually made it into your account before making that big payment. Some banks allow you to apply for loans or buy ISAs online. The biggest disadvantage is still having to use post, an ATM or counter service to pay money in.Of course, things go wrong. I regularly use the service to pay off a store credit card. The first few payments seemed to clear correctly and were credited to the card. Then the credits stopped - it turned out I'd used the wrong reference number when I set up the payment. The money was still leaving my account, leaving several hundred pounds lost in cyberspace. It took several calls to the   bank to explain the problem: once they understood, the money was found and the problem fixed in less than a day.The big drawback to online banking is that compared with most web services it's inflexible and hard to use with lots of restrictions; the Royal Bank of Scotland service only works with PCs, not Macs, supports Internet Explorer but not Netscape, and downloads special software to your PC every time the service is upgraded. A separate security number, sent to you via snail mail, is needed for every PC you want to use it on. As a result, I still use telephone banking to check my bank balance when away from home.The page design leaves a   lot to be desired. The home page of the Royal Bank of Scotland service is full of graphics and sometimes takes almost a minute to download. Logging on involves accessing eight different pages into which various passwords are typed before your balance appears on the screen. Online help is rudimentary but does include the number of an informed help desk.Security is draconian, as you might expect. I need three different passwords and a customer number to get into the service, none of which I am supposed to write down. I would find this difficult if I had accounts with more than one bank, or wanted online access to my mortgage or   credit cards as well. But I'm glad they're keeping my money safe.The general clunkiness of online banking is reflected in the low take-up: Barclays had only 70,000 online customers at the end of 1998. Some banks still charge for online transactions, although they cost considerably less than a counter service.For now, online banking will remain the preserve of those who like the flexibility, or who are prepared to switch banks to get good interest rates on their savings. Simpler security mechanisms, better user interfaces and a wider range of services are needed. Come on, banks! There are 10m potential UK customers out there on the web. Who's going to be first to make online banking fun?&#149; Bill Hibbert is group IT director of Guardian Media Group.www.find.co.uk/bankingwill tell you if your bank allows online access via the web.
What was your introduction to computers?In the mid-1960s when I was about five. My brother was doing a maths degree at Imperial College London and they had a huge card operated computer. I bought my first computer in the early-1980s : an Amstrad.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC?I use a laptop (a Compaq Armada 6500, 333MHz. I bought a year ago). PC monitors are too ugly and intrusive.Are computers important?Apart from one job where I had to write in pencil, my entire working life has involved working at computers. But I think their significance can be overstated. It's what you do with them that counts.What do you use computers for?Writing, faxing, email, research on the internet.Any favourite websites?I know this sounds odd but I like trawling through the websites of US universities because they have masses of entirely free research reports and information.Any favourite gadgets?The snooze button on my alarm clock.Should the net be controlled?No, but it is becoming dominated by US corporations.Should technology be more freely available to everyone?It will not be too long before the basic technology of computing and communications is going to be virtually free. We will pay for them in different ways.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?A human, infinitely more variety and emotion.What do you see in the future for computers?I think computing will increasingly disappear into everyday products, fridges, television remote controllers, telephones.Professionally, what's taking up your time?I am writing two big reports about young entrepreneurs in new sectors of the British economy like computer games.Has email revived the art of letter-writing?No. Email is best kept short. An email correspondence usually requires people to talk and meet as well.How far does the computer affect politics?Computers have transformed campaigning but more fundamentally the reason that democracy is healthy is that citizens are empowered by education, information and communication which cannot be controlled from above. There can be no turning back to rule by unchallenged elites in most advanced countries in part because of the power of the computer.
The internet is continuing to boom in Europe but consumers are still wary of spending online, an NOP survey has revealed. This year's boom in free internet access providers and improved web content for European viewers means 17% of the British population is now online, compared with 16% in Germany and 13% in France. But the New Mass Medium report shows many users are wary of spending money, with only one in four net users having made a purchase online.This is despite the fact that there have hardly been any instances of credit card fraud resulting from run-of-the-mill online trading. The boom in access to the web has coincided with a sharp rise in the number of UK start-up companies formed to exploit the enormous potential of web trading.  Freeserve, part of Dixons, confirmed in the past week that it is likely to become Britain's first billion pound internet company when it is floated in the near future while QXL, a British rival to America's eBay online auction house, is hoping to be valued at up to &#163;500m when it starts selling shares in September.Funmail, an email service allowing users to choose up to 25 domain names to reflect different moods or occasions, will also be floating in a few weeks time even though it was launched only two months ago. The company claims that new registrations are growing at the rate of over 1,000 a day. Boo.com, the UK based net clothes company, is planning to launch in a few weeks time. Lastminute.com which offers cheap deals on "vanishing inventories" like airline tickets and hotels recently raised $10m to expand in Europe and the US.Among numerous others that have started up recently is confetti.co.uk which provides wedding services online. A further sign of burgeoning entrepreneurial activity is that First Tuesday, a newly formed club to encourage networking among media and web companies, had to turn hundreds of people away from its July meeting this week because it could not cope with more than 250 people at its central London venue. Even people with invitations were turned away when the club was forced to close the doors.US companies are generally reckoned to be at least two years ahead of British companies in the exploding field of e-commerce but there    are some areas - like free internet service provision and wireless technology for telephones where Europe is setting the pace. Ramona Liberoff, an executive consultant for one of the NOP report's sponsors, KPMG, says that it is important for retailers to provide as much information on their products as possible. The report showed that 77% of UK users had researched purchases on the internet, even if only 25% then bought a product online. "People want as much information as possible," says Liberoff. "Some 42% of people in the UK say they would be encouraged to do online shopping if there were more pictures. That's quite a simple thing to do." Liberoff also suggests that after users have experienced e-commerce once, they are willing to go back for more."Once people try it once, they express that they're quite satisfied and would definitely do it again. So as long as someone can test it out, not see anything suspicious on their credit card bill, the thing arrives in the post and it's exactly what they wanted, they then suddenly becomes converts to e-commerce. "And we should keep in mind that some things are not appropriate to buy online, or that the facilities to do so are not there yet, so we shouldn't imply that people are not happy doing so yet," she added. "It may be that the facilities are not there yet, or that it's not a particularly sensible thing to transact for a car over the web yet, for example."Some categories are ideal for users to do research and go right up to the point of transaction and get rid of all the hassle waiting for brochures and everything else. "If you look at the fact that 58% say they would be encouraged if transaction security was guaranteed by a major financial institution, I would say that people expect the same guarantees on the web as they do in real life. "When they're using a credit card in a shop, they know that Visa or Amex guarantees purchases up to a certain amount. They're expecting that on the web."
Erol Ziya, who lives in Ealing in west London, is one of the first people in the UK to experience ADSL thanks to trials of the new technology which BT are running in the area.As a spokesman for the Campaign for Unmetered Telecommunications, which is pushing for flat-rate subscriptions for phone services, rather than the existing per-minute charges, he says that in ADSL he has had a glimpse of the technology which could bring several of the group's aims into reality.  He adds that using ADSL is an experience that has completely changed his perspective on the internet and what it could do for its users."It really is the way you should be connected to the internet," he says. "It has changed the whole use of the internet for me.  "The first big difference is that it's unmetered. The second is that it is a network connection; there's never any process of dialling up. As soon as my computer is switched on I can use it."There's a whole range of applications and content which is now useable, that wasn't with a modem.  "For me, bandwidth is just another of these computing resources; in the same way that, when we had 8MHz processors nobody knew what we'd do with 450MHz ones, you will always soak up the available resource to do things you weren't doing before."You get people asking 'but what would you do with all that bandwidth?'. The answer is that it defines what you can do. A whole vista of content and applications has opened up.  "The unmetered aspect makes it all much more useable, because my computer is permanently connected while I'm here. I find myself able to use it as a communications medium much more."Voicemail is routed to my computer, people come online and it's shown on my machine and so on. The computer is now there to take messages from whatever source for me."  Indeed, the trials have been such a revelation for Ziya, that he is now concerned about what happens when BT decide to bring the tests to an end."It's become a real personal concern to me," he laughs.  "They've been feeding me broadband at budget prices - it's like I've been mainlining broadband, and now I'm paranoid they're going to take it away from me, and I'll start having withdrawal symptoms... but this is the way forward."
ADSLAsymmetrical Digital Subscriber Loop (ADSL), like ISDN, upgrades your existing telephone line without expensive rewiring, but it can offer download speeds more than 15 times faster than the ISDN (Home Highway) connections on offer in Britain at the moment. In the US, ADSL is an "always on" connection which is available for as little as $39 a month. Another advantage of ADSL is that it could be widely available comparatively quickly. But   telecoms watchdog Oftel warns that there could be problems bringing the technology to more remote parts of the UK, because ADSL works only over relatively short distances. Oftel it has yet to decide if phone companies should be allowed to charge more to users living in less heavily populated areas for using the new technology. Readers in Scotland and Wales, beware.CableAnother "always on" service, cable internet services are available only to people living in cable TV areas -around 50% of the population. Speeds for    cable modems vary widely: users taking part in one UK cable company's trials say their speeds have been limited to 512Kbits/sec for downloading, and 128Kbits/sec for uploading, because the firm's backbone can't cope. Those speeds are easily better than ISDN's 64Kbits/sec per single line, but look a little sluggish next to ADSL. Still, the technology is here now, and cable companies are alive to the possibilities the new technology offers. Look out for exciting developments towards the end of the year in interactive TV and home shopping, tied in with new digital   TV offerings.SatelliteInternet access via a satellite dish is being touted as a high-bandwidth solution for users who live in more remote, or non-cabled, areas. The downstream bandwidth (from the satellite to the home) is huge but current systems have no satellite uplinks. Instead, users have to send comands and upload files by modem over a standard phone line. That rules out running a web server from home, and things like video conferencing, while adding to the cost of using the net.WirelessThrough-the-air internet access could be with us within two years, with cable-modem sized boxes indoors and a small aerial outside. Access speeds could be similar to those enjoyed by cable modem users, with up- and downstream bandwidth possibly able to change "on the fly", if a standard is agreed. The disadvantage is that - as with cable - bandwidth in any given area has to be shared. That could mean slowdowns at peak times. Also, the aerials must have line-of-sight contact with the base transmitters - a challenge for those living in built-up or hilly areas.
The World Church of the Creator is the fastest-growing white supremacist organisation in the United States with 35 chapters throughout the country. Claiming a membership of 7,000, it believes in the supremacy and expansion of the white race which is "unique and sacred above all others".The organisation was founded by former members of the Church of the Creator, which was formed in the 70s by the late Ben Klassen, one of America's most outspoken racists and author of The White Man's Bible.In 1993, eight members of the original church were arrested by the FBI for conspiring to bomb the First African Methodist Episcopal Church in Los Angeles.The current leader of the church is the Rev Matt Hale, 29, who was in the news last week as he failed in his efforts to join the Illinois state bar.Although Mr Hale had passed the requisite bar exams, his often expressed racist and anti-Semitic views were deemed to make him ineligible to practise.His appeal against the rejection was turned down by the appeal board last Friday, the day that Benjamin Nathaniel Smith started his shooting spree.Rabbi Abraham Cooper of the Simon Wiesenthal Centre in Los Angeles said yesterday that there were now an estimated 400 such race-hate groups in the US, with a membership between 20,000 and 40,000. He said that they were particularly active on the worldwide web.At the time of the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995 there was only one such website, now there are more than 2,000, he said.The World Church's website is decorated with Nazi insignia and skulls. It also has one site aimed specifically at children of 9 or 10, the first of its kind.What anti-racist groups find most disturbing about the church is its use of the web and its notion of "leaderless resistance"' which allows leaders of groups not to be prosecuted by actions advocated on the web.
What are you driving?It's a lime green Beetle. I've had it for a week. I think it suits me. It's got a lot of class, but it's discreet - very millennium. Please don't say that I'm an it-girl, because I'm not and don't want to be.Is it a toy?Yeah, because it's lime green. It's a bit offbeat. It's also incredibly fast. There's a CD player in it, air-conditioning, all the mod-cons. And one of those vases you put daisies in.Do you use it as an ashtray?No. I've got flowers in it. I stole some roses and now they're in it.What is it like to drive?Well it's wonderful. I couldn't drive before, but now I'm AA... I'm a good driver. It became expensive taking taxis everywhere, and having drivers. I'm not very good at finding my car once I've parked it, but this one's fine because it's bright green.Parking must be a bit of a git?Yeah, it is. I wish they had valet parking here, like they do in LA. I make my own valet parking instead.You get passers-by to park it?No. I just ask doormen and people to park it for me. All this parking really stresses me out, especially when you come back late at night, can't find a proper space, and then have to get up at 8.30 to move it. That's pretty early for me. But I always have a smile on my face when I see my car.Do you suffer from road rage?Not any more. I used to when I drove with a hangover.You've driven with a hangover!Yeah, OK. I'm no saint. We've all done it. I never drink and drive - though I was caught once... I don't get road rage any more. I've been to the Meadows, and I've learned to deal with these things. I just let it go. Stay in the moment.What kind of music do you listen to now? Whales singing?Celtic moods. No - that's a lie. Music is essential to life.When did you pass your test?When I was 18 - the second time around. I wore a short skirt the first time, and was perhaps a little more preoccupied with impressing the examiner with that, than with my driving. I was nervous and didn't stop on the emergency stop.I don't like asking this question, but have you ever had sex in a car?What? No. Never. Just no. We're not going into the details of that.
Imagine it: you're floating along the motorway, cocooned in luxury (this car demands cliches). You feel comfortable, rich, perhaps a little smug. Not only is your ego being massaged, but so are you - physically, by your seat. But then you need to cool off a touch - so the seat blows jets of chilled air at you. Twelve speakers are bathing you in Wagner - it's like the Berlin Philharmonic's right there with you.Another, lesser, vehicle appears ahead in your lane. No need to do anything, though, it's all taken care of; your car senses it, slows down automatically until the other car pulls over, before accelerating to your favoured speed.It's later on and there's a roundabout ahead. The Wagner fades out, and a woman's voice tells you where to go. Just to confirm it, a diagram of the roundabout - that very roundabout - appears on the dashboard, indicating where to get off. Wagner fades back in...OK, so here's another situation: you're bouncing around in something that looks like it's out of the Fisher-Price catalogue, and everyone is laughing at you.If you had to choose between the two scenarios, it wouldn't be difficult. But you almost certainly can't because option one is about 50,000 more expensive than option two. They're two new cars - both innovative, both powered by Mercedes... and that's pretty much where the similarities end. I've just driven them both. One is the new Mercedes S430, so refined, so luxurious, that Jeremy Clarkson said it was the most complete car he'd encountered. And yet it was the other one that turned heads - the Smart Car, so tiny it can be parked perpendicular to the pavement (it is just six inches longer than the S Class is wide).I had the Smart Car for a weekend in London, and it felt like being famous. Within five minutes of leaving The Guardian office with a colleague, we had been waved at, laughed at, called "wankers" by a bunch of lads outside a pub, and "Noddy and Big Ears" by a cabbie. And so it went all weekend: people laughed and smiled. Others looked sorry for me, or embarrassed and turned away. "Look, he's driving a bumble bee," said one, because it was black and yellow. And when I went to pick up a friend from Paddington Station, she almost burst into tears when she saw it. You know who you are. Hannah. But Helen, my neighbour, thought it was cute - which makes a bit of a mockery of DaimlerChrysler's marketing plan of appealing to the youth, because... well, Helen is no spring chicken.The thing about the Smart Car is that it just doesn't look like it belongs on the road - a fairground maybe, on Teletubbies, or hanging from a Christmas tree, but not on the road. Swatch, the watch people, were involved in the design, and it does look more like something you'd wear on your wrist than go to work in.Inside, it was purple, comfortable and well finished, if a little strange. A clock and rev counter pop up on surprised stalks. There's nothing much behind you, or in front, for that matter. And if you're driving, you're sitting on the left because they only come like that. But it has a wicked little stereo, and I liked the glass roof (this was a top of the range Passion model).To drive, well there's not a huge amount of power, there's a big delay on the clutchless "tiptronic" gear changes, and every bump on the road feels like a mallet blow to the coccyx. But it is undeniably fun - mainly because of all the attention it attracts. You can drive cheekily, nipping in front of people, cutting them up, and instead of getting angry, they'll just laugh. There's also something deeply pleasing about parking facing out from the pavement.My main problem with the Smart, apart from the "wanker"comments, was that I couldn't really get the point of it. It's designed to cut through urban traffic, but it's still a car and takes just as long to get to anywhere as any other car. There's room for only two people, and if you take it to the supermarket, as I did, you'll find you can't get a trolley-load in the back. It's not that much cheaper than other superminis that have seats in the back and room for a bit of shopping, and, although economical on petrol, it's not really the green solution it claims to be either - because you almost certainly need another car.The sticker on the back said "Making driving fun again" which is true, but it could well have said "Making fun of driving again".So I recommend you fork out the extra fifty grand or so for a Mercedes S430. Not only will you not need another car, but also you can pretty much dispense with all other posses sions as this car does everything. To give you some idea, the driver's manual is a 420-page hardback volume, which I only managed to dip into. In fact, I lied a bit about the "Distronic" system that automatically keeps you a safe distance from the car in front - it exists, but we never figured out how to use it.We also never worked out how to operate the voice control (they say it recognises every regional accent), or the keyless ignition (the car knows when you're coming, unlocks itself, and will start at the touch of a button). We were disappointed not to have an operational television, or a fridge (they'd sent us the the special winter sports model which had a ski pouch instead of a fridge, silly Mercedes). And the woman on the navigation system got a bit annoying after a while - like when we turned off M1 to avoid the gridlock; after repeating "if you can, do a U-turn" an annoying number of times, she tried to make out it was her idea in the first place. You can turn her off, of course.These are minor quibbles in a car which in every other way is absolutely brilliant. You might expect such a barge of a thing, to handle like a barge. But no, it's crisp, very quick, effortless, much less cumbersome than its predecessor. And if you were to be involved in an accident, there are eight airbags, which would instantly turn the inside of the car into a bouncy castle.One more small complaint: it looks like pretty much everything else on the road. "A bit like a big Mondeo," said a friend. I don't know, but if you're shelling out 57,000 you wouldn't mind getting noticed just a teeny bit. It might have been nice to have been called "wanker" just once.The price range: S280 43,640 up to 74,040Smart Car 5,999 to 8,499FOR INFORMATION ON THE SMART CAR, CALL 0500 123 456
Minor royalA burgundy Morris Minor, once owned by Sophie Rhys-Jones, is to be auctioned at the Brooks Summer Vintage Sale at Beaulieu on July 29. Normally, such a car goes for 2,000 but Brooks thinks the fact the Countess of Wessex drove it will add to its value. Autoparts isn't sure. Watch this space.How not to fix gridlockA 12-mile hold-up on the A419 at Swindon was caused by council officers conducting a survey to cut... traffic jams. Fuming drivers were asked their destinations and postcodes. Good work.Did you know......that more people go to car boot sales at the weekend than football matches and race meeting combined? So big is car booting in fact that it now has its own magazine: the Car Boot Calendar. Hurrah.Quote of the week"That's my abiding memory of life of the road. Nylon sheets, waking up every morning with my hair on end, and spending all day pumping 4,000 volts into anyone with whom I shook hands. That and being laughed at in Indian restaurants for eating on my own. 'Look at that bloke with the funny hair. He's got no mates'."
 - Jeremy Clarkson remembers life as a sales rep, The Sunday TimesBad ManorsPoor David Christensen. He's been banned from the hotel where he was living for driving the wrong car. Staff at the exclusive Ardencote Manor Hotel, near Warwick, say the 43-year-old IBM executive's Subaru Impreza Turbo would attract the wrong sort of people. And it seems they were right; on his first night there thieves smashed the car's windows and raided the hotel office in an attempt to find its keys. Apparently the 21,000 model is favoured for ram-raiders and joy-riders. So Mr Christensen will either have to find somewhere else to live or buy himself a BMW.
When I told my media colleagues I had decided to give up my backstage privileges at Glastonbury to camp with (non-media) friends, and write about the festival from the perspective of ordinary punters, the response was : "You must be... joking!"Plenty of reasons were rolled out as to why I was making a big mistake. They ranged from the perverse ("But you'll be rubbing shoulders with the plebs," said the head of press of one record company) to the practical: that all the high-tech equipment needed to write and send stories to thewebsitecould only be safely stored and used backstage.Had I been using my regulation issue Sony lap-top, mobile phone and PC card modem - plus leads and adaptors - I wouldn't have dreamed of using them anywhere but the secure backstage compound.But Finnish mobile phone company Nokia had asked me to try out its 9110 Communicator - the latest incarnation of the device that James Bond used as a remote control for his BMW in Tomorrow Never Dies.The Communicator looks and feels like an old mobile phone: it's square, heavy and certainly can't be slipped unnoticed into a bikini bottom. But the hefty case includes a qwerty keyboard, liquid crystal display, built-in cellular modem, email software and a primitive but functional web browser. So I could write, send and even proof my stories on the move.Although the Nokia might not be ideal for a bikini, it does fit into the pocket of my Levi's, while I yomped from stage to stage reviewing bands and collaring bemused passers-by for instant opinions. Nokia also threw in the latest Casio digital camera which can beam pictures by infra red on to the Communicator to   be emailed to the website.In theory, I now had all I needed to send the whole multimedia package on to the world wide web. But in reality the technology did not fully match up to its staggering promise.On the positive side, I was at the front line, taking snaps and writing copy on the go without looking too much like a poser, collapsing from exhaustion or being mugged by strung-out crusties.However, digital cameras may deliver instant results but they drain batteries almost as quickly. The Casio emptied 12 Duracells after only 40 pictures. Soon I was ruthlessly vetting potential pictures to conserve battery life and missing impromptu shots because the camera was always powered down.But the real problem was getting the Communicator to communicate.To be fair this was not really the hardware's fault. On Thursday and Friday - while people were still arriving - it was relatively easy to get on the net. But by Friday afternoon so many festival-goers were using mobile phones that both Cellnet and Vodafone were overwhelmed for long periods. So much for Glastonbury being a celebration of "alternative" cultures and lifestyles.Only Orange (which was one of the festival sponsors and put up extra transmitters on the site) could guarantee coverage - but that was the only network the Nokia does not work with.The others would drop connections regularly - particularly frustrating when you have spent 25 minutes sending nearly all of a 500k file at 9,600 bps.When everything did go smoothly, it offered a tantalising glimpse of the future. Sitting in a Somerset field sipping cider in the afternoon sun, listening to    the Super Furry Animals play Demons while reading a review I had uploaded 10 minutes earlier is a moment I will look back on with a smile for a long time.
In the exploding world of e-commerce, online trading companies are making enormous advances. The question for small and medium sized companies which feel they cannot take the risk is: "Can we afford not to be involved?"The main reason why most businesses have not acted already is the fear that it would be uneconomic to acquire an expensive full time direct internet connection, a big time computer server, and a complicated catalogue program.Once that is assembled, they would then require expert advice, not to mention someone from Mensa, to install real-time secure credit card processing.But help is at hand from "e-commerce service providers" who allow small businesses the facility to create online stores in a few hours.Take IBM Home Page Creator, for example. Sign up online for &#163;15 per month and you are in business. That's the basic system. If you require the credit card authorisation service, sign up for the "bronze" service for a monthly fee of &#163;24.With that comes your own website with real-time secure credit card authentication, multiple shipping rates, product descriptions and images.Included in the package is free registration with major search engines and the facility to register with NetNames your personal domain name, similar to www. yourname.co.ukIBM is offering a 30-day free trial on the No Risk option to businesses contemplating the e-world. Having the capability to take orders securely 24 hours a day, seven days a week in a global marketplace for &#163;6 per week, plus the security of dealing with IBM, must appeal to every businessperson.Other similar services are beginning to emerge. Search engine Yahoo!, US company NetNation and Canadian companies SunCommerce Corp and DXShop all allow you to create an online store in a   matter of hours. They offer between 10 and 30 days free trial and charge $100 per month.Most people look at the front end of a program (that which appears on the screen), as opposed to the back end, where information and buying trends are recorded. SunCommerce has included access to a fund of effective information.When you consider that a comparable program, Microsoft Enterprise, costs more than &#163;3,000 to buy, you start to realise the e-world is a considerable leveller and holder of many opportunities.Any business that is contemplating an e-world presence must have a strategy. The first question must address how to achieve and sustain a competitive advantage through a website. In many cases this will involve re-engineering their business relationship with customers.While a website designer is not required, help will be needed in developing an e-world strategy that makes business sense.Many people complain that the internet carries too much information, and that it is difficult for a business to discover how to use it properly.But the internet is not going to go away, and businesses that are willing to invest will find that it is a valuable and powerful tool. Those not online are no longer part of the game.&#149;  Christopher Lynas is the chairman of Scotland's Craft Brewers Co-operative.
Net users used to say that "information wants to be free", but the new trend is for websites that will pay you to read them. Frequent surfers can collect cash in the form of ipoints or beenz the way frequent flyers collect air-miles, as website owners sign up for rewards schemes that encourage customers to keep coming back for more.There's nothing new about loyalty or rewards schemes: millions of people used to save Green Shield Stamps, which involved sticking "trading stamps" in books. More recently, vendors have turned to new technologies, and card-based schemes from retailers like Boots, Tesco, and WH Smith have become popular.It's no surprise to see the same ideas appearing online as more and more people start to shop the web.Indeed, rewards schemes may prove even more important online, where automated search-bots make it easier to find the lowest price. On Saturday, a survey of 1,905 online shoppers conducted for the Associated Press by   US-based internet research firm NFO Worldwide revealed that more than half (53%) of those surveyed said they would buy more if incentives were offered, and almost half (47%) said they would be more loyal to a site that gave rewards.Only 15% said that rewards would not influence them to make more purchases."Ecentives" are certainly more convenient than off-line schemes. Aaron O'Sullivan, director ofwww.ipoints.co.uk, says "the really fun thing" about ipoints is that everything happens on the internet. "You join the scheme online, collect and check your points online, and spend them online. There's much more   'instant gratification' than when you have to write away for your points, get a brochure to spend them, and so on. We have people joining up and redeeming points at 3am!"The lower overheads of electronic trading can also allow for larger rewards. O'Sullivan says: "We allocate about 7%-10% of the sales value for rewards, so it's a major, major jump on traditional schemes where it's 1%-2%. It means you get rewards three or four times faster. And it's not just about shopping. You can get points for visiting sites or for completing surveys, and you get points if you get your friends to sign up."The ipoints scheme, which has signed up about 5,000 members in its first two months, will soon face competition from Zoom points, which will be launched "in about six weeks", according to Zoom chairman Robin Klein. The difference is that where ipoints are offered on disparate sites ranging from Amazon.co.uk to Screentrade, Zoom points will be limited to the Zoom.co.uk online shopping mall."It's a classical loyalty scheme," says Klein: "and a point is a penny: it's interchangeable with cash. It's a way to encourage and reward online shoppers, and an incentive to come back to Zoom."Points won't be available on other websites, but they will be offered by brands owned by the Arcadia Group, Zoom's parent company, including Top Shop, Principles, Dorothy Perkins, and Burton Menswear. Other partners who trade through the mall - such as Amazon, Interflora, Jobsearch, and online auction house QXL - will also all be able to offer Zoom points. "And we hope they will. They'd be missing a real opportunity were they not to," says Klein.Similar schemes have been running in the US for years, through companies like MyPoints.com, CyberGold, and Netcentives.MyPoints.com's chief executive Steve Markowitz says the company's MyPoints and BonusMail loyalty programmes have attracted two million consumers in 18 months, and MyPoints are used by more than 250 clients including Disney and Dell.   CyberGold says that more than a million members are collecting its points, which can be exchanged for cash, and it has just launched its own credit card. Netcentives has more than 350,000 members, and the merchants using its ClickRewards scheme include Gap, Yahoo! and OfficeMax.But not all the American rewards schemes are open to users outside North America, and participating retailers may not be willing to grant points to non-US users, or redeem them. Even if they are, O'Sullivan argues that "people like to buy from companies in their own country. They probably know the brand names, they can get the product faster, and if something goes wrong, it's a lot easier to get your money back from a UK company."What people don't like, of course, is having to cope with multiple schemes. They are already suffering from "plastic fatigue" caused by carrying too many bank cards, store cards, phone cards, membership cards and so on. Who wants online points that don't exist off-line?   Why can't people collect, say, air miles online instead?Judith Thorne, group marketing director at Air Miles Travel Promotions Ltd, says they can. "All of our clients will offer &#91;air miles&#93; online, and if you use your NatWest credit card to make online purchases, you get air miles on that," says Thorne. "So effectively air miles is not just an online currency, it's a retail currency as well. They're all going to have to do that, otherwise they won't survive. People don't want to have to collect one type of points online and another type when they shop at retail so we see &#91;the internet&#93; as a great opportunity to build on what we've already got."But, like other rewards and loyalty schemes, air miles have limitations. You can collect air miles in dozens of countries but they're not interchangeable - frequent travellers have to carry different cards for different airlines - and they're not universal. "We have exclusive deals with NatWest and Sainsbury's and Shell and Vodaphone," says Thorne, "so we wouldn't work with   Barclaycard or Tesco or BT and so on."Does this mean there's a gap in the market for a universal currency for the web? Phil Letts - from the diary family - hopes so. Letts is chairman and chief executive of Beenz.com Inc, which launched beenz in March, and which is just about to begin a $10m direct marketing campaign through Lowe Direct."You can now earn beenz for doing the sort of things you do online in any case, you can save those beenz at the bank at Beenz.com, and you can spend them on a whole range of things," says Letts. "It's like money, but better. It's going to revolutionise the web,   and it's a British invention!"Traders can buy beenz from the bank and give them away to surfers who buy things, fill in forms or visit certain web pages. They can also ask visitors to pay in beenz for access to information that they don't want to give away free, but have no chance of charging real money for.Since beenz is, in Letts' words, "a rewards system, not a loyalty play", there's nothing to stop competing companies from offering them. In fact, Letts sees beenz working in parallel with loyalty systems: "I think you'll find, before too long, we'll start exchanging beenz into some of those points schemes," he says."The beauty of beenz is that it has a real opportunity to become the universal rewards currency, and that's what the consumer wants: a standard."Could beenz be used to pay for pornography? Letts barely misses a beat: "It's a free market," he says. "Porn sites are there to be stopped by parents or by governments, not by us."Letts says the take-up of beenz is running ahead of expectations with about 150   sites offering beenz, 22 sites redeeming them, and more than 20,000 active account holders at the beenz bank. "Everyone thought we were a bit mad with our forecasting, but we've really over-achieved. We've got nearly 50 employees and a humming business and a great infrastructure so we can roll this thing out really fast now. You're going to start seeing some big names pretty soon, and we're going to start the consumer marketing this month. From September we'll start spending serious money, $1m a month."Nor do Letts's ambitions stop with the web. "This thing is going to go off-line," he says, "and yes, we're doing some trials already with one of the leading smartcard players, and we'll be on WebTV and mobile phones by the end of the year. All of those things are in our plans, absolutely."The ultimate fantasy is, of course, to have beenz quoted as a currency alongside US dollars, pounds sterling and yen. For Letts it would be like having the facility to print money, except that with an electronic currency, he won't even have to print it.
Cost of freeBritain will have her first &#163;1bn internet company if the public flotation of Dixons' Freeserve offshoot lives up to the latest City expectations. Yet Freeserve, according to figures released this week, had revenues of only &#163;2.7m in the eight months to May on which it made a loss of just over &#163;1m. The consensus among the investment banks involved is that the fledgling company should be worth &#163;1.9bn.This valuation is based on the assumption that each customer is worth &#163;1,500. The proposed sale of Freeserve is as unreal as some of the US internet stocks which - even after the reversals of   the past few weeks are being rated bizzarely above any medium term profit potential. Freeserve, which dislodged America Online as the UK's number one internet service provider (ISP), could easily be itself dislodged by rivals offering free access or even paying people with internet money (right) to take their services. One recent UK ISP startup (themutual.com) offered the first users 10,000 free units in the company to get it off the ground. It claims 60,000 users have already registered.Goodness knows what would happen if the Inland Revenue floated its operations in order to capitalise on its (captive) customer base.Y3KIf you are still worrying about the Y2K problem then you are well out of date. Really wired-up analysts are forecasting what will happen in 3000. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the US investment bank reckons that in the year 3000 clothes may not need washing or ironing and everyday items   will be bought almost instantaneously over the internet.Clothes will be able to maintain body moisture and temperature, and deliver vitamins to the blood through the skin. The internet will be pervasive, connected to individuals through all-in-one, miniature units holding cell phone, organiser and pager, and integrated into clothing "to make Star Trek look positively prehistoric".There is no mention of the Y3K bug - when 29th century programmers forgot to allow for a roll-over to a new century starting with the digits 30 - but let's not dwell on that now.HoneytrapPeople seriously concerned about Y2K problems are buying honey on the grounds that it is nutritious and almost unperishable. Sales are said to be soaring, particularly in the more sensitive parts of the US. We knew the millennium was going to prove a honey pot for someone.
Yahoo!, the internet portal, has been attacked by an online watchdog over new terms for the 4.5 million users of its GeoCities home pages. A new clause in the Terms of Service document demands that "homesteaders" who host their home pages at the site give Yahoo! extensive rights to re-use, republish and sublicense their material. Users will not be given access to their websites until they agree to the new terms.The clause was branded "outrageous" by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a non-profit civil liberties group which specialises in computer and internet issues.  The document was sent to GeoCities users last weekend. It says that, by posting pages on the free web-hosting site, users "automatically grant" Yahoo! a series of "royalty-free, perpetual, irrecoverable, non-exclusive and fully sublicensable" rights to use the material "in any form, media, or technology now known or later developed".Concerns were expressed online as soon as the new Terms of Service were posted. One expert warned that "GeoCities/Yahoo owns your work if you store it on their server". Other users said they    feared the new clause gave Yahoo! the right to sell at a profit content they produced. Shari Steele, director of legal services for the EFF, said the new clause was "really pretty outrageous" but legal, and based on previous court rulings on software "shrinkwrap" licences, where users are deemed to agree to terms and conditions by ripping open a software package. At least two other major online communities use similar clauses.She added: "the problem is that there's not enough notice for people to be giving away that many rights. These are pretty strong rights you're going to give away and I think it could be challenged in a way shrinkwrap licences    could not - meaning successfully." Yahoo! executive producer Tim Brady said that although the Terms of Service were new for GeoCities users, they had been in use at Yahoo! for "quite a period".He denied the new clause was meant to "grab other people's work or somehow capitalise on the time they have spent building these home pages". He told Guardian OnLine: "We have no ownership over the content. All we get is licence to put up &#91;web pages&#93; and copy, the reason being that we have server mirrors throughout the world. In case a server goes down we copy to a different server. And we need the right to do that."Responding to suggestions   that the language was very broad for such a need, he said: "The purpose of that language is to give us freedom to serve up that page. We can't possibly anticipate every thing that will happen. Ultimately our success depends on treating the homesteaders well. If we break that trust our business model will collapse." Brady said the clause would allow the company to take pages they want to use to promote the company or the site and censor pages, removing foul language or offensive material. Users who reject the terms should email the company and their material will be removed promptly. A number of GeoCities homesteaders have already stated that they plan to move.
You've got email, so you quickly scroll through the From and Subject lines of the last 10 messages. Aha, there's a note from the boss: better read it and tap in a quick reply. Nothing unusual about that, you might think, except you can do it sitting on a bus with a mobile phone. . . .The system has limitations: phones have such small LCD screens I found I could only get three or four words on a line. With speeds of 9.6 kbits/second, email could take ages to download (PC modems are almost five   times faster) and there's no way to read attachments. It also takes much longer to tap in replies with a phone's numeric keypad. Still, at least you can track and read important messages without carrying a computer.The real benefit of mail-enabled mobiles like the Alcatel OneTouch and Nokia 7110 I tried is that they look identical to their less-capable cousins: there's nothing extra to carry.The technology bringing email to mobiles is WAP, the Wireless Application Protocol. The WAP standard was developed by the three   biggest mobile phone suppliers - Ericsson, Nokia, and Motorola - with a small Silicon Valley company, Unwired Planet, which recently changed its name to Phone.com. A WAP-based service is already operating in France, where Alcatel's OneTouch phone is now on sale. UK services - under test - may be launched in September.WAP phones are expected to create a huge new market and stimulate the growth of services designed for their small screens. Nokia has already announced that the CNN (Cable News Network) TV channel will offer a news service, CNN Mobile, to 7110 users, while Orange has announced a similar deal with ITN's new media division. Leading websites are expected to launch WAP-compatible "pocket" or "wireless" versions like the Microsoft Network's MSN Mobile.Peramon, a UK-based start up, is targeting this market with its Lexicos   client/server software, announced this week at the Networks Telecom 99 exhibition in Birmingham. Lexicos client software can read internet email on a mobile phone, handheld electronic organiser or personal computer; Lexicos server software stores and indexes everything so that you can easily find things again. The server software can be hosted by a mobile phone service provider such as Orange - in which case your mail is stored online - or on a corporate Unix server, or an ordinary PC or notebook running Microsoft Windows.Lexicos was developed by programmers working for Digital Equipment Corporation on software for its AltaVista search engine. When Compaq took over Digital last year, they bought out the technology and set up their own company, Peramon. They are now offering a trial version online atwww.peramon.com
What was your introduction to computers?I bought a Toshiba T1200 laptop in 1989 and used it for three years before being converted to Macintosh. Upon seeing the quality of documents that were being presented by a friend with absolutely no computer experience from his Macintosh Powerbook 140 compared to my trusty Toshiba, after DOS and me finally seeing eye to eye, I'm afraid there was no turning back.Do you get involved with web design and/or programming?I've dabbled with web design for fun, but there are people out there who know what they are doing and quite frankly I don't.How important is the computer to your work?My computer is the mainframe of my business life. All my faxes land on my screen, as do my emails. I fax directly from my desktop and scan other real documents into the computer trying my hardest to have as little paper as possible, filing has now become hard disk space instead of filing cabinets.What kind of machine(s) do you use?I use a G3/266 in the office with an iMac 233 at home. I occasionally use an old Powerbook 5300CE when travelling.Any particular favourite software/ hardware?Global Village Fax software. Anything that can give you the ability to fax 30 pages to 100 different people with a personalised cover sheet after you've left the office and then tell you what went through successfully and what failed when you return has got be a godsend! Fave hardware - it has to be the iMac.Any favourite websites? Or news groups on UseNet?Dvd express.comgets the most hits from me, as does bjork.com from a work point of view.Should the net be regulated?People are going to find what they want on the net or elsewhere whether it is legal or not.Any favourite gadgets?I like the look of the new Palm V for size and the Nokia chrome-look mobile phone; also the Nokia Communicator for its effort in trying to create the total communication device. The Panasonic DVD L10 has to be the most impressive gadget to get out on a plane. It definitely gets the attention.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?A human, definitely. Chances are if I specified a G3 400 with 20 inch monitor and all my dream software packages, I wouldn't be able to plug it in, unless I was stranded on Richard Branson's desert island that is!What projects are occupying your time just now?The release of the first chart compatible DVD single from Bj&ouml;rk has been an interesting project. Creating the awareness of such a fantastic medium as DVD to a very unaware British music industry and public, very successfully. The shooting of Bj&ouml;rk's first feature film Dancer In The Dark with Danish director, Lars Von Trier.
