A very old cliche says Microsoft gets things right the third time, which could be true for the new smart, silver Surface Pro 3.Where last October’s Surface Pro 2 was merely tweaked and speed-bumped, the third version, launching in the UK on 28 August, answers almost all the complaints made about the February 2013 original.Compared with the Surface Pro, the Pro 3 has a 40% bigger 12in screen with 50% more pixels, but it’s also a third thinner at 9.1mm and 120g lighter at only 800g, with a solid build quality.Where the original Surface kickstand had one rest angle, and the Surface Pro 2 had two, now it has a range of 22 to 150 degrees. Its detachable Type Cover keyboard is also thinner, but it now has backlighting and a 63% bigger trackpad.The new squarer screen (with its 3:2 ratio) is more balanced than the old design, with the relocated Windows Key at the bottom of the screen making it easy to use held vertically.The new pen technology makes using the Pro 3 as a notepad replacement easy. Photograph: MicrosoftThe touchscreen technology has been improved to make it much easier to use the Surface Pro 3 as a replacement for a notebook and pen. Just click the pen-top and the tablet almost instantly turns on with a blank page in OneNote.The size and weight are impressive for a full PC. It is thinner than an Apple iPhone 4S and the screen alone only 120g heavier than the original iPad.The Surface Pro conceptLike thethe original Surface Pro, the Pro 3 is a multifunction device. With the Type Cover attached it’s a Windows 8.1 laptop; but it works well too as a graphics tablet.The Surface Pro 3 works as a desktop replacement if you add the docking station, supporting full size USB keyboards and mice, and multiple display screens.The docking station turns the Pro 3 into a desktop computer. Photograph: MicrosoftThe drawbacksSurface Pro 3 is both thin and light for a full PC. Photograph: MicrosoftEvery multifunction device - even the humble smartphone - involves making some compromises compared with buying several dedicated devices. Most obviously, while the Surface Pro 3 is small for a full-spec laptop, it’s big for a tablet.The laptop compromise depends on keyboard quality and “lappability”. Although the Type Cover is very nice for something so thin, it’s not as good as the keyboards fitted to decent laptops. It will work with any standard PC keyboard, but those don’t provide such a neat, portable package.Using the original Surface Pro on one’s lap was a challenge. The new version is much better because you can raise the keyboard and vary the angle of the kickstand.However, the tablet form factor means it will never be as comfortable as a laptop. The weight isn’t under the keyboard, spread across your thighs; it’s in the screen, and the kickstand means you need a couple of extra inches beyond where a laptop hinge would be.I don’t need “lappability” (I take trains with tables, or use the Surface Pro 3 in tablet mode with on-screen keyboard), but if I did, I’d go for a hybrid laptop with a detachable screen.As with all thin laptop designs, there’s also some compromise on performance. Chips in ultra-thin PCs can’t run as hot as they can in spacious desktops, which means you won’t get the same continuous speed for movie editing or playing heavyweight games. In normal use, I barely got the Surface Pro 3 warm, but it’s obviously going to get hot if you stress it.The nigglesThe Surface Pro 3 is a major advance on the Surface Pro, but it’s not perfect. The most annoying thing is the Windows key, which has been moved to the right hand side of the screen, where it is all too easy to press by accident. If I owned a Surface Pro 3, I’d be looking for a tweak to turn it off.While the Type Cover is usable – and vastly better than the Touch Cover, which has been dropped for the Surface Pro 3 – I’d still like a better option. Perhaps one day Logitech will provide one.Type Cover attached, the Surface Pro 3 becomes a laptop. Photograph: MicrosoftThe Surface Pro 3’s 12in screen is the right size: not too big for a tablet but not too small for a laptop. The 2,160 x 1,440 resolution screen means you can’t see individual pixels, but it makes Windows 8 features very small. In fact, they’re not very finger-friendly even with the standard 150% scaling. (For comparison, the MacBook Pro with Retina Display does 2560 x 1600 on a 13.3in screen, but it’s twice as thick and much heavier.)There’s a USB 3 port, which is particularly useful if you plan to get a third-party USB 3 hub, but perhaps it could have had a Thunderbolt port. Maybe next time?Finally, there’s the four-cell, 42 watt-hour battery. Microsoft reckons you’ll get about nine hours of use for light work with Wi-Fi on, and most people should find it lasts all day. (If not, the charger is tiny.)Some laptops last longer, because they have bigger and heavier batteries, but some sacrifices come from being ultra-thin and ultra-light.PricingThe Surface Pro 3 costs from £639, including the £44.99 pen. The Type Cover costs an extra £109.99 and the Docking Station £164.99.VerdictThe Surface Pro 3’s kickstand will hold the tablet in multiple positions on a desk or balanced on a lap. Photograph: MicrosoftMicrosoft describes the Surface Pro 3 as “the tablet that can replace your laptop”. That’s definitely true, though people who work with it mostly on their lap (which is bad for your spine), would be better off with a traditional laptop.It also says “the new 12-inch Pro 3 is the best of a laptop, best of a tablet”. However, there are high-end Windows tablets with touch screens, better keyboards and better battery life, albeit they’re not as thin or as light.There are also much slimmer and lighter tablets – such as the Sony Xperia Z2 tablet and iPad Air – though they are not full PCs. It all depends what you need.The Surface Pro 3 wins if you want both a laptop and a tablet in a single device, and it becomes unbeatable if you also want pen operation and/or a tough device.The Surface Pro 3 should be the first choice for pro photographers and some graphics professionals, and a variety of field workers. It would also suit people who spend a lot of time on planes. But those are not mass markets.For business it takes large enterprises years to change, and they’re still deploying Windows 7, not Windows 8. It would be a terrific device for education as well, but schools can’t afford it.So, while the Surface Pro 3 is lovely prestige product, and much better than the Surface Pro 2, I don’t think it’s going to give Lenovo, or Apple, any sleepless nights. It has a strong appeal, but it doesn’t look wide enough.Pros: Works as a touch-tablet, ultraportable laptop (with Type Cover), a pen-operated slate, and a desktop PC (with Docking Station)Cons: Compromised weight, battery life and “lappability” compared to separate devices (fewer compromises than the Surface Pro 2), expensive if you don’t need the features
Although the E3 video game conference in Los Angeles tends to attract much more hype,Gamescomis a big deal in the global industry. Held every August at the giant Koelnmesse convention centre in Cologne, the event attracts all the big mainstream publishers and developers, as well as over 200,000 visitors, cramming its vast exhibition spaces for four hot, long days.This year should see plenty of new information about the next wave of PlayStation 4 and Xbox One titles, as well as one or two completely new revelations. For now, here are the five questions we’d like to see resolved amid the crowds and the currywurst.Is Sony going to reveal the new title from Media Molecule?The Guildford studio behind the acclaimed LittleBigPlanet series was absent from E3 this year, possibly because the focus was on LittleBigPlanet 3, which is now being handled by another developer, Sumo Digital. Indeed, Media Molecule is working on something very different – something it teased very briefly and ambiguously at E3 2013: a kind of creative sculpting tool which allows PS4 owners to use the Move controller as a tool to design objects and environments. What could it be? Is it a highly intuitive game making application, or something more about performance and art? Gamescom seems like the perfect place to move the story on a bit and provide a few more details.Elsewhere, Sony will also have Bloodborne, the new title from the creator of Dark Souls, playable on the show floor. We can also expect new footage of incoming PS4 titles like The Order: 1886, DriveClub and LBP3, plus there are suggestions that offbeat PS3 hits Journey and Unfinished Swan are getting upgraded for the new machine.A day in the life of Media MoleculeE3 2014: Bloodborne preview – sombre Lovecraftian horrorDriveClub, PlayStation 4 and the future of social gamingWill Microsoft make a big first-party game announcement?Gamescom is usually used as a sort of back-up to E3, providing more advanced demos of key titles, or bulking out earlier revelations with new info. Microsoft is likely to be doing that with several big Xbox One titles including Sunset Overdrive, Forza Horizon 2, Crackdown and Remedy Entertainment’s intriguing sci-fi experiment Quantum Break.There are also hints that it may be about to reveal some sort of backwards compatibility system, allowing Xbox and Xbox 360 titles to run on the console. A promotional tweet for Gamescom, sent out on Sunday, showed the old Xbox logo:How many of these#Xboxgames can you ID?&#10;(And yes, we know the Xbox logo isn&#39;t a game.)pic.twitter.com/2N5zeTYDRv&mdash; Xbox (@Xbox)August 9, 2014But there are also strong indications that Microsoft will reveal something completely new. It spent the whole of E3 2014 talking about how games are now the focus; it could build on that message very effectively with a bandstanding announcement. Also, Microsoft has the first press conference this year, at 1pm UK time – that’s the perfect opportunity to set the agenda for the show.Of course, if it’s another retro re-make in the style of Project Dust, please feel free to laugh and point at us later.Microsoft at E3 2014: from Halo 5 to the return of Crackdown - the key pointsE3 2014: Halo Master Chief Collection announced for Xbox OneWhat is Shadow Realms?Over the past week, superstar developer BioWare (Mass Effect, Dragon Age) has released three teaser videos on YouTube, seemingly from a forthcoming project named Shadow Realms. Under the header “You’ve been chosen” the spooky live action clips show teenagers seemingly being recruited into some sort of nocturnal cabal, with extreme powers of destruction.It’s been reportedthat the title is a join project with UK studioFailbetter Games, a specialist in interactive fiction projects like Fallen London and Sunless Sea. All very intriguing.Electronic Arts may also have snippets on Mirror’s Edge 2, as well as fresh information on Fifa 15, Sims 4, Dragon’s Age: Inquisition and Battlefield: Hardline.Will Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare do something revolutionary with online multiplayer?No wait, itcould! The new title is being created by Sledgehammer Games, which previously helped out on Modern Warfare 3, so it has experience. But studio heads Glen Schofield and Michael Condry were itching to take creative control and bring something new to the seemingly endless franchise – now they have a chance. Call of Duty: Ghosts was something of a cross-generational stop-gap, so could this one be the true heir to Call of Duty 4 – i.e. the title that gives the series fresh impetus?Watch out for the online multiplayer reveal streaming live tonight at 6pm across a variety of game news sites. Will we see major changes to the customisation and levelling up systems? Will they kill killstreaks? Whatever gets announced tonight should be playable in Cologne later in the week …E3 2014: Call of Duty Advanced Warfare – the future of CoDCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare – a non-gamer’s guideWill Far Cry 4 be the open-world game of its generation?It has an incredible setting, a truly strange antagonist, some neat seamless co-op concepts and you can ride elephants. I mean, what could possibly go wrong? The latest in Ubisoft’s series of survival sandbox adventures sees Ajay Ghale returning to his remote mountain home town of Kyrat only to find it under the rule of fashion-conscious despot, Pagan Min. Much hilarity and bloodshed ensues.Ubisoft has honed its skills in open-world gaming through the Far Cry, Assassin’s Creed and Watch Dog titles, and this game should represent the zenith of that work. Far Cry 3 had some of the best emergent gameplay we’ve seen in a mainstream title, with the island’s eco-system playing a vital role in the action. Could this extend the man vs environment theme?We’ll soon know more – Gamescom is getting the first hands-on public demo. Expect queues several hours long.Far Cry 4 announced – Himalayan setting revealed
How good is theOnePlus Onephone, which recently hit the market? Good enough that after trying a review unit, I bought one. It is simply the best combination of hardware and software, at a more-than-fair price, that I’ve found to date.Before I go into details, let me offer several cautions. It’s hard to buy one of these devices, because OnePlus is rationing the availability in its early days; you need an invitation, normally from a current owner, to buy one, though OnePlus says it’s ramping up mass production as quickly as possible. (Sorry, I don’t have any invites to offer.) The company,an offshoot of a Chinese manufacturer, Oppo, isselling the devices at roughly the cost of manufacturingto spur demand. So there’s always a question in such circumstances about support -reports like this(“Can’t get data to work. Went to AT&amp;T store. They checked APN settings. All correct. Just won’t work.”) aren’t encouraging - and about future pricing and longevity.Caveats aside, this is a terrific phone. The “phablet”-size (5.5in screen) hardware is outstanding, with specs that equal or beat competing devices, including a 2.5GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 processor; 3GB of RAM; 1,920x1,080 pixel screen; and 13 megapixel camera. It operates on multiple GSM and LTE networks (though not all bands, so potential buyers are wise to ensure that their carrier’s network is supported). For $299 (£229) 16GB storage or $349 (64GB), this phone is an awesome package at well under the price for similar devices from companies like Samsung. It’s surprisingly svelte – slightly lighter, for example, than Samsung’s Galaxy Note 3, which I had been using. The case has a textured plastic back that one reviewer likened to a cat’s tongue; this a matter of taste.The OnePlus One phone with the cover off - though you won’t be able to do this, as the battery isn’t removable. Photograph: /PR/OnePlusTwo hands goodThe screen size makes the OnePlus One a little too big for one-handed use. But it’s useful as it doubles as a media player and ebook reader. The Gorilla Glass screen could be a tad brighter for use in sunlight, but that’s a small quibble.The battery life is outstanding – well over a day of intensive use before needing to charge the phone. This is important, because the battery itself is not removable. Another missing piece is the lack of a slot for extra memory; again, this isn’t a horrible lapse given the relatively ample amount available off the shelf.Yet hardware isn’t the only reason I bought this phone. Equally important was the software that OnePlus has pre-loaded. It starts withCyanogenmod, a variant on Google’s Android operating system that started out as a hacker project and has spun off astartup companyin its own right. Cyanogenmod is one of a number teams tweaking the basic, open-source Android (aka AOSP) and apps that Google makes available to everyone, and making it even more open and useful.Usually, if someone wants to use one of these alternatives, it involves installing the software after buying a phone, literally replacing the phone’s operating system and basic applications. That can be technically tricky, and daunting for all but technically proficient users. Cyanogen has developed a one-click installation method for a small number of tested devices, but this isn’t foolproof, either.Essential activity and tweakabilityGlitches aside, Cyanogenmod and the other open third-party Android developers (see theXDA Developers forumfor information on many of the projects) are doing something I consider essential. Rather than trying to control the users’ experience with the device – the methodology followed by manufacturers and carriers that pre-load their own modified Android on almost all commercially sold Android phones – the open-source developers are returning control to the users. I can’t overstate how revolutionary this is in the mobile world; nor can I overstate my disgust at the carrier-manufacturer control freaks that have so plainly used Apple’s “we know what’s best and you don’t” iOS ecosystem as their model.The OnePlus is fully unlocked, of course, as it’s not sold through carriers. Happily, it’s also essentially free of the crapware and heavy modification of the Android user interface that companies like Samsung have pushed on buyers of their devices. Sometimes they add value with this stuff, but often it’s just cruft, and almost always impossible to remove.People who like to fiddle with settings will enjoy the nearly infinite tweakability of Cyanogenmod on the OnePlus. For example, there are all kinds of display “themes” available from the broader Cyanogenmod community, though the one that ships with the device was good enough for me.There’s no manual, a drawback that may be a deterrent to some potential buyers, but users can find lots of online help on a number of forums including the ones at OnePlus and Cyanogenmod.The OnePlus One phone: front view and side view Photograph: /PR/OnePlusOne setting I want to highlight is called Privacy Guard. It should come with all Android distributions, in my view, but the sleazy business of collecting vast amounts of data from people who use mobile devices has made that pro-user stance a non-starter. Privacy Guard lets you adjust what Google and its partners call “permissions” – what I call demands that you make data generated by the phone, often highly personal information, available to the manufacturer and developers of the operating system and apps. I’m using it in the standard setting, which blocks most unnecessary permissions on the apps I install apart from the ones that came with the system, but I’ve also locked down data transmission from some of those. There’s a risk of unpredictable performance with individual apps, including a refusal to work at all, but this is a big improvement over the “take it or leave it” stance that has pervaded the big (ie Android, Apple and Microsoft) app marketplaces.If you want a phone that’s free of the Google apps entirely – Maps, Gmail, Play – this isn’t the one for you. The OnePlus version of Cyanogenmod includes them, and there’s no option to remove them. Privacy Guard gives more flexibility in limiting their reach, but Google will never stop being a ravenous data collector.For those who want to become more fully liberated from the proprietary software ecosystem, the Free Software Foundation is working on an operating system project calledReplicant, which aims to give users a combination of nearly absolute control and avoidance of any proprietary software at all. The foundation also offers a catalog of free-software apps, calledF-Droid, which I’ve used often.I’m sticking for the moment with Cyanogenmod on the OnePlus. I’m also trying to install it on an older Samsung phone that I use with another carrier, though it appears that Samsung is going out of its way to make this difficult for its (former in my case) customers.My bottom line: The OnePlus has hit my sweet spot for mobile devices. If you are adventurous, and heed the caveats I’ve noted above, you may find it hits yours, too.
How can you teach your children to use the internet safely? It’s a question I’ve been thinking about a lot, as the father of five and seven year-old sons who are already adept with parental tablets and laptops alike.They know the internet is a magical entity capable of answering obscure questions; providing printable templates of pretty much any animal to colour in; and serving up endlessly-repeatable videos of startled cats,Stampy’s Minecraft exploitsandloom band tutorials.What they don’t know is anything about viruses, online privacy, phishing, social networking etiquette, and any other internet safety and/or security issue you can think of.Teaching them about this now and in the future is my job, and the challenge of getting it right is intimidating – even for someone who writes about a lot of these issues for a living.But then I remembered that there’s a whole industry of internet safety and security experts, many of whom have children of their own, and have to face the same task of rearing safe, responsible internet citizens.The advice that these people are giving their own kids should be top-drawer, so what is it? I put a call out, and was overwhelmed by responses. Here are edited versions of 21 of the most useful.‘Start discussing online safety at an early age’David Emm, senior security researcher at internet security company Kaspersky Lab“I think one of the key things is to start the process of discussing online safety with your children at an early age, when they start to do anything that involves the Internet.They might still be using the computer with you, rather than independently and this offers an opportunity to highlight the fact that the online world parallels the real world and that there are both safe and unsafe things out there. It also enables you to discuss the things that are there to protect us, e.g. Internet security protection, passwords, etc.As they get older and begin to do things independently, widen the circle. For example, if you let them start an account with Club Penguin or Moshi Monsters, help them create a sensible password and explain why they should use different passwords for each account and the possible consequences of not doing so.”‘If you wouldn’t do it face to face - Don’t do it online’Shelagh McManus, online safety advocate for security software Norton by Symantec“The advice I give my own family and friends is encapsulated in: “If you wouldn’t do it face to face - Don’t do it online” For example, would you go up to a complete stranger and start a conversation? Would you be abusive to friends or strangers in a pub or bar?Just because you feel protected by the apparent distance a screen gives between you and the person you’re talking to, you must remember that online is still the real world.Mid to late teens need to remember that everything they do over the web is captured forever and could come back to haunt them. Many employers and university admissions offices look at social media profiles when researching candidates.My husband and I actually used to ask random questions based on what the younger family members had put online just to remind them that they should lock down their profiles! If they didn’t want their dad, uncles and aunts or future employers asking about exactly what was in that fifteenth drink on Saturday night, they needed to check their privacy settings!”Should children use the internet unaccompanied? Photograph: Alamy‘At least I don’t feel like a spy...’Paul Vlissidis, technical director at cyber security firm NCC Group“My view is very non-PC I’m afraid (no pun intended). I have no filtering of any kind on my kids internet, no snooping and no time limits. I have of course spoken to each of them about the perils of the internet and they know that it’s an unsafe place unless they stay on the mainstream sites.They do have AV [antivirus software] and I do scan their machines regularly for malware and ensure they remain fully patched but that’s it. Basically I trust them.They have approached me several times where something odd has happened or where they had concerns (one Google search my daughter did for Barbie and Ken certainly produced some interesting results I recall). Of course they may yet turn out to be axe murderers, but only time will tell and at least I don’t feel like a spy.”‘Teach them to beware of strangers bearing gifts’Amichai Shulman, CTO of network security firm Imperva“Being a parent (four children), paranoid and a vendor I can shed some light on this. My basic belief is that adults have proven once and again vulnerable to cyber attacks and therefore we cannot expect children to be any better – especially given that their sense of curiosity is far more developed and their sense of caution far less mature.I do not expect my children to behave online much different than in the real world and therefore I explain to them about hackers being a type of criminal that breaks into your house through the computer rather than through the window. It’s easy for them to understand it.I also teach them to beware of strangers bearing gifts much like they should in the physical world. For example, I don’t allow my children to open a mail package if they don’t KNOW who sent it (or got my permission to do so) – much the same way, I don’t allow them to open unsolicited email attachments.Could they fall prey to someone who took over their friend’s account and sent out malware? Yes, but so would most adults. Could they fall prey to a targeted attack on our family? They probably will – like almost all adults.”‘Once you’ve written something you can’t delete it’David Robinson, chief security officer at Fujitsu UK &amp; Ireland“The Internet is a fantastic place, but you have to be careful what you do and say when you are there. Don’t say things which you wouldn’t talk about in conversations with your family, think about what you do and say, you may well regret what you do by hurting someone or being hurt yourself.Remember once you’ve written something you can’t delete it, despite what Google are doing in Europe, the right to be forgotten doesn’t apply everywhere! If what you do or say is controversial it will be copied many times and will always come back and bite you, even in later life when you apply to go to college, university or even a job.How you connect is important too, the gadgets you use, smart phones, tablets even old fashioned computers all need to be protected as well. But that’s only one part of it, those applications and services you use need to be protected, you don’t want others seeing your information. Use sensible passwords and protection, it’s a little price to pay for the security of your information and intimate details.Don’t be frightened to ask for help either, there’s lots of places and people who can show you what to do and how to behave such as Get Safe On-line, friends and teachers.”‘Never, under any circumstances, browse unaccompanied’Dave King, chief executive of online reputation management company Digitalis“The first and most fundamental principle is that my children never, under any circumstances, browse unaccompanied. They both have iPad Mini devices at which they are more adept than most adults I know. But both devices are set to forget the wifi access code so that they cannot get online without either my wife or I present.Ditto the computers in the house and the main screen for the computers to which they have access is in our living space (not bedrooms) so that any activity is plain to see.We talk to the children about the risks because the time will come that they have access outside the safety of our home. We make a point of being open about the concept of inappropriate content and the existence of bad people. In the same way that a generation ago we were told to shout loud when approached by a stranger, we tell the girls to tell us immediately of any approach online.We talk about trolling as we talk about bullying and we talk about paedophiles in the virtual and real world. Ultimately we want to retain their innocence but where we used to want street-wise kids we now need web-wise children.”‘Try and be vigilant and monitor what you can’Chase Cunningham, lead threat intelligence agent for cloud security company Firehost – and creator of educational comicThe Cynja“For my kids I have already set them up with their own personal private clouds through the Respect Network and I have set up all the devices that they can or could access the internet with has a passcode that only I know and each device has blocks on sites that I consider risky.I also have set up monitoring on their credit reports (yes they are only three and five but kids credit thievery happens all the time) and I am with them when they are using the internet.I tried to explain to them about the nasty side of the internet but it kind of fell on deaf ears, but I was able to educate them about the dangers of the internet through my comic The Cynja.They didn’t understand what I meant when I talked about malware and botnets as a tech geek dad but they understood that bad things are out there in cyberspace when they read the comic and saw the images.For me, and quite a few other parents recently, that was a real connection point for the kids was when they had a comic character to relate to who is literally telling them about being safe online and protecting their digital selves, they understood the story and were getting the message of being safe online all at the same time.”The Cynja is a comic that teaches children about cybersecurity.‘Educate early and often’Samantha Humphries-Swift, product manager at cybersecurity firm McAfee Labs“Get involved – I speak with my daughter regularly about which sites she is using, and given her age, I personally vet all app downloads. This way, I can keep an eye on security settings and make a judgement on whether I think it’s safe and appropriate for her to use.Educate early and often – I warned my daughter about the dangers of the internet as soon as she started browsing, and remind her of safe online behaviour regularly – don’t accept friendship requests from people you don’t know, verify requests if they look to be coming from someone you do know, never agree to a private chat with a stranger, never post your mobile phone number or home address online for all to see.Communication is key – I like to be open, approachable and understanding about what my daughter is getting up to online. This way it makes it easier for her to come to me with any problems she’s experiencing online, and she’s happy to ask for advice.On a more general note, talk to your kids about how they use their computers and smartphones and ask about any concerns they might have. Be prepared to field any questions they may ask – there are plenty of online resources available to help support you in answering tough and delicate questions.”‘Not just to tell them the rules but also to spend the time’Jesper Kråkhede, senior information security consultant at IT security company Sentor“My first observation on keeping your kids safe online is not just to tell them the rules but also to spend the time to show them that you’re the most trustworthy when it comes to the internet. In brief, a good line of communication with your kids, where they can talk to you and you to them is THE starting point for the best online protection.When it comes to passwords I tell them to use long sentences. Easy for them to remember and hard for others to crack. I teach them how to check that the virus protection is updated and how to answer requests. The bottom line we’ve agreed is that if they are unsure they should ask me.My kids use Facebook, Instagram, Twitter etc and I have asked them to be-friend me on all their apps. The next piece of advice I’ve given them is if they are posting a picture or a comment and they think they wouldn’t want me as their Dad to see it, then it doesn’t belong in the public domain at all.”‘Become friends and contacts in your child’s social media’Tracy Hulver, senior identity specialist for telco firm Verizon“Make sure your children ONLY message and accept friend and contact requests from people they know. A lot of times the number of contacts of friends you have become a “popularity contest”. People that do not have appropriate of good intentions realize that and will try and contact kids by masking as people they are not and “infiltrating” the child’s “inner circle”.Make sure YOU as a parent, become friends and contacts within your child’s social media circles and ensure you monitor posts. Your children may resist but tell them that is one of the conditions for you to allow them access.Ask to see their child mobile devices periodically. Some children, especially the older they get, will not want Mom and Dad looking at their messages to their friends and that’s OK if the parent doesn’t want to do that.But if nothing else, look to see what apps are installed, take a mental inventory, and if the parent is not familiar with the app, go online and do investigation. That way you at least know the types of social media services your child is using and to the point earlier, you should at least sign up for that service to see what it’s all about.”‘Imagine a responsible adult standing behind them’Kevin Gourlay, head of technical assurance at Platinum Squared, and head of the(ISC)2 Safe and Secure Onlinecybersafety initiative“My general rule is If they can imagine a responsible adult standing behind them, and watching what they are doing on the Internet, and they would be happy with being watched by them, then what they are doing is ok.If they are on Twitter for example, or Facebook, commenting or replying to posts, If they think that I would be OK with them doing what they are doing, then it’s ok. They need to be helped to apply common sense, rather than told what to do, and this can be easy for children once you help them to understand the risks.My two children are 9 and 14 years old, so I have two different sets of rules and advice for them. For my youngest, I’ll teach her about the websites that are likely to be safe online: .co.uk, .edu, .org, etc., and I have a whitelist in place to make sure she only stays on those sites.However, as they get older, learn more and become more mature, that list grows out and it becomes more of a blacklist with just certain websites blocked. It’s about giving them more freedom as they get more mature.”‘It’s about them understanding simple safety rules’Lucy Woodward, director at Disney’s Club Penguin virtual world for children“This is the crunch generation – so it’s vital that we get it right, and kids and parents learn internet safety skills for themselves. My kids are still very young so for me it’s about them understanding simple safety rules at this stage and keeping it fun - for example understanding what a password is and keeping it secret (kids love secrets!).At school my daughter has an internet reading program where she has an individual password and I have found this a good way in to talking about the issue. My children like many will be straight on the internet at any given opportunity so I also encourage them to tell me if they click on something that they don’t like the look of so they get in to an early routine of doing this and always knowing they can talk to us.”Parents can play a key role in their children’s online education. Photograph: Alamy‘Just apply standards you adopt offline to the online world’Sue Gold, partner, data privacy team at law firm Osborne Clarke“If you go out would you leave your front door open? Do you talk to strangers in the street who you know nothing about or meet them in a secluded location ? Do you tell strangers your deepest secrets and all your personal information?Rememberthe cartoon with a dog by a computerand the caption “The Beauty of the Internet is no-one knows you are a Dog“. People may not be what they seem and the 10 year old girl you are chatting with could be a 60 year old manJust apply standards you adopt offline to the on-line world and this will increase safety online. Be sensible and just remember that you have to be on your guard . Be careful about giving our any personal information including photos as once they are out there they could go anywhere.”‘Anything that is put online should assumed to be permanent’Chris Hoff, vice president, strategic planning, security, Juniper Networks“Kids are implicitly very trusting, so it’s possible that they are more likely to fall prey to a social engineering attempt and as such they need to be taught to spot them and not be afraid to question or challenge the need for disclosing things like passwords or other sensitive information in response to an e-mail, text, IM or social networking message.Further, it’s important for them to understand that anything that is put online should assumed to be permanent and they must be careful what they expose and that their identity and all that goes with it is precious.In the case of certain environments, considering the use of a Pseudonym, not disclosing one’s age or gender, and limiting identifying information for some of their interactions online is important.”‘Get them involved when installing patches’Neil Thacker, information security and strategy officer at cybersecurity company Websense“I make sure that cybersecurity is an element of everything my kids learn and do on their computers and through the Internet. I teach my two young sons, who are both under 10-years-old, about the importance of safe internet use at home and in school, and have been training them up to become mini-security experts themselves.I regularly remind them that websites can redirect to other websites without them being aware and get them involved when installing patches, so that they know the importance of ensuring systems are up-to-date. As a result, my youngest can already run a network scan on the home network and understands the difference between an Operating System and applications. He can even help identify vulnerabilities.To keep my eldest from rolling his eyes at me and saying ‘oh dad…’ he gets extra time on his laptop if he helps out with making sure everything remains up-to-date when I am away. So you could say I have a small family SecOps team.”‘A few simple steps will help keep data secure’Deema Freij, senior vice president EMEA &amp; APAC at technology company IntralinksAs a recent mother, whose job is to keep other people’s information secure, I am increasingly thinking about how I will keep my daughter safe online as she grows up.I work for a company which provides a secure file sharing system for high security businesses like banks, so am particularly aware of the risks from many free file sharing products.Some consumer products, like Dropbox, have had security problems – from privately shared links appearing in Google search results to criminals using the site’s perceived credibility to share malware with unsuspecting users. Young people will use these products, but they should be cautious about putting anything private on there.A few simple steps will help keep data secure. First, pick a file sharing service that lets you create “private” folders, so that only people with access credentials can see files. Second, get into the habit of deleting files once they’ve been shared, and if you’ve already shared files that are sensitive, delete those too.Finally, if you come across files from friends that make you uncomfortable, or you’re sure aren’t meant for you, delete them and don’t forward them on to others.”‘Learn about something yourself if you don’t know’François Amigorena, chief executive of software firm IS Decisions“The first rule I have for how I approach online security with them is to educate, educate, educate. Do not rely on anyone else to tell them what they should be doing, and often educate means learning yourself. Take the time to learn about something yourself if you don’t know. Also when educating children it’s good to use material or images, like web comics to get the point across as that way they’re more likely to listen.It’s worth remembering that some authority figures, even those at school, might give out of date or misinformed advice. So it’s always good to keep talking about these things with the kids and correct when necessary. For example a school figure from the library informed my children that all .org domains are safe. Which was once the case as it was created for non profits, but now they can be registered by anyone; just put any rude word in between ‘www.’ and ‘.org’.Don’t hand over any internet connected device before you know yourself how it works. I have known other parents who weren’t aware that an iPod can connect to the internet, and gave it to their 10 year old son who then managed to share a video of their neighbour’s daughter in a bikini online. The neighbours were quite rightly upset!”Several experts think internet security should be discussed with children from an early age. Photograph: Beau Lark/Corbis‘Boundaries also bring freedom’Ben Densham, CTO of cybersecurity testing company Nettitude“Enforcing boundaries and engaging in age-appropriate open discussions about your child’s online activities will encourage your young cyber minds to learn the benefits and realise the dangers of the internet. It is important to begin these conversations with your children from an early age, in order to protect them from risks that they may not yet understand and to prepare them to face and manage the threats.Boundaries are often seen as restrictive and draconian by kids. But boundaries also bring freedom. They provide a clear understanding of what is safe and secure. Boundaries tell them where they are free to explore and roam.When it comes to learning to protect their privacy, discussing their use of social media is a good place to start. As the use of these platforms is now so widespread, it is important to put in place methods to prevent unsuitable content and talk to your children about the dangers of forming relationships with strangers online, as well as the importance of preventing personal information from being made public.This is particularly important as children get older, when parents will need to relinquish some control and cannot enforce those safety boundaries in the same way.”‘We talk about anything and everything’Mark Gibson, sales director at web filtering firm Bloxx“I have two kids aged 11 and 14. How they interact with the Web and via what channels is constantly changing. One month they are all playing a game and using the in-message capabilities, the next they are back to using Facebook.Their interaction with the internet is dynamic and ever changing. They are also incredibly tech savvy, so whilst I do have filtering technology in place, anything else would – in all reality – be counter intuitive. My son would only see it as a challenge.So with this in mind, I have purposefully made sure that my kids and I have a very open relationship and we talk about anything and everything. This means that when they see sexual content on the web, which is inevitable, that rather than wondering about what it all means, we talk about it. The rights and the wrongs, what it all means etc.By talking openly with them it quickly becomes clear what behaviour is appropriate and what is not. It also gives them the opportunity to raise anything that they find troubling.”‘Staying safe now goes beyond the old computer security issues’Catalin Cosoi, chief security strategist, Bitdefender“Parents and children rarely have time to truly communicate. So, first of all, parents should talk to their kids about potential problems that may occur when using the internet.A thorough look at each and every one of these issues – including cyber-bullying, Facebook depression, sexting, paedophiles, scammers and exposure to inappropriate content – should give the child an idea of what internet dangers are all about. Backing up the list of e-threats with real examples from their school or group of friends could also draw a comprehensive picture.Parents should know that staying safe on the internet now goes beyond the old computer security issues. Our recent studies show that parents now buy smartphones for their children when they are as young as 5 years old. The early use of both smartphones and tablets is boosting the risk of malware infections and SMS fraud, which make many victims among users who are still only learning to read.”‘Follow the same rules you would follow in the real world’Darren Anstee, director of solutions architects at network security company Arbor Networks“Follow the same rules you would follow in the real world. If you aren’t sure about something or someone ask your parents or another responsible adult and if anything ‘unusual’ happens when you are using your computer tell your parents.If any of your friends tell you how to get around the content filters and application installation barriers we have put in place – don’t do it, just come and talk to me about what you need; I was young once too, I think.I am a bit like Santa – I can always tell whether you have been good or bad on the Internet, but with much better incident response and forensics.”How have you approached issues of internet safety with your own children? Add your advice in the comments section
Histropedia, a new interactive tool to display historical events and described as “a combination of maps, timelines, and trends”, made its public debut at theWikimaniaconference this weekend at the Barbican in London.The site, which is currently running in beta, is the brainchild ofNavino EvansandSean McBirnie, who told a packed room they hoped Histropedia would be a “completely free service for the whole world” and was a way of “playing Lego with history”.The interactive, which has been developed in conjunction withGeeks ltd, works by pulling data fromWikidataandWikipediaand plotting events on a timeline which is navigated with simple left and right buttons and a zoom function.When an event is plotted on the timeline, relatable information – such as YouTube videos, Twitter mentions, and Amazon books of similar subjects – become available to view in a pop-up box.Below is a demo version of a timeline relating to wars in which Britain has been involved in.Evans told his audience that he and McBirnie were around halfway through finishing the project, which at present is only available for English language Wikipedia articles but will be extended across all of Wikipedia’s 267 languages.Created timelines can be saved, shared and cross-referenced. It is hoped that by the end of development (in about four-to-six months) users will be able to search not just for specific historical events, but also for whole topics.Below is a demo of a timeline created with the subject “famous artists”.Writingin the Wikimania programme, Evans and McBirnie described their “ultimate goal to create the world’s first fully interactive timeline for all of history from the big bang to the present day”.Of course, the problem with this is that there are many versions of history. How can one timeline hope to represent all disputed historical fact and bias?When asked about the conflicts that this might present, McBirnie admitted it might be that they were creating a “platform for arguments” but hoped that ultimately the tool would be used as a source to visualise history.Pullings its data from Wikipedia and Wikidata, Histropedia will be fully editable in the same way. The project is independent fromWikimediabut Evans said they were working collaboratively with the foundation in some instances, and had received support fromMagnus Manske, among others.
Many companies have internal training programmes, but Apple’s goes far further than most teaching employees how to think like Steve Jobs.The highly secretive Apple University, profiledin detail by the New York Times, was established by Jobs in 2008 to teach what it meant to be an Apple employee, educating them about the company’s culture and history.Some are tailored to different topics like how to integrate your recently purchased company into Apple, which could be useful for Jimmy Iovine, Dr Dre and their recently acquired Beats team.‘What makes Apple, Apple’One of the courses, entitled “What makes Apple, Apple”, uses the difference between the remote from Google’s failed TV initiative with its 78 buttons and the Apple TV remote, which has just seven buttons to teach the “less is more” approach Apple takes with most things.Another likens Apple to Picasso using a series of 11 lithographs of a bull created by the artist showing a refinement from fully detailed sketch of a bull to a characteristic line-art stick figure of a bull.“You go through more iterations until you can simply deliver your message in a very concise way, and that is true to the Apple brand and everything we do,” a person who attended the course anonymously recalled to the New York Times.Jobs put the former Yale School of Management’s dean Joel Podolny in charge of the programme, and managed to attract faculty members from a raft of US universities, including Harvard, Stanford and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.The courses are run all year round at a dedicated facility at Apple’s headquarters in California, but they are not compulsory despite being full most of the time.Judge dismisses $324.5m settlement in Silicon Valley collusion caseApple claims app developers have earned $6.5bn since 2008
Facebook has spent the past couple of months warning users of its smartphone apps that they’ll soon have to install the separateFacebook Messengerapp to continue accessing their messages from friends on the social network.Many users have already seen the Messages feature in their main Facebook app disabled: they can see that there’s something new in their inbox, but are prompted to install Messenger to actually read or respond to it.This change is rolling out gradually, but with more than 1 billion people using Facebook from mobile devices every month, hundreds of millions will have already faced the decision of whether to install the separate app or not.Messenger isn’t currently the only way to reach your Facebook inbox on your smartphone: you can log in to the social network from your mobile browser and access Messages as normal. For now, anyway.Even so, some people are making their discontent with the forced change known, with highly-negative app store reviews one of the most prominent methods.At the time of writing, the latest version of Messenger has 1,386 one-star reviews on Apple’s App Store in the UK, and 15,787 on the US store, giving the app an overall rating of one-and-a-half and one star respectively.What about you, though? If you use Facebook on your smartphone, were you already also using Messenger before the current changes, or have you installed it in recent weeks? What’s your experience of the app so far?If you’re a Facebook user and have decided not to install Messenger, why not? Has this controversy changed your opinion of the social network? And have you switched to the mobile web version, or even uninstalled the main Facebook app, in protest?And if you’re already a proud non-user of Facebook tempted to post a comment along the lines of “if they’re not paying for a product, youarethe product” can you expand on your views a little? Including how the Messenger controversy might reflect wider concerns about Facebook’s strategy.Inbox us with your views, yeah? Oh, wait, no. Post a comment with your thoughts here instead.•Why the future of Facebook is almost all about your smartphone
The intersection of animals and technology is about more thancat videos on YouTubeand theDoge meme. This year’s Def Con hacking convention in Las Vegas showcased a pair of projects mixing pets with computer security.War Kitteh and Denial of Service Dog were both the work of Gene Bransfield, from Tenacity Solutions, and involved attaching antennae and mini-computers to one friend’s cat and another’s dog.For War Kitteh, Bransfield packed the kit onto the animal’s collar, including aSpark Core Wi-Fi development boardrunning the Spark.io operating system, which gave the cat the connectivity it required. Its location was tracked using GPS technology, with data stored on an SD memory card.What data? The point of the project was for War Kitteh to roam the streets, detecting Wi-Fi networks that were either unprotected, or using weakweak encryption algorithms like WEP.On one wander, the cat picked up 23 unique Wi-Fi hotspots, four of which were completely open with no password required to log on, and another four using WEP rather than the more-secure WPA-2 standard.Bransfield told the Guardian that the project was intended to spark awareness about why people should take more care securing their Wi-Fi networks, in the hope that involving cats in the debate will make less tech-savvy people pay attention.“It’s been a failure of the industry and of Def Con-like hackers to appropriately communicate this stuff to people,” he said. “We need to do a better job of communicating this stuff… You don’t want to scare the shit out of them. You want to effectively communicate to them what the issues are.”Denial of Service Dog.Bransfield’s Denial of Service Dog project involved attaching a saddle-bag containing theWiFi Pineapple Mark Vwireless network hacker tool and theTV-B-Gonekit to a dog, which was then walked around streets during World Cup matches earlier this summer.Using a remote attached to the dog’s lead, Bransfield was able to scan TVs being used in bars along the route, and switch them off. For similarly educational purposes to War Kitteh? Well, no.“There’s no socially redeeming thing about the dog... that was just trolling. I thought it would be funny so I did it,” said Bransfield, who said that people noticing the “Denial of Service Dog” wording on the bag simply assumed it was a police dog.Bransfield said that he didn’t risk turning any TVs off while the USA were playing matches, but it’s safe to say he’ll tread carefully if he ever visits Buenos Aires. “If you turn an Argentina World Cup game off you are going to get in trouble...”For his next trick, Bransfield is considering attaching hacker kit to flying things, although he warned that a carrier pigeon may not be able to carry the weight of this kind of technology. Drone-jamming war birds aren’t yet on the horizon, then. Literally.•Scams and scareware: how online hackers tap your worst fears
Amazon has hit back afteran open letter from more than 900 authorscriticising its licensing dispute with publisher Hachette, which was published as an ad in the New York Times.However, thelatest blog post from the “Amazon Books Team”is raising eyebrows within the publishing industry due to its use of a partial quote from George Orwell in support of its cause.Theopen letter from “Authors United”– signed by writers including Donna Tartt, Stephen King, Philip Pullman and Malcolm Gladwell – called on Amazon to stop blocking or delaying sales of Hachette books while negotiating a new distribution deal with the publisher.“We have made Amazon many millions of dollars and over the years have contributed so much, free of charge, to the company by way of cooperation, joint promotions, reviews and blogs.This is no way to treat a business partner. Nor is it the right way to treat your friends. Without taking sides on the contractual dispute between Hachette and Amazon, we encourage Amazon in the strongest possible terms to stop harming the livelihood of the authors on whom it has built its business.”Amazon’s response was published online at the website address readersunited.com, and like the authors’ letter, was addressed to readers.It reiterated Amazon’s previous claims that the dispute with Hachette is over Amazon’s desire to reduce the price of ebooks, and compared the row to the introduction of paperback books in the 1930s:“With it being so inexpensive and with so many more people able to afford to buy and read books, you would think the literary establishment of the day would have celebrated the invention of the paperback, yes? Nope. Instead, they dug in and circled the wagons.They believed low cost paperbacks would destroy literary culture and harm the industry (not to mention their own bank accounts). Many bookstores refused to stock them, and the early paperback publishers had to use unconventional methods of distribution — places like newsstands and drugstores.”Amazon’s line of argument is that ebooks are no different in 2014, and it citesHachette’s involvement in recent price-fixing controversiesas evidence, noting that the company and its rivals have so far paid $166m in settlements from the case.The company appears on much less firm ground with its Orwell quote, however:“The famous author George Orwell came out publicly and said about the new paperback format, if ‘publishers had any sense, they would combine against them and suppress them.’ Yes, George Orwell was suggesting collusion. Well... history doesn’t repeat itself, but it does rhyme...“When a thing has been done a certain way for a long time, resisting change can be a reflexive instinct, and the powerful interests of the status quo are hard to move. It was never in George Orwell’s interest to suppress paperback books — he was wrong about that.”Well, he would have been, if the full quote – about publisher Penguin’s introduction of paperback books – hadn’t been this:“The Penguin Books are splendid value for sixpence, so splendid that if other publishers had any sense they would combine against them and suppress them.”Several sites have already called Amazon out on its partial quote –notably TechCrunch, which described the decision as “horrible” while noting that “it’s clear that Orwell is praising the paperback, not arguing for its abolition”.Note, though, thatPenguin’s own site portrays the quote in a different light, introducing it with the sentence: “Traditional publishers tended to view Penguin with suspicion and uncertainty, as did some authors.”Amazon’s blog post finished by publishing the email address of Hachette chief executive Michael Pietsch – a direct response to the Authors United letter’s inclusion of its own CEO Jeff Bezos’ email – encouraging readers to write to him calling for Hachette to lower ebook prices and “stop using your authors as leverage” in the dispute.Hachette has since responded bypublishing the text of the reply that Pietsch is sending to those readers, defending the collusion claim, suggesting that more than 80% of the ebooks his company publishes cost $9.99 or less, and adding that the higher-priced ebooks are “less than half the price of their print versions”.“This dispute started because Amazon is seeking a lot more profit and even more market share, at the expense of authors, bricks and mortar bookstores, and ourselves.“Both Hachette and Amazon are big businesses and neither should claim a monopoly on enlightenment, but we do believe in a book industry where talent is respected and choice continues to be offered to the reading public.”The unusually-public tit-for-tat licensing row looks set to continue for some time, giving that reading public an insight into the power struggle that’s taking place around digital publishing.Meanwhile, Amazon appears to be embroiled in another dispute with an even bigger media company, Disney. It hashalted pre-orders of some Disney films, with the Wall Street Journal suggesting thatthe cause is another contractual row.•Hachette ebook sales fall in wake of Amazon dispute•Amazon tells Hachette to give authors more, charge readers less•Amazon v Hachette: a fight for readers, writers and retailers
Online media firm BuzzFeed has raised $50m (£30m) of new funding from venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, which sees the US startup becoming a “preeminent media company” in the future.The round takes BuzzFeed’s total funding to $96.3m since 2008, with the company reportedly planning to invest more in online video, acquisitions and an in-house incubator for technology startups.BuzzFeed joins Facebook, Twitter, Skype, Pinterest and Foursquare in Andreessen Horowitz’s portfolio, with general partner Chris Dixon joining the company’s board as part of the round, which values BuzzFeed at $850m.Dixon announced the investment in a blog post. “Many of today’s great media companies were built on top of emerging technologies. Examples include Time Inc. which was built on color printing, CBS which was built on radio, and Viacom which was built on cable TV,” he wrote.“We’re presently in the midst of a major technological shift in which, increasingly, news and entertainment are being distributed on social networks and consumed on mobile devices. We believe BuzzFeed will emerge from this period as a preeminent media company.”Dixon went on to describe BuzzFeed as “a full stack startup”, pointing to its 100-person technology team as well as its 200-strong editorial staff as reasons to invest in a new media company. “Engineers are 1st class citizens,” wrote Dixon.“Everything is built for mobile devices from the outset. Internet native formats like lists, tweets, pins, animated GIFs, etc. are treated as equals to older formats like photos, videos, and long form essays. BuzzFeed takes the internet and computer science seriously.”Dixon added that BuzzFeed now attracts more than 150m monthly visitors, is “consistently profitable” and will generate “triple digit millions” of revenues in 2014.The New York Times hasfleshed out the detailsof what BuzzFeed plans to do with the $50m funding round: “Introducing new content sections, creating an in-house incubator for new technology and potential acquisitions, and putting far more resources toward BuzzFeed Motion Pictures, its Los Angeles-based video arm.”BuzzFeed’s rapid growth in recent years has been making waves within traditional media companies. It wasprominent in the New York Times’ Innovation Reportearlier this year – a leaked internal document that criticised the newspaper’s digital strategy.Meanwhile, areport commissioned by the BBC from Sir Howard Stringersuggested that the BBC could also learn lessons from BuzzFeed’s growth.“Given Buzzfeed, for example, was only founded in 2006, this raises the question of why the BBC’s global digital reach is not more significant,” wrote Stringer. “While the BBC is the most-tweeted news organisation globally, this doesn’t automatically translate into hits on the website in the same way as BuzzFeed.”BuzzFeed’s growth has not been without its sticky moments, however: most recently when itsacked one of its most high-profile writersfollowing accusations of plagiarism.•Google to BuzzFeed: seven moments that shaped digital media
Labour’s policy chief has set out plans to transform digital services to increase public participation and customisation, taking power away from Whitehall in what is described as “a new democratic revolution in which people have more power”.Writing in the Guardian, Jon Cruddas and the shadow cabinet officer, Chi Onwurah, say that Labour’s extensive policy review has “seen a fundamental rethinking of the basic assumptions on which our party has been built for the last 30 years”.“We know we must transform the way we do government. Big-state, top-down solutions just won’t work because to transform our country we have to help people be active participants, not helpless observers.“The digital revolution should be about connecting people better, not about more command. It’s about sharing ideas and not imposing rigid rules, the freedom to create, not top-down control. We want people to use, create, consume, customise, play with, share, improve, inspire and own their digital services.”After a three-month review into digital government, Labour’s digital strategists have been exploring ways of saving money and improving online tools; the major Government Digital Service is one regarded as highly successful in redesigning key services.“But let us be honest: with its distance from the frontline of public services and culture of low-risk-taking, the most exciting new uses won’t come from Whitehall,” Cruddas and Onwurah write.“We also need to nurture technological innovation that engages local people and communities in solving the problems that affect their lives. Our plan will be to unleash the creativity of people in communities and cities to develop the new wave of digital thinking. Democratising digital services needs us to think locally.”Listing six key findings from the review, the piece states priorities for Labour’s digital government planning:• It points to strong digital skills and leadership in some local councils, such as Camden, which should be shared.• Centres of excellence such as Gov.uk can help to support a community that developers and shares open components for local government, supporting them in overhauling outdated service.• Encourage collaboration and shared standards between local government.• Encourage local authorities to partner with local enterprise partnerships and the private sector to build “smart cities”.• Open standards and transparency about the performance of different tools and service.• Inclusion of all communities and support through libraries, post offices and voluntary organisations for those without digital skills.The review is due to conclude this autumn.Labour’s vision is for digital to power democracy, and empower communities
It's Monday, let's not talk about the Community Shield.
The row over Channel 4's revelations that people using government computers have been making questionable edits toWikipedia pagesis intriguing. It would of course be scandalous if it transpired that officials within the UK government or police service hadconspiredto tamper with Wikipedia pages on the killings ofJean Charles de Menezes,Damilola TaylorandLee Rigby. But that's not what the Channel 4 report was able to establish: all it claimed was that some person or persons unknown, using computers with IP addresses within the .gov.uk domain, had edited the relevant Wikipedia pages.On the Menezes page, for example, this text was added to the entry: "There has been some public backlash against Menezes, with British tabloid newspaper in particular protesting that he has received more publicity than any of the 52 people who died in the bombings. 'Anti-war' groups who champion Menezes case, ignore the fate of the victims of the bombings, other then to 'understand' why the attacks occurred due to the UK's role in Iraq." Another edit cast doubt on the dead man's immigration status.Members of Menezes's family are understandably outraged by this kind of tampering and the ensuing hoo-ha has apparently stirred the government into devising a code of conduct for public officials in dealing with Wikipedia entries. That's good news, because this isn't the first time that official malpractice has been detected. Last April, for example, the BBCreportedthat the phrase "all Muslims are terrorists" was added to a page about veils and that another edit deleted text in Cherie Blair's entry about the flat-buying scandal that made headlines in 2002. And theLiverpool Echodiscovered that insults had been added to the entry for the Hillsborough disaster.These mini-scandals are manna from Heaven for those in the media and elsewhere who find the Wikipedia concept alarming or disruptive. The idea that any Tom, Dick or Harriet could edit an encyclopaedia entry, and that the resulting whole would turn into an invaluable global resource, still seems incredible to some people. And the problem with these periodic media storms about discovered abuses is that they obscure an important truth about Wikipedia, namely that the way it operates has significant lessons for us all.How come? Basically because Wikipedia embodies a new approach to the creation, dissemination and curation of knowledge in a networked world. The most striking thing about this approach is that it is completelyopen: the reason Channel 4 was able to uncover what it reported is that the history of every single edit to a Wikipedia is freely available, right back to the first incarnation of the page. So anyone with the time and inclination can see the evolution and transformation of the page over its entire lifetime. Equally, anyone who messes with a page has real difficulty covering their tracks. Likewise, every Wikipedia page has a discussion page associated with it, which allows people to explain or justify changes that they have made.Wikipedia is a typical product of the open internet, in that it started with a few simple principles and evolved afascinating governance structureto deal with problems as they arose. It recognised early on that there would be legitimate disagreements about some subjects and that eventually corporations and other powerful entities would try to subvert or corrupt&nbsp;it.As these challenges arose, Wikipedia's editors and volunteers developed procedures, norms and rules for addressing them. These included software for detecting and remedying vandalism, for example, and processes such as the "three-revert" rule. This says that an editor should not undo someone else's edits to a page more than three times in one day, after which disagreements are put to formal or informal mediation or a warning is placed on the page alerting readers that there is controversy about the topic. Some perennially disputed pages, for example the one on George W Bush, are locked down. And so on.In trying to figure out how to run itself, Wikipedia has therefore been grappling with the problems that will increasingly bug us in the future. In a comprehensively networked world, opinions and information will be super-abundant, the authority of older, print-based quality control and verification systems will be eroded and information resources will be intrinsically malleable. In such a cacophonous world, how will we know what is reliable and true? How will we deal with disagreements and disputes about knowledge? How will we sort out digital wheat from digital chaff? Wikipedia may be imperfect (what isn't?) but at the moment it's the only model we have for addressing these problems.
Remakes are risky when the title in question is a perennial favourite. The original 1997Abe's Oddyseewas beloved for its strange hero, a skinny, green, alien slave with stitched-up lips and a predilection for farts, and its quirky gameplay, mixed platforming and environmental puzzles. Thankfully, all those core elements remain intact here. As Abe, you must escape from Rupture Farms, a sickening abattoir and none-too-subtle metaphor for corporate greed.Advancing through a perilous 2D world, players need to rescue fellow Mudokans, using only Abe's simple in-game speech and abilities to possess enemies. Along with the gorgeous visual upgrade –Oddworldhas never looked so good – the game now scrolls continuously, rather than panning from screen to screen, which slightly changes the layout of puzzles, and an improved save system has also been implemented. A risk rewarded, then, asNew 'n' Tasty!keeps the heart ofOddyseein place, while giving the surface a much-needed overhaul.
The under-10s know instinctively how to really drive a car and quite rightly they aren't interested in mirror, signal, reverse. Driving a car really means being hunched over a Matchbox toy, skidding the thing wildly about and making extravagant noises while blessing it with the ability to drive vertically up a sofa arm or leap inexplicably on to a table. That's the spiritSuper Toy Carsstrives to capture. A kart racer with few frills, it gets one thing right: the vehicle handling very much prefers most youngsters' interpretation of driving physics.Alas, much else about developer Eclipse Games's creation is a shade underwhelming. The kart racer archetype, in contrast to the rules of physics, is obeyed too rigidly – think weapon pick-ups and dodgem-like road manners – while the visuals, track design and rival AI all fail to impress. Multiplayer is fun enough, but the game quickly drags, and when compared to the finesse of console-mateMario Kart 8,Super Toy Carsoffers only a fleeting distraction.
The singularity – or, to give it its proper title, thetechnological singularity. It's an idea that has taken on a life of its own; more of a life, I suspect, than what it predicts ever will. It's a Thing for techno-utopians: wealthy middle-aged men who regard the singularity as their best chance of immortality. They areSingularitarians, some seemingly prepared to go to extremes to stay alive for long enough to benefit from a benevolent super-artificial intelligence – a man-made god that grants transcendence.And it's a thing for the doomsayers, the techno-dystopians. Apocalypsarians who are equally convinced that a super-intelligent AI will have no interest in curing cancer or old age, or ending poverty, but will – malevolently or maybe just accidentally – bring about the end of human civilisation as we know it. History and Hollywood are on their side. From the Golem to Frankenstein's monster, Skynet and the Matrix, we are fascinated by the old story: man plays god and then things go horribly wrong.The singularity is basically the idea that as soon as AI exceeds human intelligence, everything changes. There are two central planks to the hypothesis: one is that as soon as we succeed in building AI as smart as humans it rapidly reinvents itself to be even smarter, starting a chain reaction of smarter-AI inventing even-smarter-AI until even the smartest humans cannot possibly comprehend how it works. The other is that the future of humanity becomes in some sense out of control, from the moment of the singularity onwards.So should we be worried or optimistic about the technological singularity? I think we should be a little worried – cautious and prepared may be a better way of putting it – and at the same time a little optimistic (that's the part of me that would like to live in Iain M Banks'The Culture. But I don't believe we need to be obsessively worried by a hypothesised existential risk to humanity. Why? Because, for the risk to become real, a sequence of things all need to happen, a sequence of big ifs.Ifwe succeed in building human equivalent AI andifthat AI acquires a full understanding of how it works, andifit then succeeds in improving itself to produce super-intelligent AI, andifthat super-AI, accidentally or maliciously, starts to consume resources, andifwe fail to pull the plug, then, yes, we may well have a problem. The risk, while not impossible, is improbable.By worrying unnecessarily we're falling into a trap: the fallacy of privileging the hypothesis. And, perhaps worse, taking our eyes off other risks we should really be worrying about, such as manmade climate change or bioterrorism. Let me illustrate what I mean. Consider the possibility that we invent faster than light travel (FTL) some time in the next 100 years. Then I worry you by outlining all sorts of nightmare scenarios that might follow. At the end of it you'll be thinking: my god, never mind climate change, we need to stop all FTL research right now.But there are already lots of AI systems, so surely it's just a matter of time? Yes, we do have lots of AI systems, like chess programs or automated financial transaction systems, or the software in driverless cars. And some are already smarter than most humans, like language translation systems. Some are as good as some humans, such asdriverless carsor natural speech recognition systems and will soon be better than most humans. But none of this has brought about the end of civilisation (though I'm suspiciously eyeing the financial transaction systems). The reason is that these are all narrow-AI systems: very good at doing one thing.A human-equivalent AI would need to be a generalist, like humans. It would need to be able to learn, most likely by developing over the course of some years, then generalise what it has learned – in the same way we learned as toddlers that wooden blocks could be stacked, banged together or as something to stand on to reach a bookshelf. It would need to understand meaning and context, be able to synthesise new knowledge, have intentionality and – in all likelihood – be self-aware, so it understands what it means to have agency in the world.There is a huge gulf between present day narrow-AI systems and the kind ofartificial general intelligenceI have outlined. Opinions vary, but I think it's as wide a gulf as that between current space flight and practical faster than light spaceflight; wider perhaps, because we don't yet have a theory of general intelligence, whereas there are several candidate FTL drives consistent with general relativity, like theAlcubierre drive.So we don't need to be obsessing about the risk of super-intelligent AI, but I do think we need to be cautious and prepared. In aGuardianpodcastlast week philosopher Nick Bostrom explained that there are two big problems, which he calls competency and control. The first is how to make super-intelligent AI, the second is how to control it (ie, to mitigate the risks). He says hardly anyone is working on the control problem, whereas loads of people are going hell for leather on the first. On this I 100% agree, and I'm one of the small number of people working on the control problem.In 2010 I was part of a group that drew up a set ofprinciples of robotics– principles that apply equally to AI systems. I strongly believe science and technology research should be undertaken within aframework of responsible innovation, and have argued we should be thinking about subjecting robotics and AI research to ethical approval, in the same way we do for human subject research. And recently I've startedwork towards making ethical robots. This is not just to mitigate future risks, but because the kind of not-very-intelligent robots we make in the very near future will need to be ethical as well as safe. We should be worrying about present-day AI rather than future super-intelligent AI.Alan Winfield is professor of electronic engineering at UWE, Bristol
For anyone who grew up squinting at the pixellated, greenish screen of an Atari, it's sometimes impossible to believe quite what a mobile phone is now capable of doing.Modern Combat 5: Blackout(Gameloft, iOS/Android, £4.99),  a portableCall of Dutyequivalent that squeezes an FPS into your pocket, has graphics that would have seemed unfeasibly high-spec just a few years ago. Controlling modern military man Caydan Phoenix, the bite-size single player missions that make up the story are well suited to the medium and the non-story elements do a good job of breaking up the gun-toting action.The drawback, as always with this type of game, is the controls. The on-screen sticks and buttons are easily mishit, particularly infuriating in multiplayer when a grenade is lobbed at the wrong time. The developers haven't yet included controller integration on iOS but it's promised for a future update.
Kicking off the "Lost Crowns" DLC trilogy,Sunken Kingtakes players into the depths of Drangleic to face terrifying new enemies and ever more deadly traps. While it's as controller-shatteringly difficult as anything in the core game, what really impresses is its dedication to, of all things, scenery. For a solid five hours (likely longer given how often you'll die), battles rage through some of the most disturbing yet beautiful locations seen on a current generation console.The new Sanctum City area, helpfully furnished with a fast-travel bonfire right at the start, allowing access or departure at will, also introduces some environmental features. Huge pieces of architecture slide in and out of reach through the manipulation of ancient switches, the more puzzle-oriented progression changing the gameplay significantly. A welcome update toDark Souls II, then, although with two chapters yet to arrive, perhaps a bit light on overall content.
A federal judge in California on Friday dismisseda $324.5m (£193m) settlement dealin a case regarding alleged collusion between the tech giants Apple, Google, Intel and Adobe.Plaintiffs in the class action suit say it affects 64,000 tech workers, who believe they are owed damages because of collusion between the companies to cap wages and limit job growth by agreeing not to poach each other’s employees. The companies acknowledged that they agreed not to hire each other’s staff in some cases, but disputed that they conspired to drive down wages.District judge Lucy Koh said that there was “ample evidence of an overarching conspiracy” between the companies and that the proposed settlement amount did not reach standards for “reasonableness”.Koh estimated that such a settlement would allocate an average of $3,750 to each affected worker, after the plaintiffs’ attorneys had claimed their $81m share of the payout.The plaintiffs filed the lawsuit in 2011 and planned to ask for $3bn in damages, arguing that the companies’ arrangement made it harder for employees to get better jobs and negotiate raises. The suit alleged that the companies made such deals from 2005 to 2009, in violation of antitrust laws.Attorneys representing the plaintiffs and companies agreed the deal in April but, the San Francisco employment lawyer Stephen Hirschfeldtold the San Jose Mercury News, it is becoming less unusual for judges to reject mutually endorsed settlements.“This does give the plaintiffs’ lawyers more leverage,” Hirschfeld said. “When something like this happens, it is going to put additional pressure on the defendants to come up with more money.”During the three-year case, private correspondence between Silicon Valley icons became public, including emails between the Apple co-founder Steve Jobs and former Google chief executive Eric Schmidt which showed the two men agreeing not to poach each other’s employees.Koh said Jobs,who died in 2011, was “a, if not the, central figure in the alleged conspiracy”.“Every time a new piece of evidence comes out, people get more shocked than they did the last time,” Sam Altman, president of Y Combinator, a technology accelerator that has funded hundreds of startups,told the New York Times. “You don’t need a law degree to know that what the companies were doing was deeply wrong.”In 2010, the companies settled with the Department of Justice over similar charges. According to a DoJ investigation, the companies worked together to suppress employee wages and reach deals about not hiring each other’s employees. In the settlement, the companies agreed to stop participating in such practices.
Some people hang out with their friends on yachts or play pool with pretty girls. Others like to go on treetop zip-wire adventures and holiday on wooded Thai islands. These examples of images on the websites ofAutographerandNarrative Clip, two leading wearable cameras, reveal the kind of things their makers imagine we might do with their devices.These gadgets automatically snap hundreds of photos per day from their user's perspective. The much-awaited Google Glass, expected to go on general sale within months, will be able to do the same thing. Some believe future historians will peg 2014 as the dawn of the "life-logging" era, in which many or even most of us will carry devices that record images or video of our daily lives.Beyond the huge privacy implications, the big question is: can this technology improve our lives? For the current  market leaders, it is about providing tech-savvy twenty- and thirtysomethings with a way to generate automatically digital photo albums of unprecedented detail and supercharging their social media-sharing capabilities. Some "self-quantifiers" are already using continuous image-gathering as part of personal improvement projects such as losing weight or boosting their productivity.But such applications are far removed from those envisaged by the technology's early developers, who set out to create visual aids for people with failing memories. And those pioneers may yet be vindicated. Early research suggests that these devices can not only help those with amnesia and dementia recall important events, but may also be able to improve their memory abilities.One of those innovators was Lyndsay Williams, who probably has the best claim to have been the first to come up with a device capable of taking large numbers of still images automatically. In 1999, shortly after having joined Microsoft Research Cambridge, she attached a digital camera linked to an accelerometer to her bicycle's basket. Her "SenseCam" was designed to take pictures when she was forced to brake hard, in order to capture the details of careless drivers. Williams had temporarily lost six months of memories as a result of being the victim of a hit-and-run road accident aged 17, and she hoped her invention could help others in the same boat. "After that bang on the head I couldn't remember whether I'd been to a concert I had a ticket for or whether I'd done my exams, so I was keenly aware of the frustration of memory difficulties," says Williams, now an independent design consultant. "I also wanted to help a friend who was always losing their keys and their spectacles."In March 2004, Microsoft filed a patent application for a "recall device" that could help "a victim of Alzheimer's disease and his/her care-giver to reconstruct a portion of the individual's daily activity". Researchers at Addenbrooke's hospital's memory clinic began a collaboration with nearby Microsoft Research in Cambridge to investigate the technology's potential for its patients.In a case study published in 2007, they revealed that a 63-year-old librarian known as Mrs B, who had amnesia caused by a brain infection, could recall more than 80% of key facts about significant events after a fortnight of reviewing SenseCam images every couple of days and that a similar level of recall persisted for months after she stopped looking at the pictures. This compared with being able to recall just under half of the details using a written diary and no recall at all without either intervention after five days.Two years later, they published a study in which Mrs B showed increased activity in the parts of the brain linked to experiences associated with time and place, known as episodic memories. They concluded that the device could provide cues that help bring back stored but inaccessible memories, including thoughts, feelings and occurrences not in the images themselves.Amnesia sufferer Jonathan Eason.This finding was reinforced by work with Jonathan Eason, a politics student who suffered amnesia, anxiety and depression after being assaulted by two strangers. In the same year, the Addenbrooke's-Microsoft Research group reported that a Mrs W, who had memory problems, was able to recall twice as much detail about events six months old when she viewed streams of SenseCam images over two weeks compared with discussing a written diary for the same amount of time.The first study involving a number of Alzheimer's patients was published earlier this year by an Addenbrooke's team led by neuropsychologist Dr Emma Woodberry. Six patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's were able to recall an average of 85% of key factual details about events after a fortnight of viewing SenseCam images every other day. When this was replaced by discussion of a written diary, this fell to 56% and with no intervention it was 33%. Three months later, without any image-viewing, they could still recall an average of just under half of key details, more than three times better than when using a diary."Sharing experiences with loved ones is really important to our sense of wellbeing, identity and closeness with the people we love," says Woodberry. "Losing that is debilitating and has a profound effect on your relationships. It's too early to say whether it can slow progression of Alzheimer's, but I think it can improve quality of life in the here and now."Dr Doug Brown of theAlzheimer's Societybelieves larger studies are needed. "These findings are interesting but the study is too small to draw any firm conclusions about whether this particular technology is something that we should make widely available to people with dementia, but it's an area that warrants further investigation." His wish could soon be granted: two larger trials are being conducted in France and Portugal.Others are not only more bullish about the technology's ability to help patients cope day to day, but believe it can have more profound, longer-term effects. A decade ago, Claire, a nurse who lives in Cambridgeshire, awoke from a coma brought on by viral encephalitis, an infection that affects the brain. Then aged 43, she no longer recognised the five people around her bedside as her husband, Ed, and their four children and remembered nothing except some vague childhood memories.She began using a SenseCam several years ago as part of research led by Dr Catherine Loveday, a cognitive psychologist at the University of Westminster. She uses it most days and views sequences of the images to help her in various situations, such as when she is about to meet a friend. "It can be the oddest little thing in the corner of a picture or somebody's expression that triggers a memory," she says."In my friendships, I often feel inadequate because the other person knows about me and the parts of our lives we've shared and I can't remember a single thing about them, their families, or things they might have told me about yesterday. Looking over the images gives me a feeling that I can feel part of our friendship and a tremendous sense of security." Claire is now able to retain recent memories of events as a result of repeated viewings of SenseCam images of them.'Sometimes, an inventor comes up with the perfect solution but the world isn’t quite ready for it.' Photograph: Katherine Rose for the ObserverLoveday believes pictures from the device help cue recall because they are similar to the snapshots of moments we store and stitch together into narratives to form our natural autobiographical memories. "We think viewing the images in sequence triggers activity in the same brain circuits that were triggered when you first experienced the events and that by doing so repeatedly you can prod the memory into consciousness. I think anyone who has a problem with memory could get a good degree of day-to-day support from using this technology, and, although the evidence is too limited to say for sure at the moment, I think that for some people there is also the possibility that it could lead to recovery of some function."These encouraging early findings led UK company Vicon Motion to license the technology from Microsoft and launch it in 2010 as theVicon Revue, a £500 device aimed mainly at people needing memory aids. However, sales were disappointing and it stopped selling the device in 2012. The newer Autographer, marketed more as a visual diary gathering tool, is also based on SenseCam, using sensors to identify action and trigger picture-taking.Steve Hodges, who leads Microsoft Research Cambridge's sensors and devices group,  believes it  won't be long before the use of wearable cameras by those with memory loss becomes commonplace."Sometimes, an inventor comes up with the perfect solution but the world isn't quite ready for it," he says. "This technology has great deal of potential for those with memory problems and as the devices become more acceptable and commonplace, and they get cheaper and storage and access technologies become more mature, I think we'll see larger trials and more patients using it."
The Last Of Us told the story of humanity’s destruction by fungal infection. The apocalypse was seen through the eyes of a bereaved father and a girl he’s forced to shepherd across ravaged America, and although that setting and the fact that the fungus turns its victims into zombies are both well-worn gaming cliches, the game’s poignant script, brilliant acting and peerless level of polish place it in a different league. The PS4 release is identical in every way to the original but running in full HD, lending an extra sheen of beauty to this darkly ominous and eloquently drawn road trip.Sony, £39.99ALSO OUT THIS WEEKKim Kardashian: Hollywood iOS, Glu Games, freeYour task is to nurture your character from nobody to global superstar via modelling, acting, social appearances and networking. In reality this involves tapping on-screen lozenges to make them vomit out dollars and stars until your energy runs out, at which point you either pay to renew it or wait an hour or two. This process is soul-crushingly meaningless, and yet the gradual granting of rewards, even in this squalid midden heap of postmodernist horror, still manages to exert a subtle but inexorable pull that might find the unwary spending actual money to advance the career of their cretinous, bottom-feeding D-lister. Bewildering.Modern Combat 5: Blackout Android &amp; iOS, Gameloft, £4.99Modern Combat wants to bring Call Of Duty-style first person shooting to your phone. It does this by aping its monstrously successful inspiration in as many ways as possible, from its world tour of trouble spots to attempts at explosive set-pieces. Unfortunately, the touch screen interface is ill-suited to the tasks of moving, aiming and shooting, something the game fudges with auto-aim in single player mode, but that proves to be the undoing of multiplayer.Gameloft, £4.99
This one's arrival coincided with the annual trip to Cornwall. We didn't need the third row of seats, so I folded them flat and made loads of space for all the crap a family holiday requires.Actually, we did get to try out all seven seats on one occasion: a lady waiting with her two grandchildren for a bus that clearly wasn't going to come asked if we could take them to the village. Yes, ma'am, we have a seven-seater Grand C4 Picasso – it'd be a pleasure. That was before I'd fully taken in the size of her elder grandson: he was vast enough for his own Channel 5 documentary. The problem was that the middle row was already occupied by our own offspring, strapped into their seats and screaming at the horror of an English summer holiday. So access to the third row was via the boot only.Now, our new passenger clearly wouldn't go in that way, so we had to push him into the front. Meaning poor granny had to climb in through the back. (Oh, while I'm here, motorised tailgates: what's the point? A manual boot is quicker to open and close and less annoying. Technology that irritates and wastes time is bad technology.) Anyway, granny didn't break, thankfully, and everyone was fine. There's plenty of space back there. Later, I&nbsp;discovered that the right way to access row three, over row two seats that slide and fold neatly, is easy.Going on holiday with a car, much as with a person, is a good way of getting to know them. There's a lot we liked about the Grand Picasso. The view, for one. Visibility is excellent, and this is a high-spec model with a panoramic roof; it's light and airy and comfortable, really not a bad place to spend time (so much time, to Cornwall). Like travelling by greenhouse, but without emitting too much greenhouse gas; 105g/km for a car of this size is impressive. And we liked that we did the whole holiday on two tanks of diesel. It's not a thrill to drive, but then you wouldn't expect it of a car that is essentially a bus.A few niggles: a touch screen for everything that, even after a week, baffled and surprised. More alarmingly, the active cruise control, which slows down when the car in front slows down, sometimes seemed to stop working, though it did have the good grace to beep-warn us that a collision was imminent. I'm not sure I need that kind of excitement.Oh, and I didn't get on so well with the Park Assist 360 – eyes and ears all round – either. Meaning I&nbsp;scraped the side on a low Cornish wall. No, I can't really blame technology for that one. I probably hadn't even figured out how to switch it on. I blame the stress of a&nbsp;family holiday.Citroën Grand C4 Picasso Exclusive+ e-HDI 115 Airdream 6-speed manualPriceFrom £25,655Top speed117mphAcceleration0-60mph in 12.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption70.6mpgCO2emissions105g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating6/10
A+, the viral content site established by actor and tech investorAshton Kutcherhas been accused of lifting content wholesale and without credit from sites includingBuzzFeedand theHuffington Post, reportsthe Daily Dot.A+, first launched in 2011, claims to be a “platform that will leverage viral social storytelling to create positive change in the world”, and offers a mixture of listicles, videos and lifehacks.It describes itself as the “fastest-growing site in the history of the internet” and claims to have racked up30 million unique visitors in a little over 100 daysafter a 2013 relaunch.The site’s huge rise in popularity is a result of Kutcher promoting the site on his verifiedTwitterandFacebookpages.The Daily Dot’s Rob Price, however, has investigated the platform and found the site to have copied and pasted content directly from BuzzFeed, Huffington Post,CrackedandInstagram(without credit).Articles reposted with very minor alterations included “This Girl Was Sent Home in Tears Because Her Dress Was Too Short So Her Mom Did The Most Awesome Thing Ever”, which the Daily Dot describes as identical to aBuzzFeed post by Ryan Broderick; aside from a changed headline.A screengrab produced by the Daily Dot as proof of plagiarism. Photograph: The Daily DotPlenty of examples of articles lifted either entirely without change or with very minor changes have been highlighted and screen-grabbed; all of which have since been removed by A+ after the internet paper asked for comment.All A+ content from before July has been removed from the site;all tweetsfrom before 6 August; and all Facebook posts before 4 August. It is also reported that KS Anthony, who described himself as “writer/content developer at A+”, deleted his LinkedIn profile after he was contacted by the Daily Dot.The not found error which displays on content removed from A+. Photograph: A+A spokesperson for A+ said: “We take these allegations seriously and are looking into them. The content that was removed was taken down as a precautionary measure.“Respecting the intellectual property of others is extremely important to us.”A+’s about pagedescribes its copyright policythus:We respect the intellectual property rights of others and expect our users to do the same.It is our policy, in appropriate circumstances and at our discretion, to disable and/or terminate the accounts of users who repeatedly infringe or are repeatedly charged with infringing the copyrights or other intellectual property rights of othersKutcher, who first became famous for his MTV showPunk’d, in which he played secret camera pranks on celebrities, has since established himself as a Hollywood movie star and tech investor.HisAngelList profilelists him as an investor inSkypeandFlipboardamong other tech companies. He also playedSteve Jobsin the2013 biopicof the formerAppleco-founder and CEO.This isnot the first time, however, that Kutcher has been accused of plagiarism. This month, the photographerMarsel van Oostentook to Twitter to call out the star for stripping an image of his of its watermark and reposting it as his own.Ashton Kutcher stole my picture, re-processed it, removed my watermark, and then added his own.http://t.co/pDTghDhH8S#stopstealingmyimages&mdash; Marsel van Oosten (@Squiver)July 8, 2014July was a big month for plagiarism exposes. BuzzFeedsacked its political editor, Benny Johnson, over consistent plagiarism, and the Times’ chief tennis writer Neil Harman wasfound to have copiedlarge swaths of a number of his Official Wimbledon Annuals from other writers.•The big steal: rise of the plagiarist in the digital age
At the UK's biggest YouTube convention, Tom Burns is having a crisis on multiple fronts. The internet is down at one of the event stalls and his Google Glass isn't working. "It keeps tweeting the wrong things," says the 23-year-old co-founder of the event, frantically tapping the technology on his face, as he rushes off to find a new internet connection.Welcome to Summer in the City, a sold-out event that will pull in more than 8,500 people to Alexandra Palace, north London, over the next three days. The likelihood is that most of the country will never have heard of this convention, now in its fourth year, or any of the YouTube celebrities that feature on the event's programme.Yet celebrities they are. Many of the young people wandering the vast hall, among the video gaming stations and life-size Pokémon mascots, are YouTube bloggers who have millions of subscribers and fans around the world. Featuring everything from personal diary posts to beauty tutorials and short films, YouTube is not a just niche hobby – it's a lucrative profession.For Rebecca Flint, better known asBeckii Cruel, her YouTube videos elevated her to such levels of fame that at 14 she was flown to Japan to work as a model and pop star."I started off when I was 12 or 13 years old, making dance cover videos, and they went viral in Japan, so I went to work in Japan as an idol, which is similar to being a pop star, for a couple of years – which was really cool," she explains. "It was somewhere I could never have imagined I'd get to, but YouTube made that happen for me. I now blog on beauty, or hair, or gaming – whatever I feel like, to be honest. This week I've done a video every single day."With 91,000 subscribers and almost 20m total views, and one of her dance videos boasting 4m views alone, Flint, just 19, certainly falls into the category of YouTube celebrity, and her blogging empire is still expanding."I think the appeal of YouTube is that it's a very personal relationship that people feel they form with their viewers," she says. "It's a different kind of celebrity. Kids now trust their YouTube stars more than regular celebrities with endorsement."The origins of Summer in the City go back to 2007, when a group of around 20 YouTube creators gathered for an informal meeting in central London. The number of attendees grew, and in 2009 Burns, then 17, along with friends David Bullas, Liam Dryden, Jazza John and Luke Cutforth, decided to create an official event that would be the British equivalent to VidCon, the world's largest online video convention, held annually in California.Burns says: "It was nice at the beginning because it was all like-minded people who shared the same interests, so very small scale. We would meet in Green Park, or Hyde Park or Jubilee Gardens, and then in the evening we would hire out a venue. Only about 100 people showed up for the first event, but there were people coming from Australia, America, mainland Europe, just for this first event, and by the end of it there was a part of me that thought: 'This is phenomenal, this is something special. We can't just leave it at this.'"After 600 fans of one YouTuber, Charlie McDonnell, mobbed the 2011 event, it moved to a more formal venue. It was then that YouTube got in touch, offering sponsorship, and enabling the organisers to stage their first event indoors at a London brewery and then, after 3,000 people turned up to the 2,000-capacity venue, to move it to Alexandra Palace.Burns says the enormous popularity of Summer in the City was a testament to how YouTube is breaking into the mainstream and establishing itself as an increasing influence on popular culture. Indeed, it is so popular the organisers are now in talks to hold the event twice a year to meet demand, with two-thirds of the Summer in the City attendees now made up of fans rather than creators."Last year we sold 7,000 tickets for the weekend; this year we've sold 8,500," he says. "But it's still very much a networking event for the geeky kids who like making and watching YouTube videos online. When I first started YouTubing it was sort of joked about and I was mocked for it, but now everyone wants to get involved. Attitudes are changing, and people's perception of YouTube is changing."The platform's power also lies, he says, in the profitable sponsorship deals that mean some bloggers are raking in six-figure incomes from video diaries. Jenna Marbles, a YouTube personality who makes self-deprecating personal blogs, including the viral videoDrunk Makeup Tutorial,has accrued 1.5bn video views and makes up to £846,000 a year from YouTube sponsorship and ad revenue.Tyler Oakley, a 25-year-old vlogger and key guest at this year's Summer in the City, has more than 215m total video views and makes an estimated £579,000 a year from his YouTube videos. Oakley is such a celebrity that when approached at the event by the Guardian, his comment was simply: "All interviews go through my agent."While Friday  for industry only, Saturday is open to the devoted masses. In the cavernous hall of Alexandra Palace, recently host to bands such as Bastille and Disclosure, huge numbers of barriers have been erected in preparation for the throngs who will attends the weekend's talks, meet-and-greets and signings with stars such as Oakley and Marbles. Another YouTube star lined up for the meet-and-greets is PJ Ligouri, known for his channel KickthePJ where he has been making short films for the past seven years and has accrued over 30 million views in that time."I'm a veteran YouTuber and I mostly make short films with strange and surreal stories, with dark, fantastical comedy and based in made-up worlds" he explained. "It feels really good that that many people watch my videos, and I've done it since I was 16. I think the momentum is growing and more people are recognising YouTube as a legitimate and successful platform in it's own right, to post really good content. As a creator, you get to cater to what your audience want. So it's not a passive experience, you get instant feedback from likes and comments and you can respond and be influenced by that."The impact of these YouTube celebrities on the music industry is also a hot topic of discussion at Summer in the City. While previously considered ripe ground for record label talent-spotting, with Justin Bieber being the most cited example, the freedom and popularity of YouTube is now encouraging mMusicians to  shunning shun the labels altogether as they become famous without ever leaving their parents' garage.The bandArea11have already sold 12,000 copies of their album and embarked on a sell-out tour, solely through a dedicated YouTube following: "We've just passed 100,000 subscribers," says Sparkles, one of their members. "We are a traditional rock band, in that we go on tours, but we use YouTube to keep our freedom. We don't have a record label, we don't have management, we do it all ourselves. There's nothing at the moment that could persuade me to sign to a label. We get to keep full control of our image, what we write, what we put out. YouTube has already changed the landscape of the music industry and I think YouTube is just growing in momentum."
Google is to demote sites in its search results which don’t use secure connections by default.Webmasters will have to enable HTTPS, a method of browsing the internet which prevents eavesdroppers from reading the communication between the server and visitor, or risk losing their positions on Google search results to other sites who do.“Over the past few months we’ve been running tests taking into account whether sites use secure, encrypted connections as a signal in our search ranking algorithms,”the company explains on its Webmaster Central blog“We’ve seen positive results, so we’re starting to use HTTPS as a ranking signal.”HTTPS, also known as HTTP over TLS, is the most common security standard on the internet. Many will know it from its use on e-commerce sites and online banking, where they have been trained to look for a padlock symbol in their browser to ensure that a site is safe.But the privacy groups have long been calling for HTTPS to be used everywhere – even on websites which, at first glance, don’t need to offer the same level of protection to their visitors as banking might.The Electronic Frontier Foundation, which makes a plugin that lets users easily enable HTTPS on sites which don’t offer it by default,explains the advantage: “Ideally, this provides some protection against an attacker learning the content of the information flowing in each direction — for instance, the text of e-mail messages you send or receive through a webmail site, the products you browse or purchase on an e-commerce site, or the particular articles you read on a reference site.”For the time being, Google won’t be penalising sites heavily if they don’t enable HTTPS. The company describes it as “a very lightweight signal — affecting fewer than 1% of global queries, and carrying less weight than other signals such as high-quality content”. But once webmasters have been given time to switch their sites over, the search firm warns that “we may decide to strengthen it, because we’d like to encourage all website owners to switch from HTTP to HTTPS to keep everyone safe on the web.”“Data in a plain-text state is easily readable,” says Jason Hart, the vice president of of Cloud Solutions, at cybersecurity firmSafeNet, “so any website that’s storing or transmitting user credentials or data in plain-text is putting customers’ data, and the company’s reputation, at risk.“Previously organisations have shied away from encryption due to cost concerns or fears of slowing website response times. But there are now high speed encryption technologies available that mean cost and speed need no longer be an issue. So there really is no excuse for any data to be transmitted or stored in plain text.”•Google could end China’s web censorship in 10 days – why doesn’t it?
Wikipedia can be read for free by 350 million mobile phone subscribers in the developing world, its engineering chief has said - a result of partnerships with mobile phone operators which began in Malaysia in 2012.Wikipedia Zero was inspired by Facebook Zero, an ambition by the social network to colonise new, mobile-centric audiences around the world. For Erik Möller, deputy director of parent organisation the Wikimedia Foundation, the project answers two key priorities, building new international audiences and focusing on mobile devices.“By working with mobile operators, we can enable anyone to read and edit for free,” explained Möller, who is also vice president of engineering and product development. “We estimate that 350 million subscribers worldwide are eligible to use Wikipedia Zero.”Wikipedia Zero allows mobile subscribers to access Wikipedia for free, with no data charges, the programme now stretches to Thailand, Saudia Arabia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, India, Jordan and Bangladesh, and this year also added Kosovo, Nepal and Kyrgyzstan.“Hundreds of millions of people are coming online using mobile phones,” Möller told the Guardian. “We must provide the best possible experience for these users, both for reading and for contributing content, to truly enable every person on the planet to share in the sum of all knowledge.”Möller’s focus has been on solid apps for the iPhone and Android, as well as allowing contributors to edit on smartphones. “On a technical level, this also means making a platform written for the desktop web fully mobile-ready, which is a major undertaking,” he said.Mobile use is important because it is helping to close the digital divide, especially in developing nations where mobile data connections outstrip traditional fixed line broadband connections. Even then, the cost of internet access can be prohibitive and therefore impinges on Wikimedia’s “open information for all” principle.He singles out the complex markup and tools required to edit articles, which have a steep learning curve that can deter new users. “We’re building a new visual editing environment without markup. In terms of empowering anyone on the planet to contribute to our projects, we believe this is the single most important technical change that’s under way,” said Möller.Number two to Lila Tretikov, newly installed executive director of Wikimedia, Möller shares Tretikov’s drive to improve Wikipedia’s technology describing it as “in some respects a website following 20th century paradigms”.In his 13 years with Wikimedia Foundation, Möller has been instrumental in its technical developments, from the MediaWiki software that powers Wikipedia and others to Wikipedia Commons the online repository of photos, sounds and other media files used across the site.A San Francisco-based German journalist, author and software developer with strong outspoken views on a range of topics, Möller was first an editor of Wikipedia under the pseudonym of “Eloquence”, then a developer. Wikinews, a service like Wikipedia but for short-lived news articles, was his first big contribution with high-profile roles during the reporting of the London bombings in 2005.Later that year he was appointed Wikimedia’s chief research officer, but resigned after just three months, citing personal differences with board members.Möller was elected to the board, and in 2006 replaced Angela Beesley - the British co-founder of Wikia alongside Jimmy Wales - before resigning in 2007 to take up the deputy director role.Wikimania, the annual Wikimedia Foundation conference, runs from 6-10 August at London’s Barbican Centre• This article was edited on Friday 8 August to remove an incorrect reference to Erik Möller.
Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, has a particular cultural and economic perspective on free speech - reflected incommentsmade both by him and by the Wikimedia Foundation.Free speech is undoubtedly a cornerstone of freedom, but it cannot always be fought or guarded in the court of public opinion; the free market of ideas.To Wales,badspeech is defeated bymore speech. Such a solution does not guarantee a defence to the weak and the marginalised. Here, in particular, the human rights that benefit all of us serve a fundamental purpose.In the UK - where a serious legal commitment to human rights iswavering- we cannot afford to be loose with terminology. Walesrefers, inaccurately, to “history as a human right”, to “the right to remember”, to “the right to truth”.Of course, memory is at the foundation of humanity. Memory builds truth, truth brings justice, and justice brings peace. These are the fundamentalpillarsof human society.Within these pillars, the right to privacy and, in Europe, the right to personal data, are embedded, harmonised, legally-recognisedhuman rights.And so we come to the hard sociopolitical problem at the heart of the so-called “right to be forgotten”. It is not about the search engines, online services, Google, or Wikipedia. It is about the value humanity ascribes to them as purveyors of “truth”, of “history”, and of “memory”.It is about confronting what they reallyare. These services offer catalogues, or maps, of human knowledge, sentiments, joys, sorrows, and venom. But they operate under fundamentally privatised, economic drivers. They are a black box. They are open to manipulation, to abuse, to blocking and censorship. These algorithmic machines of so-called truth are not unbiased, dumb, accidental, or natural.The internet is, or should be, pluralistic. A space thatencouragesa diversity of cultural perspectives. Data protection law is an area where countries would do well to respect their neighbours and their antecedents, and the fact that different value systems exist.Thefundamental ideaat the heart of data protection law jars particularly with US-style notions of free speech. It is the idea that personal information should be within my capacity to control - information that concerns me, and which has lost its timeliness, its relevance or its accuracy, and has no public interest.Guidelines and greater certainty on how each of these concepts will be interpreted and applied are absolutely essential to giving confidence to data protection law for the future.These must address the fact that the conditions - and particularly the pivotal public interest criteria - are jeopardised by the law’sstructure. That structure prohibits processing information that is sensitive but may be in the public interest, such as that concerning criminality, political donations, or sex offences; or information that pertains to us all unconditionally and without reference to relevance or accuracy, such as information revealing race or ethnicity (images), or philosophical beliefs (opinions).Jimmy Wales is right that this is, at some level, censorship. But so are a plethora of other things online - the far more extensive foreclosure of the public domain by virtue of laws on copyright, gambling, ‘child safety’, pornography. Data protection law is the legally-backed control of personal information in some circumstances because we think there are deeply-embedded values worth protecting, under appropriate guidelines, for the enrichment of all society.We are not far from a world of augmented reality, where the first page of search results after searching my name might be pasted, virtually, on my forehead by Google Glass and its kin. At the moment, we walk the streets with everyone. Criminal, queer, classed - we don’t know, we don’t care, and we respect one another’s personal space.There is a public sphere of memory and truth, and there is a private one. This is fundamental to higher, egalitarian values. It is at risk if we are not prepared tocreatively, openly, and earnestly explore the rights embedded in data protection and privacy laws.Without the freedom to be private, we have precious little freedom at all.Wikipedia swears to fight ‘censorship’ of ‘right to be forgotten’ rulingA manifesto for the future of the ‘right to be forgotten’ debate
Are some topics just too taboo to be tackled by gaming?This week, a controversial game called “Bomb Gaza” was pulled from the Google Play store after a public backlash. Designed for Androids and tablets, the game’s stated aim was to “drop bombs and avoid killing civilans”.Inevitably, the game drew a slew of negative reviews and negative commentary before it was eventually taken down by Google,who said it violated their policies.As of yet, the creator of the game hasn’t responded to requests, including from the Guardian, for comment – though its creator has made the game available on the developers’ Facebook page.Vine of the Bomb Gaza game on an Android phone, taken by BuzzFeed UK’s deputy editor Jim Waterson.And this isn’t the only Gaza game which has cropped up while the crisis has escalated in recent weeks.Gaza Assault: Code Red is another appwhich was removedfrom Google Play this week. Another,Iron Dome: The Gameremains available to download at the time of writing.Whether or not games can effectively tackle complex issues is, by now, a moot point. Plenty of games have tried and succeeded. There have been games aboutSeptember 11, games dealing withthe effects of depressionand games about other warzones,including Syria.Classed as newsgames, more and more developers are creating games which help the players to understand and empathise with situations covered by the media.But when it comes to the ongoing conflict in Gaza, is it possible to create a game based on an incredibly volatile situationwithoutseeming to belittle the thousands of people who have died?None of the developers of the aforementioned games have classed their games as newsgames, instead placing them with the escapism associated with gaming in general.In an interview with Sky News, the creator of Gaza Assault, Nir Yomotov, said:“It’s nothing sinister, you shoot people who shoot you. It’s like every other game. I don’t want to offend anyone.“Games are just another medium, like video. You can use it to make your voice heard.”Tomas Rawlings of Auroch Digital and GametheNews says there’s a difference between a topical game and a news game, with one being current and the other attempting to engage the user with a topic and convey information.He said: “[People ask] is this the right medium for this kind of topic?“People aren’t used to games being used to discuss serious topics – they’re seen as something fun. But for the generations who grew up gaming, it’s natural for them to express how they feel about the work in the form of a game much as a singer would write a song and a filmmaker point their camera.“There is nothing intrinsic in the form that means a subject can’t be covered by a game, it’s not the form you use but what you say that matters. There are plenty of examples of films, cartoons, books and poems that have triggered huge offence, even violence.“I think Israel/Palestine is a great example of where, if you’re going to make a game, you need more than one outcome. Traditionally, you win or lose a game, but this is far bigger than win or lose.”Rawlings himself has experience on this front, having createdEndGame: Syria. It too faced its own problems and wasrejected by Apple due to its political content.He added: “With a sensitive topic, the designers’ intentions should be clear. What is the game trying to say? Is it about how hard it is to bomb without hitting civilians? This is key in any medium: treat your source material with sensitivity.”Arguably, with the same care and precision given to any other medium, it is possible to create a game about the ongoing conflict in Gaza – and it’s already been done.Watching on mobile? Click here for videoIn 2007, a team created PeaceMaker, a game in which players are challenged to “succeed as a leader where others have failed”. Where other games concentrate on the warfare, PeaceMaker rewards players for, as the title suggests, making peace.Asi Burak, president of Games for Change, created the game over three years with game developers Eric Brown and Tim Sweeney and a group of Carnegie Mellon University students. In a guest post for gaming site Kotaku about the experience, calling itan “eye-opening” journey.He said, generally speaking, it’s positive to see more games and interactive experiences which are responding to news and current events. “While I understand the outcry around a game that takes a one-sided approach and seems to be daft about the complexity of the situation, in my eyes it is fair game (no pun intended).“During the recent conflict in Gaza and Israel I’ve seen numerous one-sided and insensitive notions on social media, in newspapers, in video clips which triggered debate and strong emotions. There is no reason we won’t see such content in interactive format.”But Burak suggests there may be a problem in the way mobile publishers like Google Play and iTunes deal with these games.“Unfortunately, the mobile publishers are not yet sophisticated and seem to make random choices around such content,” he said.“Banning statements that they wouldn’t necessarily ban if they came in written form or in a song. I hope this will change in the near future.”For Burak, these games can have immense value for those trying to understand both sides of the conflict. “Games have a number of attributes that makes them excellent for learning, for understanding complex systems and situations, for inviting participation and social action,” he said.“Perhaps more importantly, games could allow you to view perspectives that are very different than your own, including the ‘other’.”How video games have the power to change real lives
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDid Valve just soft-launch the Source 2 engine? &gt;&gt;&gt; PolygonValve appears to have stealthily soft-launched the long-awaited Source 2 game engine alongside the overnight release of Workshop Tools for Dota 2, Dota modders are suggesting.Where Source 2 leads, Half Life 3 surely follows. Right? Right?!Remote control your friends with video app Sup &gt;&gt;&gt; TechCrunchYou send a Sup request to one or a few friends, inviting them to turn on their phone’s camera and starting showing you their life. If one accepts within five minutes, you get pinged back saying they’re ready to Sup. Re-open the app and you’ll then get a silent, live video feed from them that lasts 10-seconds, but you can tap “Mo’ Time” if you don’t want the stream to end.Please stop making apps. Please. Just stop.Why is YouTube so into Vice News? &gt;&gt;&gt; DigidayThe hot media company, focused on being “the Time Warner of the streets,” according to its brash CEO, has put many of its chips on Vice News. The news channel, relaunched in December, is all about multiplatform distribution, including a deal with HBO. On the Web, Vice has turned to Google-owned YouTube as the linchpin of its distribution strategy.Vice and Google, sitting in a tree...Commons:Deletion requests/File:Macaca nigra self-portrait.jpg - Wikimedia CommonsKeepI think a reasonable comparison would be if an animal had access to some kind of art supplies or raw materials (or maybe just some poop) and created some kind of “artwork” of this. Would the first human to come across this artwork own the copyright to it? What if the human left the supplies there? I think in both cases, the human does not own the copyright, and thus this should be in the public domain.A glimpse at how the sausage that is Wikipedia is made.Sony shows off new curves with its 4K Bravia S90 TV &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lintThe Bravia S90 will come in 65-inch and 75-inch sizes which, curved around your face, should create a cinema-like experience at home.Please stop making curved TVs. Please. Just stop. It’s like 3D all over again, but even more expensive and possibly less useful.Apple details ‘Siri for Mac’ desktop virtual assistant in new patent application &gt;&gt;&gt; Apple InsiderLike the current iteration of Siri, limited to iOS, Apple’s desktop version is able to process natural speech and text input to perform actions like completing tasks, inputting and retrieving data, conducting searches and more. Further, the filing points out that commands are to be taken in context based on deduced user intent. In other words, Siri for desktop will use speech recognition to decipher and remembering contextual clues.We might be more inclined to talk to a computer in the home, but then sat in front of a keyboard you can probably get more done quickly with a few key commands than running through voice prompts, even if it is a natural language chat.Wireless Charging, at a distance, moves forward for uBeam &gt;&gt;&gt; NYTimes.com“This is the only wireless power system that allows you to be on your phone and moving around a room freely while you’re device is charging,” Ms. Perry said in an interview. “It allows for a Wi-Fi-like experience of charging; with everything else you have to be in close range of a transmitter.”There’s talk that this could reduce the need for decent sized batteries, but given most smartphones can’t make it more than two days, that spells disaster for anyone who’s wants to use their phone while traveling. A decent idea, though.Piracy police arrest Nottingham man, 20 &gt;&gt;&gt; BBC NewsThe sites taken down by City of London Police do not offer pirated content themselves, but rather offer tools that allow users to connect to illegal services such as the Pirate Bay and similar torrent sites. “Internet users have sought ways to continue to access the sites by getting round the blocking put in place by the ISPs,” said Kieron Sharp, director general of Fact. “This operation is a major step in tackling those providing such services.”Proxy sites are set for the chop. They’ve been targeted for a while, but it seems they’ve stepped up their action.Google buys chat app that spies on you to serve ads &gt;&gt;&gt; Wired UKThe tech giant confirms it has acquired Emu, a startup that offers a kind of instant messaging tool. The price was not disclosed, but Google’s interest in the company isn’t hard to divine: Emu has built a system that can monitor chats, infer what people are talking about, and insert relevant links including ads.Rather suspicious, but probably right. Google is a massive ad company after all.You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
One of the most sophisticated and prolonged cyber espionage campaigns ever seen has been targeting major governments and militaries for more than six years, researchers have revealed.Dubbed the ‘Turla’ hackers, initial intelligence had indicated western powers were key targets, but it was later determined embassies for Eastern Bloc nations were of more interest.Embassies in Belgium, Ukraine, China, Jordan, Greece, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Poland, and Germany were all attacked, though researchers from Kaspersky Lab and Symantec could not confirm which countries were the true targets.In one case from May 2012, the office of the prime minister of a former Soviet Union member country was infected, leading to 60 further computers being affected, Symantec researchers said.There were some other victims, including the ministry for health of a Western European country, the ministry for education of a Central American country, a state electricity provider in the Middle East and a medical organisation in the US, according to Symantec.It is believed the group was also responsible for a much-documented 2008 attack on the US Central Command.The attackers - who continue to operate - have ostensibly sought to carry out surveillance on targets and pilfer data, though their use of encryption across their networks has made it difficult to ascertain exactly what the hackers took.Kaspersky Lab, however, picked up a number of the attackers’ searches through their victims’ emails, which included terms such as “Nato” and “EU energy dialogue”.Though attribution is difficult to substantiate, Russia has previously been suspected of carrying out the attacks and Symantec’s Gavin O’Gorman told the Guardian a number of the hackers appeared to be using Russian names and language in their notes for their malicious code. Cyrillic was also seen in use.Whether the attackers are Russian or using Russian identities, their target list and the quality of their code indicated they were almost certainly nation state sponsored, the researchers said.As a sign of the high technical capability of the hackers, O’Gorman said they were able to spread across company networks very quickly as soon as they had infected one employee. In one case they were able to spread to approximately 40 machines in one organisation within a day.They have also used zero-day vulnerabilities, previously undiscovered software flaws that have not yet been repaired - flaws that require considerable skill, time and resource to identify.Turla has also been developing its own malware for years, eventually adding rootkit capabilities, which run malicious code before the operating system loads. This kind of malware is rare, complex and very useful for spying on systems without being detected.The hackers used two techniques to infect victims with the Turla malware, also known as Uroboros. Either they would hack into sites they believed their targets would visit and launch malware from there, known as “watering hole” attacks, or they would send emails containing malicious links and attachments directly to individuals.One set of attacks used fake emails claiming to have come from a military attaché at a Middle Eastern embassy, containing an attachment masquerading as the minutes of meetings. When clicked on the Turla malware would be thrust on to the user’s computer.Kaspersky said it had seen more than 100 websites hacked by the Turla crew, including the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Foreign Affairs.The attacks were multi-staged. Often malware called Wipbot was initially downloaded, which would do reconnaissance to determine whether the target was worth surveilling. Wipbot would then be used to download the Turla spy tool, which has far greater capability. That would then give the attackers remote access to the infected computer, meaning they could siphon off the relevant data and install further malware.“The current campaign is the work of a well-resourced and technically competent attack group that is capable of penetrating many network defenses,” Symantec added in itsblog post.Hacker makes $84k hijacking Bitcoin mining pool
While Charles Leadbeater's report worries about whether the internet is living up to its potential, both his Better Web report and its funders strike notes of optimism, pointing to progress being made by social enterprises and charities online.He cites digital education initiative the Khan Academy, which features video lectures and online tutorials to show what can be achived. Eight years after it was founded by Salman Khan, a former hedge fund analyst, it has, for example, delivered 260m lessons in languages ranging from Indonesian to Xhosa."Good ideas are emerging faster than ever, because once an idea such as the Khan Academy proves successful, demand almost mobilises itself," Leadbeter said.Annika Small, the CEO of Nominet Trust, which funded the Better Web research, also praised School in a Box, which is able to use minimal internet access to deliver educational session from anywhere, including prisons or offshore sites. "Ways in which you can rethink the sites and spaces of learning are beginning to emerge, and that is very exciting," she said.Big White Wall, a British site, is another successful project, which provides anonymous online counselling to support people with mental health problems."This is a powerful and very simple example of how – mental health being such an issue in our society, often with a large stigma attached – to use a platform that is very safe, very anonymous if you wish it to be, to post how you're feeling," said Small."It gives you tools as to how to deal with that, but also gives you access to trained counsellors. It's also shifted the sense that you don't have to go into your GP: you have greater control as the patient."Leadbeater's message is not to think the internet is doomed to colonisation by American social media firms, however large Facebook and Twitter are, but to focus on the achievements that can be made if the next wave of tech firms stop focusing on getting big and selling out. Instead, he hopes, perhaps somewhat optimisticially, that the next generation of entrepreneurs will devote themselves to good, and change the nation."All over the world, people are doing that, in all sorts of inventive ways. We shouldn't sell ourselves short by thinking that the internet is all crap, and there's not much we can do with it because Facebook controls all of it. Actually, there's a huge amount that is still there to be done."But against concerns such as digital etiquette and corporate domination, such projects will have to have a major impact to become the prevailing tone.
A pervading online misogyny is the most visible reason why the internet is failing to live up to its potential to improve people's lives, a report for a digital charity has concluded.Charles Leadbeater, an author and former policy adviser to the Labour government, argues in the report A Better Web, that the problem is so serious one solution could be awards for women who succesfully contend with online abuse.Speaking to the Guardian  Leadbeater said: "I'd love to create something like the Mary Beard Prize for women online, to support people who are supporting women to be able to use the internet safely."Arguing that the culture of the web itself is the problem, Leadbeater says in his report that "the kind of abuse [suffered by] the classicist Mary Beard, the gymnast Beth Tweddle and campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez, would not be tolerated in a public place and there is no reason why it should be online".He added: "It's outrageous that we've got an internet where women are regularly abused simply for appearing on television or appearing on Twitter. If that were to happen in a public space it would cause outrage."Contrasting the internet to city life, Leadbeater argues that the most socially productive spaces in cities are those "small enough for people to sit, linger in, make eye contact and chat, in small parks and public squares".He cites research that the most important signifier of a safe and vibrant public space is "the presence of women and families – when they felt comfortable it was a sign that the space was good for everyone".Beard described the suggestion of a prize in her honour as "an accolade" she did not deserve but said she supported the idea in spirit. "One of the ways of getting the bullies out of the playground is to make sure that we all feel that it is a democratic and fair space. I never quite know what I think about prizes, but anything to raise the profile for this kind of approach must be good."But Criado-Perez was less sure that such an award would help. "There's a touch of a patronising pat on the head feel about an award," she said. "I think a far more practical solution to this issue is to stop bringing up our children to think women don't have a right to a voice. But as a one of range of actions to address this issue, I don't think it can hurt."The sometimes toxic online culture is not the only reason why it is no longer possible to feel confident about the prospects for the web, Leadbeater claims. He says there is an over-emphasis on the biggest web companies, damaging breaches of privacy, and regular scare stories, all of which have had an impact."We've had a year now in which the internet is regarded with a sort of weary cynicism by a lot of people, because Facebook are just locking you in, and others are using your data without you knowing it. Some people are enthusiastic about that, because they get really good services and they love it, but quite a lot of other people are either quite doubtful or outright sceptical about it."Leadbeater mentions targeted advertising as an example of the sort of questionable gift offered by the modern internet, telling the story of a friend who was especially pleased with the presents his wife bought for his 40th birthday."Each one [of the presents] hit the spot," Leadbeater writes. "That was because, unbeknown to him and in the two weeks prior to his birthday, his wife had been treated to a string of advertisements on her Facebook page, each carefully chosen to appeal to the wife of a jolly, Welsh, bearded, rugby loving, cider-making public professional.He adds: "Was this a helpful service to a time-pressed working mother of two who needed ideas for her husband's birthday, or a worrying sign of the kind of knowledge that services like Facebook have about us and which could be used in far from benign ways without our knowing?"Leadbeater concludes that the concerns mean that "there is some sense in which the internet is in danger of not meeting its potential" – which he describes as "the promise that was there in the mid-2000s, which was about collaborating to create better ways to do things".But despite the apparantly pessimistic tone, Leadbeater  says he remains optimistic, he says, hoping that there might emerge a new awareness and a focus on more constructive, tangible, ways of using the internet rather than "simply filling out social media profiles".The report was commissioned by the Nominet Trust – the charity that disburses profits from the sale of .uk domain names to promote technology for social good – which has praised low-profile but important projects that use the internet as the basis for social and civic improvement.
Harvard scientists have built the world's first working Transformer robot, inspired by the ancient Japanese paper-folding art of origami.The alien robots that feature in the Transformer movies conceal their true nature by taking on the form of cars and trucks. The scientists' robot has yet to reach that level of technical deception and disguises itself – for now, at least – as a robot that has been flattened.Footage from the researchers' laboratory shows a sheet of paper and plastic mounted with batteries and motors that folds itself into a working machine without human intervention and then scuttles out of shot.The flat-pack robot uses "shape memory polymers" that contract like muscles when they are heated. The robot takes about four minutes to assemble from scratch and can walk at a speed of around 5cm per second."Getting a robot to assemble itself autonomously and actually perform a function has been a milestone we've been chasing for many years," said Rob Wood at the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard.Built with help from researchers at MIT, the robot could pave the wave for flat-packed machines for use in space or in hazardous environments on Earth where they can be put into confined spaces and left to assemble themselves."Imagine a ream of dozens of robotic satellites sandwiched together so that they could be sent up to space and then assemble themselves remotely once they get there. They could take images, collect data and more," said Sam Felton, who helped to make the machine. Details of the robot are revealed in the journalScience.The team used computer design tools to create the robot from a three-ply sheet. The first sheet is paper, the second a flexible electronic circuit, and the third the shape memory polymer. Hinges that allow the robot's legs to move into position are programmed to fold at specific angles. Each hinge contains tiny circuits that heat up on command to move the robot's limbs. To work out where the folds need to go, the scientists used software called Origamizer.Around four minutes after assembly, the robot's hinges cool down enough to set hard and the robot's microcontroller sends signals to the limbs to make it walk. Felton said that the equipment to make the 13cm-long robot would cost about $3,000 at commercial rates with each robot costing around $100.The robot has a built-in timer and starts to fold itself into shape 10 seconds after its batteries have been fitted. "We could easily modify this such that the folding is triggered by an environmental sensor, such as temperature or pressure," Felton said. To fold itself into shape and scurry off consumed the energy stored in an AA battery.Daniela Rus, who worked on the project at MIT, said the technology could have a major impact on manufacturing processes. "This will rapidly extend the manufacturing capabilities that we have today where configuring an assembly line is done manually and requires a lot of time."Our big dream is to really make the fabrication of robots fast and inexpensive," she added.
Fifteen thousand peopleare currently watching a fish play Pokémon. Welcome to 2014, it’s weirder than we thought it was going to be.The fish in question, Grayson Hopper, lives in a tank hooked up to a webcam. Depending on where in the tank he is at any given time, the system hits a corresponding button on a Game Boy emulator, and the video game accepts the input.The system was hacked together in 24 hours, and works reasonably well at achieving its goal. Which is letting a fish play Pokémon.Odder still, the fish hasn’t had too bad a run at the game. According to its owner, Grayson, who has been playing the game for 135 hours at this point, actually managed to acquire a Pokémon and win the first battle against its rival, Gary.Unfortunately, just six people were watching at the time. Since the fish has hit viral fame, it’s been rather less successful. Over the course of Thursday, it hasn’t actually managed to leave its room. In fact, when I last checked, it was asleep on the ‘up’ button.Despite that, viewership on the channel has more than tripled over the course of the day. For context, it ended up more than six times higher than the average number of people who tune in to London Live’s breakfast show,Wake Up London. All watching a fish playing pokémon.Fish Plays Pokémon is a follow-up, of sorts, toFebruary’s viral hit Twitch Plays Pokémon, albeit run by a different streamer. That experiment in live gaming offered up control of Pokémon Red, the first game in the franchise, to a horde of up to 150,000 simultaneous players, who entered commands into a chat channels in an effort to finish the game through consensus.That goal was eventually reached, but not without great struggle, community wars, anda whole load of bizarre fan art. Then it played the second game in the series. Then the third. Then it got a little bit crap, and everyone stopped watching.Now it is up to Grayson to carry the torch of strange Pokémon meta-fandom – as soon as he wakes up that is, and does something interesting. Like defeat the game’s first rival trainer Brock. You can do it, Grayson!Grayson?Grayson, you are just asleep aren’t you?
The players have been scanned with the latest 3D technology; each stadium is rendered in such detail that the animating LEDs on the advertising boards are accurate to the specific location. Fifa 15 wants to be the most authentic representation of Premiership football ever conceived. And EA has the mega-bucks licensing deal to achieve it.On Wednesday, the publisher of the Fifa series of footie sims announced that it had extended its “official sports technology” partnership with the Premiership until 2019. As part of the package, EA gets its branding on match and player performance statistics for the League, and also receives unrivaled access to the teams and players. Fifa 15, then, will feature accurately modeled versions of all 20 stadiums for the first time in the series. The game’s development team has apparently visited each one recording real fan chants and songs which will be imported into the sim.Capture and commentaryMore than 200 Premier League players have been through a 3D scanner to get their exact facial likenesses. Broadcast TV-style graphical overlays, including match stats, team sheets and fixture details, will flicker on to the screen – as though you’re watching the real thing. Indeed, there are apparently now 600 emotional reactions available to the in-game player models. When anything exciting happens, the managers will leap and yell from the touchlines. The commentary is detailed enough to pick up on chants and specific moments of game action.A 3D scan of Manchester City striker, Sergio Aguero Photograph: /Electronic ArtsThe game even includes the new goal line technology, showing the same screened replays as the Premiership grounds will, illustrating ambiguous moments. It’s like watching a real game on TV. Which begs the intriguing question – what is it that Fifa simulates, the sport itself or the televised representation of that sport?EA has been carefully shaping its sports sims around broadcast coverage for a number of years. Just as Sky exploded into football coverage in the early nineties bringing video game-like stats, sound effects and visuals, video games have met the television industry half-way. A match in Fifa 15 will begin with a stadium fly-over cam, the Premiership theme tune, the players lining up to shake hands, the commentators gabbing on about the meaning and importance of it all. You can click through it all, but gamers are encouraged to feel a part of the “theatre”. On the Fifa site, players are told, “New bench reactions, 10-man goal celebrations and more will keep you engaged in the story of the match.”Because football is a staged narrative now.It’s a very subtle shift from simulating a sport to simulating the broadcast ideal of a sport. And it makes sense really. Outside of school, most people only experience football as a spectator event, and with season ticket costs spiraling, that experience tends to be provided by television. The idea of football is now synonymous with a screen; with the detritus of the screened event – so it makes sense for a computer game to simulate that. It’s Baudrillard’s concept of hyper-reality in video game form.The past was a foreign gameThis wasn’t always the way. The much loved Sensible Soccer series of the early nineties sought to provide a simulated version of football that worked within the confines of a video game. Player movement was super fast, the action pinballed around the limited pitch, the techniques required were insular and specific – it was a sport in itself. Konami’s ISS and Pro Evolution Soccer titles of the early 2000s provided lots of licensed content, but maintained this sense of pace – the best titles in the PES series knew they were simulations; knew they were different from “real” football.The worst titles in the Fifa series, the ones roughly between 2000-2008 seemingly abandoned gameplay depth in favour of branding. The joke was, “press X to score with overhead kick”. Fifa is a much, much better game now, but there are chinks of that ideology buried away in its code.Of course, Fifa 15 will boast myriad gameplay improvements – the ball physics is being tweaked again, shoulder barges are more impactful, AI players more responsive to fast breaks. But the developer, EA Sports, needs to be careful that there is no growing disparity between the “story” of each match – the one told through visual realism and environment effects – and the “simulation”. The 20 authentic stadiums and the 200 facial models are neat extras, but they don’t replace anything. Commentators love to talk about stories and sub-plots playing out on the pitch, but where simulation is concerned, it’s the ball you want to control, not the plot.Fifa 15 hands-on – it’s all about emotionCould EA Access be the Netflix for Fifa fans?
Jon Daviescan claim victory for the UK when he takes to the stage on Thursday evening, welcoming Wikipedia’s most dedicated volunteers to Wikimania at London’s Barbican Centre.Since he became chief executive of Wikimedia UK in October 2011, Davies has been campaigning for the annual event to be held in London, and has finally got his way. But, he told the Guardian, it’s indicative of the UK “punching above its weight, given that it already contributes 20% of all English-language Wikipedia articles”.Born near Bristol, Davies was the first to head Wikimedia UK, appointed when the parent organisation of Wikipedia was formalising its local “chapters” of administrators and volunteers around the world.The UK wing is based near Old Street in east London, and runs independently of the US, employing 17 staff during Wikimania and 250 members – administrators who volunteer their time for free.Quietly spoken and modest with a teacherly manner, Jon Davies, 59, first worked as a film technician (he still edits Wikipedia pages on his pet subject of French cinema) before moving on to local government and primary school teaching. He spent several years in the charities sector, most recently as chief executive of Families Need Fathers.His introduction to the world of Wikipedia from the outside came years earlier. “At the time I had a part-time job as a lecturer on French cinema. I joined like many do: I spotted a mistake, I dared to hit the edit button and didn’t destroy Wikipedia in the process. It was both scary and exciting.”From there Davies worked as an volunteer editor, like the 15,000 other regular UK Wikipedia contributors. Under his leadership, Wikimedia UK became a registered charity in 2011, and is tasked with developing local expertise, bringing large institutions like museums, universities and the media on-board to open up works for free use on Wikipedia.Wikimedia operates on the inside like Wikipedia does: every decision needs a democratic consensus and with passionate people with clear views, which means it can require considerable diplomacy and effort to get things moving.The western English speaking world is well covered by articles on Wikipedia, but there is a definite gender bias.“However neutral knowledge is, the way that people come at deciding on a subject is from their own experience and gender plays a key role in that process, especially when something like 85% of our editors are men,” said Davies.Addressing the gender bias both among Wikipedia contributors and in articles about notable women is a priority for Wikimedia UK, says Davies.The UK’s contribution to the Ada Lovelace initiative ran in October 2013 at the University of Oxford and Imperial College London, adding new articles to Wikipedia about a wide range of notable female scientists, technologists, mathematicians and engineers.For now, his priority is using the surge of interest in Wikimania to recruit more staff and volunteers. “In a week’s time, if I’m still sane and no one has done anything terrible, then we’ll rate it as a big success.”•Wikimania, the annual Wikimedia Foundation conference, runs from 6-10 August at London’s Barbican Centre
A hacker generated $84,000 worth of the Bitcoin cryptocurrency by gaining access to a Canadian internet provider and diverting the computing power of private Bitcoin “mines”.The malicious activity was discovered by researchers at Dell SecureWorks, a cyber intelligence company, after noticing that some of their own mining power stolen. The team traced the activity back to an internet service provider (ISP) in Canada, which remains anonymous.It remains unclear exactly how the hacker managed to gain access to the ISP’s infrastructure to reroute users’ mining power to their own pool.Speaking to the Guardian at the BlackHat security conference in Las Vegas, Pat Litke from SecureWorks suggested they may have been a current or former employee at the ISP, or an external hacker who had breached the company.By gaining administrative access to a router at the ISP, they abused a service known as the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) that is designed to connect different networks on the internet together. By compromising BGP functions at the ISP, the hacker was able to send traffic destined for a legitimate mining pool to his own pool.The hijacker actually set up two malicious pools. One was used to send miners to a second pool. “By convincing the miners to connect to this second malicious pool rather than the original malicious pool, the hijacker filters out traffic that has already been hijacked so it is not hijacked again,” the researchers’ paper read.Users originally complained about the illicit activity on internet forums in March, but Litke and his colleague Joe Stewart said the attacks dated back to February. The hacker also stole mining power to release other cryptocurrencies, including Dogecoin, HoboNickels and WorldCoin. As many as 8,000 Dogecoins, equivalent to $1.42, were lost at one small-time miner as a result of the hack.To prevent similar attacks in the future, Litke and Stewart recommended pool servers use the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) encryption protocol. If the affected pool had done so here, it would have prevented the theft, they said.The researchers were impressed by the ingenuity of the hacker, saying it was a “great idea”, at least from a criminal perspective. The attacker was specifically targeting those miners who had invested in souped-up hardware designed to mine Bitcoin.The victims will receive no compensation and Litke said the chance of any prosecution was very slim, due to the difficulty of tracking the perpetrator.Is there a Rihanna sex tape? No, it’s a malware scam on Facebook
A 20-year-old man in Pennsylvania has been charged with receiving and sharing child abuse images after Microsoft tipped off police that he was allegedly storing and sending illegal images using Microsoft services.Microsoft discovered the image involving a young girl allegedly within the man’s cloud storage account.The man was subsequently caught allegedly attempting to email two illegal images via a Microsoft email account.Microsoft’s digital crimes unit alerted the US National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) which serves as the central reporting authority for suspected child abuse cases.The agency then liaised with law enforcement leading to his arrest on 31 July,court documents published by The Smoking Gun show.The court documents explain that the man allegedly acquired the image using Kik Messenger on a mobile device. He is currently held at the Monroe County Correctional Facility, facing five charges related to his alleged possession and distribution of child abuse images, scheduled for a preliminary hearing in Magisterial District Court on 14 August.‘We use automated technologies to detect abusive behaviour’“Child pornography violates the law as well as our terms of service, which makes clear that we use automated technologies to detect abusive behaviour that may harm our customers or others,” said Mark Lamb from Microsoft’s digital crimes unit.“In 2009, we helped develop PhotoDNA, a technology to disrupt the spread of exploitative images of children, which we report to the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children as required by law,” he said.The PhotoDNA scanning software creates a unique signature for each image using data about the pixels of the image. Those signatures can then be tracked and matched, allowing Microsoft as well as Google, Facebook,Twitter and others to detect flagged photos.No employees of any of the technology companies have to look at the images, solely relying on the “DNA” of the image to compare matches.The PhotoDNA system is also used to prevent child abuse images appearing in search results.Google recently tipped off NCMEC to asimilar child abuse situationwhere illegal images were shared via a Gmail account, leading to the arrest of a 41-year-old Texan.•How Microsoft, Google and ISPs aim to halt child abuse images
My son wants a computer to play the full version of Minecraft for his birthday. What are the options? Is there a tablet that can cope with the full version (not the Pocket Edition), or can you recommend a laptop? I am hoping to find something on a tight budget.VirginiaI answered a similar question last year (What’s the best laptop for a child who plays Minecraft?), but it has since been raised again so there’s clearly an unmet need for advice. I’m going to try to provide a broader answer.One of the problems evident from theMinecraft Wikiis that benchmarks are all over the place. Apparently similar systems can run at 3fps (frames per second) or 300fps. Real-world performance can vary dramatically depending on the settings chosen for graphics, lighting, textures, render distance, the number of mods and plug-ins installed, and the screen size. Adults, let alone children, may not be aware that free enhancements have a performance cost.Then there’s the subjective aspect. One person sets a render distance of five chunks and thinks Minecraft is just fine at 30fps while another sets a render distance of 12 chunks and thinks 150fps isn’t good enough.Almost any current mainstream device – tablet, games console, laptop or PC – will run Minecraft, bearing in mind that only PCs run the full version. Almost any current PC (Windows, Linux or Mac) should be able to run Minecraft at the lower settings. However, running the full version with textures, smooth lighting, clouds etc and a high level of resolution at a high frame rate can challenge even expensive PCs. It all comes down to finding the best compromise between performance and price.My general advice is to buy something with a graphics card rather than “integrated graphics” (where the graphics chip is included with the processor). The graphics card seems to be the single most important factor in Minecraft performance. Also, aim for a PC with a 64-bit operating system and 4GB or more memory, and make sure you install the 64-bit version of Oracle’s Java. (Minecraft is a Java program.)Tablets, hybrids and laptopsRecent Apple and Android tablets are good for running the Pocket Edition of Minecraft, not the full version. Although there are some high-end tablets that are more suitable for gaming – see my recent answer,Which is the best 10in Android tablet for my game-playing son?– at £400, they are more expensive than many Windows PCs.If you must have a tablet, the best option is a Windows 8 tablet, the cheapest being the 8in Toshiba Encore (£179.99). There are some YouTube videos that show the full Minecraft running on Dell Venue 8 and Venue 11 tablets with similar specifications, so you can decide if this is good enough. For people with money, theRazer Edge Pro,Microsoft Surface Pro 2and forthcoming Surface Pro 3 run Minecraft well.The problem is that Minecraft was written for use with a keyboard and mouse, not for touch-tablets. You can plug a mouse and a keyboard into a Windows tablet, but it might be better to buy a convertible PC that works as both a tablet and a laptop, such as the Asus Transformer Book T100TA. After my last answer, Sonja emailed to say she’d bought a T100TA and recommended it as “not top of the line but a good budget model” for Minecraft (seevideo). The Acer Aspire Switch 10 is also worth a look.However, the cheapest Windows 8 tablets, hybrids and laptops often have 32-bit “Bay Trail” Atom processors, only 2GB of memory, and no separate graphics cards. This goes against my general buying advice. If you are on a very tight budget, consider the 11.6in touch-screen Asus VivoBook X200. At least this has a 64-bit processor – a 1.5GHz Intel Celeron 1007U – and 4GB of memory for£249.99.Laptops with dedicated graphicsMost laptops have integrated graphics so you will have to search around for models that include separate Nvidia GeForce or AMD Radeon graphics. Unfortunately, these usually cost from about £600 to £1,800, which is rather a lot for a Minecraft machine. However, dedicated graphics chips sometimes turn up in cheaper laptops with slower processors.When@jessevershedasked on Twitter a couple of months ago, I suggested theAsus X552CL-SX037H, which is still available at £390.99 with free delivery, reduced from £459.99. This has a 15.6in screen, a 1.8GHz Intel Core i3-3217U processor, 6GB of memory, a 500GB hard drive, DVD and, most importantly, Nvidia GeForce GT710M graphics. I can’t see anything else at a similar price.The next step up is theAsus X550CC-XO071H, which has a 1.8GHz Core i5-3337U 8GB of memory, 1TB hard drive, DVD and Nvidia GeForce GT720M graphics for £520.53 plus £4.99 UK delivery.The best budget Minecraft laptop I can find at the moment is another Asus. The 15.6in X550CA has a 1.8GHz Intel Core i3-3217U with 6GB RAM, 1TB hard drive, DVD and HD 4000 Integrated Graphics for£314.98 at Amazon.co.uk,£319.97 at Laptops Director£329.97 at Save On Laptops.Whichever laptop you buy, remember to add an external USB mouse.Desktops and games consolesYou would get more power for your money by buying a desktop PC such as a ChillblastFusion ScytheorFusion Strikeforce 2(£399). Laptop manufacturers fit low-voltage processors that generate less heat, but an airier desktop PC could use a hotter and much cheaper processor such as the 3.1GHzPentium G3240, which has a TDP of 53W.Desktop PCs have two other big advantages for Minecraft. First, they have internal slots for cheap graphics cards, and if a card isn’t fast enough, it’s easy to upgrade it. Second, they’re much less likely to be damaged.Finally, if you want the maximum graphics processing power for the lowest cost, consider a Microsoft Xbox 360 or Sony PS3 games console, from £140. The console version of Minecraft does not have all the features of the PC version, but it’s in a different league to the Pocket Edition.
A Facebook app offering to change the colour of Facebook’s profile page and header scams users, hacking into their Facebook account and computer.The scam tricks users into downloading an app called “Facebook colour changer”, which promises to change the characteristic blue colour of Facebook’s header and interface to one of nine other colours including pink, purple, green, yellow, orange and black.The app is nothing but a trick to compromise a user’s Facebook account, according to researchers from Chinese internet security firm Cheeta Mobile.“Once clicked, it leads users to a phishing website,” Cheeta Mobilesaid in a blogpost. “This issue seems to be happening due to a vulnerability that lives in Facebook’s app page itself, allowing hackers to implant viruses and malicious code into Facebook-based applications directing users to phishing sites.”Similar colour changer scams have operated on Facebook in the past, exploiting the popular customisation options of sites such as Tumblr and, before it, MySpace, but the revived scam has impacted more than 10,000 people across multiple countries, according to Cheetah Mobile.Videos, pornography and virusesThe cybercriminals use two methods to attack users who fall for the colour changer scam. The first redirects users to a tutorial video that appears to explain how to use the app.If a user clicks on the video it grants the hackers temporary access to the user’s Facebook account allowing them to see their friends list and other personal information.The hackers also try and infect the user’s computer or device with malicious software. Malware masquerading as a pornography video player is offered to PC users. Android users are shown a scare message that claims their device is infected with viruses offering to install anti-virus software on to their Android smartphone or tablet, which in turn installs viruses on to the device.Hacked users who fell for the scam have to uninstall the “Facebook colour changer” app and immediately change their password to prevent the cybercriminals accessing more of their personal information or using their account to trick friends.Cheetah Mobile also advises users to turn off Facebook Platform to prevent the app from being installed in the first place, but that would disable all apps currently installed on Facebook as well as preventing users from using Facebook to log into third-party services like Spotify.The Rihanna sex tape is a lie. It’s a malware scam on FacebookIf you see this woman’s knickers in your Facebook feed, don’t click the link
Sony Computer Entertainment of America is being sued for “deceptive marketing” over its PlayStation 4 shooter, Killzone: Shadow Fall. The lawsuit attests that the game’s multiplayer mode does not run in the advertised high-definition 1080p resolution.According to US news site Polygon, the action is being launched by California resident Douglas Ladore in the Northern District California court.The lawsuit document points to the fact that the game uses a “technical shortcut” to achieve a “native” high definition effect in its multiplayer mode. True “native” HD graphics run at 1920 by 1080, or 1080p, resolution. The single-player portion of the game does this, but for the online multiplayer mode, which is much more demanding on the console processor, developer Guerrilla has used a technique named “temporal reprojection” to give the appearance of full “native” HD.Guerrilla haspublicly admittedon its website that the game’s multiplayer mode uses a technical process to achieve the HD result. However, the lawsuit claims that Sony has advertised “full HD” on its official website, social media content and the game’s retail packaging.The legal action has been filed by law firm Edelson PC, which previously also oversaw a class action lawsuit against games publisher Sega over its 2013 game Aliens Colonial Marines. In that case, the suit was filed by consumers who felt the quality of the game did not match the pre-release advertising. Last month, the game’s developer, Gearbox,filed a motion to strike, claiming that the allegations were too broad.According to news site VG247, the Killzone lawsuit is seeking, “more than $5,000,000”.“The issue of false advertising and misrepresentation in the games industry isn’t new but it is being invoked by consumers more often over time,” said Jas Purewal, a lawyer specialising in digital entertainment. “However it’s not a straightforward type of claim: a court needs to review carefully what’s complained of, whether it was truly false or misleading, what harm that actually caused the claimants and finally whether in all the circumstances the claim should be upheld.”The issue of screen resolutions has become heated among hardcore gamers since the launch of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles last November. Microsoft has beencriticisedfor the fact that several early titles for its new machine ran in 720p resolution and not full 1080p. However, many consumers are unlikely to notice the difference, much less launch legal action.Sony has not yet commented on the case.
As Josefa Ramírez lay on the operating table at the Perpetuo Socorro hospital in Gran Canaria, she saw above her a night sky scene, as if looking up into the stratosphere while lying on the ground. The sounds around her were not the bustle of surgeons and nurses, but Beethoven’s Moonlight Sonata, Debussy’s Clair de lune and other classical lullabies. Occasionally, the sky lit up with shooting stars and confetti blasts of fireworks.These were not the hallucinatory by-products of a general anesthetic. Instead, Ramírez was wearing a virtual reality headset, built by start-up company Oculus VR. The night sky she saw was a computer graphics simulation shown on high resolution screens positioned centimetres from her eyes, giving the impression of being immersed in a night time world. The music came from the headset’s comfortable earphones.Previously, Ramíre had been so stressed about her impending knee arthroscopy operation that she requested a general anaesthetic. However, according to her surgeon, Dr. Gerardo Garcés, she agreed to a less risky local anesthetic when she was told that the virtual reality night sky sim would ease her anxiety, lowering both her heart rate and blood pressure.The rise of virtual realityFirst explored back in the 1960s, virtual reality became a popular concept in the early nineties when the first consumer headsets appeared on the market. At that time however, the screens were extremely low resolution, and the motion tracking sensors were prone to lag, leading to terrible motion sickness. Unsurprisingly, they failed as mass market products.Nevertheless, the technology continued to be explored in certain industrial niches, including the military and medicine. Many surgeons routinely practice operations using VR simulations.According to the hospital, however, Ramírez’s operation was the first time that a headset of this type has been won by a patient during a live operation. “This trial brings a great clinical advantage to isolate the patient in an operating room and thus protect them from a stressful environment,” said Jorge Petit, the hospital’s CEO.A video feed of the operation, captured by a Google Glass headset worn by the surgeon, was streamed live during the procedure. The feed was relayed to a YouTube channel andwebpage, where it was watched live by approximately 150 other medical professionals and medical students from the University of Las Palmas, Gran Canaria.Droiders, a Spanish company that specialises in clinical software, created both the Google Glass software and the Oculus Rift simulation. “Google Glass allows people to watch surgeries being performed in another part of the world in real time,” said director, Paul Gailey Alburquerque. “This improves the learning process and allows doctors to more effectively share information. Moreover, surgeons might be able to use the technology for a second opinion or to clear up any doubts during the procedure.”The hospital is keen to make use of virtual and augmented reality technologies outside of the operating room too. Earlier this month it began a testing phase of software that allows doctors wearing a Google Glass headset to scan a QR code on a patient’s wristband thereby quickly calling up their clinical history on the wearable device.Virtual reality therapy has also been used in the treatment of serious burns.Created at the University of Washington, SnowWorld is an icy virtual environment that helps burn victims cope with their pain. In the past, the use of VR technology in medicine has been expensive, but as consumer technologies like the Oculus Rift become more advanced and easily available, their application is likely to be more common – making routine medical procedures a lot less frightening for patients.“At first I was overwhelmed,” said Ramírez of the experience. “But gradually I relaxed and I forgot where I was.”Are you ready for the virtual reality revolution?Oculus Rift – 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality
The internet is in danger of failing to live up to its potential to improve people’s lives,according to a new report.Over emphasis on the biggest web companies, damaging breaches of privacy, regulatory over-reach and regular scare stories have all had an impact, argues Charles Leadbeater, a former policy adviser to the Labour government who has been influential in government attitudes towards the internet for more than a decade.Urging citizens “not to give up on the internet”, Leadbeater’s “A Better Web” for the Nominet Trust report points to the pervasive misogyny of the web as an example of how the democratising potential of the internet has not been fulfilled.“I’d love to create something like the ‘Mary Beard Prize for women online’ to support people who are supporting women to be able to use the internet safely,” he said.“It’s outrageous that we’ve got an internet where women are regularly abused simply for appearing on television or appearing on Twitter. If that were to happen in a public space, it would cause outrage.”Some of the enthusiasm for consumer services are tempered by a wave of doubt and outright skepticism, he said.“We’ve had a year now in which the internet is regarded with a sort of weary cynicism by a lot of people, because Facebook are just locking you in, and others are using your data without you knowing it. Some people are enthusiastic about that, because they get really good services and they love it, but quite a lot of other people are either quite doubtful or outright skeptical about it.“There is some sense in which the internet is in danger of not meeting its potential… the promise that was there in the mid-2000s, which was about collaborating to create better ways to do things.”Against that, Leadbeater is calling for optimism, for a new awareness and focus on more constructive, tangible ways of using the internet rather than “simply filling out social media profiles”.‘Good ideas are emerging faster than ever’The report was commissioned by the Nominet Trust, the charity that disburses profits from the sale of .UK domain names to promote technology for social good, which has praised low profile but important examples of projects using the internet as the basis for social and civic improvement.Covering health and education to smart, “social” cities and equality, Leadbeater points to progress being made by charities and social enterprises as reason for optimism.“Good ideas are emerging faster than ever, because once an idea such as the Khan Academy proves successful, demand almost mobilises itself,” he said. The not-for-profit digital education start-up provides free teaching online, and started seven years ago. It has delivered 260m lessons in languages ranging from Indonesian to Xhosa.Annika Small, the CEO of Nominet Trust, praised School in a Box, which uses minimal internet access to deliver educational session from anywhere, including prisons or offshore sites. “Ways in which you can rethink the sites and spaces of learning are beginning to emerge, and that is very exciting,” she said.Big White Wall is another successful project, which provides anonymous online counselling to support people with mental health problems.“This is a powerful and very simple example of how - mental health being such an issue in our society, often with a large stigma attached - to use a platform that is very safe, very anonymous if you wish it to be, to post how you’re feeling,” said Small.“It gives you tools as to how to deal with that, but also gives you access to trained counsellors. It’s also shifted the sense that you don’t have to go into your GP: you have greater control as the patient.”It’s not thatallof the internet is crapLeadbeater’s message is not to think the internet is doomed to colonisation by American social media firms, but to focus on the achievements that can be made if the next wave of tech firms stop focusing on getting bit and selling out.Instead, they can devote themselves to good, and change the nation.“All over the world, people are doing that, in all sorts of inventive ways. We shouldn’t sell ourselves short by thinking that the internet is all crap, and there’s not much we can do with it because Facebook controls all of it. Actually, there’s a huge amount that is still there to be done.”Kickstarter: a platform for investment, philanthropy or shopping?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamReview: iKettle, the iPhone-controlled kettle for gadget-loving tea drinkers &gt;&gt;&gt; 9to5MacTo switch the kettle on, you just touch the large power button in the main app screen. As with the physical control, it defaults to 100C. Once the kettle has boiled, the kettle base bleeps and the iPhone app displays a notification.Remote controlled kettle. You still have to actually get up and pour the water out though.UK regulator proposes crackdown on misleading Facebook and Twitter ads &gt;&gt;&gt; EngadgetBlogs, social networks and photo and video services are all in the FCA’s crosshairs, as it looks to crack down on companies that rely on misleading messages like “Join us now and we promise you’ll make a 758% profit on your first stock investment” to sign up new users.Advertorials seem to be the primary focus for a lot of advertising companies. Will new rules hamper them?Latest Moto 360 images show off the secret charger for the first time &gt;&gt;&gt; Android CentralThe charger is unlike any that we’ve seen so far for a smartwatch. It appears to cradle the Moto 360 with the watch face pointing outwards - so, still looking at you while its charging - with the power cable plugging in round the back.It seems to confirm the watch will be metal-cased too. Should LG and Samsung be worried?Best Apple employee name ever? Sam Sung... and now you can buy his business card &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lintSam Sung is a former employee of Apple and sees the funny side of it himself. So much so that when one of his old business cards fell out of a book he had picked up, he decided to auction it on eBay for charity. After all, you are very unlikely to see the words Sam Sung and Apple on the same business card anywhere else.It’s for charity. And seems oddly fitting given the recent white flags over patents outside the US between Apple and Samsung.Your Locker of Information for CryptoLocker Decryption &gt;&gt;&gt; FireEye BlogWe developed a decryption assistance website and corresponding tool designed to help those afflicted with the original CryptoLocker malware. Through various partnerships and reverse engineering engagements, Fox-IT and FireEye have ascertained many of the private keys associated with CryptoLocker. Having these private keys allows for decryption of files that are encrypted by CryptoLocker.Like a locksmith bailing you out when you lock yourself out of your house. Good on them.Foursquare 8.0 review: the ultimate food-finder &gt;&gt;&gt; The VergeTo beat Yelp and Google, however, Foursquare’s going to have to do more than educate the masses about the virtues of its technology. It’s going to have to prove that the 5 billion check-ins and 55 million tips it’s gathered are enough to fuel the best recommendation engine. This is the goal of Foursquare 8.0, launching today for iPhone and Android. The new app cuts through Foursquare’s massive corpus of data to answer one question: what if your food-finding app knew your favourite restaurants, but also your favourite foods?Having used it for about 3o minutes we can say it does seem like a real improvement over the old version.US Wi-Fi Report July 2014 - OpenSignalThis report takes a look at the speeds available on public networks in the United States; comparing room price to performance on hotel networks; looking at Starbucks’ switch from AT&amp;T Wi-Fi to Google; and finally putting the speeds of various stores’ Wi-Fi networks in context with the cellular speeds offered by national network operators in the US.It seems our rule of thumb that “the more you pay for a hotel room, the worse the wifi” isn’t actually true.Trustev Blog » Will chip-and-PIN cards in the US mean more e-commerce fraud?But “Card Not Present” (CNP) fraud typical for e-commerce is a different story. Evidence shows that CNP fraud often increases as EMV cards are introduced, presumably because fraudsters don’t just give up their life of crime, but often switch to other approaches. Business Insider covered this issue in May, and the time for EMV in the US is getting closer.If you have a stolen credit card, you can still buy stuff with it. Just not in person.You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Wikipedia articles about the killings of Damilola Taylor and Jean Charles de Menezes were among those edited using computers from inside government, it has emerged.One amendment made using the government's IT system sought to highlight what the editor said was a "public backlash" against the amount of media attention the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes attracted. Another amended the entry on Damilola Taylor to say that he "died", rather than that he "was murdered".AnIP addressthat activists have traced to the British government was used to add a paragraph attacking the groups that had called for a thorough investigation into the de Menezes case.In the Wikipedia entry on the shooting, a government internet connection was used to write: "There has been some public backlash against Menezes, with British tabloid newspaper in particular protesting that he has received more publicity than any of the 52 people who died in the bombings. 'Anti-war' groups who champion Menezes case, ignore the fate of the victims of the bombings, other then to 'understand' why the attacks occurred due to the UK's role in Iraq."It was also used to cast doubt on his immigration status and to write that the Stop the War coalition believes "that terror attacks on Britain are justified because of the UK's involvement in the overthrow of Saddam Hussein".Other changes made using a government internet connection included amending the page on the Independent Police Complaints Commission to more closely resemble its own PR messages.A government spokesman said: "Government takes these matters very seriously. We have recently reminded civil servants of their responsibilities under the civil service code and any breaches of the code will be dealt with."We will shortly be issuing fuller guidance on using the internet and social media to all departments."It is not believed, however, that the government will launch an inquiry.Those edits, as well as others, werefirst reported by Channel 4 News. They emerged after two experts claimed to have identified IP addresses used by government computers.Asad Rehman, a spokesman for the de Menezes family, told the programme: "Like all ordinary members of the public, I'm shocked. This is yet one more smear and attack on the family."We've seen over many years lies, misinformation and smears during the family's attempt to find the truth and justice and answers about how an innocent young man on his way to work was gunned down by police officers."The news follows the revelation thatoffensive messages about the Hillsborough disaster were postedusing government IP addresses.Wikipedia's co-founder Jimmy Wales condemned the practice and said that the site's community of editors was there to pick up such cases.But he played down the news, saying it was unlikely to be part of a "disinformation campaign" and more likely to be someone who "has gone a bit rogue".
