Films at theSlamdunkfestival are being streamed using Microsoft's next-generation video technology,Corona, unveiled last year. For links to lots of Corona stories, seeMicrosoft's Press CenterorGoogle.
If you want the inside track on what Google is developing, you can now visitGoogle Labs. CNet has the story,here
EasyJet has been accused of software piracy by a supplier of an online reservation system in a legal action begun on the eve of the low-cost airline's &#163;374m purchase of rival Go.An American computer firm, Navitaire, which used to provide EasyJet's reservation software, claims the airline copied its package when it spent &#163;2m writing its own system.The Minneapolis-based company issued proceedings on May 15, the day before EasyJet announced it had agreed to buy Go.EasyJet's chairman, Stelios Haji-Ioannou, last night dismissed the issue as a "nuisance claim". It was disclosed yesterday in EasyJet's offer document for Go. A Navitaire spokeswoman said the company intended to protect its intellectual property "vigorously".The document also reveals that Go made operating profits of &#163;10.2m and a pre-tax profit of &#163;13.9m in the year to March. The figures are short of the &#163;17m "profit from operations" which the airline announced in a press release on May 8.Go has a legal problem of its own: it is being sued by a French travel agency, Go Voyages, which wants to stop the airline using the name Go in France. The French firm is seeking to strike out the low-cost airline's European trade mark of the word and wants &euro;3m (&#163;1.9m) damages.EasyJet's purchase of Go is to be funded by a &#163;276m rights issue. EasyJet's chief executive, Ray Webster, confirms in the offer document that he plans to sell 500,000 shares once the rights issue is complete, which could raise up to &#163;2.4m. He wants the cash to pay off a loan from private banking arm of Swiss bank UBS.Among the "risk factors" flagged to shareholders in the takeover are the possibility of a further terrorist crisis, air traffic control delays and fuel price fluctuations.The document warns that EasyJet's executives are not bound by the same confidentiality agreements common elsewhere in the business world. It says this means EasyJet is less well protected than other companies against the risk of employees disclosing commercial secrets to rivals.
If you're reading this in the Guardian's online version, Saturday May 25 might be your lucky day. If you've got an old- fashioned, dead-tree copy, find a computer and go to the internet edition now. In a special promotion for the web newspaper, Guardian supremo Alan Rusbridger has promised Guardian writers &#163;100 for each on-screen reader we can get.So, if each of you reading this simply downloads the column and sends it on to 10 friends, that's &#163;1,100 he owes me for every web-reader. I'm prepared to give you 25% of that. Don't worry. The paper has special tracking software which will show when you've met the requirement. Subsequently, I'll message each "chain initiator" for the details of the bank account to which you'd like your quarter-share sent. But be quick: the offer closes at midnight.Most people - especially those with any knowledge of the Guardian's strict finances - will have guessed that this is a hoax. But last week a number of people were apparently taken in by something equally implausible.Five different email correspondents sent me a chain message which claims that, following a merger between Microsoft and AOL, Bill Gates wishes to reward loyal customers. By forwarding the message to 10 others, you trigger a cascade of payments which will be arranged through special "tracking software". The message is headed: "This really is true. It was on the news last night." One correspondent claims to have received tens of thousands of pounds.Several of the figures in the chain by the time it reached me were figures on the liberal left of politics, with some public profile. This may be coincidental or may show that the cyber-scam was an experiment in detecting the greed of this political species. Most of those passing on the offer added an apologetic note along the lines of "Can't do any harm", or "Unlikely I know, but...", while others admitted that they were taking strength from the lefties further up the list.It would be nice to say that I declined to send on the message because of moral disapproval of Bill Gates or a feeling that, even if his gesture were true, there are many people who need the money more than I. In fact, what saved me from embarrassment was suspicion of the internet.My laptop was only just back on its pads after recovering from a debilitating virus spread through a chain email. The new one, I now guessed, was the Sucker Virus, designed to target the hard drives of the credulously greedy. My second line of protection, having read eight newspapers that day, was the belief that no story of such magnitude on the previous night's television news could avoid being followed up in the papers.Subsequently, a friend - angry at those who had fallen for the scam - recommended the Urban Legends and Folklore website (www. urbanlegends.about.com), which lists this internet hoodwink as first appearing   in 1997 with numerous subsequent recurrences. Email has helped to revive the chain letter, which is so much easier now that the flick of a key has replaced fumbling round for envelopes and stamps. This one can't be true because: a) Microsoft and AOL are rivals; b) no such tracking software exists; and c) such largesse would risk bankrupting even Bill Gates.The reason urban legends are so interesting is that they reflect, more swiftly and reliably than books or movies, the prejudices and obsessions of the moment. So, for example, the numerous internet theories about what "really" happened on September 11 reveal the instinctive anti-semitism of large sections of society.An urban legend common in Britain and America in late September last year - in which an "old lady" does an act of kindness for "an Arab" in a post office and, in return, is told to stay out of the city centre on Saturday afternoon - grew from an obvious nervousness about further   atrocities but also a sense that Middle Eastern terrorism was what we deserved for our behaviour towards outsiders. There's a final sentimental, redemptive hint that human kindness could prevent such acts.The Microsoft/AOL internet tracking hoax grows out of a world in which there's so much money that it has to be given away: a feeling encouraged - since the late 90s - by stock market booms and television gameshows with massive jackpots. It further depends on the hope that there might be a new breed of "good" tycoons. No similar hoax could have been played involving Rupert Murdoch or Robert Maxwell because no one would believe that they'd give cash away. Hand-outs from Gates, though, are broadly plausible because of his philanthropic bequests in the past.The scam also reflects technophobia in its invocation of sinister techniques to track internet footsteps - here neutralised by being given a benevolent twist. Finally, the email plays on the general ignorance of the public about business matters: an invented and unlikely merger fails to alert most recipients.If this latest version of the chain letter was deliberately targeted at the liberal left, then its instigator was presumably trying to make the cynical point that all people are equally greedy and happy to take Microsoft's money. In fact, the moral seems to me more touching. It's good to live in a world in which so many found it plausible that the owner of a huge corporation would seek to redistribute his wealth to the people. Those of us who broke the chain are the nasty cynics.comment@guardian.co.uk
Several media and software companies are demanding a judicial review of the BBC's plans to spend &#163;150m of licence money on expanding its online education service over the next five years.The BBC faces a battle with a coalition of 18 software firms, which say their industry will be "decimated" if the BBC plans are approved by the government. They believe the plans go beyond the corporation's public service remit.An industry body representing media firms such as Pearson, Granada and Reed Elsevier is to petition the culture secretary, Tessa Jowell, amid claims they could lose millions of pounds in revenues.Ms Jowell yesterday invited views on the BBC's application in which it proposes introducing a wide range of interactive online learning materials in support of the school curriculum. In line with the BBC charter the plans need the secretary of state's approval."Our industry could be decimated," said Dominic Savage, co-chair of the Digital Learning Alliance, a trade body for companies involved in online learning. "We have deep concerns about our members' ability to compete with a similar service that was offered for free. There is a serious risk of substantial job losses."The software companies considering legal action are demanding the public disclosure of an independent report from investment bank NM Rothschild and commissioned by the Department for Education to examine the commercial impact of the BBC's plans."We believe the report shows that the BBC's actions would have a very negative impact on us and yet it has never been made public and appears to have been buried," said Phil Hemmings, spokesman for schools software supplier RM.The commercial operators have been pressing the Department for Education to ensure a vibrant marketplace, if the BBC's proposals are approved, by making extra cash available for schools to buy more computer-related products. They say the government's offer to make &#163;50m in "electronic learning credits" available from the start of the next academic year in September is inadequate."Our research shows that if the government wants to safeguard choice and diversity in educational resources we need schools to be given &#163;800m extra," said Mr Savage.In its submission to the culture department, the BBC argues that its proposed free service "is the latest development of the high quality educational resources which the BBC has provided since the 1920s".It goes on to promise students access to "a broad range of learning resources". The programmes and content would be "distinctive", of "high quality" and in strong demand from teachers and pupils.The BBC has also commissioned PricewaterhouseCoopers to produce an independent report into the potential market impact of its plans but has not yet made the results public.Guardian Media Group, publisher of The Guardian, also has interests in the online education market through the website learn.co.uk.Ms Jowell has set a deadline for views of July 5.The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Saturday May 25 2002We incorrectly stated that    an independent report by Pricewaterhouse-Coopers into the   potential market impact of the BBC's plans had not been made     public. In fact it may be read on the website of theDepartment     of Culture.
O'Reilly is looking for critical comments about its forthcoming bookEssential Blogging, and contributions for the chapter on Blogging Voices.
Microsoft has released the first details of how it will offermore consumer choicein Windows XP with the release of Service Pack 1. Essential reading....
Yak's backwith some old games now available for the PC and PocketPC.
[er... self linking alert] A new version of Netscape appeared this week - hardly earth-shattering stuff, given most of us use Microsoft's Internet Explorer, but AOL Time Warner (Netscape's owners) have high hopes for the new bit of software. I've written apieceon this battle of the bruisers for Guardian Unlimited today.
Sit up at the back, stop talking, and pay attention: for the first time in years, we might actually have to take the latest release of a new non-Microsoft internet browser seriously.We are not about to see a repeat performance of the browser wars of the mid-1990s, when plucky Netscape locked horns with the Microsoft giant and, in an unfortunate reversal of David versus Goliath, got unceremoniously booted out the ring, slingshot and all.Netscape, the company that created the template for hundreds of internet start-ups, was scooped up after that defeat and is now owned by AOL Time Warner, the world's biggest media company. And, with its latest browser Netscape 7 unveiled this week, it intends to take on the world's biggest software company - Microsoft - at its own game. This battle should prove to be between two equals: Goliaths, both.To understand what happens next, we have to understand exactly what Microsoft's game was all those years ago. Microsoft, belatedly, realised that the internet was going to be hugely important, and that the principle means of accessing the internet was not made by them, but by Netscape.They could see the potential for Microsoft Windows to gradually become less and less important, as the internet - and the applications on it - grew more powerful.But Bill Gates and co also realised that relying on us consumers to make a choice about their internet browser was a slow, costly process, and Microsoft had a lot of ground to make up - at this point, more than three-quarters of the net was using Netscape.No matter that Microsoft was offering Internet Explorer for free (at the time, Netscape was still attempting to charge most of its users), or that Explorer was a better piece of software than the bloated Netscape. Microsoft knew most users didn't want Explorer badly enough to be willing to spend hours online downloading it, or even install it off a computer magazine cover disc.So Microsoft used its muscle with computer manufacturers - who needed cheap deals on the Windows operating system - to force them to install, in a prominent place, a copy of Internet Explorer. Netscape was forced to shred its business plan by giving away its software but, with no further bargaining tool (like, say, a monopoly in operating systems) to use, it saw its market dominance quickly fade away.That is why, today, the chances are you are reading this page on Internet Explorer, version five or six. Microsoft enjoys a dominance even greater than that of Netscape in its heyday.It is also one of the big reasons Microsoft has been embroiled in a lengthy, and expensive, anti-trust trial in the United States. The courts found that Microsoft's rough treatment of Netscape was, in fact, a reflection of how it did business in several other areas.Fast-forward to today, and AOL's master plan for getting Netscape back on the internet map. Simply, AOL plans to do a Microsoft and use its own prime asset - the AOL online service - to put Netscape on the desktops of 35 million subscribers, without the time-consuming process of asking their permission, by making Netscape the built-in browser in the AOL software.Since most AOL users have more than one "screen name" on a single account - one for each member of the family, say, that means the real number of new Netscape users could be closer to 100 million, all within a few months of AOL making the change.Users will still have a choice of sorts - they could load up their own copy of Internet Explorer to browse the internet via AOL - but few users are likely to bother, so long as the new Netscape software is competent.And competent - rather than spectacularly good - it is. Sampling the new software this week, it has run smoothly enough and displayed web pages accurately and quickly (this, in itself, is a huge improvement over early releases of version 6). Instant Messenger addicts will applaud the inclusion of the software as an integrated part of the new Netscape.Browser geeks will still complain it lacks the nifty little bits of innovation, and elegance, of an even less well-known browser called Opera, which has a lot of fans - especially among those disturbed by the big business motives behind both Internet Explorer and Netscape.But a revived Netscape should enliven the browser market, by forcing Microsoft and others to begin to compete again on stability and features. And it will also have the positive effect of forcing us to pay a little more attention to the software we use to access the net - and the motives of the companies who provide it.
Recriminations from the dotcom implosion continued yesterday when eToys, the bankrupt online retailer, filed a lawsuit against Goldman Sachs for allegedly mishandling its 1999 stock market flotation.The suit alleges that the investment bank underpriced the share offering and took kickbacks from customers who profited when the price soared. Goldman priced the shares at $20 (&#163;13.75) during the height of the boom and they reached $85 before closing at $76.56 on the first day of trading.Stanley Grossman, a New York attorney acting for eToys, said Goldman had known that the intense interest in eToys meant a higher price was warranted. The firm, he said, trusted the bank's judgment.As a result, he said, the online toy firm suffered "hundreds of millions of dollars in damages and eventually had to declare bankruptcy".Mr Grossman claimed the suit had been filed after a year-long investigation. "One does not want to take litigation of this type, with these kinds of allegations against Goldman, unless you feel comfortable about it," he said.A spokesman for Goldman Sachs said the firm never commented upon legal matters.A committee of unsecured creditors, appointed when eToys went into bankruptcy has brought the suit on behalf of the firm.The extraordinary boom and bust of the late 1990s and early part of this decade has left many investors who had their fingers burnt looking for someone to blame.Credit Suisse First Boston in January paid $100m to settle claims that it mishandled share sales during the peak of the bull market. Regulators accused the bank of taking effective kickbacks for giving clients access to some of the hottest flotations.Earlier this week Merrill Lynch also agreed to pay $100m to settle claims brought by the New York State attorney general that its research analysts had been offering biased advice to investors in internet stocks to help the firm win investment banking business.Merrill Lynch also agreed last year to settle with an individual shareholder who claimed that he had been mislead by following advice from one of the firm's analysts.
Company bosses at this year's Microsoft CEO Summit will be trying out prototype samples ofTablet PCsmade by Acer. Last year it was Compaq iPaqs.....
To some, a colossal waste of attention, to others, the classic example of Eurotrash turned camp-chic, Eurovision remains a curiosity that refuses to go away. The current contest reaches its televised peak in Estonia on Saturday.As the official website points out, the contest was first staged in Switzerland in 1956, growing out of the very serious San Remo Song Festival, with the high purpose of forming a cross-cultural bridge over post-war Europe. It was not until the late 1960s that it began to attract truly pan-European audiences, largely due to the likes of Sandy Shaw (1967) and Cliff Richard (1973) - genuine pop megastars who saw no loss of credibility in representing their country.Since then, our input has veered between custom-built acts looking for a big break (Love City Groove, Gina G) and better-known artists on the rebound from former chart success (Katrina &amp; the Waves, Nicki French) - all amply celebrated by web-fans who refuse to let their memories fade.Britain remains the most successful entrant, having won five times and come second 15, although in recent years, Ireland has amassed seven winners and some of the more memorable shows.   For example, if not for a live Eurovision performance in 1994, seen by 300 million viewers, the world might never have heard of Michael Flatley. We can but dream_Entrants for Eurovision are not chosen from the EU but rather the EBU (European Broadcasting Union), which explains the contentious appearance of Israel. However, this makes for some interesting voting. Few close watchers fail to notice the partisanship between certain countries (French-speaking or Scandinavian, for instance) or voting that sounds suspiciously tactical for juries supposedly cut off from the results. Naturally, there are websites scrutinising the scores, such as Jarmo Penttila's, which lists all the jury votes since 1966 although, sadly, not those memorable introductions."Er... hello? This is Copenhagen calling - can anyone hear me? I am hearing bloody nothing... " (Denmark, 1983 - nil points).In recent years, the jury system has been undermined by countries using televoting   to choose their lucky singer. As a purely selfish aside, if you listen closely to the BBC's Song for Europe finals from 1993/94, you may hear the UK televote results being read out by Mike Anderiesz. Hmm, whatever happened to him?Incidentally, the closest finish occurred in 1969 when Spain, Britain, Holland and France tied for first place, although Lulu will always claim it as hers. Other notable winners include Switzerland's 1988 effort, beautifully performed by a girl with shaggy dark hair and the scariest teeth since Richard Kiel portrayed Jaws in the Bond movies. Several years later, and after some very expensive dental work, Celine Dion's website shows her to be doing all right. Even this, however, is eclipsed by the one song and band forever associated with Eurovision.Abba's 1974 classic, Waterloo (prefaced by the conductor walking on stage dressed as Napoleon) was the group's second attempt at the contest - the first being Ring Ring, which was rejected by the Swedish selectors the year before. Although the band blew apart in 1983, their exploits are still celebrated online as the height of camp chic, not least at Abba's understated homepage.Of course, no contest this big can totally escape controversy. Radio 2's Eurovision site reports that Lithuania's 2002 entry We All by B'Avarija has already been disqualified (and replaced) for being released previously as a single. But the biggest palaver surrounded Israel's 1998   entry Diva by Dana International - viciously opposed by several juries but a clear winner on the night and still the only transsexual artist ever to top the charts.Dana (not to be confused with Ireland's winner from 1970) went on to inspire at least one webring devoted to her impact, which was always more about high-camp than music - a criticism that perhaps applies to Eurovision as a whole.So on to this year's contest, which will be broadcast by BBC1 and Radio 2 and co-hosted as usual by Terry Wogan. Britain's entry is Come Back performed by Jessica Garlick, whose ride from obscurity has already been helped by coming third to Gareth Gates and Will Young in Pop Idol. Will she win it for Britain? Only time and Wogan will tell.If you want to be considered for Eurovision 2003, either as a singer or writer - email the link at the bottom.Eurovision hopefulseurovision@bbc.co.ukThe following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Friday May 24  2002We said that
                                                Jessica Garlick came third behind Gareth Gates and Will Young
                                                in the Pop Idol competition. In fact, Darius Danesh was third.
                                                Jessica Garlick was a finalist.
Internet company Yahoo said today it will close down its unprofitable auction sites in six European countries within the next few months, and rely instead on a marketing deal with rival online auction company, Ebay.Yahoo will begin steering users in France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain and the UK towards Ebay as early as this week. The company has not been able to make a success of its auction business in those countries, although a Danish site will remain open, as will auction sites in Asia and North America.The company launched an auction service in the UK in 1999, but it trailed behind Ebay and fellow competitors Amazon.com and QXL.Yahoo, hard hit by an online advertising slump, will gain marketing business from Ebay by running advertisements on its popular web portal.The company's European managing director, Mark Opzoomer, told the Reuters news agency: "Our business would be better served focussing on the core retailing and commerce businesses."Employees on the auction sites will be moved to strengthen business on Yahoo's shopping and travel ventures.
One of the delights of my occasional days working at home is getting to stick an internet radio station on my computer's speakers (not possible in a busy newsroom, alas). I'm quite a fan of internet radio, even more so since I got broadband and iTunes 2 on my Mac, which comes with an eclectic range of preset radio stations already programmed in. I can switch from laid-back jazz to 80's pop to electronica to Christian rock (ahem) with just a few clicks, if I want to. So thedecisionyesterday by the Librarian of Congress to reject record industry proposals that would have closed many, if not most, of these little stations comes as quite a relief. The big labels wanted the radio stations to pay a per listener/per track fee which would have been financially ruinous.The stationswant to offer a percentage of their annual revenues - a percentage that takes account of the fact that their broadcasts promote music. When the record industry seems desperate to do anything to halt the continuing digital revolution, it's good to see them lose from time to time. The fight goes on but, at least, so does the music, for now. (I was joking about the Christian rock, by the way).
Bloggerhas finally made its big announcement, trailed on its home page for more than a week, and it's a new system for customer support. You can read the typically grim press announcementhere(we get this kind of corporate guff about "thought leaders" and "next-generation solutions" through the post, fax and email every day, by the ton). What does it all really mean? By the look of things (gleaned after a quick trawl through Blogger's help files) better assistance with the Blogger system, which is no bad thing. The original support files were a bit patchy, to say the least.
The public is to get a formal say in the legislative process for the first time today when a parliamentary committee takes evidence over the internet.The experiment is being carried out as part of the pre-legislative scrutiny of the communications bill, with the intention of ironing out flaws in the draft legislation before its formal passage through parliament.Both the use of pre-legislative scrutiny and the use of the internet are relative novelties for parliament. Although the mechanism for the early consideration of draft bills has been in place for several years only a handful of bills have been through the process and the communications bill is the first to allow the public a formal say online.The process is set to be extended to all legislation under reforms backed by Robin Cook, the leader of the Commons.The public can participate by logging on to the committee's session atwww.parliamentlive.tvtoday from 10.15am. Emails with comments and suggestions can be sent toedemocracy@lse.ac.uk.The emails will be received by a mediator working for the committee (appointed by the independent Hansard Society) who will weed out any junk emails and distill the useful contributions for the consideration of members of the committee."The United Kingdom has finally become a full democracy. For the first time in history every single person in this country will be able to take part directly in making the country's laws," Graham Allen MP said of the proposals."In future all bills will be able to have a live evidence-taking stage online, by a parliamentary pre-legislative scrutiny committee. It means that every member of the public will be able to see and hear evidence at the same time as MPs and peers and to email his or her views and experience to make better law."The pre-legislative hearings will take place under a joint committee of Lords and Commons chaired by Lord Puttnam.
It's Thursday, so Online isonline- yay! Don't miss Ben Hammersley'sdispatchesfrom the O'Reilly Emerging Tech conference in Santa Clara, the essential guide toWorld Cup gadgetsfrom Ashley Norris and, of course,Ask Jack.
Share onAlthough Napster and Scour are no longer the hotbeds of file-swapping they once were, there are still a lot of services running. Kazaa has continued under new ownership,    though the company has been criticised for including extra software with its digital media desktop without telling users. Most objections have been to Brilliant Digital's 3D Projector software, used for adverts, and plans for an Altnet that will deliver paid content over the same peer-to-peer network. However, there may be an alternative in Kazaa Lite: a "slightly modified version" of the Kazaa software that hooks into the same FastTrack file-sharing network. Meanwhile, what used to be called Aimster has been less visible since it was sued by AOL and lost the use    of its name. It is now operating as Madster, and claiming to be "the only service without spyware". Aimster used to feature owner Johnny Deep's daughter Aimee, after whom the service was named. Now it features his daughter Madeline, ditto. Yes, same daughter.Six appealThis Saturday's Music Industry Soccer-Six is being webcast by BT Openworld for those who can't make it to Stamford Bridge. Participants are expected to include Ant and Dec, Blur, Rod Stewart, Amanda Holden, Denis Waterman, Gary Mabbutt and Ian Rush. The event raises money for Help a London Child.Tourist tradeThe London Tourist Board has launched a site that uses geographic referencing software from Batmap to help users find places of interest and plan itineraries. If you call up MapLondon, you get a duck-shoot menu that lets you pick a range of topics from tube stations to casinos. Matching sites are then downloaded and displayed on the map. The nice thing is that you can pick the map up with the mouse pointer and move it around. Not so nice is the fact that the map stuff is done in Macromedia Flash and things seem to take ages to download. Even worse: menu items and info boxes bounce from side to side or pulse in and out. After a while, you could start to feel queasy. The British Tourist Authority's Visit Britain site is noticeably sharper.Think smallWe've plugged it before, and no doubt we will plug it again: the annual competition for web pages that use less than 5K of code. The belated call for entries has now gone out for the 2002 competition, and you have until June 16 to enter. It is worth looking at previous winners, including the world's smallest art museum (with seven paintings), a 3D version of Tetris and a mutating sunflower animated in Macromedia Flash.Air fareRemember to pack a camera the next time you fly: use it to take a photograph of any food you get served, then mail the result to AirlineMeals.net. The site still has a long way to go, and is about to add "official" food snaps from airlines. But it already shows up the differences between business and economy comestibles,    and reveals that for ground-breaking presentation, you need to fly with firms such as Lauda Air.Web breakerCan someone hack your computer from a website? You can find out by visiting Qualys's Browsercheck and letting its software try a few tricks - though it only works with Windows and Internet Explorer. The site is informative, quick, easy to use and suggests remedies where it finds vulnerabilities. And you can expect it to find at least a couple, because there are still holes where fixes are not available from Microsoft. For a more comprehensive online security check, Security Space offers a free Basic Audit.ReloadedThe first teaser is now online, which marks another step up in the sustained publicity campaign for yet another Hollywood blockbuster. In this case, it is the movie known as Matrix 2, and the site offers a rich collection of comics, wallpapers, location photos, interviews, posters and previews. Two sequels - Matrix Reloaded and part 3, Matrix Revolutions - are being shot now. Reloaded is expected next year.
Promotional activity has been low-key: the watching eye logo sliced in between ad breaks, a few trailers, the odd billboard. But make no mistake: from tomorrow, there will be no escaping Big Brother 3. With 16m votes cast, Big Brother 2 was Channel 4's highest rating show last year by a long way. Shortly after the announcement of a deal for three more years with producers Endemol, Peter Grimsdale, head of cross platform at Channel 4, compared it to a major sporting event like Wimbledon - a regular fixture for years to come.Whether viewers will be bored sick by the minutiae of a bunch of strangers' daily existence by BB6 in summer 2006 remains to be seen. No one would deny that the format can produce compulsive viewing, but it could ultimately be the technical advances that maintain the show's huge audiences. The antics of each new group of housemates are exposed to the nation in an ever widening and more complex combination of ways. Last year, providing access across nine different platforms, Big Brother 2 achieved some impressive firsts: 5.6m votes were cast via interactive TV - easily the biggest interactive application in the UK. SMS text updates, logos and ringtones could be bought with a voucher in the shops and, with the previous year's capacity issues solved, the website got over 158m page impressions, making it Europe's busiest.This year, there is more - particularly in the mobile arena. People will be able to vote for evictions by text message. The voucher will be available again - mainly for pre-pay users. But now with SMS reverse-billing, fans can send an SMS short code, regardless of their mobile network, to receive text news updates whenever they want them. Comments and suggestions can also be sent direct to the production team via text. The most interesting will be displayed on the text ticker running along the bottom of interactive TV screens.For Endemol, the show's producers, and for broadcaster Channel 4, Big Brother has become the big annual opportunity to trial new technologies and applications and see how far they will go. Chris Short, head of interactive media at Endemol UK, says that the UK's interactive TV version is a trail blazer. Despite media reports of slow takeup, the UK has far more digital viewers than   anywhere else. A show with the appeal of Big Brother demonstrates the massive potential it has - 35% of votes last year were cast via digital TV handsets.This year's interactive offering   adds greater sophistication, with the Sky Digital platform providing four different video views of the house."We are working out what platform does what best and allowing it to con centrate on just that aspect," says Short. Live streaming on the website looked as though it would be huge, but it proved problematic, the quality achievable on a 56k modem was low. "Now with E4, people can watch broadcast quality live streaming on digital TV, leaving the web to do what it does far better than anything else - provide up-to-the minute news, interaction and a sense of community," he explains.Simplifying each platform offering allows viewers to choose what they want, when they want it. In theory, this broader range of choices should help maintain interest levels. "We're trying to be increasingly clever about how we move our audience around from one platform to another," explains Short. "We're creating this virtuous circle that excites the interactive audience about what's going on in the house, drives them towards the TV programme, the TV will drive them to the internet, the internet to the other ways they can get information, and the other ways drive them back to the TV."Deepening viewer involvement and generating revenue is the goal. The website, with its round-the-clock team of 30, is far from cheap to run, but it builds the Big Brother brand. The site drives the audience not just to watch the show, but to participate and pay - using the new mobile services and voting by phone.So although Big Brother housemates will come and go,   the technology will continue to evolve. The first Big Brother to feature live streaming direct to mobile phones is already on air in Sweden and this should be available here for Big Brother 4 next summer. Other plans include allowing web or interactive viewers to click on different camera views and follow people around the house.Like it or loathe it, the show's influence is felt across the schedule - interactive elements on trial here find their way into new concepts. Pop Idol and Eden are typical examples. "I'd say every significant format that we are developing now has more than one platform attached to it," says Endemol's Short.New shows in the pipeline using Big Brother-tested interactive technology include the i-Chart, an interactive music chart show, and the Peoples' Club, where viewers will decide who plays for a real football league team.
What's happened to "broadband Britain"?It's been a long time coming thanks to the inertia of BT. Now that they've successfully seen off local loop unbundling and the threat of telco competition, they've decided to make DSL available at a price we can reasonably offer to consumers. Oftel  seems to take the view that we must go for broadband at any cost. Unless the government or the regulator intervenes, this could be at the expense of a competitive market for broadband, in which the only losers will be consumers.Should "unmetered access" mean exactly that?Yes, in the sense that consumers pay a flat-rate fee for their time spent online. Consumer ISPs can't allow businesses to take advantage of unmetered services to run commercial activities or as a low-cost substitute for a company local area network. Unmetered narrowband doesn't, and cannot mean "always on" - if this were permissible, then the entire phone network in the UK would fall over. Broadband is a different proposition, since it's unmetered and capable of being "always on".Is Freeserve supporting personal digital assistants and mobiles?We have a Wap portal at our site (see link below) and a presence on all BT Cellnet phones, and other network operators will follow. We support connectivity for all major PDA formats through one of the most comprehensive guides to the best place to download connectivity software for their PDAs. We're aware of the impact of GPRS on this market and have plans to continue to invest in this area for our customers.Most new communications platforms bring new forms of entertainment. The recent rapid explosion in ringtones and texting is testimony to this.How do you see the role of the modern ISP?To provide essential online services such as unlimited email, personal web pages, search and high-quality customer support. On the network side, it's to ensure that there's an efficient and reliable network for consumers to get ready access to the internet. Without these essentials, consumers' online experience can be pretty horrible.Is spam becoming a real problem for ISPs?It's not for us as an ISP to determine on behalf of our customer what is and isn't unsolicited mail any more than it is the post office role to filter an unwanted letter. By far the easiest way to deal with mail you don't want is to press the delete key. The Five Star shareware partner on the Freeserve portal   offers more than a dozen different types of filters suitable for most users' PCs - and many of them are free.Favourite gadgets?My Casio watch digital camera.
More sauceManek Dubash states that "open source software &#91;...&#93; is achieving some success, thanks largely to champions such as IBM." (May the source be with you, May 9).Err, no it isn't. It's achieving success thanks to the thousands and thousands of programmers worldwide who dedicate time and effort to creating and improving it. Free software (aka open source software) was around long before IBM's involvement, and will continue to exist even if Big Blue's interest wanes. Corporate commitment may come and go, but it is rarely the deciding factor in whether free software blossoms or not. Companies go bust or change direction, but the source code lives on.Tristan Roddistristan@roddis.orgSteady streamManek Dubash says (May the source be with you, May 9) that he's used to "Windows' little ways". Is this a coy way of referring to the Blue Screen of   Death, I wonder? I run the latest version of Linux on a four-year-old Pentium-based PC with 128MB of memory. As I write, it has been running continuously for 84 days without crashing or locking up.During that time, I have installed several new pieces of software, upgraded the web server, experimented with the database server configuration, written and tested programs in C, Java and Perl. At no point have I been required to reboot the machine.Can any Windows users beat 12 weeks of continuous uptime under the same kind of pattern of use?David Harperadh@sanger.ac.ukBad news BTI recently received an email from my ISP, BT Openworld, informing me that I had been using my dial-up internet connection, entitled BT Anytime, too much. Further investigation uncovered changes to the terms of the contract stating that they could now terminate my service at any time (including my email address and website) if I use the connection for more than 12 hours a day. It strikes me that this is a very heavy-handed way of pushing customers towards the floundering BT broadband service, which costs almost double my current rate.John Rogersjohn_rogers@bored.comBT timed outI received an email from BT internet today telling me that "to make things fairer for everybody" they have "changed the daily internet use limit for Anytime and SurfTime customers from 16 hours to 12 hours of 'unmetered' access in any 24-hour period". The changes take effect from June 5 2002.I'm a freelance copywriter working from home and I rely on my internet access to be available as and when I want it. As I pay &#163;14.99 a month for this privilege I am now also being told that I can't spend a period of longer than two hours online at any one time and that this may be reduced to 90 minutes between 7pm-10pm! BT "Anytime". Are they taking the mick?Andy Meliaandy.melia@btinternet.comSpread the netIan Cuthbertson (Feedback, May 16) wonders why a fulltime 64k ISDN connection (around &#163;100 a month) is more expensive than a 500k ADSL connection (less than &#163;30 a month). I suppose the reason is that home ADSL has a 50:1 contention ratio so each user needs only 10kbps of trunk bandwidth compared with the full 64 kbps needed for ISDN. Of course, in practice, an ADSL user has much more than 10kbps bandwidth available for nearly all the time, and that is   why it is a much better technology for internet connections. Let's hope it soon becomes available in non-urban areas.David Seamandrseaman@btinternet.comBBCiWhen even the high-profile BBCi is frequently just repackaging Google search results (try it!), and with others doing the same, it seems this company is on route to becoming dominant worldwide. Research shows that users are less and less willing to look through multiple pages of results, so an incredible amount of commercial power is starting to be concentrated in one US company. There is no sign yet that this power is being abused, but the potential is huge. It's not just commercial interests that may want to influence things. In the future, political organisations unacceptable in the US could find their pages moving out of sight.What I suspect we are being presented with is sites rated by their US popularity. It seems that the licence-funded BBC is not going to help here, and with them giving away their service free, there seems little chance that a UK-based commercial operation could stand a chance.How can I find results that include a balanced share of worldwide results?Crispin Hodgessoftware@molesoft.co.ukGood tidingsI thank Tom Carroll (Feedback, May 16) for mentioning www.samspade.org, www.mailwasher.net and www.spameater.net. I run my own company and the amount of spam was increasing daily.G Minzieglad959@netscape.net
With the commercial launch of 3G networks coming ever closer, it's worth taking a look at how 2.5G networks have developed to see if the early experiences with the packet-based, volume-charged mobile sort-of-internet we already have can teach us anything about the near future. The GSM packet radio service (GPRS) is a data network that sits on top of the    existing GSM network to provide a reasonable speed (ie, similar to a home modem) internet connection for mobile devices.Its primary use so far is to provide an "always on" bearer for Wap services in mobile handsets. While GPRS networks are no longer new, the take-up by consumers remains poor. This isn't because the handsets aren't available. At the start of last year, Salomon Smith Barney forecast only a few million GPRS subscribers worldwide by the end of 2001, while Yankee Group predicted 49m GPRS handsetswould be sold in western Europe alone.It looks as if they were both on track. In the UK, Carphone Warehouse sells 35,000 GPRS handsets every month but fewer than 200 customers sign up for the GPRS service. Thus, even though analysts are predicting that a third of all handsets sold this year will be GPRS-capable, the GPRS user base is growing very slowly. Looking at the mass consumer market doesn't give the whole picture, since we have consistently advised our clients that the GPRS market will remain limited to corporate users for the immediate future. Having said that, the overwhelming    majority of corporate users rate mobile services as wholly unsatisfactory.To be fair, it's early days. Specialist devices (such as the GPRS version of the Research in Motion Blackberry email device) and GPRS interfaces for personal digital assistants and laptops would seem a much better bet. Having had GPRS since it was launched in the UK, I use it quite a bit. In fact, I'd miss it if it went away. Unfortunately, from the mobile operators'    perspective, the only thing I use it for is checking my email.This pattern is doubly unfortunate for my operator. First, the email is content that isn't created by either the operator or one of its content partners.  Second, I only download and read short emails. If this email subject is "phone message", then I'll read it on the handset. If the email subject is "Please review this Powerpoint presentation", then I'll wait until I'm back at my laptop later in the day.  What other things could I use it for that would generate revenue? I tried using it to browse the web through my Handspring and my Powerbook (via infrared ports) but couldn't get the GPRS settings to work. Four hours is my limit for this type of messing around.I like playing computer games, but the ones I tried on my Wap phone were either dull (playing video poker but not for real money) or expected me to go off to the web and sign up with a credit card (and remember some impossibly long code number when I wanted to play again). If I could play video poker for real money or have it taken from or added to my bill, then I might have another go. Although I don't use my   mobile data capability for anything interesting, I really want to. There is reasonable evidence from the marketplace that I'm not alone. A recent global survey of mobile users showed that the gap between the services that consumers access and the services they would like to access is as wide as ever.In the UK, just 4% of mobile users did something transactional with their handset last month (presumably something involving reverse- charged SMS), while three-quarters said they would have liked to. I'm certainly in that last category: when I see Scandanavians paying for their car parking using their phones (while I hunt around in my briefcase, desperate for a 20p coin), French pre-paid users topping up by slotting their bank card into their phones (while British users drive to a late-night petrol station and buy paper vouchers) and Japanese users buying Coke from machines by dialling them (lifting profits per machine by more than two-thirds), then I remain convinced that the transition to transactions will bring the mobile data sector to life for 3G.
It was either a masterpiece of timing, or serendipitous coincidence. Either way, 500 of the world's leading developers, hackers and alpha geeks gathered in a Santa Clara hotel for the O'Reilly Emerging Technologies Conference last week. At the same time, Apple launched a new machine, Star Wars: Episode II premiered, the X-Files ended, and Napster shut down and then reopened. It was all just asking for trouble.The conference itself was remarkable. As a publisher, O'Reilly arguably dominates the technical book field and it has a strong reputation for support of cutting-edge   research. As the founder, Tim O'Reilly, said in his keynote, paraphrasing the author William Gibson, "the future is here, it's just not widely distributed".This conference aimed to distribute some of the latest futures - peer to peer computing, web services, wireless internet, weblogging and emergent intelligence - to an extremely eager group.But where the conference has started, as a place for new stuff in general, a main theme was quick to emerge. Many people mentioned this, the sudden realisation that each of us, no matter which area we were coming from, were all heading in the same philosophical   direction: that developers now see the internet as a platform to run applications on, rather than something to connect to.Everything, from peer to peer and web services, to the social constructs that appear around weblogs - the Distributed Republic of Blogistan as one speaker, Cory Doctorow, put it - and the increasingly popular habit of building free-for-all wireless networks, all these point to a popular realisation that the internet is growing into something greater than the sum of its parts.In that sense, "emerging technologies" is wordplay, referring not to new stuff that is invented, but to new stuff that develops from looking at old stuff in a new way. The web's "small pieces, loosely joined" (itself the title of David Weinberger's book, much quoted last week) are being added together from the bottom up, by small groups and individuals creating clever services from the slack bits the larger companies are leaving lying around.The search for the correct metaphor for this is increasingly intense. The internet is being described as a physical place - cyberspace, if you will - where you go to sites, pick up your email, and see each other in chatrooms, but also as an abstract: people talk of applications running in "the cloud", or out on the "edges".With these new metaphors come new ways of thinking about computing. Doctorow argued for less optimalisation: because the system is less than perfect, more innovation is possible.Another speaker, Geoff Cohen, argued in his talk, Toward a Biological Framework for Computation, that in the future we would be better off abandoning the computational design altogether, and design computers to act as if they were biological.Eric Bonabeau showed how, by copying ants' stupidity, you can make really clever software - running virtual insects, dropping digital pheromones around the net to solve really hard mathematical problems.Of all the subjects discussed, the one that had the most immediate effect was wireless connectivity. O'Reilly's networking guys had rigged a wireless network around the hotel - and most people's laptops were quickly connected. Having a broadband internet connection anywhere in the conference was fantastic: while some were updating their weblogs live from the seminars, I relayed live pictures from my webcam and others were providing live commentary on the unofficial internet relay chat channel to people who couldn't be there.Questions from people   around the world were being relayed via the chat system to the speakers in Santa Clara - and the answers typed back in by audience members.The emergent nature of new technology was no more apparent than when the delegates discovered EtherPeg.This much-downloaded EtherPeek software, made for Apple Macs, listens to the wireless network, with any image file that travels across the network appearing as part of an evergrowing collage on your screen. Although you couldn't see which individual    was looking at what, the overall effect was a great measure of how people's minds were wandering. That is, until "peg-bombing" software was put together, allowing people to download the same picture over and over, effectively spamming EtherPeg, some times with hastily drawn adverts for their own sites.Meanwhile, the audience was having fun of its own: British geek-in-exile and co-editor of ntk.net, Danny O'Brien, had rigged The Panopticon. An interactive map of the conference, it   displayed little avatars of the great, good and generally riotous, and allowed them to be moved around by anyone. Useful, if you wanted to find a friend; indispensable if you were stalking Amazon.com's Jeff Bezos.It wasn't hard to find most   people, even Bezos. The three unique delights of one speaker, JC Herz, were percolating through the geek hive mind and activating the herding instinct. The rather troublesome facts that JC is a woman, able to talk eloquently on "the principles of interaction design in many-to-many systems" and the realisation of "ohmigod she's an expert on computer games", were turning our generation's finest minds into a fizzy mess. The hysteria was only to be repeated on Wednesday night, when Attack of the Clones opened, and renowned peer to peer developer Joey deVilla was able to make his ticket price back by busking to the queue with his ever-present accordion.And it was with Star Wars II that a metaphor for the internet's development could finally be found. Where the late 1990s could be seen as the first half of Episode II - the banks' sappy love story with dotcoms nearly as embarrassing as the celluloid Anakin and Amidala tryst - we can all be glad that it is dropping away to reveal the second act: where the geeks return, and Yoda kicks ass.How dumb pests speak to geeks on internet efficiencyFor Eric Bonabeau and his fellow technologists at Icosystem, bugs are good. Not those pesky programming problems that hinder and crash, but the little creepy crawly, buzzy-stingy beasties such as ants, bees, termites and wasps. Because through studying their behaviour, Bonabeau is developing computing techniques that may well revolutionise the way we look at certain problems. He calls it "swarm intelligence"."I thought this was a nice exotic thing that would never work, but would let me present things in nice conferences in Hawaii, but... it worked!" said Bonabeau, as he presented the ideas to the O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference in Santa Clara last week.It certainly does work. By studying the way individually stupid creatures - social insects like ants and bees - can collectively solve massively complex problems, Bonabeau and others are building techniques that are proving to be massively   useful in the human-sized world. When a swarm of bugs following simple rules act together, a form of intelligence emerges.For example, if you place ants into a maze, "you have to starve the ants first," says Bonabeau, "or they don't bother looking for food". Give them different routes to a meal, the ants will always find the shortest.It works like this: the ants wander out randomly. Some will find the food by chance and, as they wander back, again randomly as they don't remember the way home either, they lay a trail of pheromones. The first ants back to the nest are obviously the ones who took the shortest route and, since ants are naturally drawn to follow pheromone-scented trails, the remaining ants follow this trail back to the food.Pheromone evaporates, so longer routes are harder to maintain and, over time, the shorter routes naturally become stronger.This means that should a   better route appear in the future, ants who take that route will arrive first, the trail will be fresher, and the new route will soon take over as the preferred way.However, ants are very stupid. No single ant knows the shortest route. Indeed, not all of them follow the pheromone route very well at all - which works in their favour as it allows new routes to be found.What works well for ants, works brilliantly for real-world problems.   One problem, long a bugbear of computer scientists and mathematicians, is called the travelling salesman problem. How, when given a certain number of points - cities, say - do you plot the shortest path between them all, when you can visit each only once, and always start and finish at the same place?By simulating the ants and their pheromones inside a computer, the travelling salesman problem is remarkably easy. You set hundreds of "ants" off, running a random tour between each of the points. When the ants get to their destination, they backtrack and lay pheromone proportional to how good their route was. The next ants are more likely to take those routes, further reinforcing that route, and allowing the most optimal route to appear. This technique is used in industries, from scheduling   production in factories, to the massively complex logistics of haulage firms and airlines.This technique also has huge implications for the internet. When data travels over the internet, it passes through pieces of hardware called routers. Routers point each packet of data in the vague direction of the stated destination, getting less and less vague as the packet gets towards where it wants to go. The routes the routers point to are held in "routing tables" inside each machine. These routing tables change as the network changes (as machines are turned off, as connections go up or down) and so the routes change, too.Bonabeau uses ant-based technology to improve these routes. He sends little agent programs that travel from router to router, pointing backwards to where they have come from and saying how they did it. As each little agent hits each router, the router is able to build a picture of the most efficient routes between the points it is in contact with. As more and more routers   learn the optimal routes, the system becomes more and more efficient, and by allowing the routes to evaporate like the pheromones in the maze, the routers still take into account any changes to the network.By using ant behaviour to improve these routing tables, Bonabeau says he can give a 99% improvement in the data throughput - meaning a faster, more resilient internet.Much research is being done into other social insects' emergent intelligence, too. The way wasps build their nests, for instance, proves to be very useful for the US Air Force Institute of Technology. They are using the system to make a swarm of "nanosatellites" that can self-assemble into larger satellites. Others are working on robots made of hundreds of other robots, that can rebuild themselves into the shape most suited to the task ahead.For the hive mind that steals your picnic, it's not a bad accomplishment.&#183;Ben Hammersley is writing a book for O'Reilly on content syndication
Super Smash Bros MeleeGameCube 	&#163;39.99  Nintendo 	****Super Smash Brothers Melee does exactly what it says on the tin. This is caffeine-fuelled gaming that allows you to beat up a host of famous Nintendo characters - yup, Pikachu can finally get his comeuppance. An update of the N64 original, SSBM is as frantic and colourful as before, but with some important improvements thrown in.A new adventure mode impresses, and there is a range of new characters and   features to unlock. But while this all helps, the game really comes alive when two or more combatants are fighting.Thankfully, the button-bashing chaos of the N64 title has been toned down, with more emphasis on blocking opponents. But although   tactics and strategy play a more prominent role, they are still less useful than reflexes, luck and a double espresso.Nevertheless, there is a surprising amount of depth that only becomes apparent after regular play. Each character has a unique fighting   style, while each arena demands different tactics. Then there is the overwhelming amount of customisation available. Want to do battle in slow motion, collect coins, or fight as giants? It's all possible here, making longevity less of an issue than before.Graphically, SSBM is a mixed bag. The characters are great, well-animated and instantly recognisable, but the backgrounds fare less well. Blurry textures on the ground and on buildings are of a similarly low standard to Luigi's Mansion and obviously a problem for the console. Despite this, Super Smash Bros Melee is one of the best releases for the GameCube and reason enough to invest in Nintendo's little bundle of joy. (GH)Resident EvilGameCube	&#163;39.99 Capcom	****Proof of the legendary status of the definitive survival horror game, Resident Evil, will be provided when the film of the game opens next month. This version (it won't reach the UK until Friday September 13) of the original is a coup for the GameCube. That's because it could not be further from the average new-console port.Although the action takes place in the familiarly creepy Resident Evil mansion, Capcom has beefed up the game with stunning visuals and a brilliant intro sequence, two difficulty modes that, for once, offer widely differing experiences (you must weigh up ability to carry items against zombies) and a significant number of new puzzles.  Surprisingly, the zombies have been given extra staying power, which means you must employ a much more strategic approach to their    disposal than in the original.A button that lets you execute 180 turns, and flasks of zombie-dissolving acid help redress the balance. In general, the feel is familiar, but not to the extent that those who completed the PlayStation original will feel they are retreading well-worn ground. The GameCube version, which spans two CDs, is longer, too.  The care that Capcom has put into this version renders Nintendo's assertion that the GameCube is not just for kids much more credible. To nit-pick, you would pinpoint occasionally unhelpful camera-work and wooden voice acting, but Resident Evil looks so fantastic and drips with such menace that you will forgive those minor irritations. But why is it taking so long to reach these shores?   (SB)Cultures 2PC 30 Funatics/JoWood **Ten years ago, a game like Cultures would have been a cult hit. It looks a bit     ropey, but so much attention to detail deserves recognition and, in more forgiving times, would have received it. Today,     however, the gulf between the big developer and the gifted amateur is wider than ever, and Cultures looks like a poor     relation of so many games.With its tired animation, annoying music and unhelpful interface (you have to visit the options     screen to make it scroll properly), nothing beckons you or helps you out: you're on your own in a land that is frustrating     and bland. Each of the 10 Norse-based missions has set economic or military goals, and achieving them is strictly by the     numbers. Micro-management fans will love this game, because your workers need to be told to do everything. They need to     be allocated housing and jobs and training, not just once but several times each mission. They also need to be encouraged     with bribes. All this, while every click opens up a separate pop-up menu, which has to be shut again.But the developers have     only just started. Now you have to keep your economy running, too. So if you need to make bread, you need a miller, but you     can't have a miller until you've trained a farmer. In the heat of a mission, you soon realise that some cultures perhaps     deserved to die out. The pity is that small developers cannot invest enough money and expertise to produce the results     required. When you have management/ strategy games as polished as Battle Realms, why give Cultures 2 a second glance? (MA)
The World Cup could prove a nightmare for the nation's football fans. Given the time difference between the UK and Japan/Korea, they are more likely to be tackling PowerPoint presentations than watching Marcel Desailly tackling Senegalese strikers. And while kind-hearted bosses may have dusted off the office projector and ordered the bacon butties for the England-Argentina game, when it comes Uruguay against Denmark, they might not be quite as sympathetic.  Fortunately, technology is the football fan's ally, and no matter where you intend to spend June, you needn't miss a kick.At workFor those all-important England games, every boss concerned about office morale will have plans to turn the meeting room into a miniature Miyagi stadium. But requisitioning reception's portable TV set won't be good enough. Caring captains of industry know that next week is the optimum time to upgrade their office projector. Models like the Infocus LP530 (&#163;3,000) are not only ideal for presentations, but they also throw a decent sized, high-resolution image on to the office wall. For fans committed to watching as many games as possible, check out the video credentials of your desktop PC. If your systems manager hasn't included a TV tuner, tell them you need an instant upgrade to the Hewlett-Packard Pavilion 781 PC.It has a digital TV card, a remote control and recording facilities that let you record each game on its hard disk and pause live games. If, however, the words "Football Special" on the HP's packaging rules it offside, try for a flat-screen monitor like the 15in Samsung LW-15N13W (&#163;1,300) or Philips' 150MT (&#163;700). Hidden inside the screen is a TV tuner and picture-in-picture facility so you can write documents, surf the net (tuning in to Fifa's highlights coverage) and keep up to date with the action. For covert World Cup watching, there's probably nothing quite as effective as the Sinclair-Research Z1.This tiny &#163;10 AM radio fits into your ear and will deliver Radio Five Live's coverage without a soul knowing. For the really desperate, the Swann Microcam (&#163;400 from www.firebox.com ) can send pictures wirelessly to its base station over a range of 100 metres. Put a TV set in a    cupboard, plug the receiver into your PC and you'll just be able to see the action. And if you wish to inform your boss that the accounts department aren't giving the ledgers the attention they deserve, the &#163;80 Fuji Slim Shot digital camera, above, is a must. It is thin enough to fit unobtrusively into your shirt pocket, yet capable of taking good-quality, incriminating VGA pictures.At homeFor the first time, matters of personal cleanliness might impede on World Cup viewing. If missing morning games because you spend too long in the bath is a worry, you need the Marata TileVision LCD TV. Available in 15in and 10in versions for around &#163;2,500 and &#163;2,000 respectively, the TileVision replaces a large tile in your bathroom, enabling you to soak up the action. For the living room, the Samsung PS-63P2H is 63in of plasma perfection and worth every penny of its &#163;8,000. If that's not expensive enough, how about the 60in LG MZ-60PZ10 Plasma at &#163;18,000? For those whose wage packets are more Vauxhall Conference than Premiership, Panasonic's &#163;500 28in widescreen TX28DK2 not only delivers a fine picture, but also comes with a neighbour-hostile surround sound system.   For the really sad, LG's football-shaped TV at &#163;230 is a must. It includes a Tetrisstyle game that should prove a handy diversion if Costa Rica v Ecuador proves a game too far. Major sporting tournaments are where hard disk video recorders come into their own. Simply program the TiVo system (&#163;300 plus monthly subscription) to automatically record everything that has World Cup in its title and when you arrive home ,you'll have a complete evening's football entertainment.On the moveIf you have scheduled a holiday during the next month, don't panic. Casio's &#163;110 SY-20 is a little personal TV with a 2.3in screen, which is just about watchable in ultra sunny locations. It is splashproof, too. Alternatively, you could keep abreast of the action via your mobile phone. GPRS mobiles such as the Motorola V70 and Ericsson T38 allow you to access those footy websites quickly and cheaply. If you prefer good old text messages, the Sport Relief charity  is offering news and updates direct to your mobile. At 20p a message it isn't cheap, but with 7p of the fee going to help the poor in developing countries, you'll be helping a worthy cause.
Two in oneI have an online game that needs an anti-cheat program to be run first. The trouble is, I keep forgetting, and have to quit the game and start again. Is there a way of using one shortcut to open both at once? I am running Windows 98SE.Christian HearneJack Schofield replies:I can't see a way to do it in Windows, but it is easy to create an MS-DOS batch file to run one program after another. Let's assume you have icons for both programs: Nocheat and Mygame. Use Windows Explorer to go to the root of your hard drive (C:\) and create a text file called Mygame. txt (using File|New|Text Document). Double-click this file to open it in Notepad. Next, go to the icon for Nocheat, right-click it and select Properties. Highlight and copy (Ctrl-C) the text in the Target box. For AOL Instant Messenger, for example, this would be "C:\Program Files\AIM95\aim.exe".Use Ctrl-V to paste the Nocheat text into your Notepad file, including the quotation marks. Repeat the procedure using the icon for Mygame, making sure this appears on a new line under the first line. Now insert START /M at the beginning of each line. For AIM, the line would now read: START /M "C:\Program Files\AIM95\aim.exe". Add two more lines under those, as follows: @echo off cls Save and exit the Notepad file, and select it in Windows Explorer. Press F2, and change the file name extension from txt to bat (ie to Mygame.bat). Right-click this file and select Create Shortcut from the menu. Drag the new shortcut to the desktop and double-click it: it should now run both programs in order. You can, of course, change the    name of the shortcut, or its icon, in the usual way using right-click, Properties|Shortcut| Change Icon and so on.IncomingCould I install a converter to read old WordStar 3.3-7.0 files into my new Windows Office XP system?Ruth ShadeJS:Office XP includes extra converters that can be installed using the set-up CDs. However, for these WordStar files you need the conversion pack that can be downloadedfree.  For further details, search Google for Q212265 or see here for moretext convertors.Dogged by adI have installed a pop-up stopper (May 9), but that damned Lycos dog is still running all over the Channel 4 site I use as my home page, shaking itself and pulling down ads.Ben FrancisJS:Like many "clever" web ads, the dog has been implemented in Shockwave Flash,    which is not usually blocked. You could uninstall Flash, but then every Flash page you visit will prompt you to download the player, which is even more annoying. The only program I know that can stop Flash is Proxomitron : it comes with a filter that converts Flash animations to links. Sadly, Proxomitron has been subject to denial of service attacks and may be driven off the net, so get it while you can. Otherwise, you may have to avoid sites that carry this kind of advertising until agencies tire of their stupid dog tricks.Bye MeIs there a newer version of Windows that will overwrite Millennium Edition, as it freezes the keyboard at least once a week and the only solution is to turn off. Also, it seems to be incompatible with some programs that run satisfactorily on Windows 98. Oliver BaileyJS:If Windows Me locks up, then you should check the "known issues" at the Windows MeSupport Centreand in theMicrosoft Support Knowledge Base. Articles Q268891 and Q281967 could be useful. Also, try the debugging procedure described inAsk Jacklast November. My Windows Me machine has only crashed twice since Christmas so it can be done. You canupgradefrom Me to Windows XP, which works better and is much more reliable. However, it is less compatible than Windows 98 or Me, and you should check that it will work with your system. A new installation on to a clean drive is better than an upgrade (adding XP to Me), but means you will have to reinstall all your applications and settings.Backchat&#183;Ron Graves followed up last week's mention of directory services in Outlook Express. "All except Verisign gave me a 'Specified directory could not be reached...' message, leading me to suspect that the links are way out of date," he says. I couldn't get them to work either.&#183;Why is Outlook Express chary about deleting deleted messages? James Moreland points out that "emptied" email isn't removed from the .dbx file until you compact your mail folders. The Compact instruction has been hidden under Tools|Options| Maintenance. Click the buttons for Clean Up Now then Compact.&#183;John Kelly points out that readers with Windows Me and XP should not need to replace the jdbgmgr.exe file that a hoax email fingers as a virus: the PC Health system, which protects system files, will replace them automatically. Jon Dawes adds that if you get jdbgmgr.exe as an email attachment, then it could be carrying a virus, like any email attachment. Seeonline.securityfocus.comfor further details.&#183;I suggested Ontrack's PowerDesk as a replacement for Windows Explorer. Jeremy Morton adds: "You may be interested to know that there is another excellent file manager called Windows Commander, a trial version of which can be downloaded from the linkhere.
"One of Tinseltown's biggest talent agencies" has signedLara Croft.
In the US, Microsoft is announcing anAOL defection toolto make it easy for consumers to switch from AOL's online service to Microsoft's MSN network. Microsoft has put a huge amount of work into making MSN a better experience for beginners, and this includes developing the separate MSN Explorer browser, integrating multimedia services, and redesigning its huge Web sites including MSN and Hotmail. The resulting MSN service is also more Web standard than AOL (which is ultimately derived from a proprietary service incompatible with the Internet) and a little cheaper. AOL may yet come to regret spending the past few years working on its merger with CNN Time Warner and "competing" via the courts instead of investing in making similar improvements to its products.
Police yesterday arrested 36 people in a crackdown on internet surfers who access child pornography.The operation, codenamed Ore, targeted users of pay-per-view websites in the United States which sell images of sexual abuse of children as young as five.Officers from 30 forces around the UK searched 43 houses and flats, seizing 30 computers and large quantities of disks and videos. Those arrested ranged in age from 24 to 65.The raids were planned by the national crime squad after the national criminal intelligence service was told by American authorities last August that child porn websites were receiving hits by British surfers.People wishing to buy images had to give details of their credit cards and billing addresses, and were sent an email with a user login and password.The NCIS obtained details of customers in the UK who had subscribed to the websites between May 1999 and the summer of 2001, and its serious sex offenders unit identified a "significant number" of suspects.The raids were described as a success by Detective Superintendent Peter Spindler of the NCS."This is the first time we have targeted people who use the internet to buy images of children being sexually abused," he said. "We will continue these operations to protect children and show paedophiles that law enforcement agencies will find them, regardless of which area of the internet they use."Carole Howlett, deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police and spokeswoman on internet child abuse for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said there was evidence that those involved in child abuse online were also abusers."Today's arrests have been a national response to a growing problem," she said. "We now need to combat these crimes by building on the expertise which exists in forces and in national agencies."This means the development of a coordinated, structured effort working with government, law enforcement agencies in other countries and the internet services industry," she added.The arrests included three men, aged 62, 54 and 35, who were held in Merseyside, a 32-year-old man arrested in Scunthorpe and 64-year-old man in Grimsby, and a 30-year-old man arrested in Normanton, near Wakefield, where police also took away two computers for examination.A 44-year-old man from the Sandbach area of Cheshire was arrested and released on police bail pending further inquiries. Lancashire police confirmed a 42-year-old man had been arrested at an address near Rossendale. Equipment was seized during the raid.In London, the Metropolitan police paedophile unit seized computer equipment from two homes in Battersea and Camden.The Home Office minister, Beverley Hughes, who chairs the government's task force on child protection on the internet, last night welcomed the crackdown."People who access child pornography are fuelling the widespread and often organised sexual abuse of children by paedophiles across the world. A picture of child pornography is a picture of child abuse; behind every picture is a young victim of a serious sexual crime."The government is determined to give the highest priority to protecting our children, on and off line, and to searching out and arresting those who prey upon them. The UK police are at the cutting edge of developing new techniques to detect and combat paedophile activity on the internet."Last year seven paedophiles were jailed following an NCS operation, code-named Cathedral, which focused on a closed internet paedophile ring known as the Wonderland Club.Following a public outcry at their jail terms, the maximum sentences for possessing and distributing child pornography were raised from six months and three years to five years and 10 years respectively.The NCS also led an operation last year in which detectives in 19 countries simultaneously targeted 130 people suspected of accessing thousands of paedophiliac images through internet newsgroups.
After launching itself into the games market late last year, Microsoft will move the experience to the internet this year by investing over $1bn in an online game service called Xbox Live.According to a report in the New York Times, the company will open three data centres in London, Seattle and Tokyo to handle the expected traffic for its "online Disneyland" of Xbox games. The entry fee will be approximately $50 (34) for the necessary software and another $10 for a monthly subscription.The paper reported that Xbox Live will allow gamers to play Microsoft's pantheon of games with partners world wide.Microsoft has been struggling to shift Xbox consoles against the overwhelming popularity of the Sony's PS2 system and the recently-launched Nintendo GameCube. Xbox has slipped into third place with 3.5m consoles in use, the New York Times reported, behind GameCube at around 4m and PS2 at 30m.Today Nintendo ratcheted up the competition by announcing a price cut on GameCube in the US, taking the cost down to $149 from $199. Nintendo has also announced that it intends to introduce an online GameCube service this autumn in North America, although its online plans are far more cautious than Microsoft's huge investment.Sony has announced similar plans for its PS2.
Apple has speed-bumped itsiBookline, with the top machine now clocking 700Mhz with a G3 processor. The speed increase is not that dramatic, although graphics cards have been improved to help run OSX, Apple's new operating system. Mac fans will note the continued drip-drip of product annoucements and upgrades, which is in stark contrast to the Apple's traditional method of keeping everything for MacExpos and "special events".
Altnetis being launched today: KaZaA peer-to-peer file-sharing with digital rights management.
The E3 games trade show has opened in Los Angeles. Early action:Nintendohas slashed the US price of the GameCube to $149, and Microsoft is expected to announce a $1 billion investment inXbox Liveonline gaming.
Delightful Dilbert (below):Googlehas told the Mercury News it isn't changing its logo andScott Adamsis doing it for free.
Telecoms watchdog Oftel has enraged BT's rivals including Freeserve  by ruling that BT can charge customers for its telephone and high speed internet services using a combined bill.Oftel has clarified the rules regarding the cross-promotion of internet and phone services in response to the outcry that greeted BT's announcement of the launch of its new "no-frills" high speed internet product later this year.The access-only BT Broadband service will cost 27 per month and Oftel has agreed to allow the telecoms giant to charge for the service alongside existing phone services.Oftel has also reiterated the fact that BT is not allowed to use its information on existing customers to specifically target them for broadband packages.But BT's rival Freeserve was quick to condemn the Oftel ruling, insisting it will allow BT to cross-promote its web services to 19 million residential phone customers"BT must not use billing information from its telephony customers to target its marketing of internet services to residential consumers," said David Edmonds, the director general of Oftel.But BT will be allowed to market internet services by including details with everyone's bill, he added, and can also conduct market research to make its marketing more effective.Freeserve, currently the largest internet service provider in the UK, is furious BT will be allowed to charge its customers for both internet and telephone services using a single bill."Oftel has used this piece of old news to bury in its press release the fact it has gifted to BT the anti-competitive advantage of using its blue bill to charge for its own broadband service."This fait accompli has been achieved without any industry consultation and with no apparent safeguards in place," said Freeserve in a statement.The blue bill, which supports BT's near-monopoly fixed line phone business, is a privilege of BT and BT alone."This is a clear example of BT being allowed by the regulator to leverage a dominant market position in fixed line telephony to establish a position in broadband," Freeserve added.Oftel is forced to tread a fine line between helping BT achieve the government's aim of improving broadband penetration and making sure it doesn't use its dominant position in the telephony market to undercut its rivals.The chairman of BT, Sir Christopher Bland, said at the weekend he had no plans to demerge BT's wholesale and retail arms - a move that many of its competitors have called for, claiming  it would stop BT from being able to cross-promote or cross-subsidise its activities.
Embattled music download service Napster could be saved from collapse in a move that would see the company filing for bankruptcy then being acquired outright by German media giant Bertelsmann.Following frantic talks that continued late into Friday night, Bertelsmann believes it has engineered a deal that will allow it to buy the Napster technology and brand but escape the company's liabilities.Napster faces a legal bill for hundreds of millions of dollars as a result of lawsuits being pursued against it by Sony, EMI, AOL Time Warner, Vivendi Universal and Bertelsmann itself.But the German company believes it can escape the debts if Napster, which had upwards of 80m users at the height of its popularity, files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection before buying the assets.It expects to have to inject a further 5.5m into Napster to resuscitate the company, as well as writing off the 59m it has already handed over in the form of loans.As part of the deal, Shawn Fanning - the whizzkid who founded the site on a laptop at the age of 19 - will return to the company as chief technology officer while the former BMG chief, Konrad Hilbers, will come back as chairman and chief executive.Both resigned last week after a boardroom row over whether Bertelsmann should be allowed to take over the company.Sources close to the negotiations last week suggested Bertelsmann would walk away after its offer was rejected but a change of heart by Hank Barry, a former Napster chief executive and partner at investor Hummer Winblad, has revived the deal.Hummer Winblad had opposed the original deal - which would have seen Bertelsmann acquiring the company outright for around 12m - because it felt   Napster would still have been open to paying out on the law suits.Even if it is brought back from the brink, many within the industry remain sceptical over whether Napster can ever relaunch as a commercial service.Despite its famous brand name, it would still have to persuade the major record companies to supply it with music and persuade users to pay.
Google and Dilbert: a winning combination. But is the search engine really changing its logo? Please God - don't let it beanother grim corporate makeover...
Researchers are investigating the possibility that gay internet chatrooms might have helped increase high-risk sexual activity among gay and bisexual men.Health advisers want to establish whether the increasing opportunities to surf the net rather than cruise gay bars and gyms might be tempting some men into riskier sexual behaviour.Ministers, officials and char ities campaigning on Aids and HIV issues are concerned that "safe sex" messages are losing their impact, while the government hopes to reduce new HIV cases by 25%.Researchers, led by Jonathan Elford of the Institute of Health Sciences, City University, London, have been asked by the Department of Health and the medical research council to establish whether the internet is a factor in making men take greater risks than they would through gay bars and clubs.Professor Elford said of chat-rooms: "These increased opportunities for having sex may have been matched by a corresponding rise in high risk sexual activity. Consequently we may need to find new ways of getting safe sex messages to gay men."The findings of the two-year study, which will involve 2,500 gay and bisexual men in London, could have important ramifications for the transmission of HIV. "For example, we could see an increase in HIV infections in regions which currently report low HIV prevalence because of the boundless reach of the internet as a meeting place."The Terrence Higgins Trust's chief executive Nick Partridge said research would "help us better understand the changing patterns of gay men's sex lives and ensure that HIV prevention campaigns continue to be relevant and effective".About 23,000 people in Britain are living with an HIV diagnosis and around half of those are gay men, two thirds living in London.
Can you fool afingerprint reader? It would seem so.....
Here's an interesting way offlashing chips. New Scientist reports that it can help reveal information stored on smart cards.
CNet has been talking to Apple bossSteve Jobs. Apparently the number of OS X users "is now in the range of 1.5 million to 2 million, although about 3 million Macs have been sold with the new OS on the hard drive" (not a direct quotation). This seems to suggest that up to half the people who get Apple's latest version of Unix change the default back to OS 9. The article also credits Apple with "25 million Mac owners", which is a pretty scary number unless someone looked up 1992 by mistake. It means there are already twice as many people using Microsoft Windows XP as are using Macs.
CNet also has an anodyne interview with ARM bossRobin Saxby.
John Gilmore is a great programmer and one of the elders of the Net. The adage that 'the internet interprets censorship as damage and routes around it' first came from him. He also has a deep understanding of technology, so when he writes an essay outlining the disastrous consequences of a Bill now before US Congress, it behoves us to pay attention.(Digression for new readers: the Bill, sponsored by Senator Fritz Hollings and in large measure drafted by studio lobbyists, would force makers of computing and communications equipment to install copy-protection technology which would make it impossible for the machines to record, play or transmit copyrighted material.The pressure for the Bill comes from the movie studios, which fear that, once broadband access to the Net becomes widespread, they will be 'Napsterised' and see their products swapped over the net. So great is their hysteria that they are pressing for a legal regime which will    make it illegal to possess or operate a general-purpose computer like today's personal computers. Because of their lobbying power and media visibility, the movie studios have made all the public running so far on the Bill, while the computer industry - whose $600 billion   annual turnover dwarfs Hollywood's piddling $18bn - has been strangely cowed: its representatives talk about 'reaching a consensus' about the 'piracy problem' with the movie studios.If they do, they will have conceded that, henceforth, innovation in the computer industry will march at the glacial pace of the zombies who make  Terminator III and  Beverly Hills Cop IV. End of digression.)What's lovely about Gilmore's essay (for URL see 'Footnotes' page) is how he traces the practical implications of ceding this territory to the copyright thugs. He writes of a friend of his who is planning to build digital loudspeakers.Just as carrying an analogue signal to a video monitor over a cable degrades it, so analogue speaker cables also degrade a signal Sending that signal to the speakers digitally would carry it more faithfully, and it's cheap.This has other advantages: you could plug all your speakers into your house Ethernet, with little selectors on them to pick which packets each speaker would listen for. Then you wouldn't have to run separate pairs of wires from the stereo to each room; you'd just put an ethernet connection in each room and plug speakers into it.This is an archetypal example of the kind of innovation made possible by digital technology. But, Gilmore warns, if the Hollings Bill goes through, 'digital speakers would have to include    copy-protection  in each speaker. If they didn't, they could not be used to play the sound from high-definition TV, or DVDs (or SDMI, or whatever comes next).Each speaker would need two-way communication, so the copy-protection could negotiate keys. If someone made digital headphones, you'd need a little cop, I mean a little copy-prevention chip, in each  headphone. If someone made hearing aids that could receive wireless digital sound (a godsend in concert halls or meeting rooms), you'd need a little censor in each  ear.What's more, to build the system in the first place, the designer would have to apply to some approved authority for the necessary chips or technology. And the minute some teenage hacker finds a way of cracking the system, all digital speakers using it would be rendered obsolete.What's frightening about the Hollings Bill is not its content or intent, but the fact that there is so little public discussion of it. It is nonsense on stilts, yet it could conceivably become law, and in the process screw the most dynamic industry the world has ever seen. Truly, those whom the Gods wish to destroy, they first make mad.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
A Mercury reviewercomparing games consolesreckons both the Sony PlayStation 2 and Nintendo GameCube represent better buys than Microsoft's Xbox, in spite of its technological superiority. What counts is having better games. True enough: it's exactly what Microsoft has been saying since the beginning. However, it's not very impressive journalism not to point this out. It also tends to destroy your street cred when it looks as though you don't know when the PlayStation 2 was launched (March 2000, in Japan) and youcan't spell the name of your favourite game. (Subs? Who needs 'em....)
PlusNethas launchedthe UK's cheapest ADSL service-- only 21 per month. The catches? No file swapping, and no access to binary newsgroups. Also, while the price makes for a catchy headline, it is only 2 per month less than PlusNet's unrestricted self-install service.
How many years does it take to produce Windows XP drivers? Or isNokiarun by idiots?
In California, they have been celebratingSpaceWar's 40th birthday, this being the first arcade game, though it was not as successful as Pong. Dont miss the link to anonlineversion of this historic game. Two SpaceWar consoles feature in theGame Onexhbiition that has just opened at the Barbican Art Gallery.
"It feels great to be No. 2," says Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell in thisAP Onlinestory. Dell has been displaced as the world's biggest PC manufacturer by the combined sales of Compaq and Hewlett-Packard following their merger. Of course, it is not hard to predict that sooner or later, Dell will make it back to the top spot. But since that will probably be governed by the scale of disasters likely to strike HPaq, it is not easy to say when....
Microsoft has warned that its Internet Explorer software contains six flaws, some of which could give hackers access to - and even potentially change - personal information about computer users.Microsoft, which called the severity of some of the flaws "critical", advised users of Explorer versions 5.01, 5.5 and 6.0 to download a patch for the software from the Microsoftwebsite.The security bulletin issued late on Wednesday marks the fourth time this year that Microsoft has issued a fix for Explorer.Among other things, the flaws could allow hackers to view files on a user's computer hard drive.Other flaws exploit vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer's "cross-site scripting" capabilities - which allow script from one web page to legitimately manipulate another - and may permit the same access by a rogue site.Another flaw attacks the software's handling of "cookies", which are data files deposited by websites that users frequent. The flaw may allow hackers to view and even change information on cookies.However, those flaws could be exploited only if hackers had specific information regarding file names and locations, and the files would need specific formatting for them to access the information, said Christopher Budd, security programme manager with the Microsoft security response centre.Although the centre has said it is not aware of any direct problems that have resulted from the flaws, he urged users not to ignore the potential problems and to download the patch.
