The problem facing Mark Zuckerberg about a year ago: not enough people using Facebook on their mobile phones. The bigger problem: even when they did, it was very difficult to put advertising in front of them – especially relevant advertising, of the sort that Facebook tries to put in front of the millions of people viewing the site on a desktop.The solution: build a phone with Facebook built in from the ground up. That was theadvice given to his team by Horace Dediu, who runs his ownAsymcoconsultancy, a year or so ago.Dediu's advice: speak to Chinese smartphone manufacturers, create a version of Android (just as Amazon has for its Kindle Fire tablets, and Barnes &amp; Noble has for the Nook, and Kobo for the Kobo Reader) and sell a "Facebook phone", because that would be the way to know what people are doing all the time. By knowing that, it could provide better targeted ads; and it could also control how often and where those ads appeared, all the time.Here's what Dediu told me a year ago:My recommendation was that they should do a handset, because it means they can control the user experience, and capture all the information that they might need to monetise the experience. For Facebook, they could offer it as making your life richer as a social participant.And what did Zuckerberg say on Thursday? "We're not building an operating system. We're building something that's a whole lot deeper." That's exactly congruent with what Dediu said. Quite possibly what the Facebookers were told matched what they were already thinking. Google's Android has the advantage that because Google makes its source code available, it can be tweaked endlessly by hardware manufacturers (such as HTC) and software companies (like Facebook). And so, the Facebook phone.The soul of a new phone experienceBack to Zuckerberg again: "The home screen is the soul of your phone. It sets the tone. We feel it should be deeply personal." And: "It's putting people first in your phone." Sure, but it also shows Facebook which people you do and don't pay attention to, by whether you bat away messages from them (useful for its news feed). And it knows what you're looking at.And for some people, the idea of those two being so closely linked will be attractive. Don't forget that as Sir Tim Berners-Leeremarked to John Naughton recently, "there are 200 million people in the world who thinkFacebookis the internet". Some people really love using Facebook.But will they love having Facebook surrounding them? Zuckerberg observed that phones are currently designed around apps, but then posted the question: what if phones were designed around people instead of apps? "It would feel really different," he said.Possibly, but that was meant to be what Microsoft's Windows Phone was about – it has a "People Hub" which integrates, yes, Facebook (Microsoft owns a chunk of it) – and that hasn't set the world on fire. Perhaps that's because we don't actually use our phones aroundpeople.The task aheadMy own feeling is that people use smartphones in "task" mode – call Joe, send an email to Janet, receive a message from Bert, play Words With Friends with Caroline, or even read a news site on your own (and perhaps tweet or update Facebook with what you find). Those aren't necessarily "people-centred". Yes, they involve people, but they don't have to be mediated through Facebook.Note though that you can do each of those thingsinsideFacebook as well as outside it – with calls by VOIP introduced recently in the US and UK. Facebook is trying to encompass all the tasks that you would ordinarily do on a smartphone (don't forget itbought the mobile-only Instagram).Spotify? Available through Facebook. News sites? Available through Facebook (may we recommend theGuardian Facebook app?)If Facebook can manage that – or at least to swallow the most-used apps – then it will have achieved the original aim: get to see what everyone's doing on their smartphone.Some people are getting worked up at the idea of Facebook pulling in this sort of data. But if you're using a modern Android phone with Google services, it's pulling in just the same data: that's how Google Now, which works like a sort of personal assistant, knows to look up train timetables if you approach a train station that you visit every weekday. It's unclear as yet whether both Google and Facebook will collect the same sets of data, or whether Facebook will somehow keep Google out of the loop. That could be a source of some friction – and Zuckerberg notably didn't find it easy to answer questions about how Home might be affected if (as some expect) Google makes Android less open and so harder to tweak.Cleverly, Facebook isn't trying to be a phone manufacturer – a path that's almost guaranteed to lead to disappointment, because unless you have the scale and brand of an Apple or a Nokia, it's hard to persuade carriers to take your new phones. Instead, the Facebook Home apps will be pre-installed on the new HTC First, which has a tempting price of $99 (though US phones come with often eye-wateringly high contract prices, at least by British standards). And Facebook Home will also work – as a downloadable app – on phones from Sony, Huawei, Lenovo, ZTE, Alcatel and, crucially, Samsung, the world's biggest maker of mobile and smartphones.Not one Android, but manyThe Guardian Android app. Photograph: GuardianFor Facebook, this is a big and important step to owning the smartphone experience of its users. Benedict Evans, smartphones analyst at Enders Analysis,remarkedthat this illustrates how, five years after its arrival, Android has become so diverse that it is hard to pin down:There is no longer such a thing as Android, only Androids. Facebook, Amazon, China, Samsung, $45 phones, $600 phones. All quite distinct.In China, millions of "Android" phones never connect to Google's services (they made up about a third of all the Android phones shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012). There's "Google Android", which connects to Google's servers. There's Amazon's Kindle Fire in the west. Samsung barely acknowledges Google's existence, and seems to be working on a project to free itself of Google via its own Tizen operating system (which would run Android apps).Will Facebook Home make it big? That's impossible to forecast. It will probably see huge numbers of downloads. It will need lots of tweaking to avoid annoying people – it's already being prodded to see whether it takes more or fewer clicks to reach the phone-dialer (more), and whether you can still set wallpaper (no, but your friends do with their picture – you may need to prune your friends).It's early days for Facebook Home, but it has really big designs. And don't forget that Facebook itself only began out of an semi-serious attempt to rank people for attractiveness. If Zuckerberg really wants to do this, he might make it happen.
Facebook launched a supercharged mobile version of its social network on Thursday, in a risky bid to take over of a new generation of smartphones.At a much-hyped product launch in California, chief executive Mark Zuckerberg announced a software system designed to take over Android phones by pushing Facebook messages, photographs and updates directly to users' home screens."We want to bring all this content to the front," Zuckerberg told hundreds of journalists, employees and technology industry insiders at his company's headquarters in Menlo Park, outside San Francisco.Zuckerberg said the new system, called Facebook Home, would be the "best version of Facebook there is". He unveiled a partnership with the handset manufacturer, HTC, which has developed a phone with the software built into it.Facebook hopes Thursday's announcement will go some way to answering the critics who say it has failed to develop an effective mobile strategy. But some analysts were disappointed that Facebook stopping short of writing its own operating software or creating a Facebook-branded phone.The family of apps will display mobile versions of the Facebook news feed and message service on the home screens of users' phones. The software, which will initially be available only on selected Android handsets, eliminates the need to switch to a dedicated Facebook app by integrating the social network's features into the heart of the device."Home isn't a phone or operating system, and it's more than just an app.  Home is a completely new experience that lets you see the world through people,"said an official company announcement.Describing the software as "the soul of your phone", Zuckerberg said: "Today phones are designed around apps not people. We want to flip that."Facebook Home will come pre-installed on the a handset made by Taiwain's HTC, called HTF First. The manufacturer's chief executive, Peter Chou, described as "the ultimate social phone". It will be 4G-compatible, have a screen larger than the iPhone at 4.3in, and be sold first in the US on the AT&amp;T network for $99.99. It will be available through the EE network in the UK at an unspecifed date.Facebook Home will also availableon devices from Samsung, Sony, Qualcomm, AT&amp;T, Huawei and ZTE.Missing from the list was Apple's iPhone, which operates on a closed system. Nor is the family of apps yet available on tablets.The two features Facebook hopes will set its software apart are Cover Feed, which displays content such as shared photographs, messages and calendar events onto the home screen, and Chat Heads, in which friends, family and contacts are represented by their photographs framed in a circle. These can appear on the home screen, or while the owner is reading a website, playing a game or watching a video. Chat Heads allows users to read and respond to messages without having to switch to a new screen.More than ever, humans would be connected, said Zuckerberg. "A lot of the world thinks being connected is frivolous. It's not. It's who we are."Facebook is racing to keep up with the habits of its 1 billion monthly users, 680 million of whom now access the network from a mobile device. Before its disastrous stock market flotation last year, Facebook conceded it needed a better mobile strategy.Shares in Facebook climbed 2% to $26.83 immediately after the announcement. Shares in Google, which may see some customers diverted to its rivals's new product, slipped 1.5% to $793.81.Industry observers appeared impressed by Facebook's next step into mobile. "I think it's pretty slick. It gives you instant access to your social context. It'll make your mobile device a more enjoyable experience, it'll be much easier to respond to messages. It's all right there on your fingertips,"said Brian Blau, research director at Gartner, an information technology firm.Critics rounded on Chathead's name, if not the software. Others expressed concern that Facebook would have even more data on those who used the de facto Facebook phone. "Every number you dial, every page you look at on your mobile browser, every text message you send, every app that you use – basically everything you do on your phone becomes material for Facebook to use and monetize,"commented one Guardian user, Leviathan212."Since Facebook doesn't make an operating system for mobile devices, this is the next best thing," said Jan Dawson, telecoms analyst at research firm Ovum. "It will allow Facebook to track more of a user's behaviour on devices, and present more opportunities to serve up advertising. And that presents the biggest obstacle to success for this experiment. Users don't want more advertising or tracking, and Facebook wants to do more of both."Aside from HTC's new device, at launch Facebook Home will work on just a handful of phones including Samsung's best selling S3 and its new S4 phone. However, Facebook has also released a set of guidelines for those who want to use its brand to market their devices, and Huawei, ZTE, Lenovo, Sony and Alcatelonetouch have all indicated they are likely to do so.Facebook's heavy reliance on Android to put its brand in front of users leaves it vulnerable should Google, which is developing its own Google+ social network, decide not to co-operate. "Google could easily make sure Facebook home doesn't work on future versions of Android,"  warned Gartner analyst Michael Gartenberg. "Of course, we might call that evil."
Facebook launched its new Android "experience", Facebook Home, with a messaging feature called Chat Heads at its heart.When a user's Facebook friends start a new chat, their picture pops up on Android phone home page in a small bubble – a "chat head"."We think that Chat Heads are this great, personal way to do messaging," said Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg at the presentation in San Francisco, California.Adam Mosseri, Facebook product designer, said the feature would personalise people's phones better. "What we're trying to do is shift people's focus away from tasks and apps and toward people," he said,He demonstrated how the phone bounces back and forth between the various features. "There's nothing between you and your content. You can literally just reach out and touch it," Mosseri says.If you can't quite picture Chat Heads, imagine if the text message bubble on your phone expanded and saturated everything, everyone in your contacts grew a bobble head, and whenever you revved up your phone, your friends' heads would be there, talking to you."It really feels like your friends are always there," Mosseri said. "Your friends shouldn't be siloed off from these apps."The appeal of this feature for you will depend in part on whether you think it's nice to have your friends always there.Reaction was, inevitably, mixed: Guardian commentator Dan Gillmor wasn't buying the hype.Facebook isn't just shifting people away from apps and toward people. It's shifting them to always be inside Facebook.&mdash; Dan Gillmor (@dangillmor)April 4, 2013But Ant de Rosa, social media editor at Reuters, liked the Chat Heads feature.I do love the idea that I don't need to switch apps to send a message. Chat Heads is a big upgrade IMOreut.rs/FacebookLIVE&mdash; Anthony De Rosa (@AntDeRosa)April 4, 2013Like many, Ryan Tate of Wired thought Chat Heads (Chatheads?) was just a dumb name.Chatheads is just a cool normal word. Feels very natural. Very human. Very warm. Not something from a freak show. CHATHEADS. Thx Facebook.&mdash; Ryan Tate (@ryantate)April 4, 2013•Follow our Facebook Home live blog
4.58pmETWe&apos;re going to wrap up ourlive blog coverageof the release of Facebook Home. For a summary of Mark Zuckerberg&apos;s presentationclick here.To watch the presentationclick here.3.29pmETHere&apos;svideo of the Facebook Home announcement.Watch it again (mobile usersclick here):Updatedat 4.05pm ET3.22pmETClick the link below for photos and specs on theHTC first.You don&apos;t need a First to run Home; Android users with specific devices can download the Facebook service. But HTC is hoping many users – including first-time phone buyers in places like India and Brazil - will go for the full package.HTC is proud to be the first Facebook partner to bring their experience to a device: The HTC Firsts.htc.com/14QZadj&mdash; HTC (@htc)April 4, 2013Updatedat 4.12pm ET3.08pmETMeanwhile, somewhere in Boston...Facebook COO Sheryl Sandbergisshopping her bookpromoting social change:Sandberg spoke to hundreds of professional women at a luncheon, one of a series of events she is scheduled to hold in the area as part of a national campaign to promote her newly released best-selling book, “Lean In, Women, Work, and the Will to Lead.”“The best way to reform an institution is to run it,’’ Sandberg said. “No one listens to the person on the side of the room.”It appears that Sandberg made no mention of Home.Updatedat 3.08pm ET3.05pmETIf you use Facebook Home, whose aim is to totally integrate your mobile life with Facebook – how can you hope to keep anything on your phoneprivate from Facebook?Mashable&apos;s Alex Fitzpatrick asked them:Facebook spox: Data received through Home "covered by Facebook's Data Use Policy, which users can view before they activate Facebook Home."&mdash; Alex Fitzpatrick (@AlexJamesFitz)April 4, 2013Facebook's Data Use Policy is here:facebook.com/about/privacy&mdash; Alex Fitzpatrick (@AlexJamesFitz)April 4, 20132.51pmETFacebook jumped ahead of Google Maps last year to become theNo.1 US mobile app, Comscorereported.Last September, each app was pacing about 80m monthly unique visitors. By the end of the year, Facebook had opened up a 10m lead, 85m-75m. Comscore&apos;s Andrew Lipsman writes:In addition to owning the top app audience ranking, Facebook has consistently ranked #1 in terms of mobile app engagement.Their app currently accounts for 23% of time spent on apps,while sister app Instagram owns another 3% of the market. Various Google apps combine to account for 10% of time spent, with Gmail owning the highest individual share at 3%. These two leading web companies combine for more than 1 out of every 3 minutes spent on mobile apps.(h/t: @AntDeRosa)Updatedat 2.52pm ET2.39pmETFacebook hasreleased an adfor Home.It&apos;s not theone that airedduring the presentation which, we forgot to mention, featured a kid in a party hat whose mouth was covered with chocolate frosting.This one features an array of young attractive people leading impressively active and rich social lives including holding pot-luck dinners and going out for walks at dusk (also there&apos;s a thumb war). Watch it (mobile usersclick here):Updatedat 4.06pm ET2.20pmETFrom the comments(tough crowd!), there are practical concerns about functionally turning one&apos;s phone into a zombie in the undead Zuckerberg army:Leviathan21204 April 2013 6:48pmSounds like an absolute horror. If you install this, you are essentially giving Facebook control of your entire phone. Every number you dial, every page you look at on your mobile browser, every text message you send, every app that you use - basically everything you do on your phone becomes material for Facebook to use and monetize.Why not just have them install a surveillance camera in your house? That might actually be less intrusive.and there are friendly concerns that that name they&apos;re using for illustrated chatting is... not good:captainstevezissou04 April 2013 6:34pmI read &quot;chatheads&quot; with a French accent with an English mind. &quot;Shatheads&quot; is sure to catch on...2.15pmETAlso, that part about the honor of working on a technology that will empower 5bn world citizens?It&apos;ssupposed to make money, too:Zuckerberg admits this new plan to 'bring us all together' will also - shock!-bring in new advertising for#facebook.&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)April 4, 20132.13pmETIs Facebook Home a response to pressure on the newly public company toshow Wall Street it can make money?Faaar from it, Zuckerberg says. Rory Carroll reports:Asked whether this launch is a response to pressure to monetize, Zuckberg laughs it off. &quot;Oh, that.&quot; Bats it away.He&apos;s improved as a performer. Smoother at reading the autocue and looks more comfortable when extemporising and fielding questions.He still ain&apos;t Steve Jobs, but this Zuckerberg a presentational upgrade.2.12pmETSummaryLet&apos;s have aquick roundupof what we just heard. Facebook has designed a radically more social mobile phone experience that privileges conversations with friends over apps.When you unlock your Home-enabled phone, you see your Facebook cover feed. When a friend sends a message or notification those appear in attractive horizontal bar format complete with thumbnail images of the sender. To get to your apps you just swipe sideways. If you&apos;re in an app and you get a notification a little thumbnail image of the sender pops up at the margin of the screen.The phone lets you app out. But its main point is chatting with friends.In a way it&apos;s a version of the phone to please the telephone originalist, the strict constructionist. Phones weren&apos;t invented to play samurai fruit on. Phones were invented to reach out and touch someone. Alexander Graham Bell would approve.Phones developed specially with Facebook Home in mind go on sale in about a week, on April 12, for $99.99 through AT&amp;T, the service provider. The device is called the HTC First – and Facebook&apos;s presentation was mercifully free of endless lists of specs, although that info isout there if you need it.Android users with the requisite configurations can download Facebook Home now. But it&apos;s not yet ready for tablet devices, Facebook announced. Whoops.Does Facebook Home stand a chance of capturing the mobile market? Studies have shown that avid Facebook users check it 14 times a day, for a total of up to a half hour spent surfing the site. It seems like those people would love a phone that prominently features their friends – a phone this social.Zuckerberg channels Aristotle#facebook: 'A lot of the world thinks being connected is frivolous. It's not. It's who we are.'&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)April 4, 2013Updatedat 2.54pm ET2.07pmETHTC's Peter Chou officially unveils the new HTC First phone loaded with the new Facebook platform. Photograph: PETER DaSILVA/EPA1.58pmETFacebook&apos;sshare price climbedabout half a point,to 27.15, during today&apos;s presentation. The stock was first offered to the public in May for $38.1.50pmETThe event has wrapped.Thoughts? Reactions? Do you want your phone to be this social?Isn&apos;t the point of the phone to be social? Is it paradoxical to be against more interactions with friends on a device whose purpose is to interact with friends?1.47pmETNow Zuckerberg cuts loose with hismaniacal visionfor world domination. It sounds quite civically responsible in his telling actually:&quot;Actually only about a third of the world is on the Internet today. So we&apos;re really closer to the beginning of this than the end.&quot;5 billion people will have smartphones, he says. Today only 2bn have Internet access.&quot;We&apos;re coming to the point when [most people] will have never seen in their lives what you and I think of as a computer. Think about that for a minute.&quot;We&apos;re about to see the most empowered people in a generation. And it&apos;s really an honor to work on these problems.&quot;He does not audibly cackle.1.43pmETFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg demonstrates the new Facebook Home Android feature. Photograph: Robert Galbraith/Reuters1.42pmETThat&apos;s a price point:a hundred bucks.De la Vega says the HTC first will be available April 12 for $99.99, exclusively from AT&amp;T.You can preorder it today.Other special guest, Ralph de la Vega, head of AT&amp;T Mobility. 'This is the most immersive phone I've ever seen.' Rides on AT&amp;T network.&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)April 4, 2013Updatedat 1.43pm ET1.40pmETThe HTC deviceis called the HTC First, billed as &quot;the ultimate social phone.&quot; It&apos;s the only phone that has Facebook Home pre-loaded and pre-optimized.It&apos;s a four-color phone withAT&amp;T LTE network speed.Now AT&amp;T exec Ralph de la Vega is up to explain the service provider&apos;s role.1.37pmETRory Carroll notes thegrand ambitionsFacebook has outlined for its new technology:Zuckerberg raising expectations: &apos;We&apos;re really proud of Home and are excited to get it in your hands. We think this is the best version of facebook there is.&apos;1.36pmETNow Zuckerberg introduces executives from bothHTC and AT&amp;Twho, he says, have collaborated to build devices and provide service for Home.Updatedat 1.52pm ET1.36pmETZuckerberg screens anew video adfeaturing a bored guy waiting for his flight to take off. He sees people in his phone and they appear next to him on the plane. It breaks his boredom and carries him to the favorite places of his personal life.Tagline:&quot;Welcome to Facebook Home. A whole new experience for your phone.&quot;1.33pmETThe mic goes back to Zuckerberg.&quot;We&apos;re really proud of Home, and we&apos;re really excited to get it in your hands.He refers to &quot;the joy you feelwhen your friend&apos;s face pops up with a message.&quot;He thanks everyone who worked on Home.1.32pmETRory Carroll is in the hall,with this take on Chatheads:Joey Flynn, product designer, doing a pretty persuasive pitch for the value of &apos;Chatheads&apos;, which lets you pop in and out of conversations while using other apps.&apos;Gestures like this make chathead so fun and lightweight.. Can manage multiple conversations with just a single tap.&apos;Applause as he finishes seems to trickle from FB employees into press pool.1.30pmETCorey Ondrejka,head mobile engineer,explains how Android users can get Home.If you have the most recent FB app on Android, you will be able to begin installation of Home with one click.First-time users will be able to choose a trial version, or just jump in whole hog.The tablet launch is not ready, Ondrejka said.So Home is ready to go on your Android phone but not on your tablet.1.28pmETSnap impression: Look at your smart phone and imagine if thetext message bubble explodedand saturated everything, and everyone in your contacts grew a bobble head, and whenever you revved up your phone there they would be, your friends&apos; heads, talking to you.But then you can swipe it away and get to the business side of your phone, the apps.&quot;It really feels like your friends are always there,&quot; the presenter says. &quot;Your friends shouldn&apos;t be siloed off from these apps.&quot;The appeal of this phone for you will depend in part on whether you think it&apos;s nice to have your friendsalwaysthere.1.24pmETA trenchant observation from Mr. Carroll:Zuckerberg: &quot;The home screen is the soul of your phone.. it sets the tone. We feel it should be deeply personal.&quot;Soul? Not a word you often hear in these parts.1.23pmETMark Zuckerberg, Facebook's co-founder and chief executive speaks the launch of Facebook Home. Photograph: Robert Galbraith/Reuters1.22pmETAdam Mosseri,Facebook product designer, is demonstrating how the phone bounces back and forth between the cover feed and messages and apps.&quot;There&apos;s nothing between you and your content. You can literally just reach out and touch it,&quot; Mosseri says.&quot;What we&apos;re trying to do is shift people&apos;s focus away from tasks and apps, and toward people,&quot; he says.1.19pmETRory Carroll is in the hall:More than 400 packed into the hall. Mix of journos and FB employees - who cheer at key bits during Zuckerberg&apos;s discourse. We&apos;re all in darkness, spotlights on Zuckerberg.He&apos;s a confident, fluent speaker. But talks too fast. A Silicon Valley tic.1.18pmETWhile the cover feed and notifications are the main interface of Facebook Home,apps are only a swipe away. You can glide from the main page to the familiar grid of apps on other smart phones.One app is privileged in the Facebook Home architecture, Zuckerberg says: Messaging.He begins to explain a feature called Chatheads.This is kind of cool. If you&apos;re in an app and receive a message, the thumbnail image of the sender pops up on the side of the screen. You can tap it and go into message mode - then easily surf back to get to the app.&quot;We think that Chatheads are this great, personal way to do messaging,&quot; Zuckerberg says.1.15pmETZuckerberg is walking throughFacebook Home.Home features a cover feed that serves as a home page. If a friend sends a notification it appears on the home page with a thumbnail image of the friend.&quot;That&apos;s putting people first in your phone,&quot; Zuckerberg says.1.13pmETRory Carroll is in the hall:And here Zuckerbeg is, in navy hoodie. Consenus among tech press here that the announcement will deflate those expecting amazing new hardware, but could help secure FB&apos;s mobile future.1.12pmETWe&apos;re calling this: Home.Now we&apos;re going to show you home.1.11pmET&quot;Facebookisn&apos;t just a lightweight appthat&apos;s running everywhere,&quot; Zuckerberg says – a bit defensively? &quot;On average we spend more than three times as much time on Facebook as anywhere else.&quot;We&apos;re not building a phone,&quot; he says. &quot;We&apos;re not building an operating system. We&apos;re building something that&apos;s a whole lot deeper.&quot;Today we&apos;re going to talk about a new category of experiences.1.10pmETThe Facebook chief is not wearing adrone-proof hoodie.Packed#facebookpress room awaits Zuckerberg. Wonders if he'll have drone-proof hoodie.&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)April 4, 20131.08pmETZuckerberg says phones are currently designed around apps.But what would it be like if phones weredesigned around peopleinstead of apps?&quot;It would feel really different,&quot; he says.The tradition of using computers has been only to use them when we have a task to perform, Zuckerberg says. The user interface model hasn&apos;t changed much in 30 years.&quot;We have our phones with us all the time, and we just want to know what&apos;s going on with the people around us.&quot;1.05pmETMark Zuckerberg is in the house.&quot;Today we&apos;re finally going to talk about that Facebook phone,&quot; he says.&quot;You&apos;re going to be able to transform your Android phone into a great mobile device.&quot;1.03pmETFacebook and HTChave collaborated on a phone before.It was not pretty. The Guardian&apos;s Juliette Garsidereports:If the rumours prove correct, the phone will be HTC and Facebook&apos;s second collaboration in three years. The first was not a success.In 2011 the HTC ChaCha and Salsa phones appeared, featuring a Facebook button which lit up when the user activated the networking site.When pressed, the F-button would post a recently taken photo or favourite website link to the owner&apos;s Facebook page. The devices were discontinued a few months after launch.12.58pmETWe concur.Facebook's hold music is oddly calmingbit.ly/ZBY78D&mdash; Brian Ries (@moneyries)April 4, 201312.31pmETWelcome to our live blog coverage of what it appears will be a new&quot;Facebook phone&quot;, to be unveiled sometime after 10am PT (1pm ET, 6pm BST) at the company&apos;s headquarters in Menlo Park, California. The Guardian&apos;sRory Carroll is there and will be filing dispatches throughout the event.Facebook has been working with Taiwan-based phone manufacturer HTC to produce a handheld device with all major functions run through Facebook. You turn on the phone and you see Facebook. Web searches run through Facebook. To chat with friends – well, you&apos;re already on Facebook.The phonereportedly uses a modified Android operating systemand boasts a slightly larger 4.3-inch display. It would provide easy access to Facebook&apos;s instant messaging and Instagram photography applications, and a home screen displaying the owner&apos;s news feed.More importantly for Facebook, the phone aspires to put the software giant at the fore of emerging mobile markets in India, Brazil and elsewhere around the world, not to mention the US. As the popularity of mobile devices surges, Facebook, whose stock is hanging just above $26 prior to the event,is under pressure to show it can compete. The estimated 680 million mobile users who access Facebook every month give the company a giant door to walk through.But Facebook has failed to develop its own mobile device and to now has seemed to have difficulty settling on a mobile strategy. There&apos;s a fear that mobile users will reject Facebook ad strategies as clutter on smaller screens. Today Facebook will try to answer those concerns with product ingenuity – and to stake a claim to the next big thing in mobile.Updatedat 12.57pm ET
In this week's edition of Tech Weekly,Aleks Krotoskitalks to authorTom Chatfieldabout his new bookNetyemology, an exploration of the role of the internet in reshaping and accelerating the creation of words and forms of language.And never judge a laptop by its cover, asGoogle releases its high-spec Chromebook Pixel laptop,Jemima Kissis joined by the Guardian's developer advocateMichael Brunton Spallto take a look under its bonnet and see if this slick rival to the Apple PowerBook is up for a fight.Also, we review the week's tech news, including thedemise of the external hard driveand why theUK is resisting a legal right to be forgotten online.
There are many reasons you may want to try and delete yourself from the web from fake social media accounts and compromising photographs to long outgrown views.Guardian readers share their experiences of attempts to delete an unwanted online presence.AnonymousOne day, about 2 years ago now, I googled my own name and was horrified that in the first 4 google results it was possible to track me on the electoral roll for 8 years, uncover my full date of birth, full address including house number, names and ages of my brothers, sister and partner (who I later went to live with after leaving my parents house after university).I work with with injecting drug users and my mother is a senior probation officer. Its very easy now for people to find out very personal information about me. At the click of a mouse. That reason alone is not enough to have your details hidden by Companies House. You need evidence of a very real threat such as (violence and an accompanying police report) to have this information suppressed.The same applies for web sites such as radaris, peek you, 123 people...indexing online copies of the electoral roll, facebook accounts etc.I was made a company secretary for my fathers very small part time business and did the occasional work for him during my holidays at university- over ten years ago. The company has since been wound down but my full name, date of birth and parents address are readily available on the internet if you enter my name into google. Third party indexing sites have taken this information from Companies House and sell it on the internet. I used to write requests to have my personal information taken down. Some complied, others didn't - they expect you to pay (around 20) to have the information hidden. As soon as one website goes down, another company pops up. Its impossible to control the indexing of your online presence.I have nothing to hide, but I feel very vulnerable with all this personal information about me so readily accessible. I have a very unusual name, so everything that comes up in a search result is actually just about me and my family!!I'm now also very mindful about creating online accounts. l feel that there is way to much information about me out there!!"SableI tried to delete my ancient myspace profile because it contained some pictures of me from my art degree. They were not sexual but, there was nudity. I was working in a secondary school at the time and I was very uncomfortable with the images possibly being discovered by pupils. Unfortunately, I had forgotten my password and my profile was so old that my email address was no longer in existence. I emailed them numerous times but I never managed to get the page deleted. To my knowledge it is still there.GervaseFrustrating beyond belief. A number of fake profiles of me were created on Bebo, Flikr and other social networking and sharing sites after I had criticised the BNP online. The profiles lifted pictures of me from elsewhere on the web and photoshopped them, and made me out to be an ultra-nationalist gay transvestite (I know; funny in a WTF sort of way and almost flattering), and would have been laughable if they hadn't started creeping up my Google rankings to the point where, if someone Googled me, the fake profiles would appear on the first page. I have repeatedly asked Bebo and the other sites to remove these profiles, but with limited success. The results seem to be arbitrary; some are removed, but others are left in place.The problem was brought home to me when an ex-girlfiend contacted me out of the blue to say how brave she thought I was in acknowledging what had clearly been a difficult position by coming out, and that she now quite understood why the relationship had ended, what we me being gay an' all, but she thought my politics had become a bit creepy.AnonymousI have been on the Internet since 1985. I used to have about 130,000 Google hits on my name (and I have a unique name), due to a lot of online professional work.I have been successful in removing my online presence by deleting almost all accounts, doing online (public open source) work via an alias, though I still have a GMail account under an alias. I'm now down to about 3000 hits. Time has helped. There's still wayback information but much less live.I think most people don't realise how their online information is being used/abused. They also don't know how data can be crossed from various sources, don't know how online advertisers, Google, Facebook, etc. buy and sell data, how facial recognition software permits other data crosses. Nor do they realise photos posted by their friends online can be tracked to them. Nor do they know the extent of surveillance and criminal use of online data. If they did they probably wouldn't get on the Web with their own identity. It sounds paranoid but it's reality, and will only get worse over time.SaraOn a forum, where I've talked for a number of years in a birth club and about interiors etc but then realised over time that I have revealed myself in a combined way more than I'd have liked. But I've six years of chat to my name there, but about three people recognised me and it gets a bit scary when you can't erase yourself! There really is a false sense of security when you're hidden on an annoymous chat room, until you realise you've been 'virtually' chatting to three other women at the same school gates as you! It has a good side two as I can look back and see what my first child was like at this age etc, sort of a diary done without realising but also found myself going back deleting those comments about my sister in law in 2010!! Then wishing I could just start over!AnonymousA distant cousin with my same first name and surname (but different middle name) committed a murder 10 years ago but the articles are still lingering about, such that the first things associated with my name on a Google search is this crime. I wrote to the publications in question, and they agreed to add the middle initial to the remaining texts. I now also always use my middle name in all correspondence, invoicing, etc. The only advantage to this ""double identity"" mix-up is that my invoices are paid on time (clients must worry about what will happen  to them if payment is late!). Facebook deletion was difficult to navigate to the particular button to push to close the account. Easy to push the button (but apparently the actual data is never deleted, just ""unpublished""...)AnonymousAbout ten years ago I wrote a response on an article in a well known newspaper (broad sheet) in the Netherlands. A few years after that I googled myself and saw the response came up in the archive section of the newspaper. I called and wrote the newspaper because I wanted the article removed. It contained personal history about my mental health. After some more calls and e-mails the paper agreed to take the article out of their online database. Because of the nature of the item and the possible damage it could do to my future career. Because I didn't have any other online presence this would be the first and only thing about me when future employers saw about me online. It took some time, but I was successful and grateful to the people of the newspaper for their understanding.MayI like many other people provided content for tv.com (reviews etc) on the understanding that it was a site for television fans to discuss their favourite shows.  Then the site was sold (for significant money I am guessing) and ads started appearing on the site. Since I was not paid, nor did I want to be paid - I worked for free happily in the spirit of sharing amongst the online community - I wanted to delete the reviews I had written.  I didn't see why the site should sell my work.  Guess what?  I couldn't delete them. Or even edit them (planning to just change content to gobblydegook)This annoys me. I understand the same thing happened to the Huffington Post journalists.  I think there should always be facility to delete your work, especially if it is going to be sold by someone else.LizI was bullied when I was 15 after I published some opinions on my Facebook profile. I deactivated my account after a few days and have subsequently deleted it. I left school and last year, when I was 17, I got Twitter and reinvented my online persona. I only followed new friends and ignored all the people in my 'previous' life. It took time to establish a new life, and my old account and experiences still haunt me. I think the more new friends I make and people I follow, the more the bad memories of the old life will fade.AnonymousI had a profile on LinkedIn and I felt I had control of it. When I decided to remove my profile (and did a Google search for my name / role) I noticed that my details appeared on numerous 'crawler' based sites such as Yatedo, Zoominfo, 123 people, Pipl, peekyou, etc.Trying to remove each and every listing took hours of my personal time (trying to claim each profile, contacting the site asking for removal, etc) and months of waiting for the cached versions to be updated and disappear. I would say I am 90% complete in this task. Some sites were easier to work with then others.My details had also appeared in some newspaper articles but I have had no success in being able to remove these pages (most were many years old).Have you ever tried to delete yourself from the internet? Share your story in the comment thread below.
Yatagarasu looks like the sort of super sharp 2D fighting game I used to love playing on the Saturn and Dreamcast. Imaginative characters, turbo-charged combos, an intricate fighting system, it pays homage to Third Strike era Street Fighter as well as SNK and Arc System Works titles like Blazblue and King of Fighters.But the difference here is thatYatagarasuwasn't produced by a large team of dedicated programmers and designers. It is the work of just three men: King of Fighters artist, Kotani Tomoyuki, coder Shiza, and fighting game player Umezono, a veteran of the Street Fighter: Third Strike circuit who handles balance and mechanics. Together the trio formedPDW: Hotapenan ad-hoc studio that's part of Japans growing doujin games scene, where groups of friends get together to develop in their spare time. Comparable to the similarly expanding Western indie scene it's about passionate gamers producing and distributing their own titles, many of them offbeat and eccentric, many mining the key genres of the past."It tends to be a maximum of five or six people – just like the bedroom coding scene, really," says Geraint Evans, director ofRice Digital, the UK site that has just released a localised version of Yatagarasu for PC. "Zun, for example, is just one man working on a series of bullet hell shooters called Touhou, I think he's on number 13 now. There are also '.5' versions which are in the same universe, but are fighting games."Evans and a small group of colleagues at the specialist games publisherZen Unitedset up Rice Digital last year as a side project. Zen deals with well-established Japanese titles like BlazBlue and Guilty Gear, but through working on these titles, the team was finding out about more obscure, independently produced titles. "We were getting frustrated," says Evans. "We kept seeing these exceptional games, but they weren't getting any love in the Western media, so we decided to set up a site to promote them. It was editorial at first, we wrote about the games we felt deserved more attention. The other side to it now is looking to work with those doujin circles, helping with a little bit of localisation, a bit or PR and support; just to introduce them to a new group of fans."Since the launch of the site, several doujin circles have been in touch and now Rice has a growing stable of titles that it is promoting and digitally distributing, usually for under a tenner a game. Highlights include one-player arena battlerFairy Bloom Freesiaand colourful hack-and-slasher,Croixleur.Yatagarasu isn't just an indie knock-off of classic fighters – it has introduced a few new riffs on key conventions. Its 'button locking' parry system, for example, lets you tap a high, medium or low button to block incoming moves, and a window of offensive opportunity is opened up if you push forward at the same time, magnifying the value of a defensive approach. Added to this is a damage limitation system: if you mirror the attacking key presses of an opponent, you take much less damage, bringing in an emphasis on split-second timing and intuitive sparring.Rice Digital has five more doujin titles planned for release in Europe before the end of May, again working with small studios and localisation companies. Just a quick hint – if you're planning on trying any of their shooters or fighting games on PC, consider investing in a decent arcade-style stick. These can be rather expensive, but Evans recommends the entry level Hori EX2, which retails for around £50. If you're going to do this, you may as well do it properly.
Tablets are becoming popular as e-readers, for books, documents, PDFs etc. I'm wondering if there is an ideal screen resolution for long hours of reading text. Will the difference in ppi of the Google Nexus 10 and Apple iPad 4 produce a different reading experience? In particular, can the lower resolution Atom-based tablets with detachable keyboards such as the Lenovo ThinkPad 2 (with stylus!) compete with them for reading PDFs?I'd like to reproduce a paper-based reading experience, though I don't want an e-reader. I'm not an Apple fan, but I'm willing to buy an iPad if it offers the best reading experience.NomadThere is no "best" tablet for all kinds of reading in all kinds of situations, which can range from sitting out in the midday sun to reading in bed. Also, people have different responses to different types and sizes of screen, especially when reading for long periods. For example, I find very bright screens look really impressive for the first 10 or 15 minutes, but they soon become tiring, whereas I can comfortably read a dimmer, less-contrasty screen for longer. Others may find the opposite applies.In general, I think that e-readers provide the most book-like experience when reading for longer periods, and the front-lit Amazon Paperwhite Kindle (which I reviewed inTechnophile) is by some distance the best of the bunch. However, I didn't find it that much better than my Google Nexus 7 for casual reading. Also, its small monochrome screen is not the best for every type of material. For example, if I wanted to read an illustrated magazine or a travel book then I'd prefer a bigger colour screen, like the one on the Apple iPad 4.When it comes to PDF files, it depends on the content. You can read PDF's that are mostly text on a Kindle, but PDFs that contain a lot of diagrams or colour illustrations will look better on a large, colour screen, especially if you need to jump backwards and forwards. The Kindle is designed for page-by-page reading.The Kindle Paperwhite e-reader is better than tablets at handling a wide range of lighting situations. Tablets are hard or sometimes impossible to read in bright sunlight, and their glossy screens can pick up annoying reflections. The Paperwhite also wins for being as small and light as a book. Larger tablets are much more fatiguing to hold for long periods.Tablet choicesIf you'd still prefer a tablet, the Google Nexus 10 (made by Samsung) wins on its very high resolution display: 2560 x 1600 pixels, or 299 pixels per inch (ppi). Considered in isolation, this should give the best results when reading PDF files. Unfortunately, that doesn't necessarily mean you will find the difference significant at normal viewing distances, as opposed to peering at the screen from close range. The only way to find out is to try one.The iPad 4 has a similar resolution – 2048 x 1536 pixels or 264ppi – and comes at a slightly higher price, but I can't see that it has any advantage over the Nexus 10 for reading PDF files. It does, of course, have a massively better supply of tablet apps, if you are happy to buy into the Apple ecosystem. Not many Android apps do a good job of exploiting 10in screens.Otherwise, in terms of size, resolution and price, your best choice might be the Kindle Fire HD. Its 8.9in screen is not that much smaller than an iPad (9.7in), and it has a resolution of 1920 x 1200 pixels or 254ppi. You lose access to the Android marketplace, now called Google Play, and the user interface is somewhat dumbed down, but it's good value for £225.By all means have a look at a Nexus 10: you may well find you love it. It was Kate Bevan's choice in her recentTechnophile tablet comparison review, which includes a handy table of tablet specs. If not, you can get both a Kindle Paperwhite (£109) and an 8.9in Kindle Fire HD for about the same price as a Nexus 10.Windows tabletsThe main argument for buying a tablet such as the Atom-based Lenovo ThinkPad 2 is that it does double duty as both a touch-screen tablet and a Windows 8 laptop (or triple duty if you use the active digitising pen). I've not actually seen the ThinkPad 2, but I have had my hands on similar machines from Acer, Asus, Dell and Microsoft, and I've also tried other ThinkPads such as the Carbon X1, so I'm confident it will do the job. Although the resolution is limited to 1366 x 768 pixels (155ppi), this becomes a "retina screen" (you can't see individual pixels) at a viewing distance of 22in/56cm (seeisthisretina.com). Text is very readable, thanks to Microsoft's ClearType, and you also get access to Windows' vast collection of good free software.However, Windows PC screens vary a lot, so it would also be a good idea to try the ThinkPad 2 if you can. From the Windows8 tablets I've tried, the screen on the Microsoft Surface RT was exceptionally good for reading, while the screens on the others were average. If you wouldn't be happy reading PDFs on an ordinary £350-ish Windows 7 laptop, you won't be happy reading PDFs on one of these.The drawback with most Windows 8 tablets is the Atom processor: usually the 1.8GHz dual-core Atom Z2670, code-named Cedar Trail. My first thought was that it's surprisingly nippy for an Atom, compared with the older versions found in most netbooks. My second thought was that it's still slower than I'd like for running real Windows programs. This is a somewhat unfair comparison, because you can't see how badly they'd run on Apple and Android tablets. Still, most people buying Windows 8 tablets expect them to run full Windows applications, not just "modern" (Metro-style) apps.The Atom's advantages are that it's cheap and it provides long battery life. This makes it competitive with the ARM-based chips used in Android tablets. But if you don't need something now, it might be worth waiting for the next version, code-named Bay Trail. This should appear in time for Christmas.Windows 8 works really well on touch-screen tablets, once you get the hang of the odd half-dozen swipes. They're obviously not as small as 7in tablets or 6in e-readers, but they're competitive with larger tablets: the ThinkPad 2, for example, weighs 585g (1.29lbs), which is less than a Nexus 10 (603g) or iPad 4 (652g). There's still a shortage of good touch-tablet apps in the Windows Store, but full-strength web access plus the wealth of old Windows software and peripherals make up for that. In sum, they're pretty good value if you don't need an iPad. However, if you don't really need a new laptop, the Nexus 10 and Kindle Fire HD are much cheaper options.
He describes himself as the "midwife" of the idea of the right to be forgotten. And for Viktor Mayer-Schönberger , it's not just about the legal, moral and technical arguments – but about what it is to be human."The more I've worked on data protection over the past 20 years, the more I've realised that at the heart of this, what matters as much as the privacy aspect is the issue of human decision-making," said Mayer-Schönberger, professor of internet governance at the Oxford Internet Institute. "Humans need to make decisions about the present and the future. The beauty of the human brain is that we forget, which enables us to think in the present. That is necessary to help us make decisions."He cites the case of AJ, a woman from California, later identified as Jill Price, whose story came to light about six years ago. Price suffers from hyperthymesia, a neurological condition that means she cannot forget anything that has ever happened in her life. Mayer-Schönberger says that if everything about us is kept on internet databases, the effect, while not as drastic as in Price's case, is nevertheless similar."Our brains reconstruct the past based on our present values. Take the diary you wrote 15 years ago, and you see how your values have changed. There is a cognitive dissonance between now and then. The brain reconstructs the memory and deletes certain things. It is how we construct ourselves as human beings, rather than flagellating ourselves about things we've done."But digital memories will only remind us of the failures of our past, so that we have no ability to forget or reconstruct our past. Knowledge is based on forgetting. If we want to abstract things we need to forget the details to be able to see the forest and not the trees. If you have digital memories, you can only see the trees."Digital memories, he said, are very different to analogue, photographic ones. "Photos, whether blurry or not, still leave a lot of room for interpretation, unlike, say, a high-definition video, where there's no escaping everything you said and did."Mayer-Schönberger, who advises companies, governments and international organisations on the societal effects of the use of data, advocates an "expiration date" (a little like a supermarket use-by date) for all data so that it can be deleted once it has been used for its primary purpose. "Otherwise companies and governments will hold on to it for ever."He cites surveys showing that people increasingly approve of the right to be forgotten. A survey by the University of Berkeley two years ago, he said, "clearly shows that people want the right to be forgotten to be legislated by US congress." He said the survey found 90% of the 60+ generation want this."There has hardly been a legislative issue in US history that has received such high acceptance," he said.But what is of even more significance, he said, was the "84% of 18- to 24-year-olds – those born into the digital age – who want the right to be forgotten to be legislated. Their desire is not much less than that of the 60+ year-olds. There's a deep-seated concern in the population that the internet companies and data users have too much power."Among the more refined arguments that the lobbyists use, he said, are that "right to-be-forgotten legislation violates and invalidates freedom of speech and expression. But this is bullshit. It's a ridiculous mis-statement" of what new EU legislative proposals set out.Another lobbyist argument, he says, is that it is "technically impossible to implement the right to be forgotten, because of the many back-ups of back-ups of back-ups that take place"."But if you can be deleted from Google's database, ie if you carry out a search on yourself and it no longer shows up , it might be in Google's back-up, but if 99% of the population don't have access to it you have effectively been deleted," he said.
Wiping away your digital life means getting rid of the traces you've left – the mistakes you made, the embarrassing photos, the unwise comments, the flawed social media profiles where you've left too much visible.But how easy is that? The following steps provide a start to reducing your digital footprint and taking back control of your online life.1) If you have a Facebook account, change every setting in thePrivacytabs to "private" or "not shared" or "off" (there's a special "privacy settings" shortcut in the blue bar near the top).2) Find out what photos you're tagged in on Facebook. These should appear in the Photos tab on the left hand side. If you hover over the picture, a star and a pencil appear in the top right. Choose "Report/remove tag" and pick "I want to untag myself" from the list.3) If you have a Google Blogger account, delete your profile there. That means that blogposts or comments you've made there will vanish.4) If you've got a Tumblr or Wordpress blog, delete that too.Now start using a search engine, and begin searching on your name (put the first name and surname together in quotes; this works in pretty much all search engines to identify that as a phrase you're after). Note that some sites, such as newspapers, generally won't agree to removing your name if you've appeared in a news or other story.5) If you've posted in forums, go back and see if you can delete your posts. If you can't, try asking the administrators of the sites (nicely) if they can remove your post. Have a very good reason. You should always bear in mind theStreisand effect, which can have the reverse effect – spreading what you don't want to draw notice to around the internet, with the equivalent of a klaxon attached to it. (In 2003 the singer Barbra Streisand tried to remove some aerial pictures of her California beach house from a collection, via a lawsuit. The outcry meant the pictures were more widely spread, rather than the reverse.)6) Remove any photos you've added to sites such as Flickr or, of course, Facebook. Try searching on your name in Google Images (put quotes around your name) and see what comes up: then visit those sites and ask if they would remove the photos. Again, be aware of the Streisand effect.7) Keep doing searches on your name and finding out what turns up, and getting in touch with the owners of the sites. Be prepared to get rebuffed, especially if the site is in the US.8) Be aware that anything that you've posted outside Facebook, Blogger or Wordpress might still live on in theInternet Archive– which aims to crawl the entire web again and again and store what it finds, for ever. The Internet Archive doesn't have an explicit way to remove sites once they're in its index – which is colossal. And as it sees itself as a repository of the web, which would otherwise be short-lived. It does take a case-by-case approach to requests for removal.9) Be aware too that even if you remove explicit mentions of your name, a determined searcher may be able to dig up your past through leftover postings and hints of whatever sort. Mentions by other people, photos where even though you're not tagged, you're mentioned in related information.In this, we've not taken the more extensive move of deleting your Google web search history – though if you don't want to be (silently) tracked by Google, then stop using Google's search (there are plenty of other search engines that won't track you, such as DuckDuckGo.com or Blekko.com. DuckDuckGo is improving all the time, and saw abig jump in trafficwith the change in Google's privacy policies last year.Expunging yourself from the internet is very, very hard. As far as is known, nobody's succeeded – though of course if they had, how would we know?What other tips, links and suggestions do you have for reducing your digital footprint? Do you think it should be easy for people to airbrush their digital footprint? Leave your ideas and views in the thread below.
The internet has a long memory. It can remember things long after everyone else has forgotten them. In some cases, this can lead to a pleasant surprise: long-lost pictures, an old witticism, a fragment of a distant conversation.But growing numbers of people are finding that the internet's long memory can be misleading, malicious or plain wrong. And they are taking the fight to the big repositories of personal data – principally, but not only, Google and Facebook.Take Mario Costeja. Google his name and one of the first things you find is that he had financial problems in the 1990s and was forced to sell his house to pay off a debt.That was 15 years ago. Costeja argues that in a world where clients, employers and lovers look up people who interest them on Google, the information is misleading and the damage to his reputation as a reliable forensic handwriting expert is wholly unfair."It was a friend who first told me about it," he said, in a telephone interview from the north-western Spanish city of La Coruña. "The debt was paid off, but the formal announcement placed in La Vanguardia at the time suddenly appeared on Google when the newspaper digitalised its archive years later."I even changed a letter in my surname on my business cards," he said. "That way people would not find me. These days everyone looks in Google.""The debt was paid off," he said. "But it seems they have no obligation to publish the fact that you have paid it. At moments like that you lose your dignity and you might lose your home, but do you then have to lose your reputation because it is forever on the internet?"Costeja has become a pioneer for the idea of the "right to be forgotten", taking his case against Google to the European court of justice in Luxembourg, where a ruling is expected by the end of the year. But he is not alone.Max Schrems, a 25-year-old Austrian law graduate, is leading a vocal campaign against what he claims are Facebook's illegal practices of collecting and marketing users' personal data, often without consent. Schrems complained to the Irish data protection commissioner (European Facebook users are administered by its Irish subsidiary) that the social networking site held 1,200 pages of personal data about him, despite the fact that he had deleted much of it."The problem is that the Irish have very little chance of enforcement. They tried to negotiate with Facebook and its 15 lawyers and it was a totally unbalanced mediation," he said. "My case with Facebook is going in the right direction but Facebook will only go as far as the Irish authorities push it to go, so it's a very slow process, but we have achieved several things, such as a new privacy policy, and changes to data retention so that certain data has to be deleted after a year. A lot of stuff has come out of our case so far, but there's still around 80% of the law that they are not abiding by."At the moment, if I park in the wrong spot, I have to pay a fine. If Facebook does something wrong it doesn't have to pay anything. There's a law but there's no consequence."New EU rules on the right to be forgotten are being championed by the EU justice commissioner, Viviane Reding, heralding the prospect of serious fines for companies that refuse to honour requests from customers to erase personal data. "Now they sense there's a danger of fines," said Schrems. "It changes the game plan."Recent surveys show that the public – in Britain, and elsewhere – feel that it may be time to redress the balance. Research published by the privacy pressure group Big Brother Watch in February found that 68% of people in Britain expressed concern about their online privacy, with 22% saying they were "very concerned".Personal data and private information can leak in a number of ways. Respondents to a Guardian survey of readers on their experience of internet privacy threw up the following frequent complaints:• Difficulties with erasing social media accounts and ensuring all data therein is deleted• Problems with the Google search function which elevates outdated, tendentious or incorrect information about an individual to the top of the search results.• Lack of control over pictures posted by other people.• Worries with internet "tracking" software that monitors usage and builds up a picture of an individual's internet habits.Costeja's case falls into the second category. When he first complained, Spain's data protection agency ruled only partially in his favour.La Vanguardia newspaper, which published the information, was protected by freedom of speech or information rights and, so, had no obligation to remove the item. The information was true and was part of a list of properties, posted in the newspaper by law, belonging to debtors that the government was planning to forcibly sell.Google, however, was told to remove its link. It was, in effect, deemed to be making money out of Costeja's personal data – and a further 180 Spaniards have won similar orders.The internet giant challenged the decision and now Spain's national court has asked European judges for guidance.Costeja's lawyer, Joaquin Muñoz, said his client was asking for the right for data to be eradicated – just as he might demand of any other company storing his personal data. "This should not be confused with a right to correction, which is different," he said.He thinks Google could easily include the kind of button that it uses to report abuse on YouTube for "right to be forgotten" requests. Muñoz said other countries who sent representatives to the court, including Italy and Austria, backed the Spanish position.But Google claims it is defending freedom of expression and battling censorship. It argued that – as a company operating from the US – European data directives did not apply to its search engines and that these did not process or control personal data. The company told the court it was simplyan intermediarythat indexed already published data."There are clear societal reasons why this kind of information should be publicly available," William Echikson of Google, wrote in aweb post. "People shouldn't be prevented from learning that a politician was convicted of taking a bribe, or that a doctor was convicted of malpractice."Search engines point to information that is published online – and in this case to information that had to be made public, by law.  In our view, only the original publisher can take the decision to remove such content."Simple programming tools, known as "robots txt", also exist that newspaper archives could use to block search engines."I am not against freedom of expression, I have always been in favour," Costeja said. "But what Google does is a kind of cut and paste and I am against that."ComplaintsWith its instinctive sense of privacy, France has seen a sharp rise in internet-users demanding the "right to be forgotten" online, as more people lodge formal complaints with the national data protection agency asking blogs and websites to delete items such as compromising or out-of-date personal information or embarrassing photographs.The French data protection watchdog, La Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés, orCNIL, which has joined other European bodies in backing new European commissionmoves for data protection, is dealing with growing requests for information to be removed from French sites and in most cases has successfully negotiated for data to be deleted.Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, president of the CNIL, said: "We have more and more complaints over the right to be forgotten. In 2012 of 6,000 complaints overall, more than 1,000 concerned the right to be forgotten, more or less directly. It has become a big issue here, the number of complaints has gone up 42% in one year."Formal complaints to the watchdog include parents who want photographs of their children to be deleted, the removal of incorrect data or people demanding that online references to historic court decisions not mention their name but be made anonymous –  a legal right in certain cases in France after a sentence has been served. Many right to be forgotten cases concerned people who had created a profile on an online community which years later they had forgotten existed, had lost their log-in details and worried about a profile that "no longer reflected reality or could damage their search for work". These cases were often easily resolved with sites agreeing to remove defunct profiles.The right to be forgotten online has long been a political debate in France, with the former rightwing minister for digital development, Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, setting up a charter in 2010 aimed at protecting personal information. "The internet must not be demonised, there are numerous types of content posted online that we want to keep, but in certain cases we would like to be able to delete them," she said. Her ideas included a centralised online complaints mechanism for requests for accounts to be deleted. Some companies, including Microsoft France, signed up to the non-binding charter, but other major players, such as Facebook and Google, did not.MisconceptionOpponents of right to be forgotten legislation argue that as well as an attack on freedom of expression, it might allow people with something to hide to twist their online persona. They also argue that it is effectively impossible to remove anything once it has been published, as it can instantly be replicated via a screengrab.But Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, a leading advocate of the right to be forgotten, says this is a misconception. "If you can be deleted from Google's database, ie if you carry out a search on yourself and it no longer shows up, it might be in Google's back-up but if 99% of the population don't have access to it you have effectively been deleted."
Marta Bobo as a teenager. The former gymnast was incorrectly described as anorexic in a 1984 article.In 1984 Marta Bobo was a promising young Spanish gymnast, about to take part in her first Olympics in Los Angeles. She would like to be remembered for her awards and national title wins as well as the flexibility, grace, co-ordination and strength she showed in international competitions. But enter her name in Google's search engine and you soon see a 1984 headline from El País newspaper: "Marta Bobo has anorexia"."I have never had anorexia, nor has a doctor ever given that diagnosis. This was a story put out by people at the federation who did not want me to go to the Olympic Games because they had their own candidates," Bobo, now a respected university sports lecturer, said. "In the end I saw a doctor, was declared healthy and went to the Games."Bobo, an unsophisticated 18-year-old who spent all her time training, did not even bother finding out how she might get an article corrected in the days when there was no web version of the story where an amendment could be added.In 1984 the internet was in its infancy and the worldwide web did not yet exist. But El País has digitised its archive and a headline that has seemed destined to lie ignored in dusty paper archives, is all too visible.It reappears from time to time, most recently when Bobo chaired a round table about sport and eating disorders. "The local paper dug up the old story and ran a piece about how the person who had once been an anorexic was now chairing a round table," she said.Bobo says she does not lose much sleep over it, but she knows that her students, for example, often look her name up on search engines. And she worries about what it will mean to her daughters, aged eight and five."I have denied the story in numerous newspapers and on television shows, but it is still there in the archive – and is one of the first things to appear in search engines," she said. "It is a kind of stigma. What I want is a correction."Bobo said she was as light as many girls who train as rigorously as she did. She recently found an old report by a psychologist, dated 1985, which confirmed that she had not suffered anorexia.She said the newspaper did not check the story with either her or her parents, but an El País spokesman said it stuck by its reporting of 30 years ago."An ordinary person like myself is hardly going to be able to take on big outfits like El País or Google," she said. "In the meantime the newspapers say the search engine is responsible, and the search engine blames the newspapers."El País's then ombudswoman, Milagros Pérez Oliva, looked at the casetwo years ago. "We can't alter the contents of our archive, because that would be falsifying history," she quoted the newspaper's legal chief, Gerardo Viada, as saying. "The problem has been created by the appearance of search engines."Gervase Webb was unaware that fake profiles portraying him as an ultra-nationalist, gay transvestite had begun to proliferate on social media sites until a friend warned him.A former journalist at the Evening Standard who now works as a builder, Webb dates his problems back to criticisms he made of the British National party on a traditional music discussion site."I was quite outspoken on the web forum," he said. "I only discovered the fake profiles when someone asked if I had seen what was appearing in my name. Most were a bit cheesy but others a bit creepy."Then they began creeping up the Google rankings. Some used pictures that had been lifted from elsewhere and photoshopped. Some showed me with BNP badges. One made me out to be an ultra-nationalist gay transvestite."An ex-girlfriend contacted me out of the blue to say how brave she thought I was in acknowledging what had clearly been a difficult position by coming out, and that she now quite understood why the relationship had ended, what with me being gay 'n' all, but she thought my politics had become a bit creepy."It was rather tricky getting them removed. Flickr have been quite good about it. I have repeatedly asked other sites to remove these profiles but with limited success. The results seem to be arbitrary; some are removed but others left in place."A Scottish professional photographer who used a US-based website to display his pictures online for several years later found that he could not remove his images or delete his account.Malcolm, not his real name, discovered that some of the shots had migrated on to other websites without his permission. "It was a good website when I found it. It gave hints and tips about improving your photography when I first found it."But after I turned professional I didn't want my name to be on the website. I didn't want my name to be associated with pictures which I had taken a long time ago and were not of a professional standard."I emailed the site's administrators and asked them to remove it. They came back to me saying that it wasn't something that could be done. So I went into the site and it took most of the day trying to delete my profile and the images."I couldn't get rid of it all so eventually I changed the name on top of the profile. Even so, when my name is searched on Google the profile still appears at the top of the list although it looks irrelevant because the tile of the page no longer has my name on it."And I found other of my pictures from that photography website had appeared on other websites without my permission but under my name. Creating a personal persona is even more dangerous for people with unusual names as their content is much easier to find."A British woman who converted to Islam tried to delete her Facebook website because she did not want others to discover how she had behaved in her youth.She said: "I converted to Islam and decided I didn't want my new in-laws to have verbal ammo against me from my past. I also don't particularly want to be reminded of my drug-addled, self-obsessed teenage antics."Facebook makes it very difficult, it takes far too long to delete each individual post on your Facebook page. Weeks later and I've managed it. After I left my model agency they deleted my profile, but photos of myself are still online on photographers' websites."They own the photos so there's nothing I can do except hope nobody searches my name and sees past the extravagant makeup to see it's me."People are perhaps naive about their actions. You can no longer do something stupid and hope nobody notices, it WILL be on Facebook! And it might be funny now but 10 years later maybe not."
Britain is attempting to opt out of a European initiative enabling anyone to delete their personal details from online service providers – a power known as the "right to be forgotten".The clash between Brussels and the Ministry of Justice has erupted in the final stages of negotiations over the EU's General Data Protection Regulation, which aims to rebalance the relationship between the individual and the internet.The debate reflects growing tensions between freedom of expression and privacy as increasing numbers of people complain that their online reputation is being corroded by outdated, inaccurate or malicious information that cannot be removed. In France, the number of complaints concerning the right to be forgotten rose 42% last year. AGuardian projecthas unearthed hundreds of cases of people alarmed at the mishandling of their data or personal information.The UK's chief objection to the EU move is that unrealistic expectations will be created by the right's expansive title because the controls proposed will be relatively modest in their impact on the way data spreads, or is traded, across websites.The right to be forgotten, article 17 of the Data Protection Regulation, has been developed by the EU justice commissioner's office primarily in response to complaints about the way social media, such as Facebook, retain and handle information. Although the terms of the regulation have not yet been finalised, its current form provides for punitive fines – up to 2% of global turnover – for companies that refuse to comply with requests to erase customers' personal details.Viviane Reding, the EU justice commissioner, said: "At present a citizen can request deletion only if [data is] incomplete or incorrect. We want to extend this right to make it stronger in this internet world. The burden of proof shall be on the companies. They will have to show that data is needed."This piece of legislation is one of the biggest market-openers of the last few years. It eliminates 27 conflicting rules [one for each EU state] and replaces them with ... a mechanism for the whole continent. This means saving €2.3bn (£1.9bn) a year."[But] the British government have asked us not to do this and [would prefer] two laws: one for Britain and one for other people, meaning there would be separate layers of complication. I have exchanged letters with [the UK justice secretary] Chris Grayling on this, which is rather like Kafka. Britain is meant to oppose red tape; here Britain wants a supplementary layer of red tape. It's crazy. The UK wants 27 rules – one for each country."In a letter to Grayling dated 8 March, Reding wrote: "You raise the possibility of specific rules for SMEs [small and medium-sized enterprises] which operate nationally rather than cross-border."I am surprised to learn that it would be the intention of the UK to introduce a new layer of complexity, cost and risk of non-compliance by having one set of obligations for domestic operations and one for cross-border operations."The UK is lobbying for the changes to be part of a directive, which would give the government more flexibility about how it is adopted, rather than being contained in a more prescriptive internal market regulation.Reding, who is from Luxembourg and also a vice-president of the European commission, stressed the new right to be forgotten would "not be absolute" and would be assessed in relation to other rights, such as freedom of expression, retention of medical records or data for tax purposes. It would, for example, permit students who post embarrassing pictures of themselves on social media sites to remove them at a later date. If those images had spread to a third party, however, the right of removal would be significantly diluted: the site that initially held them would be required to contact other sites to which it is linked informing them that a request had been made to erase information."[There will be] no power to remove it from third parties but if a company has given it to another [firm] without asking if they can sell it, then the individuals' rights will be re-enforced."The right will not apply to journalistic archives, comments on articles or posts by bloggers, who will be exempted on the grounds of freedom of expression. Material posted by other people – friends or antagonists – would also remain unaffected: there is an exemption in data protection regulations for material of a "personal or household" nature.Reding added: "The European rules [will] apply to every company … which operates in the internal market. The EU is a large market with 500 million citizens. If you want to take advantage of this goldmine, then apply the rules. Facebook and such providers like the one-stop shop. They like the fact that the rules are the same everywhere. There's no opt-out. This is an internal market regulation. It's a decision that will be taken by majority rule."The case of the Austrian law student Max Schems, who battled Facebook for months to recover his personal data and eventually received 1,222 pages of material in 2011, is emblematic of the problems Reding believes need addressing. Facebook subsequently altered its data-retention policies as a result of the case.Ireland, where Google and Facebook's European headquarters are based, holds the presidency of the EU. It has said that enacting the data protection regulation is a key priority for its presidency, which ends in June.The UK's Information Commissioner's Office agrees that the new regulation will shift the balance between consumers and "data controllers". But it cautions: "Our concern is about how difficult (or impossible) this may be to achieve in practice and how it could lead individuals to believe falsely that they can achieve the absolute erasure of information about them."We know from the efforts of well-resourced and motivated individuals that it can in fact be impossible to remove information from the internet once it has been posted. We are concerned that this right, as billed, could mislead individuals as to the degree of protection the law can offer them in practice."The London-based lobby group Privacy International is similarly sceptical. Anna Fielder, one of the organisation's trustees, said: "We think the right to erasure is essential and that's likely to stay; the right to delete your information once you have left a service provider. If you left a bank you wouldn't like them to keep your data for ever."But it's no more than a right to delete your data. It's got so many exceptions. It's specifically targeted at Facebook users. For example, photos of drunken teenagers. [Facebook] should try and make all the people who have shared the data remove it as well. [But] it's not a compulsion. It has  so many exceptions: freedom of expression, public interest in public health and scientific research."The MoJ said: "The UK does not support the right to be forgotten as proposed by the European commission. The title raises unrealistic and unfair expectations of the proposals."We are also concerned about potentially impossible requirements for data controllers to manage third-party erasure; the 'reasonable steps' required by the draft regulation would promise much, but deliver little."Stewart Room, a privacy specialist at the law firm Field Fisher Waterhouse, said article 17 covers where consent is withdrawn for information being held. "This is intended to address the idea that a kid may stick something on Facebook and later on there should be a way of taking it down."In Silicon Valley, there's a lot of venture capital going into tech companies that can achieve erasure of data. There's a lot of demand in the market for cleansing online information."Richard Allan, Facebook's director of policy for Europe, Middle East and Africa, said: "The core concept that you as a data subject should be able to delete your personal data is absolutely reasonable. It's something we implement on our service."[But] we have concerns about about the workability and consequences of a mechanism where organisations start sending each other instructions about data that needs to be removed. Our worry is that it will take up resources and won't be effective."Individuals, he said, should approach data controllers directly to ask for material to be removed. Facebook, which has a billion users, has a social reporting mechanism that allows users to request that material is taken down from other accounts on the site, Allan said. "Our users like the mechanism."We think the most responsible service providers will offer the right to erasure. Where people are dealing with irresponsible service providers it may be that the national data protection authorities take action."A different legal development that could be equally far-reaching emerged in a UK court of appeal judgment this year in the case of Tamiz vs Google, which ruled that, in principle, the internet search engine may also be a publisher and therefore liable to defamation proceedings for material on a blog hosted on one of its platforms.
And so LucasArts is no more. On Wednesday, new owner Disney announced that it would be closing the studio, placing considerable doubt over the future of current projects Star Wars 1313 and First Assault, and resulting in the loss of up to 150 jobs. A statement read simply:After evaluating our position in the games market, we've decided to shift LucasArts from an internal development to a licensing model, minimizing the company's risk while achieving a broader portfolio of quality Star Wars games. As a result of this change, we've had layoffs across the organization. We are incredibly appreciative and proud of the talented teams who have been developing our new titles.LucasArts itself had experimented with the licensing model in the past, with BioWare handling the excellent Knights of the Old Republic, and UK-based studio Traveller's Tales responsible for the hugely successful Lego Star Wars series. But the company, based in a lavish office complex in San Francisco's Presidio area, always had internal projects on the go. Originally formed in 1982 as a branch of LucasFilm, it had early success with interesting home computer titles such as Rescue on Fractalus and Ballblazer. In the nineties, it became renowned for its point-and-click adventure games, the likes of Maniac Mansion, Secret of Monkey Island and Full Throttle brilliantly combining cunning puzzles with hilarious narratives.And there were, inevitably, some excellent Star Wars titles. The PC saw thrilling space combat simulations X-Wing and TIE-Fighter as well as the early first-person shooter, Dark Forces. Super Nintendo owners may also recall the more action-flavoured Super Star Wars series with fondness. But as Lucas moved into the post-prequel years, the quality control wavered. While the likes of Battlefront and Force Unleashed faired well, exploitative nonsense like Super Bombad Racing, Masters of Teras Kasi and Clone Wars: Republic Heroes sullied the brand. The last two major titles, Force Unleashed II and Kinect Star Wars, divided critics before limping to disappointing sales.Now, the fate of the much-anticipated 1313, a gritty shooter set within Coruscant's subterranean slums, is very much in doubt. Kotaku isreportingthat although there's an option to license this project, as well as First Assault, to another developer, it's unlikely to happen. "With the teams now basically being dispersed I think both games are effectively dead forever," said one source.Of course, Disney is certain to attract much ire from Star Wars fans. Millions of voices suddenly cried out in terror last October when the entertainment giant bought George Lucas's empire, and it has since canned animated series The Clone Wars and all but scrapped Seth Green's proposed comedy series Star Wars Detours. Plans to release annual movies and spin-off flicks have also been controversial – despite the fact that Disney's Marvel films have mostly been well-received.But in truth the problems go back much further. In 2010, incoming LucasArts president Paul Meegan begana series of cutsthat led to 60 development staff layoffs and reportedly resulted in Force Unleashed III being canned. Key staff members such as writer Haden Blackman and experienced creative director Clint Hocking started leaving; it seemed there was little creative vision at the studio; there was no overriding business plan of how to respectfully mine the Star Wars universe.And as successful as the original Force Unleashed was it represented the opposite of what many long-term fans wanted to see. Lacking the charisma of Han Solo, lead character Starkiller was just another anonymous emo kid with a wry smile and cropped hair, lining up beside Cole MacGrath and Adam Hale on a video game production line of identikit cocky protagonists. Plus, if LucasArts had a 'jump the shark' moment, it may arguably be the Force Unleashed sequence in which you're able to bring down a Star Destroyer using the force. "Size matters not," muttered Yoda when Luke complained about raising his X-Wing from the swamp in Empire Strikes Back. But where do you go after downing a mile-long spacecraft with your mind?It may be over-simplistic, but it does seem as though the games started to suffer just as the dark legacy of The Phantom Menace started to spread through the galaxy. Most of the best Star Wars games had their creative roots in the original trilogy, with its strong characters and tight symbolic battle between good and evil. But as the universe bloated and the timeline stretched, there seemed to be a compulsion to craft new characters and plotlines, knitting together the gaps between the cinematic key frames. Knights of the Old Republic worked because it retained the core good/evil framing so strongly, but yet took the brand far out of the LucasArts comfort zone, into Bioware's backyard of compelling RPG mechanics and well contructed narrative arcs.Star Wars and games seems like such a strong fit. This is a brand beloved of thirty-something males – historically the key gaming demographic; it's a brand with a vast range of cool characters and technologies; a brand in which even the audio effects are resonant and compelling. I played Star Wars in the playground as a child and I spent hours reconstructing the movies with Star Wars figures and playsets at home. But since the wonderful X-Wing vs TIE Fighter, I've never been as compelled to explore the universe in games.This is partly about fans just growing up, of course – it is almost impossible to recapture experiences that we recall with such fondness from childhood; they are irrevocably warped through reminiscence. But then Hollywood has tackled the nostalgia/reality disconnect by rebooting key franchises; by bringing in fresh talents to re-think and re-discover the core USPs in things like Star Trek and Batman. I wonder if LucasArts was creatively stultified by the sheer weight of expectation and history. I visited the studio a couple of years ago – the halls are filled with memorabilia; there is a giant sound stage where the orchestral scores are recorded; there is a Yoda fountain. This stuff is probably suffocating after a while. So much universe, so much heritage, so much pressure.It is saddening, because for a while in the nineties, somehow freed from the tyranny of Star Wars, LucasArts had one of the best development studios on the planet. The likes of Tim Schafer, Ron Gilbert, Dave Grossman belting out thrilling, funny and challenging adventures, many of them harking back to the same reference materials that George Lucas mined – Saturday morning movie serials, radio dramas, classic adventure novels. The team has now dispersed and their unique slant on games is shaping the output of studios like Double Fine and Telltale. The plot continues.But for LucasArts the story is over, submerged beneath the weight of this vast license and the contrary demands it places on all creators.
"It has caused me some embarrassment" – that's how Rob Wilson, the Conservative MP for Reading East,has described having accidentally tweeted a link to a hardcore porn site.Wilson (no relation) intended to send his followers to a story about benefit cuts on political blogger Guido Fawkes's websiteorder-order.com, but thanks to a "technical hitch", as the Conservatives put it – apparently a number was missing from the shortened link provided by Tory HQ – he instead sent them to an website draped with women wearing strangely small bikinis.I feel Wilson's pain. The parallel isn't exact – I was much more stupid – but in 2002 I too accidentally sent readers of this website to a hardcore porn site.I was at the time working on the women's desk at the Guardian. These were sumptuous days, pre-austerity; I think there were four or five of us producing perhaps four print pages a week. Anyway for a time I was tasked, probably by myself, with writing a column called Sidelines in G2's women's section. Under my stewardship, I think I am safe in saying, it was the worst column ever to appear in the Guardian: naive, giggly, silly and madly overwritten. If I'd been 12, you might have forgiven it, but I wasn't.Anyway, the depths of my hindsight-horror surround acolumn I wrote on female ejaculationin January 2002. The subject had come up in an episode of Sex and the City, which back then was HOT. So – *did* female ejaculation really exist?I decided to find out on the internet. I am guessing – this being early doors for G2 and the internet – by "Yahoo-ing" it. Up came lots of links! I clicked on a site, and watched as a woman ejaculated. It did exist! When I wrote up the column, I duly included the link to the website I'd found, although I am not at all sure that I understood either what a link was, or whether I was including it. In fact I bet I didn't.What I didn't do was (a) explore the website, to see what else might be on it, and (b) remember that my story would be "uploaded" on to our website, where it would exist – with a live link from the Guardian to what is an extremely graphic pornographic site, without even a warning page – for ever and ever. Or until today actually, when someone kindly killed the link for me.Like Mr Wilson, I'm embarrassed – but I suspect I'm not alone. What's the most embarrassing thing you've ever linked to inadvertently on Twitter? Or email you've sent to the wrong person? Or post you didn't mean to make public on Facebook? Please share your shame below!
Microsoft faces a slide into irrelevance in the next four years unless it can make progress in the smartphone and tablet markets, because the PC market will continue shrinking, warns the research group Gartner.It says a huge and disruptive shift is underway, in which more and more people will use a tablet as their main computing device, researchers say.That will also see shipments of Android devices dwarf those of Windows PCs and phones by 2017. Microsoft-powered device shipments will almost be at parity with those of Apple iPhones and iPads - the latter a situation not seen since the 1980s.In a new forecast published on Thursday morning, Gartner says that by 2015 shipments of tablets will outstrip those of conventional PCs such as desktops and notebooks, as Android and Apple's iOS become increasingly dominant in the overall operating system picture. Android in particular will be installed on more than a billion devices shipped in 2014, says Carolina Milanesi, the analyst who led the research.Operating system shares forecast from 2012-2017. Source: Gartner, April 2013Meanwhile a new category of "ultramobile" devices - such as the Surface Pro and the lighter ultrabook laptops - will become increasingly important as people shift towards more mobile forms of computing.For Microsoft, this poses an important inflexion point in its history, warns Milanesi. "Winning in the tablet and phone space is critical for them to remain relevant in this shift," she told the Guardian. "We're talking about hardware displacement here - but this shift also has wider implications for operating systems and apps. What happens, for instance, when [Microsoft] Office isn't the best way to be productive in your work?"For Microsoft, income from Windows and Office licences are key to its revenues: per-PC Windows licences generate about 50% of its profits, and Office licences almost all the rest.But while it dominates the PC market, it is a distant third in the smartphone and tablet markets. Latest figures suggest that Windows Phone, its smartphone OS, shipped on about 3% of devices in fourth quarter of 2012, compared to 20% for Apple's iPhone and over 70% for Android - of which 50% connected to Google's servers and 20% were "white box" Android phones in China which do not use Google services."Android is going to get to volumes that are three times those of Windows," says Milanesi. "From a consumer perspective, the question becomes: what software do you want to have to get the widest reach on your devices? BlackBerry may say that its QNX software [used as the basis of BB10 on its new phones] can go into cars and phones, but Android is already in fridges. That's the challenge."BlackBerry, which has just released the first of its BB10 devices, is forecast to see a slow decline in shipments through to 2017, shipping 24.1m devices then compared to 34.7m in 2012. That will leave it well behind Windows Phone in the forecast.Tablets will overtake desktop and notebook shipments combined, while 'ultramobiles' will grow, says GartnerMilanesi added: "the interesting thing is that this shift in device preference is coming from a shift in user behaviour. Some people think that it's just like the shift whenpeople moved from desktops to laptops[a process that began in the early 2000s]. But that's wrong. The laptop was more mobile than the desktop, but with the tablet and smartphone, there's a bigger embrace of the cloud for sharing and for access to content. It's also more biased towards consumption of content rather than production."All these things will get consumers to look for the OS and apps that can give them all that," Milanesi says.A key problem for Microsoft is that it is the people who don't yet own PCs - in emerging markets such as Africa and China - who are most likely to have a smartphone and tablet as their first "computer". Milanesi says: "They're starting with a smartphone, not a PC, so when they're looking for something larger, they look at something that's a replacement smartphone experience - which is a tablet or ultramobile device. And Android or [Apple's] iOS are the two that they're looking at."Microsoft could then face the vicious circle where developers considering which platform to develop apps for look at those with the largest user base - and that that will not be Windows. By 2017, she says, the number of devices being shipped with iOS, both iPhones and iPads, will be close to that with Windows and Windows Phone combined."And that's not assuming that Apple launches a low-end iPhone," Milanesi says. "Our numbers for Apple are conservative, because for a low-end phone it would be a guess about what price point it would use, and what the timing would be." A number of observers have suggested that Apple will launch a lower-cost iPhone in the next year to capture a larger market share, especially in the pre-pay (pay-as-you-go) market. But Apple has given no indication of whether it will do that.
A collection of links from yesterday's gaming news, selected by the Guardian's games writers.Plastic Soul: One man's quest to build an AI that can create games / Eurogamer.netChristian Donlan:In a narrow, oddly-shaped building deep within the Imperial College campus in South Kensington, a PhD student named Michael Cook sits working beneath a large picture called The Dancing Salesman Problem. On his laptop, he is building something astonishing. He is building a game designer.If you only read one article today about an AI researcher looking to create an intelligent programme that writes games make it this one. This is truly fascinating stuff from Eurogamer's Christian Donlan and PhD student Michael Cook.SEGA admits Aliens: Colonial Marines trailers were misleading, adds disclaimers / The Official MagazineEncouragingly for all concerned, the publisher's advertising teams apparently neglected to check in on the finished product after creating the videos. "Sega Europe understood the objections raised about the quality of the game in relation to the trailers, but explained that they weren't aware of these issues when the trailers were produced, in some cases several months before release."This one is just going to run and run.Tim Schafer on PS4: "We've got guys playing with the features to see what we can do with it" | Official PlayStation MagazineLeon Hurley:Speaking to Schafer at this year's PAX East he told me, "Let me just say we've been talking with Sony, can I say that? I don't know, I think I might get in trouble". Apparently the studio was approached by Sony directly, something that he considers unusual, "because we're not Bungie, or let me put that in PlayStation terms, we're not Insomniac".Hypersexed Hypertext: Porpentine and the Twine text game revolution | PC GamerCara Ellison:Twine is a very simple text game engine that generates html-based files. They are easy to make, and easy to publish, but much less easy to make interesting or fun, and require a skilled dialogue writer to make them engaging. Daphny David, Anna Anthropy's PR, had a few things to say about Porpentine's work with Twine games and why they are special."She fucking breaks Twine apart," Daphny writes. "Every time I play her games I'm like WHOA I DIDN'T KNOW TWINE COULD DO THAT." Porpentine's transparency in her working methods, openness about her inspirations and the help she has received are dramatically different from the working practices of high budget commercial works. "Everyone's telling everyone what tools they're using and building each other up instead of hiding 'trade secrets'," says Daphny. "There's no profit to be made, so theres no 'product' to protect. It's a really big fucking orgy of creativity and Porp and Anna are making it flow."Interesting feature on accessible 'choose your own adventure' creator,Twine.You can followPress Start on Pinboard
Here is Thursday. How are things going?
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPrices of Windows RT tablets drop, point to failure of OS &gt;&gt; ComputerworldPrices of Windows RT devices have started falling, signaling an attempt by PC makers to quickly clear out stock after poor adoption of tablets and convertibles with the operating system.Microsoft released Windows RT for ARM-based devices and Windows 8 for Intel-based devices in October last year. The price drop is an acknowledgement that Windows RT has failed, analysts said.Prices of popular products usually don't fall, but Windows RT devices were not in demand, and prices fell, analysts said.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Heads up: Blackberry Messenger might share your porn habits with your friends &gt;&gt; MotherboardUsers at the Crackberry forumshave unveiledwhat they're calling a dirty little flaw in the push update capabilities of the new Blackbery Z10. The newest Blackberry Messenger (BBM) build has a feature that notifies all of your BBM contacts when you're listening to a song or watching a video–be it from Youtube or Youjizz.BBM records any usage of the phone's media player and can push these visits and downloads to all messenger contacts, much like a status update. So your grandmother might be notified that you've been listening to the new Justin Timberlake album, or she might know that you have a fetish for, uh, granny porn.Oops.Apple's Folding Future &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsGeorge Colony:Without any inside knowledge of Apple or other makers' plans, I believe that the coolest future smartphones will fold. To demonstrate, take the current iPhone 5, lengthen it by 1.5 inches, widen it by an inch, make it 30% thinner, then fold the whole thing in half. In your hand (as per my mock-up to the left) you would be holding a square device with a full screen of icons, video, pictures -- ready to make a call or open an app. This form factor would fit easily into a shirt breast pocket or the front pocket of a pair of jeans. But when you open the phone, you would have a massive screen (there's display glass on both sides of the device) with a diagonal of nearly seven inches.Colony is chief executive of the research company Forrester.Google puts pressure on Microsoft, launches Quickoffice for iPhone and Android &gt;&gt; ComputerworldGoogle launched its Microsoft Office substitute, Quickoffice, for Apple's iPhone, Android smartphones and Android tablets, fulfilling a promise made in December.The release on Tuesday follows the launch of Quickoffice for Apple's iPad late last year, when a Google executive said that iPhone and Android versions "are on the way." The move was also preceded by a February announcement that Google wasbaking the Quickoffice technology into both its Chrome browser and Chrome OS.For consumers, might be big news. For enterprises, they'll wait - forever? - for Microsoft.What if other planets replaced Earth's moon? &gt;&gt; My Modern MetropolisSpace enthusiast, artist, and writer Ron Miller questions what the night sky would look like if the moon was replaced by one of our solar system's planets. His collection of manipulated images station planets, from the relatively minute Mercury to the enormous Jupiter, in place of Earth's moon. The simulated photos take into account the distance of the moon from Earth (approximately 240,000 miles) and re-imagine the natural satellite as its own celestial body.Great, and scary. (Yes, yes, gravity, etc.)Butterfly Labs announces next generation ASIC lineup &gt;&gt; Yahoo! NewsButterfly Labs (BF Labs Inc.), a market leader in microprocessor design, is unveiling today the technical specifications for three of its next generation SHA-256 processor based products:1)    BitForce SC Jalapeno: a USB powered coffee warmer providing 3.5 GH/s, priced at under $1492)    BitForce SC Single: a standalone unit providing roughly 40 GH/s, priced at $1,2993)    BitForce SC Mini Rig: a case &amp; rack mount server providing 1 TH/s, priced at $29,899"Butterfly Labs has always considered itself a serious manufacturer in the SHA-256 hardware industry and our customers are leaders in providing hashing services for some of the world's great technological challenges," noted Nasser G, BFL CTO. "We see the BitForce SC lineup as the natural next step in continuing to meet our customer's needs."Now you know: there's a hardware ecosystem around Bitcoin. Though we do hope Butterfly Labs has more than one customer. (Thanks @kentindell on Twitter for the pointer.)iPad Death Watch &gt;&gt; AAPLinvestorsThree years after the iPad went on sale, still fun. And don't forgetthis one from the Guardian at the same time, including the commenter who said "So I'll be waiting for the Notion Ink Adam - a full colour, full motion, e-ink like screen and a camera being the two most important additions." Still waiting.Teaching Programming on iOS &gt;&gt; Fraser Speirs's blogI'm a huge fan of strategic outsourcing. We are rapidly moving towards a situation at Cedars where we will have essentially no infrastructure in the school except for WiFi (and possiblynot even that). This is deliberate: I am the only technician, systems administrator and network manager in the school. I simply don't have time to deal with deploying and looking after servers on the premises. Neither do I want to. I would much rather spend my expensive and valuable time working on things educational rather than things technical.In order to run my class with computing resources on-site, I would have to manage a suite of laptops or desktop computers, with some kind of file server and directory infrastructure. Alternatively, I can pay Amazon a penny an hour and I don't have to care about hardware at all.Try guessing the cost of his Amazon EC2 instance over a school year.HTC One review &gt;&gt; PC ProMike Jennings:On balance, however, the HTC One does more than enough to justify paying that premium. The handset alone is a design tour de force, and the lovingly crafted aluminium body combines stunning looks with outstanding build quality. The loss of expandable storage is a blow, but there's little else to find fault with: Sense 5 is slick; class-leading power is matched to decent battery life; and the Full HD screen oozes quality. HTC needed to come out fighting with its latest handset, and it's done so with gusto: the One is the finest smartphone money can buy.See also iPhone-owner Barry Collins's view on the same page.In response to Evgeny Morozov on O'Reilly &gt;&gt; Miguel d'IcazaEvgeny needs a good guy and a bad guy, so he frames the discussion in the narrowest possible terms, with Richard being the guy with the substance, while painting Tim as the marketer.Evgeny then describes an orchestrated coup. This is just plain ridiculous. It did not exist, it did not happen.It might be entertaining to read, but it is a fabrication.There was no power to wrestle from anyone. There was no central planning.The entire idea is ludicrous.The FSF while an important force in 1998 was not the only player. The FSF in fact had failed at their most ambitious goal, to create a full operating system. They had done by a combination of having a technical vision that was too hard to implement with the manpower they had and by alienating those that wanted to help, causing defections to other platforms. By 1998 three major BSD-based operating systems were in use, a dozen Linux variations were in use.There was no central control, just hundreds of independent efforts. And Linux was the poster child of decentralized development.And he speaks as someone who was there.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook will take its biggest leap into mobile this evening when it is expected to unveil a collaboration with handset maker HTC and software that can take over any Android phone.At an event in its San Francisco headquarters, the world's largest social network will reveal how it intends to keep up with the computing habits of its 1 billion monthly users, 680 million of whom now access Facebook from a phone.The centrepiece will be Facebook Home, an application which can be downloaded to Android phones to customise an array of functions from the camera to the home screen, according to a leak of the software seen by theAndroid Policewebsite.The software is likely to be illustrated on a device called Myst, specially made by Taiwanese firm HTC. The long-rumoured Facebook phone is the fruit of a two year development project whose early incarnation bore the codename 'Buffy' – presumably a reference to the vampire killer television series.Other than an invitation to "Come see our new home on Android", Facebook has given no clue as to the content of this evening's presentation, but the Guardian's west coast correspondentRory Carrollwill be reporting live from 1 Hacker Way, Menlo Park, when proceedings begin at 6pm GMT.Facebook's head of mobile Eric Tseng and other staff have been busy filing patents which hint at some of the big features that could appear. Chief among them is the 'uberfeed', according to technology news siteUnwiredview, which will be visible from the locked home screen. It will gather information relevant to the owner not just from Facebook, but from emails, texts, news sources, location specific updates, and contain targeted advertising.Enhanced caller identification pages could also show details of the person on the other end of the line including their location, and prompts such as the names of their children, their last holiday or a recent cinema outing.Thepatent application, called "Caller identification using social networking information", would essentially allow Facebook to take over the owner's phone book and dialler. Tseng has even proposed ranking the hundreds of entries in the average smartphone contacts book according to 'social proximity', in otherword's how close they are to the user.Should all this feel too invasive, Facebook has patented a button or setting to switch sharing on and off. Leave it on, and everything you do from taking a train ride to photographing a friend's birthday is broadcast over the internet.The Myst handset will be more unique for its software, and the depth to which Facebook features such as its Instagram and instant messaging applications are integrated. The camera and memory are reportedly run of the mill, according to the anonymous Twitter user@LlabTooFeR, a source relied on by developers for unofficial updates on HTC's plans.The rear lens will have a modest 5 megapixel resolution rear lens for photos, the front facing camera 1.6 megapixels for video calls, and storage will be a basic 16GB. The screen is larger than the iPhone at 4.3 inches, and the handset will work on certain 4G networks.Whatever Facebook is planning, founder Mark Zuckerberg has made it clear that the smarpthone will be his focus in 2013."You have a good version of all the Facebook features you know and want on your phone. So now the next thing we're going to do is get really good at building new mobile-first experiences," he told investors in January. "That's going to be a big theme for us this year."Many of his customers now access Facebook only or mainly from a smartphone rather than a personal computer. In the last year, Facebook's monthly active users over mobile have rocketed 57%, and if the network is to keep their attention it must ensure rival services such as Google+ do not outpace it on the small screen.
British songwriters, including acts such as Ed Sheeran and Calvin Harris, netted a record total of £51.7m in UK royalties from digital music services last year, as online licensing revenues eclipsed radio for the first time.New licensing agreements with Google Play, Microsoft Xbox and other online players helped UK digital revenues soar 32.2% in 2012, from £39.1m in 2011.Digital music players are now the biggest single source of income for songwriters in the UK, having overtaken radio last year after previously eclipsing live events and pubs, according to the UK royalties body PRS for Music.The advent of downloads and streaming services, such as Apple iTunes and Spotify, has more than doubled UK online licensing revenues, from £23.3m in 2008.However, the amount recouped from live events hit a bum note last year as the London Olympics stole the show. Fewer big gigs, including no Glastonbury and the Olympic takeover of London, saw royalties from live events fall 14.2% year on year, to £19.3m.The return of Glastonbury andthe Rolling Stones to Hyde Parkthis summer is likely to boost the figures this year.The global success of British artists, including Adele and Mumford &amp; Sons, helped recoup £180.1m in international licensing revenues last year – down 4% on 2011, but still the biggest source of income for UK music creators.In its full-year results on Thursday, PRS for Music said royalties revenue was at £641.8m in 2012, up 1.2% on the previous year.Plummeting physical sales saw royalties from DVDs fall 18.7% year on year, to £10.9m, and newspaper and physical cover mounts – popular a decade ago – down 35.7% to £0.9m. Another formerly lucrative source of royalties income, music ringtones, has evaporated since 2008.The value of revenue from music ringtones for mobile phones has fallen to £900,000 from £5.7m five years ago.Robert Ashcroft, the PRS for Music chief executive, said: "Copyright remains fundamental to the continued success of our members both at home and abroad, while the ever-increasing importance of licensed online services, such as iTunes and Spotify, underlines the value of music to the internet economy."Graphic: Paddy Allen for the GuardianPRS for Music collects royalties for more than 95,000 songwriters and composers in the UK.
An obscure digital currency – used mostly for running drugs and laundering money for dictators – suffereda sudden crash on Wednesday, causing a minor sensation mostly among financial journalists and pundits.Bitcoin is a currency created years ago by an obscure hacker in the spirit of subversion, to trade goods while dodging the gimlet eye of financial regulators. While theoretically it can be used for respectable online purchases, it is too complicated to buy and maintain for people who aren't online 18 hours a day, so it is used primarily to fuel a shadow economy of vice. It has boomed in value. You can barely throw a rock without finding some pundit opining on how "Bitcoin is the new gold" or how Bitcoin will undercut the modern financial system. Maybe someday, but no time soon.Bitcoin doesn't work like other currencies. For one thing, it's less like a currency, which are theoretically infinite in number, and more like a commodity, which are limited. No one will print more Bitcoins, for instance. There are currently 10.8m and they'll cap out in 2140. A network of tech-savvy programmers – okay, call them hackers – work on secret algorithms to create and release Bitcoins at their own discretion. Bitcoins are anonymously bought and traded. They have no regulator and no accountability. They're designed to be the favored by people who want to do things on the internet without getting caught.They're also not easy to obtain. In a piece for the Guardian last month, Arwa Mahdawiexplained how bitcoins work:"If you want to buy Bitcoins you simply go to an online exchange service such as Bitinstant and convert your local currency into the virtual money. These are then stored in a 'wallet,' which functions as a sort of online bank account. You can then go and spend these anywhere that takes Bitcoins to buy anything from socks to drugs."This doesn't sound very special, and it isn't, except that Bitcoin had the fortune to create a mini-crisis. Instawallet, the online bank account service for bitcoins, was hacked today. Even though this seemed to spur a crash in bitcoins – they went from a high of $147 to a low of $108 today – this hacking may prove to be a benefit. A crash has done untold benefit to ramp up Bitcoin's reputation. A crash means that Bitcoin has finally arrived. Now it is just like respectable currencies.For a financial punditocracy starved by years without a proper bubble to bemoan, Bitcoin's timing was impeccable if the goal was to look important. A month ago,Bitcoin was worth a modest $32 a share. When Cyprus started suffering its financial crisis, the ample riches sitting in the country for money-laundering purposes found their way to Bitcoin,according to a theory by ConvergEx strategist Nicholas Colas.There are still only around $800m of Bitcoins in circulation, a tiny amount in a world economy that moves in trillions, and nothing like any serious currency. It is Bitcoin's sudden, enormous increase in value makes it worthy of attention. Bitcoin is a bubble. It can ask for no better advertisement to be taken seriously. Paradoxically, the path to legitimacy is paved by hype.There is ample commentary to this effect. Alan Safahi, the CEO of a cash payment processor that deals with Bitcoins,lamented that the currency is in a "bubble".  Art Cashin, a grizzled veteran of the New York Stock Exchange trading floor,just compared Bitcoin to the infamous Dutch tulip bubble, one of the standard comparisons for any serious modern financial crisis. From tech stocks to mortgage-backed securities, the tulip-bubble comparison is the language of financial crisis.Bitcoin, known to very few people, used by very few people, is now in heady company, taking its place alongside other once-afflicted currencies like the Russian ruble or the Argentinian peso. Bitcoin, while it was functioning quietly, was boring. Now that it's crashing, it has taken on an air of tragic glamor.Is it only matter of time before we find out about sub-prime Bitcoin lending or Bitcoin consumer abuses? Features will abound on poverty and Bitcoin, how Bitcoin oppresses inner-city development, and how Bitcoin will raise food prices. Senate investigations into Bitcoin will follow. Hacker heads will surely roll.Of course, in a rational world, none of that will be written, except perhaps as satire. Bitcoin's crash is less of a currency crisis than an opportune moment for internet wisecracks. Kevin Roose, a New York Magazine journalist who says hebought one Bitcoin at $133,jokingly lamented his impending bankruptcy.Nothing like a Bitcoin crash to teach you who your real friends are.&mdash; Kevin Roose (@kevinroose)April 3, 2013The best comment of the day was also the one that put Bitcoin in its proper place: as an internet meme. "Bitcoin," opined journalist Micheline Maynard today, "is the Harlem Shake of currency."• This article was amended on 4 April 2013. The original misnamed an online bank account service for bitcoins as Bitwallet. The correct name is Instawallet.
The value ofindividual Bitcoinshas hit a record high of almost $147 as interest in the cryptographic currency, which has no central issuing bank, has exploded.Though the valuefell backlater on Wednesday to $117, the value of all Bitcoins in circulation is approaching $1.4bn.Both thevolume being tradedand the amounts being paid have suddenly risen, apparently as interest in the system has been spiked by the banking crisis in Cyprus – which had the spillover effect of making people in some southern European countries worry that their banking deposits might not be safe.Some are thought to have converted that money into Bitcoins, driving a rapid rise in the apparent value of the "coins" – actually cryptographic solutions to complex equations.As a result, thevalue of a Bitcoinhas risen from just $13.50 in January, and around $30 a month ago, to more than $140 – though the price is fluctuating rapidly. The total value of the Bitcoins in circulation only broke through the $250m mark in January. Last November, each Bitcoin was worth $10.83.Bitcoin's market price since last month Photograph: blockchain.infoThe maximum possible number of Bitcoins that can exist is 21m, meaning that at present prices the currency would be worth just over $3bn. Trades can be made with fractions of Bitcoins, providing flexibility that enables transactions.The price of each Bitcoin began rising abruptly on Tuesday 19 March, going from $47 then to $72 by 23 March. That matches the period of the Cyprus bailout almost exactly: its banks shut on Friday 15 March – and then the Cypriot government announced over the next two days that they required a bailout and that all savers' deposits would be tapped. Though that was later revoked, with only larger deposits being subject to a 10% requisition, savers in other countries with troubled finances had already acted.Bitcoin's usefulness is its lack of the need for a central bank – and that the peer-to-peer network backing it allows transactions to continue as long as there are people willing to exchange the coins for something of value (or to donate them). For Europeans worried about the possibility that their banks might shut, trapping their savings inside, and not open until some amount had been skimmed from them, that makes Bitcoins suddenly attractive.A growing number of sites online accept Bitcoins as payments for items - including some electronics sites and other less legal sites, includingSilk Road, which offer drugs.The interest, and the exponential rise in value, means that it is now worthwhile for people to devote computing power to try to "mine" Bitcoins by finding the solutions to the cryptographic challenges that underlie each coin. As Bitcoins become more valuable, the return on computing power should grow - except that Bitcoins are designed so that as more come into circulation, it becomes harder to "mine" new ones. A distributed algorithm ensures that about one "block" is created every 10 minutes – but not more. One "block" currently equals 25 Bitcoins.That is reflected in the chart from blockchain.info, showing that the growth intotal number of Bitcoins in circulationhas actually slowed since December 2012.Some suggest that the rapid rise in Bitcoins' value may mean that it will become less useful as a currency, because it becomes more attractive to hoard it than to spend it – because exchanging it for any other item or service risks losing out on the rising value. That is "hyperdeflation",arguesJoe Wiesenthal of Business Insider. It is the opposite of "hyperinflation", like that which hit the Weimar Republic in Germany after the first world war, or Zimbabwe more recently, where the currency becomes less and less valuable for transactions. By contrast, Bitcoin is experiencing a period when it is becoming less attractive to spend it – which will make it less useful as a currency for trading.• This article was amended on 4 April 2013 to correct the statement about the algorithm for the creation of Bitcoins
I've been inundated with interesting and unusual trailers recently, so thought I'd share a bunch with you. It's a diverse collection, but old school pixel visuals sure are popular these days. Enjoy!Catequesis(Pakarico/Curved Cat, Android, PC, Mac, Linux)Described as an 'indie 8bit survival horror' adventure, Catequesis names Zelda, Deadly Premonition and Lone Survivor among its key influences. It's a pan-European collaboration between Spanish developer Pakarico and French engine creator Curved Cat, and its appropriation of JPRG visuals is rather lovely. It's due out this autumn.Dog Sled Saga( Dan FitzGerald and Lisa Bromie, Windows, Mac, Android, iOS)I love the style of this dog sled game (whoever sawthatcoming?), which gets you to build your own team before swooping across the frozen tundra, competing in races and earning money to spend on useful items. From the press release: "The game will cater to fans of The Binding of Isaac, FTL, Spelunky, etc., who enjoy starting from scratch and trying to beat the game as proficiently as possible; but those who want to can also continue to ride with their team beyond the win condition we have in mind, as the game will generate randomised races for an eternity." An autumn release is lined up, and I'm intrigued by the comparisons to Pokemon (collecting and managing your creatures) and Xcom (building a competitive team).Paper Titans(Team Lumo/Blitz Games, iOS)The follow-up to last year's beautiful cloud gameKumo Lumois a paper craft adventure featuring a cast of origami characters, all beautifully rendered to give Media Molecule's Tearaway a run for its (paper) money. The trailer shows the latest addition to the crew, Exploder – see if you can guess what he does. It's released later this month and you can followthe development blogfor more information.Knights of Pen &amp; Paper +1 Edition(Behold Studios/Paradox Interactive, PC, Mac, and Linux)Originally released on mobile platforms, this really cute 'meta RPG' is coming to PC, Mac and Linux this month, complete with new gameplay features. It's essentially a simulation of playing a table-top role-playing game. Or as the press release puts it: "players control players in-game at the dungeon master's table – going on adventures with other tablemates and spending their gains to boost their warriors and mages while simultaneously improving the quality of their snacks, gaming table, and sourcebooks."
It is 40 years this week since the first public mobile phone call. On 3 April, 1973,Martin Cooper, a pioneering inventor working for Motorola in New York, called a rival engineer from the pavement of Sixth Avenue to brag and was met with a stunned, defeated silence. The race to make the first portable phone had been won. The Pandora's box containingtxt-speak, pocket-dials andpig-hating suicidal birdswas open.Many people at Motorola, however, felt mobile phones would never be a mass-market consumer product. They wanted the firm to focus on business carphones. But Cooper and his team persisted. Ten years after that first boastful phonecall they brought the portable phone to market, at a retail price of around $4,000.Thirty years on, the number of mobile phone subscribers worldwide is estimated at six and a half billion. And Angry Birds games have been downloaded 1.7bn times.This is the story of the mobile phone in 40 facts:1That first portable phone was called a DynaTAC. The original model had 35 minutes of battery life and weighed one kilogram.2Several prototypes of the DynaTAC were created just 90 days after Cooper had first suggested the idea. He held a competition among Motorola engineers from various departments to design it and ended up choosing "the least glamorous".3The DynaTAC's weight was reduced to 794g before it came to market. It was still heavy enough to beat someone to death with, although this fact was never used as a selling point.4Nonetheless, people cottoned on. DynaTAC became the phone of choice for fictional psychopaths, including Wall Street's Gordon Gekko, American Psycho's Patrick Bateman and Saved by the Bell's Zack Morris.5The UK's first public mobile phone call was made by comedianErnie Wise in 1985 from St Katharine dock to the Vodafone head officesover a curry house in Newbury.Early massmarket mobiles incorporated a phone – and a shoulder bag. Photograph: TS/Keystone USA/Rex Features6Vodafone's 1985 monopoly of the UK mobile market lasted just nine days before Cellnet (now O2) launched its rival service. A Vodafone spokesperson was probably all like: "Aw, shucks!"7Cellnet and Vodafone were the only UK mobile providers until 1993.8It took Vodafone just less than nine years to reach the one million customers mark. They reached two&nbsp;million just 18 months later.9The first smartphone wasIBM's Simon, which debuted at the Wireless World Conference in 1993. It had an early LCD touchscreen and also functioned as an email device, electronic pager, calendar, address book and calculator.10The first cameraphonewas created by French entrepreneur Philippe Kahn. He took the first photograph with a mobile phone, of his newborn daughter Sophie, on 11 June, 1997.11By 2002, researchers had established that a driver's reactions were a third slower when talking on a mobile phone than when driving under the influence of alcohol. Driving a car whiletalking on a mobilewas eventually banned.12Talking on a car while driving a mobile remains legal, but inane.13Since 2008, around 8,000 people a year in England and Wales have been charged and taken to court for driving while using a mobile phone. Around a quarter of all such offences take place in London.14In 2002,a quarter of Italianssurveyed claimed their lack of a mobile phone was a blow to their confidence and caused sexual problems with partners. No further context could be found for this fact.15In September 2007, an Arizona-based firm marketed PetCell, a mobile phone for dogs with a built-in GPS satellite system, at $500.16PetCell did not  take off.17One in six UK adults now live in a homewith a mobile phone but no landline.18In the early 2000s, scientists theorised that handset sizes would halve every 18 months. They did not explain how this would be useful and, mercifully, it hasn't happened. If it had, we'd currently be typing text messages on baked beans.19Not actual baked beans, obviously. Phones the size of baked beans. Bean phones.It's 1990 and people with sore arms are doing business on their mobiles. Photograph: Rex Features20The original 160-character size limit for text messages is credited to German engineerFriedhelm Hillebrand. He arrived at the number by typing a series of random questions and thoughts into his typewriter (such as "What am I doing with my life?") and counting the characters involved. He found 160 to be "perfectly sufficient" for expressing almost any thought or question.21Later studies of the length of postcards and business telegrams confirmed his theory and the limit became industry standard in 1986. Though the limit no longer applies to texts, its influence can still be seen in Twitter's even more stringent 140-character cap. It's also now possible to follow Hillebrand on Twitter:@FriedhelmHilleb.22That may not be his real account. If it is then he's not taking Twitter very seriously.231.7bn mobiles were sold in 2012. The three largest sellers were Samsung, Nokia and Apple handsets.Combined sales of the three were 850m.24By 2001, one in four 999 calls to Scotland Yard were accidental dials, forcing the Metropolitan Police to introduce a national scheme called Silent Solutions: in its first month, it diverted around 2,000 accidental 999 calls a day.25Between July 2001, when Silent Solutions was introduced, and September 2008, there were an average of 5.5m accidental 999 calls a year.26On several occasions criminals have been arrested after "pocket dialing" the police. US officers in Daytona Beach in 2010 were able to prevent a car burglary after one of the thieves "butt-dialed" the police halfway through the crime. "Butt-dialed" is a technical term.27The first SMS message to a mobilephone in the UK was sent in 1992 by engineer Neil Papworth to his friend Richard Jarvis's Orbitel 901 handset. It read simply "Merry Christmas", which was a bit early, since it was sent on 3 December.28People who text everyone they know to say "Merry Christmas" on Christmas Day are weird. This one is arguably more of an opinion than a fact.29The most prolific texters in the UK are 12- to 15-year-olds, who send an average of 193 texts a week. In total, British texters sent more than 150bn messages in 2011.Taking a picture on a blinged-up iPhone during the Republican National Convention in 2012. Photograph: Scott Olson/Getty Images30In 2011, Florida resident Celina Aarons opened a phone bill for $201,000 after clocking up colossal roaming charges on a two-week holiday in Canada. The company eventually reduced the fee to $2,500. The bill has been described as the biggest ever. But probably isn't.31Research shows that smartphone users spend an average of 12 minutes a day on phonecalls. They spend more time playing games (14 minutes), listening to music (16 minutes), using social media (17 minutes) and browsing online (25 minutes). The most common use of all mobiles is to check the time.32The biggest-selling handset of all time was the dirt-cheapNokia 1100, launched in 2003, with over 250m sales. Secondhand 1100 handsets were briefly sold for over $10,000 following a rumour that they could be used to hack online money transfers. They can't. And you can't even beat someone to death with them. Unless you're really strong.33Internet security firmBullguardestimated there were 2,500 malicious software programs operating on mobile phones in 2010. But then they would say that, wouldn't they?34The iPhone was introduced in the US in June 2007. Thousands of people – many of them insufferable – queued overnight to get their hands on the phones first. After a honeymoon period, many re-examined their priorities and began to feel&nbsp;unfulfilled.35By the end of 2011, there were 78 mobile phone subscriptions per 100 people in the developing world. In the developed world there were 122 subscriptions per 100. Meaning every fifth person you meet has two phones and is probably a crystal meth dealer/having an affair.36That or there was one guy in every 100 who went massively overboard and bought 22 backups. Or a guy in every 1,000 who bought 220. Or a guy in every 10,000 – do you see where we're going with this? OK, good.37Mobile phones are the&nbsp;fastest-growing technology inAfrica. There are around 650 million mobile phone subscribers in sub-Saharan Africa alone and the World Bank credits the mobile phoneindustry with creating more than 5m jobs in the continent last year. There's an uplifting note for those of you who have stuck with this list to the&nbsp;end.38By 2016, annual mobile phone sales are expected to rise to around 2.1bn. Most of that is attributed to Apple's plans for an iPhone for dogs.39Not really. But you wouldn't be that surprised if they did.40Saved By The Bell's Zack Morris was not a psychopath. Apologies.
Ernie Wise made the UK's first public mobile phonecall on 1 January 1985: but my father, a huge Morecambe and Wise fan, had been making calls while he was out and about for years before that.My father, Michael Moorhead, was one of Britain's first users of carphones – the precursors of today's mobile phones. He had his phone fitted into his Opel Commodore in around 1977: the phone consisted of a handset fixed to a box between the front seats, and another huge box screwed inside the boot of the car where all the transmitter equipment was housed. And then there was the aerial – a tall post attached to the back of the vehicle. There wasn't another car driving around Manchester like it – it looked like a&nbsp;mobile outpost of Nasa.My dad, who died four years ago, used the car radio service set up by the GPO in 1965. By the time he got his phone, the technology had evolved to "System 3". When he wanted to make a call, he would first work out, using a map, which car radio area he was in. He would then press one of seven buttons on the phone – I think they were labelled A-G – and would lift the handset to be put through to the operator, who would place his call.The handset had a big red button on it – you had to press to talk, and release to listen.My father was a textile mill owner, and he spent a lot of his life travelling around the country on business. Carphones weren't cheap, but he loved being cutting-edge; and wherever he went, there was always lots of interest in the extraordinary gadget that allowed him to talk as he drove (it would be a long time, of course, before holding a handset while driving would be made illegal).My childhood was punctuated by calls from my father in his car: I often remember my mother, struggling to dish out tea for four children, muttering as she replaced the receiver: "Why does he think I need to know he's driving along the East Lancs Road, anyway?" We were all used, too, to his constant warnings that reception might be bad: "Hang on a minute, I'm about to go under a bridge, I'm going to lose you for a few seconds ..."Best of all, for him, was the possibility of being able to phone ahead to get a pint on the bar if he realised he would be arriving at the pub after closing time. It all seemed eccentric at the time: now, 35 years on, I can see my dad was a trailblazer. He simply wanted to stay connected, wherever he was – just as we all do today.
Angry Birds games attracted 263m monthly active players in December 2012, helping their publisher Rovio double its revenues for the calendar year.The company has published its financial results for 2012, revealing that its revenues grew 101% year-on-year to €152.2m (£129m). Rovio generated a net profit after tax for the year of €55.5m (£47m), up 57% in the same period.The company launched four new games in 2012: Angry Birds Space, Bad Piggies and Angry Birds Star Wars from its main franchise, plus Amazing Alex, which the company bought in and rebranded.Rovio made 45% of its revenues in 2012 from its consumer products division, as sales of plush toys and other merchandise continued to grow. That's up from30% the previous yearas consumer product revenues more-than-tripled from €22.6m in 2011 to €68.5m in 2012."Rovio has grown from a phenomenon to a very successful global business. In 2010 we set out to build an entertainment company and after last years performance we are on a strong path to achieve our goal," said chief executive Mikael Hed in a statement.Rovio's profits aren't growing at the same rate as its revenues, which is an indication of the investment the company is making in the next steps for Angry Birds, including the recently-launchedAngry Birds Toonscartoons and anAngry Birds moviethat's expected to debut in 2016.Rovio's headcount rose from 224 people at the start of 2012 to 518 by the end of the year. In March 2013, it said the Angry Birds games had been downloaded more than 1.7bn times on all platforms."We will continue to strengthen our position in the entertainment business through continuing to innovate on our existing brands, exploring creating new IP as well as exploring opportunities with external parties," said Hed.Rovio's growth has been watched with interest by many other mobile games firms, some of whom are outgrossing Angry Birds on the app stores, even if they haven't (yet) diversified into consumer products and general entertainment.Fellow Finnish firm Supercell, for example, isthought to be making $1.3m a dayfrom its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games on iOS, and is reported to be in talks over a funding round that could value the company as high as $800m.Meanwhile, Japanese mobile developerGungHo posted revenues of 10bn Yen($106m) in February 2013 alone, with a big chunk of them coming from its Puzzle &amp; Dragons game. Japanese telecoms firm Softbank recentlypaid $265m for a 58.5% stakein the company.While annual revenues of €152.2m for Rovio sound impressive, then, some mobile games industry experts are pointing out that Angry Birds is considerably less lucrative than the most popular freemium games."The average revenue per user is surprisingly low,"notes industry blog Gamesbrief. "On a monthly basis (assuming revenue is spread evenly through the year, which it probably isn't), Rovio is making EUR12.6m. It has 263 million active users, giving it an average revenue per user (on a monthly basis) of 5 Euro cents. If you strip out the merchandising revenue, that figure drops to 2.7 cents."Rovio's bet is that its moves into TV, films and book publishing will ramp up its income in 2012 while it looks for new IP. Time will tell how successful it is on both scores.It's worth notingRovio's recent launch of The Croods, a freemium mobile game based on DreamWorks Animation's animated movie.Experience gained on that project – as well as the income from Angry Birds games and products – may yet provide Rovio with an opportunity to move into the kind of free-to-play territory that (when successful) generates much higher average revenue per user.
A burst of links from yesterday's internet, selected by the Guardian's games writersAsk Gamasutra: What GDC 2013 meant to us | GamasutraKris Graft:Looking back on the week, the clear recurring theme was the rise of the individual. This goes deeper than just the "rise of the indie" that has been happening for years now. GDC this year seemed so much more about the individuals than the corporations. And even the corporations are realizing that the video game industry is about the people who make video games.GDC 13: New directions and the search for enlightenment | DevelopMichael French:Once upon a time sessions would have been on 'is F2P evil?' - these days it has a track all of its own. The naysayers are in the minority (I spied one provocatively-titled session about why F2P corrupts games on the schedule), and everyone else wants to go to CSR Racing's sessions to find out how they did it so well, and so fast. One F2P exec drily pointed out to me that 'social', 'casual' and 'mobile' had all gone through the same arc in GDC terms.The 10 Best Games at GDC 2013 | PasteGone Home puts players in control of a young woman who returns from an extended trip to Europe to find her family's house abandoned and a note from her sister requesting that you not try to find her. I was privileged to speak with designer Steve Gaynor at GDC, and he explained that his team "wanted to give people permission to be voyeuristic … we have all gone to a friend's house and thought about going through their medicine cabinet or their dresser drawers to figure out their secrets but we don't because we are good people. With Gone Home, you are a member of the family and something is obviously not right and you have a motivation to find out what it is."The Next Xbox and Its Controller Are Currently Covered In Crazy Stripes | KotakuControllers for the next Xbox as well as prototype versions of both Microsoft's new, powerful console and the machine's new, mandatory Kinect sensor have been in the hands of game creators since last month. But that's not much of a surprise. What is a surprise is that all of that gear is covered in criss-crossing, radiating black and white stripes. The console codenamed Durango currently looks like a zebra.This was posted yesterday so I don't think it's an April Fools joke...PS4 is like 'a really perfect gaming PC,' says Epic VP | CVG UKSpeaking to CVG in a recent interview, VP Mark Rein called Sony's decision to incorporate off-the-shelf PC components in PS4 "very smart," because in his opinion it will allow many developers to hit the ground running with their next-gen game development.He also pointed to the memory limitations of the 32-bit versions of Windows as an example of how PS4 titles could even surpass what "most PCs" can do."I think it's a very smart move on Sony's behalf to build this sort of enhanced PC architecture and then put so much in it," he said."Let's not forget it has 16 times the memory we had in PlayStation 3 - that's not insignificant. Knowing that every machine has that... we can do crazy, ridiculous stuff with that."I think we can all agree now that the PS4 = high(ish)-end PC, which developers *heart*.Game Openings are Important, or the First 300 Seconds of Bioshock Infinite | The AstronautsAdrian Chmielarz:Look, I don't want to beat around the bush, so let me just say it and get it out of the way: Bioshock Infinite does a lot of things in the opening I do not agree with. And I want to analyze it all and discover the reasons. But if you are looking for a drama, please look elsewhere. Even though I am using Bioshock Infinite as an example, this post is not really about this particular game. It's about a lot of games, including every single one I've done so far.Chmielarz was the lead designer on Bulletstorm (one of the most under-rated games of all time) and he says some interesting things about Infinite's obtuse opening.Jonathan Ross: My Favourite Game | Edge OnlineI played pub arcade games first of all. Then when I got together with Jane [Goldman, Ross's screenwriter wife] about 26 years ago, she had a BBC computer where you programmed the game in yourself, and she used to write for game magazines for a while, too. And that was exciting, mainly because we used to get the games to test. I remember the day Parodius came and I thought, 'This is the greatest game ever made.' And it is one of the greatest games ever made, up there with New Zealand Story, which I think is vastly underrated.He gives three favourite games in the end. I guessed one of them.You can followPress Start on Pinboard.
Here be Wednesday.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft and the context-sensitive search problem &gt;&gt; PocketablesWilliam Devereux:Based on these two recent Windows 8 developments, one has to wonder if Microsoft is going the Windows Phone route with the Windows 8 Charms. With more and more Microsoft apps adding search functionality to the UI, could the Charms be pushed into the background? It seems unlikely that Microsoft would remove them entirely, but why duplicate the functionality? And what will happen if the Search Charm is used for some apps while a dedicated search box is found in others?The problem, of course, lies with the users, who seem to have trouble either finding the Charms or comprehending how they work. One could argue that this is a design flaw and that the Charms aren't discoverable enough, but what about Windows Phone's dedicated search button? It's always right there in front of you at the bottom of the screen, yet it still proved to be too confusing for people.Back when not every question had an answer &gt;&gt; Hyperorg.comDavid Weinberger:My program was going to look for anything between a "[[" and a "]]",, which would designate an in-place end note. The manual assumed I knew more than I did, what with its file handlers and strange parameters for what type of file I was reading and what types of blocks of data I wanted to read.I spent hours and hours and hours, mainly trying random permutations. I was so lacking the fundamental concepts that I couldn't even figure out what to play with. I was well and truly stuck."Simple!" you say. "Just go on the Internet…and…oh." So, it's 1982 and you have a programming question. Where do you go? The public library? It was awfully short on programming manuals at that time, and S-Basic was an oddball language. To your local bookstore? Nope, no one was publishing about S-Basic. Then, how about to…or…well…no…then?…nope, not for another 30 years.I was so desperate that I actually called the Boston University switchboard, and got connected to a helpful receptionist in the computer science division (or whatever it was called back then), who suggested a professor who might be able to help me. I left a message along the lines of "I'm a random stranger with a basic question about a programming language you probably never heard of, so would you mind calling me back? kthxbye." Can you guess who never called me back?Smartisan OS unveiled in China, takes a fresh approach to Android UI design &gt;&gt; EngadgetSmartisan OS will be bundled with just a few apps that Luo considers to be the cream of the crop in the Chinese market: Momo (a local "flirting" app), WeChat (IM app, but still in discussion), Sina Weibo, Youku (video platform) and Sogu input (customized by Smartisan). Luo insisted that there's no business relation here at all and users are free to uninstall these, unlike the ones that are tied to most other smartphones these days.Looks nice. Probably means it's doomed.Google's privacy director is stepping down &gt;&gt; ForbesKashmir Hill:Whitten announced internally at Google that she is stepping down from her post with plans to retire. She's remaining for a couple of months while the privacy team transitions to new leadership. Whitten, who has been overseeing privacy at Google from the company's London office, will be replaced byLawrence You, an engineer who has been with the company for eight years, and importantly, at least from my perspective, is based in Mountain View, where much of the privacy-violating magic happens. It's certainly much closer to theGoogle X Lab, from whence new technologies such as Glass and driverless cars are coming, presenting novel privacy implications for review.Yes, SwiftKey software is on the Samsung Galaxy S4 &gt;&gt; Swiftkey blogThe start of 2013 has been fast-paced and exciting – we rolled out SwiftKey 4 to all our app users, introducing our gesture input method SwiftKey Flow as well as new features and support for 60 languages in context. We unveiled an iOS toolkit for SwiftKey Healthcare and our work in this area earned the company "highly commended" for best health product or service at the prestigious GMA Awards. We took members of our team to CES in Las Vegas, MWC in Barcelona, SXSWi in Austin and the HIMSS health tech conference in New Orleans to spread the word on what we're doing and meet the industry and some of our users.Now, we add the Galaxy S4 launch to this list as well as exciting work with a host of other SDK partners.Another British success.7digital says it'll be preloaded on 100m smartphones in 2013 &gt;&gt; The AppsideBritish digital music firm 7digital says its apps will be pre-installed on more than 100m smartphones shipping this year, including Samsung's Galaxy S4.While 7digital has similar deals with BlackBerry and HTC, it's Samsung's new Android handset that will account for a big chunk of the company's new shipments – analysts expect it to ship 60m units by Christmas.Research preview: 3D printing goes exponential &gt;&gt; IBM Electronics BlogMuch has been made of the rapid emergence of 3D printing but what is often overlooked is that 3D printing is more than a manufacturing technology, it is a software-enabled ecosystem.In addition to printers, this ecosystem includes a number of additional elements: CAD applications for designing machinery and items, much of it available online as software as a service; scanners for bringing in whole parts quickly; and applications that allow even novices to develop custom devices. TinkerCAD is an online CAD application intended just for kids.Take a look at the accompanying graph.2009: Why Kindle should be an open book &gt;&gt; Forbes.comTim O'Reilly, in February 2009:I have a bold prediction: Unless Amazon embraces open e-book standards like epub, which allow readers to read books on a variety of devices, the Kindle will be gone within two or three years.…Open allows experimentation. Open encourages competition. Open wins. Amazon needs to get with the program. Or, like AOL and MSN, Amazon will wind up another online pioneer who ends up a belated guest at the party it planned to host.Now read on.The Meme Hustler &gt;&gt; The BafflerEvgeny Morozov looks at what Tim O'Reilly has done and is doing, and doesn't like it:The way O'Reilly saw it, many of the key developments of internet culture were already driven by what he called "open source behavior," even if such behavior was not codified in licenses. For example, the fact that one could view the source code of a webpage right in one's browser has little to do with open source software, but it was part of the same "openness" spirit that O'Reilly saw at work in the internet. No moralizing (let alone legislation) was needed; the internet already lived and breathed open source. What O'Reilly didn't say is that, of course, it didn't have to be this way forever. Now that apps might be displacing the browser, the openness once taken for granted is no more — a contingency that licenses and morals could have easily prevented. Openness as a happenstance of market conditions is a very different beast from openness as a guaranteed product of laws.It's a very long essay. Then again, have pity on Morozov, who says that "in researching this essay, I tried to read all of [Tim] O'Reilly's published writings: blog posts, essays and tweets." And read interviews and comments left by O'Reilly and watch his talks on YouTube.Software &gt;&gt; Sony Smartphones (Global UK English)Optimal performance, new features, bug fixes and more – with our software updates, you make sure your phone stays at its best. Keep your phone up to date and enjoy all the benefits of the latest software version.To make this happen, you have to locate your phone, then run a Java applet (Java?) on the browser, and then download a Windows program. The smartphone as PC.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The legality of selling digital music in the same way as an old book or CD has been called into question, after a New York court ruled that the act is in violation of the copyright act. A New York federal district court judge, Richard Sullivan, ruled that the digital music reselling companyReDigi had infringed on Capitol Records' rights to reproduction."Right now, there is no future for reselling digital music, but I don't think this is the last word," said Christopher Jon Sprigman, a law professor who is a co-author of the Knockoff Economy.Capitol Records filed a complaint against ReDigi in January 2012, instigating a challenge to protections of the first sale doctrine – which gives owners of copies of products the ability to lawfully sell or lend a product, thereby allowing used bookstores, libraries and video rental stores to exist.ReDigi, which launched in October 2011, allows people to sell digital music files at a lower price than that for which they were purchased. To resell digital music, users download software that determines if their music is eligible to sell. People can only resell music purchased on ReDigi and iTunes, and cannot sell music ripped from CDs or downloaded from file-sharing sites. The software continues to run scans on the user's computer, to make sure users do not keep digital music files they have sold; people caught violating this rule have their accounts suspended.The court determined that ReDigi is not protected by first sale because to resell music on ReDigi, the file must be transferred to the company's servers in Arizona – which requires a technical, unauthorized recreation of the file. Sprigman said: "Yes, it's making a copy, but only in the driest, most formal sense of making a copy."Sprigman said ReDigi's process was "fairly reliable" and offered a way to transact digital goods without resulting in the proliferation of copies of a product. "From an economic basis that's no different from taking the book that's sitting on your bookshelf and putting it in a used bookstore," he said.If the digital reselling of music becomes a successful industry, the recording industry will likely see an increase in competition – just as the book industry has seen with an increase in second-hand bookstores. "Capitol Records doesn't want the price of digital music to be disciplined," Sprigman said. "In other words, it doesn't want competition."Amazon, which includes the sale of used books as part of its business, recently patentedan electronic marketplace that would permit the reselling of digital goods. The move sparked uproar from thosewho fear it will steer money away from the book and music industry.Judge Sullivan said in his summary that his decision would not exclude all digital works from resale and that people could still sell a product that contains a musical recording, "be it a computer hard disk, iPod, or other memory device onto which the file was originally downloaded." While he admitted that this presented obstacles to resale, he said it was up to Congress, not his court, to determine whether this was an outmoded way of thinking."The first sale defense does not cover this any more than it covered the sale of cassette recordings of vinyl records in a bygone era," he wrote.This case is the second of two closely watched first sale cases this year. In mid-March, the Supreme Court ruledthat the first sale doctrine protected someone who made a business by selling textbooks he had purchased overseas.
Google could face fines from six European countries' privacy regulators, including the UK and Germany, after refusing to reverse changes to its privacy policies made in March 2012.The search company has infuriated the regulators by declining to respond to their demands made over multiple months – even as research shows that user concerns about online privacy are high.France's privacy body, CNIL, together with its counterparts in the UK, Netherlands, German, Spain and Italy, said on Tuesday they will take joint legal action involving an investigation and possible fines. The UK's information commissioner's office (ICO) can levy fines of up to £500,000 for breaches of the Data Protection Act. A decision is expected by summer 2013. CNIL could fine it up to €300,000 (£255,000).However, even both fines added together would be less than Google generates in sales in 10 minutes. Yet the regulators could sue to block Google from operating in Europe – a move that would be highly damaging to its reputation.Google's rival Facebook has been forced in the past to make a number of changes to its operation to comply with Europe's data protection laws, which are significantly tougher – but more fragmented – than those in the US.The move comes while European competition regulators are separately trying to decide what action to take to prevent monopoly abuses by Google, which has about 95% of the European search market.The decision will be the first big challenge for Google's new privacy director, Lawrence You, a software engineer based at Google's Mountain View headquarters in California – replacing London-based Alma Whitten, another engineer who was the first to have the job created in October 2010.This is not unfamiliar ground for the new director – You worked with Whitten on combining the privacy policies together last year.After an earlier data protection investigation concluded in October,CNIL said in a statement on Tuesdaythat "the EU Data protection authorities asked Google to comply with their recommendations within four months," . "After this period has expired, Google has not implemented any significant compliance measures."The agencies complained of being stonewalled by Google for over a year about their concerns that its unification of more than 60 separate privacy policies last year could confuse users and leave them unsure how their data was being used."We put our concerns to Google [in October] and gave them a date to respond," said a spokesperson for the ICO. "They failed to respond. We had a meeting in March and Google was present, and gave them a deadline to respond. They failed to respond. Google has failed to address the concerns or take on board the recommendations from the meeting held last month."A Google spokesperson said: "Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to create simpler, more effective services. We have engaged fully with the data protection authorities involved throughout this process, and we'll continue to do so going forward."Researchpublished by the privacy pressure group Big Brother Watch in Februaryrevealed 68% of the British public expressed concern about their online privacy, with 22% of the total saying they were "very concerned". The same research found that 71% felt it was right for privacy regulators to investigate the changes in Google's privacy policy last year, and two-thirds said the regulators should do more to force Google to comply.As the latest moves were announced on Tuesday, Nick Pickles, director of Big Brother Watch, said: "Google has repeatedly put profit ahead of user privacy and the way that the company ignored concerns from regulators around the world when it changed its privacy policy showed just how little regard it has for the law. Just because Google is a big business does not put it above the law. The company has ignored the authorities and refused to make any meaningful changes to how it collects and uses people's data.""There is a wider debate going on about personal data and who owns and controls personal data," Colin Strong, a technology analyst with GfK, told the Associated Press. "The question is the extent to which consumers understand the value of their personal data and the extent that they are happy with the trade that they're getting."Sources at Google told the Guardian that the company filed a response to the October recommendations in January, but added "no change [in privacy policies] isn't the same as no response".The rolling-up of the policiessparked an investigation led by CNIL last year. Google's intent was to combine user data from the different services, so that videos watched on YouTube would inform the choice of advertising shown when doing Google searches or reading Gmail.In October, CNIL and the other regulatorscriticised the changes, and demanded alterations. Google declined to do so.Pickles said: "Consumers are increasingly concerned about how their data is being used, and it is essential that those breaking the law are properly punished. It is essential regulators find a sanction that is not just a slap on the wrists and will make Google's think twice before it ignores consumer rights again.""No one is against Google's objective of simplicity. It's legitimate. But it needs to be accompanied by transparence for consumers and the ability to say yes or no," Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, head of CNIL, said recently. "[But] consumers have the right to know how the information is being used and what's being done with it."
If HBO called right now and asked me to pitch ideas on a new series about the games industry, I know what I'd put right at the centre of it: EA's search for a new CEO. In March, John Riccitiello resigned from the position after a tumultuous period of change and controversy. During his six-year tenure he attempted to drag the company into the digital era, scaling back on packaged goods and spending hundreds of millions on funky companies such as Playfish and Popcap, not to mention greenlighting Origin, EA's rival to the mighty digital distribution channel, Steam.Now he's gone and his successor will have to survey half a decade of radical change and mega-spending in an industry troubled by fierce rivalries and looming revolution. And a question will inevitably spring to mind: can anything really be done at this veteran company? Is change possible?I mean, look at Kodak. That company dominated the photographic industry for a hundred years, but couldn't move fast enough to embrace digital, despite actuallyinventing the first digital camerain 1975. This corporate torpour was partly about protecting the company's legacy business in film, but it was also about the bewildered bosses not understanding why anyone would want to look at low-resolution images on a screen in the first place. In the technology business – especially in the digital technology business – the popular consensus is that change requires two things: youth and ambition. That's why Facebook, Twitter and Google all came from young geeks in bedrooms, garages and university computer labs and not from Microsoft.So yeah, what does EA do about all that? "John Riccitiello took some great steps by reducing EA's reliance on packaged goods in favour of a transition towards digital distribution, but it's a hugely difficult change to make for an organisation of that size," says Harvey Elliot, who once ran one of EA's UK studios. "We're now far beyond the stage of considering the fast-growing mobile and social companies like Gree and King.com as upstarts in the gaming space: they are highly efficient competitors and EA certainly isn't alone in struggling to maintain market position in the face of this new breed of publisher."This is a really big problem. For the last decade, EA has pitched itself against Activision, another gaming dinosaur that it knows well – and it still has to do that because Call of Duty v Battlefield remains a vital part of the business. However, can the same company then also look over its shoulder at the upcoming digital whiz-kids, often emerging from unexpected places, such as Japanese social media platforms? That's two completely different business ideologies."The major challenge all CEOs of major listed publishers face is balancing the maintenance of a legacy business against significant investment in digital and mobile opportunities," says Piers Harding-Rolls, a senior analyst at IHS Screen Digest. "While there is overlap in internal shared services between the major games opportunities, often this will feel like running two separate businesses and that places strain on internal processes and margins."Riccitiello went at this in the old business way: he bought stuff. He paid, lest we forget, more than $300m for Playfish and $750m for Popcap, and neither has set the world alight since (not least because the social gaming market itself was beginning to run out of breath). "EA's next CEO inherits a company beset by a broad range of legacy problems created not just by difficult retail market conditions but also by its own hand," says Nick Gibson an analyst at Games Investor Consulting Ltd. "It has been too eager to use major acquisitions – Jamdat, Playfish, Bioware, PopCap etc – to try to accelerate growth or gain early leadership positions in emerging markets, often overpaying by substantial amounts for companies that subsequently fail to deliver what EA expected they would."Game over? EA's John Riccitiello presents its lineup at E3 in 2011. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesHowever, it's important to point out that the painful and ludicrously expensive changes have pointed the company in broadly the right direction. "The outgoing CEO has pushed through many important changes," says Harding-Rolls. "Product and service diversification, infrastructure investment and platforms for direct consumer interaction ... it will be the next CEO's role to continue that transformation."Many of the major decisions are likely to be internally focused. The new CEO will have to decide whether to alter the dynamics of investment across the portfolio and the company's accents on the major distribution channels  – boxed, digital and mobile. Any significant alteration of this mix is likely to have a significant implication on how EA is organised, its staff and the skills it needs. The future CEO will also have to derive further efficiencies from its current operations to drive margins. Much of the painful investment work has been done – especially in infrastructure and back-end integration – and now the benefits need to be realised to make a return on all that investment."Driving efficiencies? Uh-oh. The worry is, that will mean far fewer original titles, greater reliance on franchises and more projects spread across multiple studios. The latter tactic can work (Ubisoft, Rockstar), but it can also mean that games lose any sort of identity as great hulking middle management layers take a deathly grip on creative decisions. The new CEO may well have to partake in a game of clones where a handful of familiar licences spawn out across platforms like a virus. And at the eye of this vortex? "In an increasingly multiscreen and multidistribution channel operating environment, Origin is the glue that holds together all of EA's future product and services," says Harding-Rolls. "It also holds a role as the company's key interface with the consumer and offers an opportunity for the company to engage and communicate with gamers in a personalised and more rewarding way."But after plenty ofnegativenewsreports, Origin itself has to be overhauled if it is to become the Steam-like centre of EA's universe. "Its management needs to become more open to learn from best practice elsewhere in the industry," says Gibson. "For example, making use of more rigorous testing methodologies pre-launch to improve game quality and prevent SimCity-style launch debacles; engaging with, listening to and rewarding its games' communities more readily; learning from, rather than dismissing, the successful practices of competitors such as Steam, etc."SimCity: launch debacle. Photograph: EA GamesPartly, the next change – the one the next CEO will have to oversee – is as much about culture as it is about raw business efficiency. A couple of weeks ago, US site The Escapistwrote abouthow EA's upper echelon is dominated by money men not gamers. That's not entirely true – current president of EA Labels, Frank Gibeau, has been in the games industry since starting out as a product manager in 1991. But perhaps Riccitiello's replacement needs a better understanding of how modern developers think and create than Riccitiello ever had. "I think the next CEO of EA needs to look at ensuring that the acquisitions of the last few years are maintaining their culture and staff and not being squashed by the corporate culture," says digital games analyst Will Luton. "They are the best links to the future, but talent drain will kill them."Luton points to the loss of Bejeweled producer Giordano Brunofrom Popcap to Tilting Point,as well as thedeparture of the Playfish founders. Popcap and Playfish are now mostly working on extensions to familiar brands, and it's clear not everyone wants to play the game of clones.So yes, that new CEO and the task ahead. If EA is to survive, the message from the analysts is – further streamline the console business, while strengthening Origin and ensuring the high-profile digital acquisitions are doing what they were bought for. "Achieving substantive change in a 30-year-old company with $4bn in annual sales and 9,000 employees is not going to be easy," says Gibson. "But in fact EA has many of the right ingredients: fantastic games brands, global reach, a healthy balance sheet, one of the largest 'digital' businesses in the world and certainly the most broad with activities in almost every corner of gaming."And beyond the online invective and "EA is evil" absurdities, this is a company with a great history and some wonderful titles. It needs to give up on its game of clones, of buying into and subsuming sparkling newcomers, of depersonalised business models and payment systems; it needs to understand where the industry is going. Last week at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco there was a sense of coming change – a new emphasis on individualism and idiosyncrasy. Rather optimistically Kotaku writer Kirk Hamilton is calling itthe week the industry woke up.That is what needs to happen for this company, which started out as a rebellious presence in the business, determined to get credit for its creative visionaries. It would make a fascinating HBO story, wouldn't it? The grand patriarch, battling dissent and delusion, coming in for another shot, a new king on the throne, an impossible future to face down.
Biz Stone, the 39-year-old blogging pioneer and co-founder of Twitter, has announced plans for a new startup. It's called Jelly, but beyond that, the rest is mostly a mystery.Stone's announcement, posted onJellyHQ.comandhis Twitter account, was short and mysterious, and left the tech world guessing what was up the mogul's sleeve:People are basically good – when provided a tool that helps them do good in the world, they prove it.Stone, whoseprolific activityin the startup world most recently saw him joining Buzzfeed's Jonah Peretti and Twitter co-founder Evan Williams as advisors of discussion startupBranch, revealed little else but that the tool would be free, mobile-first and not ready for "a while."We know little about what Jelly will do – and bloggers aretaking their guesses– but tell us: what elseshouldJelly do?Check out this timeline of Stone's contributions to the world of blogging, technology and social media and tell us what you'd like to see next.1999: Joins blogging startup Xanga as creative directorUser name?Genius. Modest. After the advent of other blog sites like Tumblr and Blogger, the latter of which is why Stone decamped to Google, Xanga is now the 5,166thmost-visitedsite on the Internet.2003: joins Google as a senior specialistArguably the most mainstream company Stone has joined (other than the one he co-created), Stone further developed blogging platform Blogger after it was acquired by Google.2006: launches Odeo"We just launched a new site called Hellodeo.com which makes it easy to record webcam video and grab the code for pasting into xanga or whatevah," Stonewroteon his Xanga blog. Odeo was sold in 2007, and the service suspended itself in 2010.2006: co-creates Twitter"I'm spending time working on Twitter.com these days," Stone wrote on his Xanga blog shortly afterlaunching the servicethat would change the way people around the world communicated. Years later, Stone would tell people at a conference in Montreal that usersshouldn't spend too much timeon the social networking site.Present day: investing and advising in everythingOver the past few years, Stone has been spreading his knowledge of the startup world to all corners of the internet. He's invested in Viddy, Square and Intercom and served as adviser to DonersChoose.org, Plinky.com and Fluther.Stone also found time to co-found The Obvious Corporation, which is billed as a company that develops "systems and mechanisms that help people work together to improve the world". Sounds like Jelly could be a tool for do-gooders on the go. It wouldn't be the first time a startup mogul launched a site in the name of social activism, but it could be the first of its kind to succeed – Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes launchedJumoto match potential donors to charity organizations, but the launch was rocky and the companywas eventually acquiredby GOOD.Present day: vague Jelly announcementSo, what should Jelly do? Use#makingjellyon Twitter to share your idea about what you'd like to see next, or tell us in the comments below, and we'll add your ideas to this post.
It might not be a crash, but the external hard drive market for consumers has gone into reverse in the past two years in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region, according to new figures from the consultancy Futuresource.New data supplied to the Guardian shows that total capacity purchased dropped year-on-year for the first time - and it's not clear that will recover as people buy more and more tablets which connect to cloud storage.Hard drive shipments in EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) from 2008-2012. Source: Futuresource ConsultingThe principal cause in the drop seems to be rising prices, initially triggered bycalamitous floods in October 2011 in Thailand, where a number of hard drive component manufacturers are based. That caused dramatic shortages - and allied to growing consumer adoption of cloud-based storage services such as Dropbox, which offer multiple gigabytes of storage for free, meant a precipitous drop in hard drive sales in the fourth quarter of 2011 which continued through 2012, says Mats Larsson, senior market analyst for Futuresource.Despite supplies having returned to normal, Larsson does not expect the market to recover to its 2010 high, when the number of drives bought peaked in 2010 at 28.1m. That fell by 8% to 25.9m in 2011 and by 17% to 21.5m in 2012."We think this year shipments will show between 5% to 10% growth - likely about 7%," Larsson said. That would put shipments between 22.6m and 23.65m - and close to 23m by Larsson's forecast.Total external storage purchased by consumers in EMEA, 2008-2012. Source: Futuresource ConsultingAlthough the average size of drive purchased has grown linearly, from 581GB in 2008 to 1,098GB in 2012 - in line with the general trend where storage costs halve every 18 months - the total storage purchased dropped from 25.4 petabytes (millions of gigabytes) in 2011 to 23.6PB in 2012. Growth there had been slowing even before the floods: after two years of growth over 30%, in 2011 it was up just 13% on 2010, according to the Futuresource figures."The second half of 2012 showed minimal signs of positive growth, with prices still higher than over a year ago," said Larsson. He points out that some retailers held back on buying drives, hoping to persuade distributors to drop prices - a hope that wasn't realised.The problem for hard drive manufacturers is that the business is tightly tied to the PC market, which has been in the doldrums in the EMEA region for the past couple of years. Hopes that greater purchases of tablets might lead to an increase in purchases of large-volume NAS (network attached storage) drives, which can be connected to the router in a home to provide files across the internal network, haven't been realised either. Though NAS drives rose as a percentage of drives sold from 2011 to 2012 - from 4.9% to 5.2% - the actual number fell, from 1.27m to 1.12m in 2012. "Vendors have been trying to get people to buy NAS drives, but most consumers just say 'what the hell is that?'," commented Larsson.
Back in early nineties Britain, it was pretty easy to determine which side of the playground you stood when it came to the console wars.  Sure, maybe there was that one kid harping on about how his Amiga was the best thing since Thundercats lunchboxes, or the shifty guy who unfeasibly claimed his dad had bought him a Neo-Geo for Christmas, but otherwise it was pretty much a straight fight: Sega versus Nintendo.Now I knew which side of that line I was on – Sega every time, thanks for asking – but it was only years later that I discovered that, for the rest of the world at least, the 16-bit era hadn't been quite such a two horse race. For a while back there, there was a third way, in the shape of Japanese electronics giant NECs PC Engine, better known outside its homeland by its American name, the TurboGrafx-16.Developed in collaboration with Hudson Soft to compete with the dominant but less powerful Nintendo Famicom, the PC Engine scored some early success in Japan, thanks to its improved graphics and audio capabilities, some sleek design and a deep and solid library of releases. It swiftly outsold the Famicom and would hold onto it through the launch of the Mega Drive, eventually settling into second place behind the Super Famicom for the rest of the generation. Unfortunately for NEC, its US release would not go so well.  Renamed and repacked into a bigger, uglier case for North America, the TurboGrafx-16 went on sale the same month that Sega unleashed the Genesis, and promptly flopped.There have been plenty of suggestions as to why the console failed to take off. It couldn't have helped that the initial pack-in title was the risible Keith Courage in Alpha Zones, which failed to demonstrate the hardware's capabilities, in stark counterpoint to Sega, whose choice of the flashy but shallow arcade port of Altered Beast would prove a success. It couldn't have helped that the tight licenses Nintendo had locked in with third-party developers meant that most of the PC Engine's extensive library would never get ported, this in turn leaving TurboGrafx owners starved of quality titles. Perhaps it was poor marketing on NECs part, or that the console only shipped with one controller, or that the hardware wasn't really able to compete. Whatever the reason, the TurboGrafx took a hefty beating from Sega, which was swiftly followed by the steel toed boots of Nintendo's new Super Nintendo. NEC soldiered on for a few years, throwing out a few add-ons and upgrades, before the TurboGrafx quietly crawled out of the ring without ever seeing a full European release.Given that it was outfought, underpowered and virtually unheard of in the UK, why should you consider sparing any hard-earned gaming time for this relatively unloved also-ran? Well, for starters the machine itself has a certain plucky underdog charm, with its two button pad, blocky case and dinky credit-card sized game carts, and its design marks its place in the evolution of consoles - sleeker than the brick-like NES but less sophisticated than the Mega Drive. Then you can add in the historical firsts the TurboGrafx racked up: first console of the 16-bit generation, first console with an add-on CD-ROM , first console to offer multi-tap support for up to five players, first console to have auto fire buttons as standard – okay, I'm stretching a bit with the last one, but you get the idea.The real reason the TurboGrafx remains of interest is its games catalogue. Unlike other generations' failed consoles – the Atari Jaguar springs to mind – the TurboGrafx library may have been a bit limited, but it wasn't actively rubbish. Following the dodgy start provided by the aforementioned Keith Courage, Hudson got into its stride and found a proper mascot for the system in the cranially over-endowed cave-whelp Bonk. The Bonk's Adventure series of side-scrolling platformers were hugely successful, sitting nicely between Mario's cutesy charm and Sonic's pace and attitude. Bonk's colourful world of characterful dinosaurs and obligatory giant floating fruit is still a blast to run through even twenty-odd years later.Other notable titles included the definitive version of Hudson's other mascot, Bomberman, which is massively improved over similar ports by the addition five-player support; the weirdly addictive gothic-themed pinball games Devil's Crush and Alien Crush; and the Golden Axe lite hack-and-slash platforming of The Legendary Axe, all of which still stand up pretty well today even without the rose-tint of having played them the first time around.And then there are the shoot-em-ups. Anyone hankering for uncountable bleeping alien hordes to take on single handed will find themselves right at home, as this was the genre where the TurboGrafx really had something over its rivals. Blazing Lasers, Air Zonk, Super Star Soldier and Soldier Blade weren't just superior to anything the NES had to offer, but classics in their own right.  Add in excellent arcade conversions of titles like R-Type and Fantasy Zone and the TurboGrafx easily outclasses anything the big two had to offer, becoming the itchy-trigger-finger's 16-bit console of choice.If you're prepared to suck up the expense of getting hold of the later Super CD attachment, then even more potential opens up.  The add-ons gave the console the extra punch needed for some genuine classics - Gates of Thunder and its sequel Lords of Thunder were master classes in how to build a first rate horizontal shooter, backed by awesome red book hard-rock soundtracks. Then there are the first instalments of the long-running JRPG series Ys, enhanced with cinematic interludes and fully orchestrated audio. If you get through those and still have an overwhelming urge to spend all your money on nineties video games, you could do worse than try and track down an import copy of Konami's brilliant precursor to the much loved Symphony of the Night, Castlevania: Rondo of Blood, which almost certainly remains the pinnacle of what the TurboGrafx could offer. Guardian games correspondent Keith Stuart has also just purchased a Super CD copy of Snatcher, an early cyberpunk adventure from Metal Gear creator, Hideo Kojima. A piece of gaming history for less than a tenner.Despite everything, can I say that if the TurboGrafx had got a UK release it would have redrawn the battlefield? In fairness, probably not – bad marketing and a small library may have exacerbated its downfall, and it was always less powerful and more old-fashioned than either of its competitors. There might at least have been one more dissenting voice in the playground though, and that's got to count for something.Buying a TurboGrafx-16You can pick up a PC Engine of TurboGrafx-16 on eBay for around £70-150 depending on condition. If you're buying a Japanese or US machine you'll need to also purchase a stepdown transformer so you don't blow your console up when you plug it in – these are available online for around £30. You'll also need a TV that can accept an NTSC signal. Be wary of any consoles claiming to be PAL: while the machine was apparently distributed in very limited quantities in Europe, import companies also started selling their own PAL conversions of NTSC machines in the UK – with varying degrees of reliability.You'll be able to play TurboGrafx games on your modern LCD TV if the console has been adapted to output in a format like RGB Scart or composite. It may be better though, to go totally retro and buy an old CRT monitor. Lots of retro gamers favour the Sony PVMs which can be bought very cheaply on eBay and have an array of inputs, as well as beautifully sharp displays – perfect for pixel pushers like Gunhead and R-Type.Keith Stuart
A cunning combination of word search, Tetris and those kids' puzzles with the slidey tiles, Word Soup is simple enough to grasp on a short commute, but suitably addictive to last a long-haul flight. After a genuinely helpful tutorial, you're confronted with 108 colourful letter tiles, the object of the exercise being to look for words formed in any direction along adjoining squares. Selecting a valid word causes it to disappear from the grid, with letters from immediately above dropping down to replace it, while tilting your device allows you to shunt stray tiles over to the other side of the screen. Then – when things get really tricky and you're left with more consonants than Roman Abramovich's Rolodesk – two lifelines are on offer: one allows you to re-sort the grid; the other suggests a word ("Vav"? Really?).The aim is to clear the screen for a 500-point bonus, with longer words ("Banter", get in!) winning chirpy "well done" messages, and getting rounded up in a comprehensive, shareable high scores sequence. Game play is against the clock, or in "relaxed" and "longer words" modes, each offering the same laughably fleeting sense of achievement at mining tiny words from confined seams of letters. Word Soup seemingly started life as a coin-op, installed in more than 30,0000 UK pubs. With only its all-round approachability and that tilt facility to distinguish it from the free likes of Letris, this app incarnation is unlikely to have quite the same impact but – like that questionable three-letter word – I'll "vav" it anyway.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (28)PC (5)12 (2)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (45)PC (3)43 (1)Gears Of War: Judgment(18+)Xbox 360 (100)24 (4)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (29)VITA (6)Wii (6)275 (–)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)16 (–)Army Of Two: The Devil's Cartel(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (34)17 (10)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (2)Wii U (1)208 (–)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 14(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)19 (13)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (42)Wii U (3)2210 (12)Crysis 3(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (38)611 (9)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (41)PC (5)1812 (–)Lego City Undercover(7+)Wii U (100)113 (5)Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (42)PC (1)314 (3)The Walking Dead: Survival Instinct(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (47)Wii U (1)215 (14)Skylanders Giants(7+)Wii (42)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (16)3DS (4)2416 (8)Simcity(7+)PC (100)417 (15)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (40)VITA (11)Wii U (2)2218 (–)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)1819 (20)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (35)Wii (17)DS (17)PS3 (16)3820 (6)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (100)3UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Google's latest doodle celebrates the anniversary of the birth of of Maria Sibylla Merian (1647-1717), a German who wasone of the greatest artist-naturalists of her timeand who is regarded as having been a significant influence in the development of entomology.Merian, who was born in Frankfurt into the family of a Swiss engraver and publisher, had been fascinated by the life cycles of butterflies and made their transformations the subject of close studies.She became a flower-painter and teacher and, at the age of 52, made an expedition to what is now Suriname after she was inspired by exotic specimens imported from the Dutch colonies for the natural history collections of the Netherlands.During her time in South America, she travelled around the Dutch colony, sketching local animals and plants but also criticising the treatment of indigenous people and black slaves by Dutch planters.Returning to Amsterdam two years later, she began work on a lavishly illustrated book, the Metamorphosis Insectorum Surinamensium (The Metamorphoses of the Insects of Suriname) which depicted the life cycles of insects she had studied. It was published in 1705, 10 years before she suffered a stroke and was partially paralysed. She died two years later. Her daughter published a collection of her work.
Apple boss Tim Cook apologised to Chinese consumers on Monday after being lambasted by China's media for allegedly failing to listen to their concerns.In his second major apology as chief executive, Cook posted a letter on Apple's website in China apologizing for any "misunderstandings" that had "led to perception Apple's attitude was arrogant" in its dealings with Chinese consumers. He promised to improve the repair policy on the iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S, improve warranty information on the Apple website and customer service.Beijing's government-run media started attacking Apple's customer service last month. China Central Television accused Apple of offering consumers there shorter warranties compared with those in other countries and of using refurbished parts for repair.The row is a major headache for Apple. China is its second largest market after the US and Cook has said he expects it will one day be the company's largest market. During the first quarter, Apple sales were $6.8bn in greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan as well as the mainland China.The People's Daily reported Monday that the state administration for industry and commerce was coordinating a crackdown on Apple's warranties amid complaints that its after sales service in China lagged behind Apple's policy in the rest of the world. China Consumer's Association (CCA) has asked Apple to "sincerely apologize to Chinese consumers" and "thoroughly correct its problems"."We are aware that a lack of communications … led to the perception Apple's attitude was arrogant and that we do not care and attach importance to consumer feedback. We express our sincere apologies for any concerns or misunderstandings this gave consumers," Cook wrote.This is Cook's second major apology since taking over from Apple's co-founder Steve Jobs. Last year he apologized overthe disastrous introduction of Apple Maps, iPhone's rival to Google Maps, and the company was forced to reintroduce the Google product after a consumer backlash.
Apple's next two iPhones had already been designed before Steve Jobs died in October 2011, according to comments apparently made by a liaison officer for the company last week.At a meeting with the San Francisco district attorney, George Gascón, who is keen to cut phone thefts in the region, Apple's liaison officer Michael Foulkes isreported by the San Francisco Examinerto have said the designs for the next two phones "preceded Tim Cook [being chief executive]".That would mean that both one phone due to be launched this year, as well as the iPhone 5, were already planned before Steve Jobs, Apple's co-founder, died in October 2011, just a day after the iPhone 4S was unveiled.A passage in Jobs's biography includes him testing out the Siri voice-control function that was introduced in the iPhone that October.But while some – including Gascón – might be surprised by the idea of a company having a two-year pipeline for the design of a phone, others who have worked in the mobile phone industry emphasised that it is not unusual.Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy and previously worked at Finnish phone maker Nokia,said it was not surprising. "Having worked in a phone company, I think it's a given  [that the phones were designed that far back]. Work under way now is for products shipping in 2016."Other evidence of the long design pipeline for phones comes from BlackBerry, where the new Z10 and Q10 touchscreen phones have been in progress for more than two years, with delays to the BB10 software having held up their introduction by at least a year.Dediuadded: "Software alone does not a phone make. Hardware specifications are [determined] on a different time scale."The news disappointed Gascón, who had hoped that at his urging Apple and other phone makers would be able to co-operate on devising a common system for disabling stolen phones and tablets. By publicising it, all companies would be able to cut thefts, he hoped. But Foulkes apparently told him that researching and incorporating such systems would be "long and laborious".In the UK, carriers already co-operate in using a common system to prevent stolen phones from rejoining the network, by identifying the IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) number, which is unique to each phone. But it is not implemented internationally, so that phones stolen in one country can be re-activated in another.Apple's work on the first iPhone apparently began in 2005, after it diverted work begun in 2003 from attempts to build a tablet device, which later became the iPad.Pictures of the early prototypes from 2005show a large device, more like a tablet than a phone."Apple does not comment on rumours and speculation," a spokesperson said.
Zynga has been working on a sequel to its Draw Something social mobile game for several months, with US celebrity Ryan Seacrest breaking the news in March 2013 by tweeting a screenshot ofan early version of Draw Something 2.Now the game is available, but only in one country: Sweden.Draw Something 2 has been launched for iPhonein the Swedish App Store, with its listing describing the release as "an exclusive sneak peek for Sweden only - the first country to drive us to #1 in the App Store, one year ago".Zynga bought the developer of Draw Something, OMGPOP, in March 2012 for a reported $210m, after the game was downloaded 35m times in its first seven weeks of availability.In February 2013, Zynga reported thatDraw Something had passed 100m downloadsa year after its release, although it was quieter on how many active players the game still had by this point.Since the acquisition, there has been regular speculation about the game declining in popularity from the 13.3m daily active users (DAUs) at the time OMGPOP was acquired.A failing franchise? Not exactly: social games analytics site AppData indicates that Draw Something still hasmore than 1m DAUsand more than 5m monthly active users – and these numbers only count players who've connected the game to their Facebook accounts.What does Draw Something 2 have to offer? The Swedish App Store listing promises "dozens of new tools, patterns, stamps and colors" for the social drawing game, as well as the ability for players to share all their pictures in a feed for friends to see.More of a social scribbling network, then. "Follow your friends, celebs, and discover new artists - there's always something new, funny and inspiring to check out," notes the listing.The listing also explains that there will be more than 5,000 new words to draw in the new game, new Daily Guess and Daily Draw modes, and a Free Draw option to draw and share pictures outside the main gameplay.There is also a "Safe Mode" with parental controls to disable the social feed and gallery features, while only allowing someone to play against existing friends rather than strangers.It's unclear when Draw Something 2 will get a wider release, but testing mobile games in single countries ahead of their full launches is now an established strategy for social games publishers – Canada is usually the beneficiary, due to the market's perceived similarity to the US, which is the most lucrative country for social mobile games in the West.The Draw Something 2 release in Sweden was spotted by Ouriel Ohayon of app discovery serviceAppsfire.
it's Tuesday. Did you have a pleasant Bank Holiday weekend?
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid and Windows Phone gain, BlackBerry loses in smartphone OS share according to Kantar &gt;&gt; TechCrunchWindows Phone isn't really posing a threat to iOS or Android, which continue to dominate smartphone share is all markets, but it is starting to pull away from BlackBerry and Symbian when it comes to making a strong showing as a third place contender. In the US, Windows accounted for 4.1% of smartphone sales in the three-month period ending February 2013, up from 2.7% for the year-ago quarter. BlackBerry, by contrast, represented only 0.7% of smartphone sales in the US according to Kantar, down from 3.6% during the same time in 2012.In the UK, BlackBerry slid from 16.8% of all smartphone sales in the three-month period ending in February last year, to just 5.1% of sales for the same span in 2013. That's a drop of 11.7 percentage points, during a period that included a full month of BB10 device sales. BlackBerry itself claimed 1 million devices shipped for its most recent fiscal quarter, which included BB10 launches in Canada and the UK, but when pressed about how much of that represented actual sales, execs hedged and noted that it was "sort of" closer to between two-thirds and three-quarters of that 1 million figure on its investor conference call.Note that this is share - of phones shipped - and not installed base. Windows Phone has now overtaken BlackBerry in both the UK and US for shipments. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Dell Inc. &gt;&gt; SEC FilingsWhy should you sell your Dell stock to let the company go private? Because, say the directors, there arefundamental changes in the PC market, including a decline in worldwide revenues for desktop and laptop PCs and lower shipment forecasts for PC products; rapidly declining margins as demand for PC products shifts from higher-margin premium products to lower cost and lower margin products, particularly in emerging markets; significant and increasing competition from efficient, low-cost manufacturers relying primarily on a build-to-stock business model, rather than the build-to-order business model historically used by the Company, and from manufacturers of innovative, higher-margin PC products, which competition could result in reduced profit margins, further loss of market share for the Company's products and services, or both;• long-term challenges that are likely to affect PC sales, including a general lengthening of the replacement cycle for PC products, the uncertain adoption of the Windows 8 operating system and unexpected slowdowns in enterprise Windows 7 upgrades, increasing consumer interest in tablets and smartphones, the potential substitution of these products for PC products and the related fact that the Company currently sells tablets only in limited quantities and does not manufacture smartphones.There are others too, but those are the main ones. (Thanks @rubbernuke for the pointer.)Gmail push notification no longer works with Mail on new iOS devices &gt;&gt; TUAWGoogle's Gmail has provided push notification to iOS users through Mail.app for years, but an announced change has taken effect that will leave users with new devices without push notification in the iPhone's native mail app.Google announced in December that the Microsoft Exchange support offered with Google Sync would be removed, and the company ended that support on January 30, 2013. For those who are using the Gmail push notification feature on existing hardware, there's no cause for concern as Google has grandfathered in your accounts. However, when you get a new iOS device through an upgrade or replacement, you'll find that you can no longer receive instant push notifications for Gmail accounts.More skirmishes in the Microsoft-Google war. This is the turning-off of Microsoft's Exchange sync for Gmail - unless you download and use Google's own mail app. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Ground Control, Part 1 &gt;&gt; The MagazineTom Tomorrow:Last August, before domestic drones had become a concern worthy ofa 13-hour Senate filibuster, I found myself inside a stretch limousine with a bunch of engineering students. We were on a rural highway in eastern North Dakota, rolling past bales of hay and soybean fields, the limo's mirrored bar set with a row of empty champagne glasses. No one paid attention to them. Instead, the student engineers were deep in a marathon conversation about flying robots.Long, and worth it.[APK Teardown Exclusive] The HTC Myst Facebook phone - the Facebook app is now a launcher, looks like they're planning a Play Store release, too &gt;&gt; Android PoliceWe've managed to score a system dump of the Facebook phone! There's nothing in it that's too earthshattering, and you could probably guess most of the features, but, since we've got it, we might as well take a look at it.[This is not an April Fool's joke. I promise.]Now, this being Facebook, nothing really works unless you sign in. The problem is, all of this is pre-release, so it's set up to only work for Facebook employee accounts. Everything is basically packing unintentional always-on DRM, so screenshots are going to be a little sparse.Could this be HTC's revival - or just another phone with Facebook, like the one it released a couple of years ago? Seems though the app and launcher will also work on Samsung's Touchwiz; that means an app that would be front and centre on your phone.Two ways to make a spoon: 3D printing in action &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson:Last week I attended the Monki Gras, a distinctive event exploring how to scale craft, mainly in the context of technology but also in the context of beer.On the second day there was a light-hearted competition. Who can make a spoon faster, a wood carver, or a geek with a 3D printer?Think carefully.Apple expands 'Maps Ground Truth' hiring to rest of the world &gt;&gt; Mac Rumors'Ground Truth' refers to information collected on location versus data collected remotely, such as satellite imagery.…"The Maps team is searching for a manager for the team responsible for regional map quality and ground truth in the U.S.. Each of our regional teams is responsible for the quality of our maps in their region. This team's responsibilities include:"• Testing new releases of map code and data around the U.S.• Collecting ground truth data to allow for analysis of the impact of potential map code or data changes relative to known truth• Utilizing local expertise to provide feedback about U.S.-specific mapping details• Evaluating competing products in-region relative to our mapsJailbreaking declining in China, now down to 32.3% of iOS devices &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaBut that doesn't mean that Chinese Apple fans are renouncing piracy. Thecontroversial and popular KuaiYongis an iTunes replacement that enables iOS app piracywithoutneeding a jailbreak, so not all of the country's growing ranks of Apple fans - now up to 85m active on iOS in China - are paying up for apps. Little wonder that Chinese iOS developers are onlyearning an average of 3 cents(yes, US$0.03) per download.Perhaps an indication that it's moving beyond the early adopters to wider groups? Even so, that's a really high proportion. (Via @benedictevans.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Stephen Elop grabs an acid yellow phone from the colourful array fanned out before him on a table at his London office and taps at the screen until a photograph appears. "I'm not supposed to show pictures of my family but … this is one of my beautiful daughters," says the Nokia chief executive and father of five. A pretty blonde child sitting at a restaurant table looks calmly into the lens. But only with one eye – the other swivels unnervingly. "You can do some creepy things with this," he says, grinning.Another shot has a chef cooking at a brazier – a still image, but the flame flickers. The trick is done with editing software that overlays photographs with snatches of film, one of the features Elop hopes will make customers fall in love with his Lumia smartphones.It is just over two years since Elop, the first non-Finnish boss of Nokia in its 150-year history, compared the company to a man standing on a burning platform and vowed to create a device that could rival the iPhone.In February 2011 the Canadian announced a deal with his former employer Microsoft to rebuild Nokia's business using Windows Phone software. Six months later the first Lumia handsets were unveiled in London, and now there are five models at various prices, with more to come. But sales have been slow, reaching 4.4m in the Christmas quarter. In the same three-month period Apple sold 48m iPhones."When we think about the milestones along this journey we are very focused on first getting to a double-digit market share, talking about Windows Phone collectively," says Elop. And how long will that take? The share of smartphones running on Windows rose by one percentage point in 2012 to 3%, according to the research firm Gartner."Now we have to see if that builds and grows," says Elop. "It is about showing progress, strengthening the brand, improving the financials. It's hard to predict what rate over what time."The next set of numbers, due on 18 April, will be crucial not only to Nokia but in determining how long Elop remains at the helm of the company which became part of a group which can trace its roots to a pulp mill in south-west Finland in 1865.The first hand held mobile, weighing a hefty 1.7lbs, was launched in the 1980s and dubbed the "Gorba", named after Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev who was pictured with the Mobira Cityman.These days a $1bn-a-year marketing budget – courtesy of Microsoft – has made the slim-line Lumia one of the most product-placed phones on television, as fans of the US series Homeland may have noticed. Lack of awareness cannot be blamed if sales are poor.Elop has his sights firmly set on BlackBerry's 80 million users. The two firms are following similar journeys as they move on from handsets that manage calls, texts and emails to those that offer full access to the internet.For BlackBerry's corporate customers this means big changes: not only buying new phones, but ripping out the old servers used to run its older handsets. "Virtually any [head of IT] out there today is probably thinking pretty hard about the investments they've made in a competing platform for business mobility," says Elop, avoiding referring to the opposition by name. "This is an interesting time to reconsider what's the next generation, and of course we're looking at that as a real opportunity. It's a moment, it's a point of disruption."Mall of America in the US has swapped BlackBerry for Nokia, and Sports Direct in the UK has done likewise– saving, Nokia claims, £14,400 a year on fees. The estate agent Foxtons has also bought a job lot of Lumias.Originally from Ontario, Elop studied computer engineering at McMaster University where he helped create one of the first internet networks in Canada by laying cable around his campus. He worked at software company Lotus before becoming head of IT at Boston Chicken, a fast-food chain that over-expanded and filed for bankruptcy in 1998. A career in IT firms followed – Macromedia, Adobe, a year at Juniper Networks – before Elop landed at Microsoft. There he oversaw the Office products for nearly three years before making the leap to Nokia.Turning around an outdated industrial group was never going to be easy. When Elop joined Nokia's decline had begun but it still had revenues of €40bn (£34bn), operating profits of €1.2bn and 120,000 employees. By the end of 2012, to stop the company bleeding cash, tens of thousands of jobs had been cut and factories closed.Sales are now €30bn, losses €2.3bn, and there are 98,000 staff, with more than half working in the telecoms equipment joint venture Nokia Siemens Networks. Samsung has seized Nokia's crown as the largest maker of mobile phones. "This is the fastest collapse of a market leader ever, in any industry," Tomi Ahonen, a former Nokia executive and one of Elop's loudest critics, wrote last month.Shaun Collins, of the research firm CCS Insight, says hitching Nokia's destiny to that of another firm was risky. Microsoft let slip recently that support for Windows Phone 8, the mobile interface on which Nokia's new handsets are built, would end in July 2014."Their future as a mobile company is inextricably linked to Microsoft's ambition in the mobile market," says Collins. "I wonder if some of the relationship has cooled. Maybe Microsoft's ambitions in mobile are cooling."The nadir for Elop came in June last year with 10,000 job cuts, the closure of Nokia's last factory in Finland, and a second profit warning in nine weeks. The shares crashed to their lowest point since 1996."There are moments where you fall short of expectations, you issue a profit warning, which causes everyone to cringe," says Elop. "But when I see the employees proud and focused and doing great work, you know there are good times ahead because that's what sets the tone for the whole company."He travels unrelentingly, wooing phone networks and corporate customers. A widget called Track My Life shows a map of the globe on his phone, dotted with bubbles of different sizes representing where he spends the most time. This year alone Elop's air miles have produced 30 bubbles, although Finland and America, where his family live, are the largest.He insists that with enough hard work the Apple and Samsung duopoly can be broken. Elop had not yet handled Samsung's latest flagship model, the Galaxy S4, whose recent Broadway musical-themed launch in New York featured a tap-dancing child and street performers. But he questions the usefulness of the dizzying array of technology packed into it."It's not a technology war, it's about how we can make your life a little easier, a little faster, a little more creative. Engineering is more than just the number of megapixels."But success is still measured in numbers, and investors hope the next set will paint a brighter picture for Nokia.
In 1865, Fredrik Idestam established a pulp mill in south-west Finland and started manufacturing paper. He opened a second mill three years later near the town of Nokia and by 1902, the firm had moved into electricity generating. Shortly after the first world war, Nokia was close to bankruptcy and the nearby Finnish Rubber Works, maker of galoshes, hoses and tyres, bought the firm in order to ensure a power supply. A few years later, the group acquired Finnish Cable Works, exporter of telephone and electricity cables to the Soviet Union, and the crucible of Nokia's electronics business. The three companies merged in 1922 to form a conglomerate.By the 1960s, Nokia had begun making radio phones for the Finnish military. In 1982, Nokia introduced its first car phone, with the grand title of Mobira Senator. Its first handheld mobile arrived in 1987 and weighed a hefty 0.7kg (1.7lbs). Officially called the Mobira Cityman, it soon became known as the 'Gorba' after Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev was pictured using one.By 1992, conglomerates were out of fashion and Nokia decided to focus entirely on mobile phones, gradually selling off its rubber, cable and consumer electronics businesses.
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Reader and other customer tragedies &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:From a business standpoint why should Google have kept Reader alive? One reason really, that "Google Account" is super-valuable. It is a means for getting someone to use other services. Moreover, it is the ultimate means of performing tracking. As long as I'm logged in to a Google Account while using Google services, including search, they can track my behavior. And because it is first party none of the attempts to block that tracking apply. TPLs? They don't apply to First Party cookies. Safari and other browsers' outright blocks on Third Party cookie? No effect on First Party tracking. Identities are important, and Google seems to have forgotten that.Very thoughtful post about the management cost of having many services. Be sure to read his postscript too.2 Letters from Steve &gt;&gt; David Gelphman's BlogDuring the 12+ years I worked at Apple I never met with Steve Jobs for work purposes. Of course like all Apple employees I saw Steve in Caffé Macs or walking with Jony Ive around the courtyard inside the Infinite Loop campus. And of course there were Comm meetings that he would run. But I didn't have any direct contact. Until…In March 2010, just a couple of weeks before the iPad was due to be released publicly, I had a reason to contact Steve. A friend of mine was dying of liver disease and I was going to San Francisco to hopefully see and communicate with her while it was still possible. She was a friend from my Adobe days and was very much into technology. I thought it would be a treat for her to see an iPad. And I had one. But until the product was officially released I could not show it to anyone without permission from Apple management.Lots of elements in this story are intriguing: rules, who gets to bypass rules, speed of response among others.Blackberry Q10 hands-on &gt;&gt; Wireless WorkerBen Smith was at MWC and tried out a prototype of the QWERTY BB10 product, which he liked. However:Blackberry staff said they expected many customers to switch to full-touch quickly - they're clearly very confident in the firm's new soft keyboard. It was suggested that - for many - the Q10 may be a transition step. That may be the case, but for those (myself included) who prefer a hardware keyboard for messaging this looks promising.Very slightly larger keys - will that make people more accurate?Huge construction firm uses iPads and Apple TV to save millions &gt;&gt; CITEworldWith architectural and planning documents that would otherwise run to 60,000 pages...The system is centered on a PC in a work trailer with a wired connection to the Internet. Managers use that computer to make major changes to plans using a PDF-editing program from Bluebeam, or to upload new files. This data is synced back to Egnyte's cloud over the fast wired connection. Then, workers in the field can use the iPads and a Wi-Fi connection to get the latest, most up-to-date versions of relevant plans from Egnyte's cloud. They can also mark up plans and take photos of the work site.Along with the iPads, Pistor set up two digital plan tables on the site. Normal plan tables consist of a big angled slab where workers gather around to consult architectural plans on paper. These digital plan tables include a pair of 55in monitors connected to a PC that's wired to the local network, as well as an Apple TV box. Workers can walk up to the table, connect their iPads wirelessly through the Apple TV to the monitor, and discuss what they're looking at on the big monitors.The "Cite" in "Citeworld" is "Consumer IT in the enterprise".A PC and Tablet 'brick' for the price of one &gt;&gt; WSJ.comKatherine Boehret:As the [Asus] Transformer's [AIO] name suggests, it also transforms into another device: Pull up on the PC screen to separate it from its stand and it becomes a tablet you can move around the house. It has a handle and a kickstand for propping up on flat surfaces. Like the desktop version, the tablet runs two systems: Windows 8 Remote and Jelly Bean 4.1.Though this concept sounds smart, it's laughable in practice. The screen measures a whopping 18.4in diagonally and weighs an arm-straining 5.3lb. Apple's iPad screen measures 9.7in and weighs 1.4lb; Samsung's Galaxy Tab 2 has a 7in screen and weighs 0.8lb. At home, carrying this around and using it on my lap elicited fits of laughter from my husband. When I flipped the tablet into vertical mode, it looked like I was reading from a giant, stone tablet. And in Android mode, the tablet's battery only lasted five hours.Start Up Tech - All For A Little Over £500 &gt;&gt; Emer ColemanFormerly of the London Datastore, and Government Data Service, now setting up on her own:The first thing my mother asked when I told her I was setting up my own companyDSRPTNwas "but who will do your filing for you?" I had to tell her that I could not remember the last time that I actually filed anything physically. She was also concerned about where my office would be located because it's difficult to grasp that setting up your own business can be a very easy process and all you really need is a few bits of good kit.Fascinating choices, especially of carrier.Taking a stand on open source and patents &gt;&gt; Google Open Source blogToday, we're taking another step towards that goal [of an open internet] by announcing theOpen Patent Non-Assertion (OPN) Pledge: we pledge not to sue any user, distributor or developer of open-source software on specified patents, unless first attacked.We've begun by identifying10 patentsrelating toMapReduce, a computing model for processing large data sets first developed at Google—open-source versions of which are now widely used. Over time, we intend to expand the set of Google's patents covered by the pledge to other technologies.With 18,000 or so patents to choose from.. how about the next ones are Motorola's Wi-Fi and H.264 patents?Password denied: when will Apple get serious about security? &gt;&gt; The VergeWhenArs Technicainvestigatedsecurity issues in iCloudlast year, it found that "your data isat leastas safe as it is when stored on any remote server, if not more so," but that its weaknesses lay in Apple's lack of disclosure of its security processes (evenArs' assessment depends on a fair amount of guesswork), itsprioritization of ease-of-useover full security, and its retention of encryption keys to iCloud data on its own servers. Apple's defense has traditionally been that its security processes are "industry-standard." But in the still-young consumer cloud, Apple is one of the leading companies helping to define that standard.Good article pointing out how one email/password combination is the key to a huge number of services. But that's also the case for Google (email, documents, phone services, Play), Microsoft (email, cloud, store, Xbox). Everyone is vulnerable in some way.Three eras of currency &gt;&gt; Chris DixonThree eras of currencyCommodity based, e.g. GoldPolitically based, e.g. DollarMath based, e.g. BitcoinNote the "e.g."Bitcoin may be the global economy's last safe haven &gt;&gt; BusinessweekPaul Ford:I'm increasingly convinced there's one thing that Bitcoins do that's genuinely interesting. They decentralize trust. Trust is hard to earn; verifying transactions is a brutal problem, which is why PayPal locks down your account when there's too much money flowing into it. Creating trust is traditionally the work of federal governments and branding agencies. Trust is also an easy thing to squander. Just close a beloved service, à la Google Reader. Or allow your banks to fail, causing an entire country to suddenly realize that the value of their deposits, the fundamental integrity of their financial selves, was arbitrary all along.Along comes Bitcoin, a currency in which every transaction is stored by the entire network and every coin has its own story. There's nothing to trust but math. Suddenly an idea that sounded terrible — a totally decentralized currency without a central authority, where semi-anonymous parties exchange meaningless tokens — becomes almost comforting, a source of power and authority.That's where Bitcoin thrives: where people would prefer to throw in their lot with anonymous strangers instead of the world economy. It's gold-bug thinking reinvented for an age of fluid transparency and instantaneous transactions. And as such it's an excellent indicator of anxiety. Where you see Bitcoins in action you find a weird and heady mix of speculative angst, a fear of being left behind, and people who appear to have lost faith in institutions, who feel most left behind.Frustrated with iCloud, Apple's developer community speaks up &gt;&gt; Hacker NewsAnd boy, are they frustrated:from having studied this for many, many hours over many moons, is that what Apple is trying to do is fundamentally hard, if not entirely unfeasible. They're trying to replace a smart server with one that's dumb as a doorstop. More specifically, they're trying to emulate a CRUD web service with a file sync engine.Conflict resolution is left up to individual clients, since the server doesn't do any "thinking". Likewise, there is no canonical, authoritative state of the store, since the server doesn't "think", only the clients do. Apple was hoping that by shoving a bunch of diffs of your database onto the server, that clients can reliably reconstruct a sane database by playing them back - except that multiple clients are updating the diffs simultaneously and there is no server-side conflict resolution.Oh, and if stuff fails, there are no regular snapshot states to fall back to, because iCloud is a file store, not a database engine. Your whole store is now corrupt. Enjoy.Bitcoin infographic &gt;&gt; Visual.lyInfographic: how a Bitcoin transaction works. View at your own risk.Donglegate: why the tech community hates feminists &gt;&gt; Wired.comHowever, just because these points of view are equally visible both online and offline doesn't mean they're equally valid. Factual evidence simplydoes not supportthe idea that men are being oppressed and that women have the upper hand socially, legally, or economically.Yet the myth of equality persists, since the technology industry considers itself a meritocracy where the "good" ones — for example, talented engineers and programmers — will rise to the top regardless of nationality, background, race, or gender. When considering the dismal numbers of women (as well as African-American and Latino men) in tech, the meritocratic presumption is that these minorities aren't good at or interested in technology; otherwise, there would be more of them.If we admit there are structural barriers to entry, and a culture that actively discourages and women and men of color from participating, then it logically follows that technology is not a meritocracy. And this threatens many dearly held beliefs of technology workers: It suggests those at the top aren't there because they're the best, but because of hard workandprivilege.From which many other conclusions logically flow.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
