When Jamaican legend Bob Marley strapped on his guitar and wailed "I hope you like jammin' too", he wasn't alone. Music has a rich tradition of improvisation: from the jazz club to the dance remix, reworking existing ideas has always been at the heart of musical invention.It's that premise which lies behind SoundJunction, a new website that offers young people a chance to explore, discover and create music. It houses three tracks - by African artist Tunde Jegede, jazz musician Jason Yarde and western classical composer David Horne - that use the same seed rhythm to illustrate the way one set of notes can be transformed through an endless number of creative twists and turns.With those pieces of music as their starting point, young surfers have the opportunity to remix, mash-up and jam away to their heart's content. And it's all done through a medium with much more resonance than Classic FM or their parents' record collection - their computer screens. Students visiting the website listen to songs and use an application called Explorer, built with Shockwave, to break down individual instrumental and vocal parts, remixing them into their own unique creations or adding generic samples from the library.It is a form of learning through exploration, explains Derek Richards, project coordinator at the Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music. The board created the site with Culture Online, a group originally set up by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport in 2002. "We don't want to be didactic," says Richards. "It's not &#91;audio recording application&#93; GarageBand, or DJ workshops after school."The website's 50 hours of streamed audio and visual content are tracked with graphic markers that represent sounds. These are annotated with written articles that relate to what is going on in the music at that point - its geographical origins, for example, or an artist's biography. This means that users can navigate their way around the site through the music itself - a more engaging way of learning than reading class notes.Bypassing barriersTo get it into schools, the Associated Board is sending out a CD-Rom of the website to every secondary school in the country. Mike Greenwood, commissioning executive of Culture Online, says the aim of the project is to use modern technology to engage a new audience. "Younger people are more familiar with the technology than they are with music, or with a certain type of music. Technology is interactive and takes the risk out of &#91;discovering music&#93;, and the barriers away from it. Technology is a medium the audience is already quite comfortable with."One of those barriers to culture is social class. An Ofsted report published at the end of last year found that while extra-curricular music lessons are good and popular, they are too often dominated by pupils from middle-class families. There is also evidence of gender stereotyping, as in ICT (information and computer technology) lessons.The SoundJunction creators believe that computer-based learning is a way to break down this barrier, especially as access to such technologies becomes more widespread. Girls as well as boys are gradually becoming early adopters of new audio technologies thanks to its association with a youthful creative culture. From the popularity of iPods to bands such as 2 Many DJs mixing and mashing tracks on their computer, technology has been given a fashionable facelift."The first thing to do is to send them to a computer so that they can get into the music without having to buy a violin or whatever," says Greenwood. "We are spending a lot of taxpayers' money so it is important to make sure that we are reaching the right audiences, not just middle-class kids who are taking violin lessons."It is an initiative that the government is actively encouraging. About &pound;1m of funding has gone into the SoundJunction project so far, and the Associated Board is one of the signatories to Labour's "music manifesto", which offers a five-point strategy to improve classroom music and give greater access to free or subsidised lessons.One of the first signatories to the scheme was Boom! - an MTV-backed project helping schoolchildren create music videos and hopefully become the next Michel Gondry or Spike Jonze. Now in its second year, Boom! gives free seminars to about 700 schools nationwide, showing ICT, arts and music teachers how to educate students in creating music videos using Adobe software, and how to come up with a good idea and storyboard it. The program is then taught as part of their key stage 3 national curriculum in ICT.The best submissions - based on songs from popular but independent acts such as Brixton-based robot-rockers Clor and American folkster Willy Mason - will be named at an awards ceremony in December and be broadcast on MTV.When James Scroggs, vice president in charge of marketing at MTV, states passionately, "We're doing this for good, philanthropic and educational reasons", you believe him, despite the corporate versus counter-culture clash at MTV. The make-or-break music channel that is loved by teens across the world has found a potent mix of cool and critical acclaim to give kids a step up on the ladder to creative success."We didn't doubt for a second that if you approached the average 13-16-year-old kid and asked them if they wanted you to show them how to make a pop video, they would jump at the chance," says Scroggs. "The hardest part was convincing some of the teachers."Wide appealBut convince them they did, and the programme has now doubled the number of schools it screens at in just one year. As for reaching all the right students - the ones who could really benefit from a foot in the oft-closed music industry door -Scroggs has faith in MTV's wide appeal. "This project getting endorsed by people like Jamelia broadens the appeal of ICT."And there is definitely teen talent out there. "Parlophone was pretty floored by the level of skill and inspiration that these young kids were displaying on screen," says Scroggs. "It's a working example of how private sector can invest in public sector to inspire young people to get into the creative industries."Another signatory to the music manifesto, and equally passionate about making this a true opportunity for all, is London-based music production college Point Blank. It, too, teamed up with a technology company as a new way of reaching a younger, wider audience.Over the past couple of months, Point Blank and mobile phone operator Orange have hosted workshops for 16-21-year-olds in London, Liverpool, Manchester and Glasgow. Selected applicants took part in audio mixing, recording, sampling and editing, as well as mobile remixing on Orange's Fireplayer mobile mixing desk. Tomorrow, the best-performing students will have their tracks aired in front of influential industry representatives, including label giant Sony BMG.Rob Cowan, founder of Point Blank, recognises a class divide in the increasingly corporate music industry but believes that "to an extent, technology is making it a level playing field"."Ten years ago you needed to spend a lot of money going into a studio," Cowan says. "Now anyone with a decent PC or Mac and the right software can make a good piece of music."But unless you are on the front page of iTunes Music Store, what use is it? How do you get access to the record labels? The music industry is still hard to break into. Middle-class bands know how to play the game; it is all about education and contacts."Hopefully programs such as these will provide just such an education and industry contacts. And the music we are bombarded with every day - from adverts, on radio stations, through ever-ubiquitous digital audio players - will no doubt be better for that teen spirit.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Pro Evolution Soccer 5PC, PS2, PSP, Xbox, Konami, &pound;39.994/5Fifa 2006All major formats, EA Sports, &pound;29.993/5I should make something clear: I have nothing against menus. In the restaurant business a new menu is truly something to boast about, a complete overhaul of the kitchen - even personnel. It informs the diner that the experience of eating at the restaurant will probably change. On the other hand, a new menu on a computer game is just a new menu.Sadly that is the only change most gamers who upgrade their now outdated copy of Pro Evolution Soccer 4 with the fifth instalment will immediately notice. At &pound;39.99, this is the most expensive menu since Heston Blumenthal last discovered a new flavour of ice cream.It is just as well that last year's game was so good, then, for a year of inactivity does not mean that this game is no longer the best. But where Pro Evo 4 was comfortably better than Fifa 2005, the new version sees off its rival only after a nervous period of extra time. It is close enough for me to suggest that current Pro Evo 4 owners consider changing allegiances, if only to avoid another year of Trevor Brooking's "expert" analysis.Konami, Pro Evo 5's developer, boasts about "a number of key additions" - namely more licensed clubs, including Chelsea and Arsenal, and online play in all versions. Fortunately the more you play the more innovations you will spot, which is just as well as the game is superficially identical to its predecessor."Refined gameplay" is promised, and the goalkeepers have improved, claiming crosses with more authority and throwing the ball longer, quicker and more accurately. Sadly the referees have got worse, awarding free kicks for petty fouls. I've also spotted an improvement to the animation of players' first touches, the possibility of players being injured in minor incidents, and an abundance of wayward crosses and through-balls - not every innovation is an improvement, but they at least bring fresh challenges.Novelty valueIt is not hard to tell what is new in the latest instalment of EA Sports' rival soccer series, Fifa 06: the instructions booklet is helpfully littered with large blocks emblazoned with the word "new". Novelties include the ability to man mark, dummies and dinked penalties, team chemistry ratings and players being assigned different styles of play, allowing you to quickly tell the difference between a "clinical striker" and a "midfield maestro".EA has also added a liberal sprinkling of extras. Background music is the most obvious. Always one of the strong points of the Fifa franchise, the jukebox has been updated with an impressive selection of sounds, including Bloc Party, Hard-Fi, Royksopp and Jamiroquai, an offering incomparable with the solitary tune that Pro Evo plans to pester you with for the next 12 months.There is an interview (in Spanish) with the Barcelona striker Samuel Eto'o, about how he loves playing Fifa but is rubbish at it and always loses. There are great goals from Premiership history, including goal-of-the-season efforts from Paolo di Canio, Wayne Rooney and Tony Yeboah. And you can play Fifa 94, which is totally rubbish.Thankfully the latest version is several steps up the footballing food chain, but it still a few steps down from its rival. The matches, a few new tricks aside, look much the same as last year. Goals tend to come from unsightly goalmouth scrambles or weak headers under onrushing keepers. Or at least mine do.The commentary, with Clive Tyldesley and Andy Gray, is wonderful. While Pro Evo 5 offers the same limited intro to almost every game, Fifa offers impressive variety - play Real Madrid against Barcelona and you get a discourse on the nature of the two clubs' rivalry and an introduction to Catalan culture.And the commentators can (and do) refer to players by name, even in the Championship - a level of squad realism that is only slightly dampened by the fact that teams are up to date as of August 24, annoyingly just one week before the transfer window closed. Pro Evo has never pretended to be so realistic, and is happy to give many players amusing similar-but-a-bit-different names rather than pay to use real ones. But this isn't fun any more: a couple of years ago gamers could easily work out that Craff was Cruyff or Perles was Pele. Now Maradona has become Malgani, for example, while the only way anyone can work out that Chiringbone is Bobby Charlton is by spotting his combover.Star playersIt is just as well that Pro Evo 5 is so beautifully animated that players can be recognised through other means: the angle of David Beckham's left foot as he strikes a free kick; Robbie Keane's goal celebration; Simon Burnton's 30-yard piledriver. Oh yes, both titles allow you to create your own players, though for all Fifa's options - you can adjust the width of your jaw, the size of your nose and the angle at which your ears protrude from your head - I think I look more like me in Pro Evolution.So Konami's title wins again: but this might be its final year of positive reviews. In football, being the best can never be taken for granted. After Chelsea won the Premiership they spent &pound;45m on Shaun Wright-Phillips and Michael Essien. Damien Duff, whose place in the team was jeopardised by the arrivals, celebrated signings that would "keep everyone on their toes".I fear that Konami spent the last year not so much on its toes as on its arse. Another season of sloth, and relegation will beckon.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I remember when I bought my first mobile phone. I wasn't convinced that I needed it, but finally I succumbed to the pressure of my peers.I recall the words of the shop assistant - the lucky woman who made it to the final sale after three employees had crowded around me as soon as I'd walked in. "Now you've got it, you'll wonder how you lived without it," she smiled. I smiled back, thinking she was a sad lunatic. "It's really just for emergencies," I replied with just a hint of pity.Six years on, and I am constantly clutching my state-of-the-art piece of technology, forever fretful of losing it - you should see my insurance bill, chosen under the deluded assumption that I may want to cancel my contract "at any time" - and checking it regularly in case of unheard calls or messages. What's more, I've morphed into the type of person I previously despised. I phone people while I'm on the train, just to chat. I once even used the phrase, "I'm just touching base."Before mobile phones, people turned up on time. People carried photos of loved ones in their wallets. I try to retain some aspects of my past, sociable self, and remain punctual, thus often emerging from the tube to my phone merrily alerting me to an apologetic message from a friend who's running late.Selecting a new phone earlier this year, I chose something technologically advanced and quite lovely to look at. When I paraded it in front of my friends, one muttered dreamily: "You know, if I had this I might be happy." I loaded it with ringtones, recorded soundbites and pictures. After 32 days, it refused to switch on. My heart sank. I took it to the store and after queuing for 20 minutes - how times have changed - was told that although it could be fixed, I'd have to wait at least two weeks and everything I had loaded would be lost. Yet oddly, upon being relieved of it I felt a curious sense of having been reborn.After being reassured by the shop assistant (whose phone was also incidentally at the mechanic's), that modern models crash all the time, I was given an ugly replacement - a phone that offered talk and text only. There was one big button to answer, close, select. The simplicity was as refreshing as stepping into a cool shower after a long hot day.Put plainly, my trick-turning mobile is too sophisticated for its own good, and as a consequence has displaced any social sophistication I may have had. I have since collected my phone, whose ring volume now fluctuates randomly from silent to deafening. I can't face the rigmarole of getting it repaired again. I've dug out my trusty old colourless, monophonic mobile. And I've dug out my photos.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The New York Times has run a story headlinedIs Imitation Flattery, Theft or Just Coincidence?The gist of the story is that the iPod ad featuring Eminem looks like a bit of a rip off of a three-year-old ad flogging Lugz boots. Apple's ad agency, TBWA/Chiat/Day, said: "We can assure you that the 'Detroit' spot was created without any reference by TBWA/Chiat/Day to the 'Arrow' spot," and that "any resemblance between the commercials was 'disappointing and surprising' as well as 'regrettable'."Comment:Although all this might sound trivial: something really important is at stake: accusations like this can count against an agency when it comes to winning advertising awards....
Microsoft has joined the Open Content Alliance (OCA) launched by Yahoo, HP, Adobe and several libraries, reportsReuters. The OCA is being presented as an open alternative to theGoogle Printprogramme that is being attacked in the courts. According to Reuters:Danielle Tiedt, general manager of Microsoft's MSN Search, said the world's largest software maker would fund the digital duplication of 150,000 old books over the next year."This is just the start," Brewster Kahle, founder of the Internet Archive and the organizing force behind the OCA. "One hundred and fifty thousand books is just an initial test for Microsoft," he said.Comment:Looks like a case of 'my enemy's enemy is my friend...'. However, since it's clearly pointless to digitise everything twice, the smart move for Google would simply be to join the OCA itself.
I have many important documents and photos in JPEG format that I'd like to password protect. I am running Microsoft Windows XP but there seems to be no way to do this. John ThompsonIn Windows XP Pro, you can right click an image (or other file), and select Properties. Go down to Attributes and click the button that says Advanced. The lowest of the four options says: Encrypt contents to secure data. However, I'd suggest this feature is in the 10-foot bargepole category: I wouldn't use it.However, there are independent programs that will do the job, such asJpegGuardandCryptaPix 2.24. There are other optionshere.Alternatively you can passord protect any file you like using a compression program such as WinRAR -- or protect a whole folder full -- or use a more general encryption program such as Magic Folders.
SoPro Evolution Soccer 5then, how is it for you? Personally, I'm really enjoying it. The players feel more solid and grounded, using their bodies to shield the ball. Passing is more difficult and hence more satisfying, while scoring offers the same joyous head rush as before. The Master League is as arcanely addictive as ever while the option that allows you to keep a running tally of results against a friend is a simple and effective addition. Generally then, PES5 lives up to the hype and deserves its praise. However, take the game online and things go downhill.The game is still excessively laggy, despite changes that swop host at the break and allow at least one half of decent action. When you consider the relatively lag-free action of most Live games – I've not tried PES5 on PS2 online yet - then it becomes even more frustrating.Then there is the whole ranking system. It is more representative than before – the guy at the top isn't just the one who has played the most games – but is still overly confusing and flawed. For example, it is easy to lose all your accumulated points simply by being defeated a couple of times in a row. Sure, you can play friendly matches where points are not at stake, but in my experience this has simply led to players competing in these rather than risking depleting their coveted points tally. Also the rush for ranking points means everyone still tends to pick from the same dull selection of top clubs.The biggest disappointment though is the "co-operative mode". In theory this sounded fantastic – pair up with a friend and compete against another pair, 2v2, in the finest footy game around. For a lot of people this would have been the killer app of Pro Evo online. Ridiculously though this option is only available if the two players are sat in front of the same Xbox – players can't team up with someone unless they are in the same room. You could almost hear the groan on Live last Friday as this became apparent. What makes it worse is that the first Xbox Live footy game – the mediocreEngland International Football- not only allowed open co-op play, but also allowed 2 strangers to team up and play against the AI teams. So whatever excuse Konami have for not enabling proper co-op is pretty much redundant.Of course, if you get a relatively lag free match then the quality of the game makes for some stellar entertainment. However this only tends to highlight how good Pro Evo 5 online could be if Konami had done it properly.
For the past 11 years, on the last Friday of the month, cyclists numbering from a few score to, sometimes, several hundred have gathered near Waterloo bridge in London at 6pm. When some kind of quorum is achieved, they ride around en masse for a couple of hours before dispersing. There is no planned route, no identifiable leader, and no explicit political aim.Critical Mass, as this "unorganised coincidence" is known, is organised enough to have a website - but only to insist that it is not a protest; more a fun ride to "assert our identity as cyclists". If you're interested, there is probably a Critical Mass near you; many UK cities have one. I've only joined the London ride once. There was an exhilarating carnival spirit, but after an hour or so, I felt I'd got the idea and pedalled off.Until now, the ride has enjoyed benign policing designed to minimise its impact on other traffic. But last month, officers - themselves on bikes - handed out leaflets explaining that, in future, if the Metropolitan police was not informed in advance about the ride, then it would be deemed an "unlawful demonstration" and participants "liable to arrest". This Friday will be the first test of the "get tough" stance, but it has already drawn criticism, notably from the mayor's road safety ambassador. In an open letter to Sir Ian Blair, Jenny Jones criticises such "heavy-handed application" of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act (2005). According to the Met's public order branch, she says, Critical Mass does not meet the criteria for a political demonstration.What could have inspired such folly? Sadly, the Met seems to be copying the NYPD's crackdown on Critical Mass, which began in August 2004 when the Republican National Convention came to New York. Some 237 cyclists were arrested. Across the bridge, Brooklyn Critical Mass continues, but in Manhattan, a ritualistic game of cat and mouse between cops and massers has taken place ever since - a costly lesson in how little can be achieved by pointlessly macho policing.Zero tolerance: the most overrated concept of our age.
Some of you may be aware ofPledgebank, the website where you can pledge your time, money or support for various causes - we've written about itbefore, and lent our support to apledgeled by Danny O'Brien to help set up a Britishdigital rights organisation.But MySociety, the team behind the site, have long been interested in how they might help the site expand and get used in other countries like America.Well here's one way - Chris Anderson, the curator of theTEDconferences and the founder of Future Publishing,is offering $1,000 for the best pledge:I pledge to give $1000 to the person with the best eyepopping pledge idea offered here by the end of October, provided more than 5 people contribute an idea.Tom Steinberg, the director of MySociety, seems pleased - he dropped us a line to say that this gesture took him pretty much by surprise, but could raise the profile. "PledgeBank's gone pretty well so far anyway, but this is a lovely offer which should produce some good stuff," he said.
For years, we've been subjected to the ear-grinding Intel chimes - bing-bong-bing-bing! - being slapped willy nilly over pretty much any computer advert that hits the public.Now I notice a fresh campaign from the giant chip-makers, in which a variety of celebrities from different fields pose with "real users" in order to show the breadth of media that Intel chips let you enjoy. You can watch the adshereif you want, courtesy of our friends atMediaGuardian.co.uk(there's a classic piece of acting from football star Michael Owen).I'm convinced that those four notes have boosted Intel's brand awareness and helped its dominance in the market, despite the clanky nature. After all, a lot of computer advertising is pretty rubbish.Here's a question, though. When Apple switches to Intel chips next year, are we going to see the "Intel Inside" music chirp into Apple spots? After all, if there's one company who are paranoid about their image and wouldn't want a carefully-constructed advert to be interrupted, it's the clan from Cupertino. But then again, assuming the change goes well, they'll want to publicise it.Perhaps they'll build a campaign that combines both: can we expect a silhouetted Steve Jobs breakdancing to the Intel Chimes Remix?
There are dozens of ways to track or grab odd web pages that you want to remember ... butKaboodlemight be the first one I actually use for more than a few days. It's dead easy: you just install a link that says "Add To Kaboodle" on your links bar, and click it when you're at a page you want to remember. You then get taken to Kaboodle, which lets you add a tag (eg Google, as in my example below) and rate or comment on the site, before it returns you to where you were. The next time you want to remember a site, you can add it to your current list (in this case, Google) or start a new one (cookery, or whatever). You can keep lists private or publish them so other people can use the links, or vote on sites.There's a step-by-step guide here.The choice of name may be a bit unfortunate -- this is not the first Kaboodle -- but it's the sort of site that could make a lot of ordinary users happy.Update:As Andy Simons has pointed out in a comment, there's a very similar beta service athttp://wists.com. Om Malik has some interesting comments about their use for shopping inThe Whole Kit &amp; Kaboodle.
Thisarticle in Boing Boing caught gamesblog's attention the other day: a Katamari Damacy player used a fan to rig up a gadget which gave him the edge to retrieve one million roses (and a bonus screen from the King of All Cosmos) in the collect-em-up title. This got me thinking. What other lengths have people gone to in order to get a high score? Someone in my house once made a contraption with a rubber band and a PS2 controller so he could go to the pub while the machine did the work for him on Gran Tourismo's endurace races. This same person was also inclined to let Mario Party play with 4 computer-controlled characters so he could come back to a full library of unlocked mini-games. Then there are those who buy online game characters on internet auction sites fromgold farmingoperations just so they didn't have to do the work.Cheating or not? ResearchersMia ConsalvoandRenReynoldsmight have a few things to say about it.Regardless, what lengths have you gone to for a high score?
Motorists are being misled by official car fuel consumption figures and could end up paying much more to run their car than they expect, it was revealed today.Some statistics saying how many miles a vehicle does to the gallon are as much as 20% too high, according to checks made by Auto Express magazine.And some owners who were told their car could do 40 miles to the gallon are finding it will only do 30 miles.The magazine said it had checked consumption figures produced by car manufacturers, based on a government-approved test covering a mix of driving in town, country and on motorways.These figures appear in new car sales brochures and handbooks."The official test is carried out on a mechanical rolling road and bears no comparison to real-life driving on UK roads," said David Johns, editor of Auto Express."Our test team discovered that on average cars are around 17-20% less economical than the official claims. This discrepancy could end up costing drivers hundreds of pounds more than they'd bargained for."He said that official figures showed the UK's best-selling car - the Ford Focus - would do 55.4 miles per gallon (mpg) on the open road, but that the magazine had discovered the actual figure was 23.3% lower at 42.5mpg.Mr Johns added: "For someone covering 20,000 miles each year this represents an extra &#163;240 on fuel."Fiat's popular Panda, which is supposed to return 76.3mpg out of town, really only manages 58mpg. That's a difference of 24% or &#163;268 a year."Our report proves that current economy figures are at best misleading. The tests aren't representative of how the average person drives."A spokeswoman for the Department for Transport (DFT) said the tests were carried out according to standards that were common across the EU and were designed only to give guidance to drivers."It's a way of comparing the fuel consumption of similar types of cars, but we don't ever claim that they're exact," she said.She added that the DFT had produced tips for drivers who were keen to cut down on fuel consumption and the cost of running their cars. These can be found on itswebsite.
Wired has a long article by by Frank Rose aboutmusic on mobiles, and in particular, the conflict around the Motorola ROKR/Apple iTunes phone. The intro says:Consumers want an iPod phone that will play any song, anytime, anywhere. Just four little problems: the cell carriers, the record labels, the handset makers, and Apple itself. The inside story of why the ROKR went wrong.* (*And what it will take to make a truly rocking music phone.)But the crux of the story is the same old thing that many people have been saying for years:Which brings us back to Apple. In the end, what's surprising about the Moto ROKR is not that carriers resisted it but that it is so short on innovation. Instead of creating new possibilities, as the [Nokia] N91 does, the ROKR allows FairPlay to close them off. Why won't Apple open iTunes by licensing FairPlay to a wide range of manufacturers? "That's a good question for Steve Jobs," replies Alberto Moriondo, a Motorola executive who helped lead the development of the ROKR. (Jobs declined to be interviewed for this story.) Another handset person says he asked the same question in a meeting with Apple execs, only to have them roll their eyes and mutter, "If only …"Jobs' refusal to license FairPlay is reminiscent of his refusal to license the Macintosh operating system to other hardware manufacturers back in the '80s - a key factor in the Mac's dismal 2.5% market share today. Over time, open standards inevitably win out. "If Apple continues to rely on a proprietary architecture," says Clayton Christensen, Harvard Business School professor and author of The Innovator's Dilemma, "the iPod will likely become a niche product." Anyone doubting that need only consider that Microsoft is licensing its DRM to all comers, at prices that are hard to refuse.
Time magazine has produced a list ofthe all-time 100 great novelspublished in the English language since 1923, and it seems a reasonable collection, as these things go. What's interesting is that it includes a few "geek novels" such as Philip K Dick's Ubik, William Gibson's Neuromancer and Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash. I'd expect any self-respecting geek to have read these books, but have they really reached an "all time greats" market that includes Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind and Vladimir Nabokov's Pale Fire?So, what are the top 20 greatest "geek reads" since 1923? I think they have to be brain-challenging, but do they have to have a science fiction or fantasy element? Do they have to have any literary merit?Update:When I posted this, I offered a quick dozen suggestions, in alphabetical order. One reason was that I wanted to include some things that were clearly not (or not conventionally) science fiction. Another was that there are, unfortunately, a heck of a lot of good books I haven't read, and it seems to me quite likely that whatever the "top 20 greatest geek reads" might be, I won't have read half of them. I've now expanded the list based on some of the comments:Brave New World -- Aldous Huxley Catch 22 -- Joseph Heller Cloud Atlas -- David Mitchell The Diamond Age -- Neal Stephenson Foundation -- Isaac Asimov Giles Goat-Boy -- John Barth The HitchHiker's Guide to the Galaxy -- Douglas Adams The Illuminatus! Trilogy -- Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson The Left Hand of Darkness -- Ursula K Le Guin The Man in the High Castle -- Philip K Dick Neuromancer -- William Gibson Nineteen Eighty-Four -- George Orwell Orlando -- Virgina Woolf The Shockwave Rider -- John Brunner Snow Crash -- Neal Stephenson Stand on Zanzibar -- John Brunner Stranger in a Strange Land -- Robert Heinlein Woman on the Edge of Time -- Marge PiercyI'm in two minds about Ender's Game byOrson Scott Card. It's a brilliant story, no doubt about that. Orson is also geeky enough -- in the 80s, he even worked for a computer magazine to which I contributed. But Ender's Game is a straightforward story with a twist. It doesn't force you to keep rewriting your mental maps, like, say, The Eye in the Pyramid.
Nintendo has licensed a handwriting recognition technology for its DS handheld. Previously,Decumahas only been available for mobile phones and PDAs, allowing busy execs to scribble notes onto the screen and watch in quiet amazement as their hurried gobbledegook is turned into recognisable alphabetic characters. So what does Nintendo want with it?"As the leading provider of handheld video game systems in the world, Nintendo has a reputation for adopting innovative technologies that improve the user's experience with its products," said Milos Djokovic, chief technical officer and chief operating officer, Zi Corporation, the developer of Decuma. So, once installed on DS (presumably via firmware update) will it be used in word processing or social apps like Pictochat, or can we expect handwriting to form a component of forthcoming games? Actually, Nintendo has already toyed with handwriting recognition in its Japanese title, DS Rakubiki Jiten, a dictionary program launched earlier this year - but with this license, the company clearly has something more ambitious in mind.Personally, I'd like to see a handwriting version ofTyping of the Dead, where you had to defeat zombies by typing amusingly innocuous phrases onto the Dreamcast, PC or coin-op keyboard. It would also work brilliantly in a Sprung-style dating game, where you'd have to write neat love letters or risk romantic humiliation.Any more?
If you had asked me if I was a dog person a week ago, I would have looked at you incredulously. But that was before someone handed me a little silver box and my heart softened towards the entire canine community. Well, the ones with a volume control and an off switch. Actually, I haven't warmed to dogs at all: I have warmed to Nintendogs.Not just a neatly packaged game of virtual puppies, Nintendogs became a phenomenon when it was launched in Europe three weeks ago, selling 160,000 copies in the first weekend alone. In Japan and the US (where it has sold 1.5m copies), events have even sprung up where players virtually pet each other's puppies.Like the Tamagotchi electronic pet before it, Nintendogs is a simulation of living creatures - and it's just like looking after a real creature except with none of the normal flaws, no real responsibility and no possibility of meaningful interaction. Think of Big Brother, but with even more panting.Played on a Nintendo DS, a handheld games console with added microphone, you have to teach your cyber-puppy everything - absolutely everything - by talking to it. You buy a dog, take it home, pet it and teach it its name. My dog, which I called Graham, took about 40 attempts to grasp his handle. This can cause difficulties as in order to endear yourself to your pet, you must estrange yourself from your loved ones. Nobody wants to spend an evening with someone whose best attempt at conversation is saying "Graham" repeatedly, in a sing-song voice.After teaching the puppy its name, the real training begins. You take your Nintendog for walks, stop it eating rubbish, play fetch and occasionally watch it urinate. Luckily, you can call the commands whatever you please, as long as you use the same intonation every time. A sharp Woodhousean "Sit down!" brings satisfaction at first, but soon base instincts take over, and a repeated cry of "Paris Hilton!" will have Graham wantonly rolling over, while "Halliwell!" produces a high-pitched whine. My pup is now adept at the "Jamie Oliver" and can hold his "cabinet member" for over 15 seconds!Pixelated-puppy-poking may seem like a pointless pursuit, but kids love Nintendogs - especially those whose traditional interests are boy bands and the colour pink. While some boys might cherish the care-and-nurture angle of the game, surely more will be disappointed that you can never really make them fight.But while other girls are crazy for the fake-dogs, my hopes are pinned on Nintencats, a sequel rumoured to be in the pipeline. Paying for a digital pet that pointedly ignores me most of the time; now that really does appeal.
Yes, Europe may have had to wait months for the PSP but hey, at least we got theGizmondofirst. This was, of course, absolutely no compensation whatsoever. The handheld gaming/multimedia wotsit has finally launched in the US, apparently to an "enthusiastic reception". What this means for the future of the device stateside remains to be seen, but UScommentatorsaren't exactly beside themselves with excitement. And can you blame them?
IBM has been showing off the Xbox processor at the Fall Processor Forum being held now in San Jose, California (Oct. 25-26). And according to various reports, some interesting things have emerged. First, there's a second source -- Chartered Semiconductor -- which has been involved with the CPU development, and is now manufacturing chips. Second, according to Business Week's story,Inside IBM's Xbox Chip: "Microsoft will own the rights to the chip, says IBM Vice-President James Comfort."The chip was developed specifically for Microsoft, and as such IBM won't sell it to any other customers. That's in contrast to the arrangement for IBM's Cell Processor, which is going into Sony's PlayStation 3 console but is also being used in other specialty computer systems.It would be interesting to know exactly what Microsoft's rights comprise.According to Dean Takahashi's more detailed account at theMercury News:Ilan Spillinger, an IBM distinguished engineer who ran a lot of the design implementation effort, said that IBM was willing to create custom instructions for Microsoft's microprocessor. Microsoft chip veterans Larry Yang, Jeff Andrews and Nick Baker -- former 3DO hardware engineers who joined Microsoft through the WebTV acquisition -- told IBM exactly what they needed the chip to do. In fact, that's why IBM's top engineer on the project is considered the "chief engineer," while Microsoft's Jeff Andrews is considered the chief architect.Ah yes, the3DO. This was a interactive multimedia games console, much better than anything else around at the time (1993-94), albeit at a very high price ($700 or so). But even this was going to be surpassed by the3DO M2, which was going to be based on the IBM PowerPC 602 processor....The 3DO flopped and the M2 never appeared. Jeff Andrews must be hoping history doesn't repeat itself....
Controversial developerKuma Reality Games, a studio that creates shoot-'em-up missions accurately based around real-life military situations, has whipped up more controversy with the latest addition to its Kuma/War game,US Attacks Iran. Here, gamers get to storm an Iranian nuclear facility in what Kuma claims is "an extremely plausible scenario for delaying or destroying Iran's nuclear arms capabilities without kick-starting World War III".Accordingto CNN, however, Iran isn't best pleased, calling for the game to be removed from Kuma's website - there's even an online petition to the same effect.Here, once again, is an old question. Can games be like movies - using an entertainment medium to explore real-world situations and to educate? Or does the interactive element immediately make such videogames exploitative? Iran would seem to sway toward the latter point of view. For their part, Kuma Reality Games are extremely careful about discussing the politics or intentions of their games (withgood reason), repeating the mantra that the aim is authenticity. They prefer, it would seem, to leave it up to the general public to draw their own conclusions from the data. Come to think of it, that kind of thinking has no place in the real-world...
Is there a way of controlling access to a broadband connection? It's a parental discipline thing. Being able to ration the amount of time per day would be good. This is with XP Home, but thinking about upgrading to Pro. David MooreThis kind of software appeals to schools, libraries, small businesses etc as well as parents, so there is quite a lot of it about. However, it's more than a decade since I looked at any of these programs, so I don't know which is best. (Please comment below if you are using one.)Examples include CodeWork'sBrowseControl,Net Nanny, KidsWatchTime Control, Akrontech'sEnuff, Cogilab'sSurfPass, andSentry PC.Please report back if you try any. Lot's of people are interested in parental control software!
The word's smallest car is upon us. And it is not the Cinquecento. Scientists at Rice University in Houston, Texas, have built a nanocar, made out of a single molecule which, despite its size, has a chassis, two axles and four wheels. Not a huge specification but worth a test drive none the less.It has been eight years in development (about twice as long as Mercedes-Benz's latest technological tour de force, the S class) and is the next step in science's quest to conquer the world at an atomic level. The whole point, you see, is to have a vehicle capable of something even the Transit van can't manage - moving atoms around.Unsurprisingly, then, when you first approach the nanocar, you are struck by its size. Or rather lack of it. Because you can't see it without stupendously powerful magnification. At about three nanometres across, there are drawbacks and benefits. The downside is that no matter how much you move the seat back, you always feel a little cramped. The upside is that parking is no problem: you can get 20,000 nanocars side by side on the width of a human hair. Although you'll still come back to find a scooter rammed in between yours and the one next door.I'm told there are several molecule "cars" made by rival manufacturers, but this one has a distinct advantage over the competition - its wheels actually roll, rather than slide. At each corner are 60 atoms of carbon assembled rather like a football - "bucky-balls" - and frankly their road-holding is exemplary. In fact, at room temperature, the road-holding is perfect; try what you like, the nanocar won't move. It's only when the surface is warmed up to 200C that the wheels are freed from their atomic bond to the road and the nanocar springs into life. Just as in the world of full-size car making, the makers are already thinking of alternative means of powering it (though it is believed to have excitingly low carbon dioxide emissions already). The Rice team is working on an engine, made of a handful of sulphur and carbon atoms, that runs on light.Nanocars sound like the ultimate city vehicles - particularly useful in the capital, being small enough to dodge parking wardens and the congestion charge. But the nanocar can only drive on a surface made of gold. And the streets of London are paved with many things, but gold ain't one of them.&#183;Tiff Needell presents Fifth Gear on Channel 5
I'm back from the States with an arsenal of new gaming experiences from the U.S. of A. Crazy Yanks. Gosh, they game differently. No, I'm not just talking about genres here, I mean the mainstream treatment of games. Here're a few examples that go beyond staggered release dates:Gaming on TVTheir games channelG4is huge, garnering a substantial audience. But it's not just the channel which projects games culture into the living rooms of today's 'merican youth. Games advertising is everywhere, filling up the copious space between segments of main network television programmes. It's as if - gasp - they take itseriously."World of Warcraft is the new golf"...or so saidRichard Bartletoday at theDigital Identity Forum(quotingTerra Nova). Turns out that the best way to climb the corporate ladder in US business isn't to share details of your latest traipse across the green with your boss, but to compare notes about your latest expoits in the virtual world.Games shops stinkI almost passed out the first dedicated games store I went into. I tried a couple more to make sure I wasn't jumping to conclusions. Compared to the British stores which we haunt, the American equivalents are small, cramped, dusty, sticky and seriously smell like wee. With this kind of public face, it's humiliating to tell anyone that you're a games journalist in case they think you actually condone this kind of behaviour. Ew.It's OK for the Governator to support silver screen senseless violence, but videogame violence is a no-no'Nuff said.Pong creator has credNolan Bushnell, creator of Pong, Chuck E. Cheese andthe (more grown up) gaming cafeis the new Simon Cowell. He's hosting an X-Factor style show about entrepreneurs calledMade in the USA.Has anyone noticed other differences?
Seekport started in Germany with a search engine launched in June last year. This year it has added local search sites for theUK, Italy and Spain, and now it's looking for customers. And that's not just web users. Although Seekport sells sponsored links (very clearly identified links), it also offers a sort of "white label" search facility to other sites. Examples include German newspapers such asDie WeltandHamburger Abendblatt.What makes Seekport different is that it employs human editors to tweak the results. Obviously they aren't going to look at 8 billion sites, but they can tag a site as, for example, a "trusted blog", and that moves its content up the rankings. Clicking the red Blog button in the blue-gray header will show just the blog results. There are also icons for news and reference results.Finally, there's a radio button forFocus on one topic. Click that and you get a selection of search channels such as Government &amp; Politics and Entertainment &amp; Culture.With the search market turning into a huge battle between two 800lb gorillas,GoogleandYahoo, which now have pretty much equivalent offerings, it's going to be tough to get much attention. But the "white label" idea could work.
No really, stick with me on this one - just for a few minutes. I'm working on something mobile gaming related at the moment, which affords me the opportunity to survey the current state of the industry in quite some depth. And while there are still a lot of retro conversions, a lot of solitaire and poker games, and a few quite awful console translations, I've seen several truly enticing titles that seem to have come out of another dimension of thought - not a radically different dimension, just a dimension where designers consider the format for a while before, you know, writing the games...For example, I like the look of InfoSpace's forthcoming Dirty Sanchez title (pictured, above left) - a selection of mini-games where you pass the phone between you and your mates (probably 'down the pub') and carry out dubious challenges. All Back To Mime for example, gets you to mime an action - if no one guesses what you're doing, you have to perform a forfeit suggested by the game, if someone guesses wrong,theyget the forfeit. It's sort of like Cranium meets spin the bottle. And you can edit the challenges to make them dirtier if you like...Anyway, the graphics have real style and the whole thing has this unabashed simplicity - it knows it's stupid, it doesn't seem to care.I also like a couple of puzzlers coming out of Digital Chocolate - or more specifically, its European studio, Sumea. FotoQuest Fishing for example, has you swimming around a realistic underwater landscape taking pictures of various creatures, which you can then put in a digital snap book (or email them to friends). Remember Polaroid Pete on PSone? This is a more innocent version. It's for kids obviously, but too few games actually employ phone functionality, so I like it.More obviously appealing is TowerBloxx (pictured, above right), which claims to combine Sim City with Tetris. The aim is to construct these precarious skyscrapers using different blocks - the higher you build them, the more tiny people move in. You can then post your highest population counts to an online server. The gameplay requires just one button. It looks funny. It isn't a conversion of a hit movie or PS2 game.Meanwhile, 3 islaunchingperhaps the world's first 3D real-time multiplayer mobile games. Whoever saw that coming? Okay they'll probably run at five frames-per-second and will be impossible to adequately control on a teeny mobile phone keypad, but you have to hand it to 3 - they reallydolike to play.Mobile gaming, eh? It's getting there slowly. They just have to figure out where exactly 'there' is.
I'm still getting "Server Error" messages forGoogle Base. However,Tony Ruscoe's blogreckons that if I could get the page, it would read as follows:"Google Base is Google's database into which you can add all types of content. We'll host your content and make it searchable online for free.Examples of items you can find in Google Base:* Description of your party planning service* Articles on current events from your website* Listing of your used car for sale* Database of protein structuresYou can describe any item you post with attributes, which will help people find it when they search Google Base. In fact, based on the relevance of your items, they may also be included in the main Google search index and other Google products like Froogle and Google Local."Update:According to an email sent by Google toGary Price at Search Engine Watch.This is an early-stage test of a product that enables content owners to easily send their content to Google. Like our web crawl and the recently released Google Sitemaps program, we are working to provide content owners an easy way to give us access to their content. We're continually exploring new opportunities to expand our offerings, but we don't have anything to announce at this time.This post has lots of links to coverage that appeared during the day.
Forget the quality of games or the price in the store, if you see yourself as an "ethical" shopper then your decision about which games console to buy has apparently been made for you. According toEthical Consumermag, it is Nintendo's GameCube and DS which should be topping your shopping list, presumably with aFairtradejoypad or two. Ignore the fact the Gamecube is essentially in hibernation until Twilight Princess and read on.Nintendo scored an 'ethiscore' of 10.5/20 - Sony and Microsoft scored 6.5. These scores rate companies on their corporate responsibility - so working with oppressive regimes and abusing workers rights do little to help the score. But a closer look at the console buyers guide in the magazine suggests that violent games scored less, and this may have swung the vote in Nintendo's more child-friendly direction.So if you consider yourself an ethical consumer - or maybe aNew Puritan? - and also a gamer, is Nintendo the only choice? Or is this, in fact, a carefully targetted press release aimed at the Guardian's traditional readership and actually nonsense.
"Google has reintroduced their Google Web Accelerator with a vengeance. It was evil enoughthe first time around, but this time it's downright scary," says David on the37signals blog.In version 1.0, web masters at least had a fighting chance as the GWA identified its requests with a "X-moz: prefetch" header (as prescribed by Mozilla). Sure, everyone in the world had to change their web applications to fit Google's vision of a perfect world, but at least they could.Not so for version 2.0 of this virus. It ships with a brand new mutation: The header is gone! There's now no way to identify a pre-fetch from a regular request, which means that it's no longer possible to block the GWA.Comment:The comments to the post show there are at least two sides to the argument. What isn't discussed are the possibly dramatic effects of decisions that Google can make internally and unilaterally, without any visible discussion.
This isn't news, considering Google co-founder Sergey Brin has already said it wasn't going to happen, but there has been so much silly speculation that it's worth repeating. NoweWeek reportsthat "Sources close to the joint efforts between Google Inc and Sun Microsystems Inc say rampant speculation about hosted desktop productivity offerings and common operating systems is way off base.""A hosted desktop productivity offering has not been well-received when it has been tried in the past, and those have been beset with problems, including a lack of network bandwidth and speed," said one source. "There are also currently quite a number of existing user options, from Microsoft Office and Microsoft Works to Corel's WordPerfect Office, Sun's StarOffice and the free OpenOffice.org, so what benefit would a hosted offering bring?"
"A Hong Kong man has been convicted of movie internet piracy in what is believed to be the first case involving BitTorrent file-sharing software," reportsBBC News."Chan Nai-ming was found guilty of copyright infringement for distributing three Hollywood blockbusters using BitTorrent, said a court official."
The New York Times website has agreat article(log-in required) concerning Peter Jackson's extremely close involvement with the videogame conversion of his forthcoming King Kong movie. Apparently, the director, a keen gamer, was especially enthusiastic about the project as it's being handled by Ubi Soft's Michel Ancel, previously responsible for the cult adventure title, Beyond Good and Evil (a favourite of Jackson and many readers of this blog - see the comments to my'Great games without sequels'post).Jackson apparently shipped key members of the game's design team over to New Zealand and gave them dense background info on the film, introducing new creatures and discussing design features he'd like to see in the interactive version of his giant gorilla interpretation.Perhaps almost as interesting, though, were comments regarding EA, the publisher behind the Lord of the Rings videogame conversions...According to the article:Mr. Jackson, said close associates, chafed at his dealings with the industry heavyweight, Electronic Arts, during the making of the Lord of the Rings games. "Electronic Arts was not interested in input from the filmmaker," but later marketed the games as if he were closely involved, said Ken Kamins, Mr. Jackson's manager.Oh EA, youarenaughty.I'm not sure that director involvement in game tie-ins is going to be the panacea that the article almost makes it out to be. Jackson, for example, seems to see the game as a means of fleshing out the Kong universe - just as Enter The Matrix was an extension of that movie trilogy's through-story... But should games have to fulfill this role? Should they become another plaything of the obsessively controlling auteur overseeing his lucrative multimedia brand?Or should they just try to be good interactive entertainment? I don't remember Rare worrying about how their GoldenEye conversion could bulk out the movie's story, but that turned out pretty well, didn't it?
Irate iPod nano users have filed a lawsuit against Apple alleging that the firm launched the product knowing the screen of the credit card-sized music player was defective.Consumers have filed a proposed class action lawsuit in California claiming the nano scratched "excessively during normal usage" because its protective plastic resin is too thin. "Apple concealed the defect and advised class members that they would need to purchase additional equipment to prevent the screen from scratching excessively," the complaint said.Apple had no comment yesterday.
US site Private Radio is tracking Google News, and can tell youwhere it gets the storieson its US front page. And Guardian Unlimited is in sixth place in this year's top 25 sources. The Top 10 sites for this year are:1 Reuters 2 Washington Post 3 New York Times 4 Bloomberg 5 ABC News 6 Guardian Unlimited 7 BBC News 8 Los Angeles Times 9 San Francisco Chronicle 10 XinhuaThe list is pretty volatile. For example, the top five for this month so far are1 ABC News 2 Bloomberg 3 New York Times 4 San Jose Mercury News 5 Reuterswith Guardian Unlimited coming eighth, behind BBC News. But I think it's still pretty impressive to have two UK news sources in the top ten.
Microsoft says: "some users of ActiveSync® 4.0 have reported challenges when using the USB connection of their personal computer to connect to a device with Windows Mobile 5.0. In many cases, these challenges are likely caused by interoperability with desktop firewall applications or applications that manage network traffic. These applications appear to conflict with the TCP traffic between a device and the PC."An update for ActiveSync is scheduled to be available in late November, but customers may also resolve the issue manually immediately by visitingwww.microsoft.com/windowsmobile."This issue only affects people with new devices just coming to market and running Windows Mobile 5.0 software, and only when synchronizing directly to a PC when using a USB connection (wireless synchronization via Bluetooth, infra-red or directly to a server or other services are not affected). In Europe, these devices include the Orange SPV M5000, iMate JasJar, iMate K-Jam, T-Mobile Vario, T-Mobile MDA Pro, O2 XDA Exec, O2 XDA Mini S, O2 XDA Phone, FSC Pocket LOOX N500, Dell Axim X51 series, HP PPC series (rx1950, hx2190, hx2490, hx2790), Qtek 9100, Qtek 9000, Qtek 8300, Qtek 8310."
I have been looking for fixes to try and stop the winfixer.exe 2005 pop-up. I can't find it on Microsoft's website, nor on the major anti virus sites. However, the following link raises a grave concernhttp://forums.spywareinfo.com/lofiversion/index.php/t56383.htmlIs winfixer.exe widely regarded as a threat? Mike CharlesWinFixer is sold as "useful utility to scan and fix any system, registry and hard drive errors. It ensures system stability and performance." etc. It's also listed as adware in the eTrust Spyware Encyclopediahere, and a Web search shows there are many users desperate to get rid of it. Maybe there's more than one bit of software called WinFixer, but all this creates enough suspicion to suggest it's best avoided.Looking at successful removals recorded in the various forums, using VundoFix and HiJackThis seems to be a fruitful approach. There's an example with links on the Tom Coyote forum athttp://forums.tomcoyote.org/index.php?showtopic=48520. I haven't tried this myself, but I have used the Tom Coyote forum and found it reliable.Has anyone else suffered from WinFixer problems?
Too Cud To Be True? Photograph: Justin Sullivan/GettySpotted this trinket in theSunday Timesand didn't know whether to be intrigued or appalled.Farmers have teamed up with scientists to create a farm where the cows choose when they want to be milked using automated booths.The new parlour, developed in Holland, is already in use on several British farms. Manned by robots, the system is said to be so efficient that the farmer can even go on holiday and allow the animals to look after themselves.Supporters of the system say it not only saves time and money but shows "respect" to the cows by allowing them to manage their own lives. Opponents claim it is the ultimate in "factory farming".So it's full of respect for our bovine chums, say the supporters. But what happens if the cows decide they don't want to be milked at all?
"This is the story of how the UK banking system could have collapsed in the early 1990s, but for the forbearance of a junior barrister who also happened to be an expert in computer law -- and who discovered that at that time the computing department of one of the banks issuing ATM cards had 'gone rogue', cracking PINs and taking money from customers' accounts with abandon," reportsCharles Arthur at The Register."The reason you're hearing it now is that, with Chip and PIN cards finally in widespread use in the UK, the risk of the ATM network being abused as it was has fallen away. And now that junior barrister, Alistair Kelman, wanted to get paid for thousands of pounds of work that he did under legal aid, when he was running a class action on behalf of more than 2,000 people who had suffered 'phantom withdrawals' from their bank accounts. What you're about to read comes from the documents he submitted last week to the High Court, pursuing his claim to payment."Small correction: Alistair tells me: " I did not charge £1,750 per hour -- just £450 per hour or £45 for six minutes based on very detailed timesheets."
Yahoo "has hired Richard Bangs, an author and film director, to create multimedia packages about exotic — and sometimes dangerous — expeditions on mountains, rivers and islands around the world," reportsAP.Bangs' initial package will debut Monday and revolve around a climb up the Eiger, the Swiss peak featured in the Clint Eastwood movie, The Eiger Sanction. The five-part serial follows the journey of John Harlin III, whose father died on the Eiger 40 years ago. Bangs hopes to present other adventures at least once a month.The foray builds upon Yahoo's recent effort to display material that can't be found anywhere else on the Web.The AP story also includes some interesting visitor numbers on Yahoo being the top site on the Web:In the United States, Yahoo attracted 99.3 million users during September, outdistancing MSN's 89.4 million users, Google's 79.4 million users and AOL's 72.5 million, according to Nielsen/NetRatings, a research firm.The Eiger story is athttp://adventures.yahoo.com/Comment:It will be interesting to watch Yahoo's media division as it tries to become a sort of next-generation net-based broadband TV channel, and it's a logical move for a media company. But will it work?
Sony says it has shipped 10 million Portable PlayStations in the product's first 10 months, in apress release. The PSP has now shipped 3.00 million units in Asia (launch date in Japan: December 12, 2004), 4.47 million units in North America (launch date: March 24, 2005) and 2.53 million units in Europe (launch date: September 1, 2005).The "attach rate" is somewhat less impressive. The press release says:On the software side, PSP Game software shipment has reached 19.6 million units and 183 titles have become available worldwide as of September, 2005. Market for the UMD Video software titles have been expanding and cumulative production shipment has exceeded over 15 million units as of September 2005.These are early days, but on average that's only two software titles per user, and only 1.5 movies. And that's shippped, not sold.
Shares in SCI Entertainment, the UK's biggest video game company, were up 27.5% at 610p by 10am, valuing the company at around &#163;440m.Private equity firm Apax is said to be among the interested parties, according to reports. It is also said to have received approaches from Electronic Arts, the world's largest game maker, and US video games maker Midway Games.A spokesman for SCI declined to comment.Apax, whose media advisers include former Merrill Lynch investment analyst Neil Blackley, has been linked with a bid for ITV and earlier this year paid &#163;489m for Bob the Builder producer Hit Entertainment.SCI last month posted a smaller-than-expected nine-month pretax loss of &#163;14m. The video games specialist said it had made a positive start to the new financial year, with new releases including a new version of Lego Star Wars, and hoped to return it to profitability in 2006.SCI bought game maker Eidos, producer of the hugely successful Tomb Raider games franchise, earlier this year. The company said a further update would be issued when appropriate.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Another one bites the dust? SCi/Eidos, of the UK's last publishers, isreportedto be the subject of takeover talks with EA and Midway both said to be interested. If true, and SCi has confirmed that approaches have been made, then it's another reminder of the seemingly unstoppable consolidation trend that has characterised games publishing over the last decade.
You know it must be a worrying time for the movie business when a videogame conversion attracts more customers than anything else. And true enough, on a weekend that saw box office takings fall for the fourth consecutive week, Doom topped the charts, pulling in $15.4m. Even this was a disappointment: according toYahoo's weekend analysis, execs were expecting $18-22m.Here's a slightly surprising stat from the story:"The film, from Polish director Andrzej Bartkowiak, played mostly to young males, and 69 percent of ticket-buyers had played the Doom video game, Universal said."So, using my incredible powers of deduction, that means a whole 31%hadn'tplayed the game? They must have been really desperate for entertainment - going to a videogame movie is usually bad enough, but going to a movie conversion of a videogame you haven't even played seems like an act of almost heroic masochism.Still, the alternatives didn't look too enticing. There was Dreamer, an insipid 'against the odds' tale about a knackered horse and a washed up trainer coming together in an explosion of soullessly choreographed emotional manipulation. Or filmgoers could have selected North Country, playfully described by Yahoo as, "The new Charlize Theron sexual harassment drama".I've been avoiding reading too much about Doom the movie, but it seems to have been drawing a few grudgingly favourable reviews - especially for the much-talked about FPS sequence, where we suddenly view a shoot-out through the eyes of one of the 'characters' in a homage to the game.However, the videogames blogPopularCultureGamingpicks out its own favourite moment:"From a scholarly point of view, the most interesting thing about the film was the closing credits. For the unfortunate few who have not yet seen the film yet, during the first part of the end credits they show a FPS-style clip where a gun runs around shooting the credits. What made it so interesting was that the graphics of the clip were of very low quality. It was some sort of psuedo-wireframe animation that almost looked like the Doom 3 game without the textures. I found it very interesting that in order to have the end credits "look like a game" they had to make the graphics look significantly worse than the graphics of the actual game. Presumably, if they had just done some sort of machinima with the Doom 3 engine, it wouldn't have had the "look" they wanted. The graphics of the game seemingly didn't match the conception of what the filmmakers thought a game should look like."It's amusing, isn't it, that while Hollywood draws ever more heavily from videogame licenses, themes and aesthetic principles, when called upon torepresentvideogames, the industry's understanding is years out of date. Or perhaps games are so like cinema now that a more stylistic visual language is required in order to inform viewers that they're viewing a pastiche. (Hang on, I seem to have transformed into a Media Studies student.)Oh well, it's got to be better than that truly horrendous videogame-style sequence in The Beach which I'd managed to blank out of my mind until this morning...
Interestingpiecein the paper today about the push by the record industry to licence more music to film studios. All good, but it's the mention of the games industry that makes it worth a mention here. Licensed tracks in games has become common over the last few years, withEAsetting up dedicated teams to deal with this. A lot of these tracks are used in menu and other out-of-game screens though, and you have to wonder how much impact they have on the game itself. Other than the obvious success of the GTA series, where licensed tracks actually add to the game, I can't think of too many other examples. Back in the day we had the likes ofRob Hubbardcreating sonic marvels on the Commodore 64. Have we gone too far the other way now with an over reliance on licensed tracks?
Tennis players risk tennis elbow. Computer geeks get mouse wrist. Steve Maviglio, a preternaturally connected Sacramento political consultant, developed BlackBerry thumb," reportsThe LA Times.A former press secretary for Gov. Gray Davis, Maviglio suffered a painful repetitive stress injury aggravated by compulsive use of the portable e-mail device that's become an unlikely icon of status and chic.Some hand experts worry that what's now a boutique affliction among the gabbier circles of entertainment, marketing and politics will become more common as Americans tether themselves to increasingly diminutive and addictive electronic gadgetry.The American Society of Hand Therapists, for instance, warns of possible injuries from improper or excessive use of hand-held electronic devices — particularly the BlackBerry, iPod and text-messaging phone, all of which rely heavily on thumbs to type or navigate menus.
"Research in Motion Ltd moved closer on Friday to an injunction that could halt U.S. sales of its popular BlackBerry wireless device after it lost a bid to suspend a patent case against it. The US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit denied RIM's motion to stay the case until the US Supreme Court decided whether to accept RIM's request for an appeal," reportsReuters."The case goes back to 2002, when patent holding company NTP successfully sued RIM in a lower court. It won an injunction in 2003 to halt US sales of the BlackBerry and shut down its service, although that ruling was stayed pending appeal."
I am a chiropractor with very messy notes and can't type very well. I was wondering about setting up my client notes on computer and saw your article about the Flybook. What struck me was that you said the handwriting recognition worked well. The Flybook is probably a bit small but any clues about good tablet pcs and the software they use would be much appreciated.I see about 30 to 40 clients a week. I collect a page or so of information on the first visit and then note the adjustments I carry out and reactions and progress on subsequent visits. Steve HainesThe Flybook uses RitePen software with a touch-sensitive screen, and I was impressed by how well it worked. Mostly it fails only with trade names and similar words that are not in its dictionary -- and that includes the word Flybook. There'sa review of RitePenat PDA Today, and you can downloada free trial version. The same company providesEverNotenot-raking software.RitePen can be used with or without Microsoft's Tablet PC edition of Windows XP.I have also found that the handwriting recognition works very well in "Windows powered" handhelds/PDAs running Windows CE -- I have a Dell Axim. This is a much cheaper option than a tablet PC or Tablet PC, but of course you sync the handheld with a full-sized PC.In both cases, the systems work best with what I think of as "Junior school handwriting" -- you can do joined up writing, but use upright letters and form them reasonably carefully. It's not as fast as an italic-style scrawl. However, correcting recognition errors is a huge time-waster, so this approach is far quicker in the long run.A notebook PC such as the Flybook has an advantage in that it has a larger screen. This allows you to use larger characters, and these are (to generalise) recognised more reliably than small ones.Does anyone else actually use handwriting recognition?
How useable is the new Flybook's keyboard (in comparison with the Fujitsu Lifebook P1510)? My hands are quite big (although I did used to enjoy the LG Phenom Express) and I do not want to buy a notebook which I won't be able to use for extensive data input. Owen ThomasThe Flybook keyboard isn't bad, but the keys are very small -- too small for me! I haven't seen a Lifebook P1510 but from what I remember of the Phenom Express, I'd prefer that to the Flybook for data entry.Unfortunately, the keyboards on small notebooks are getting really poor, especially as they get thinner. "Key travel" is increasingly a thing of the past....The best small one I've used is the obsolete IBM ThinkPad 240X, which I carried around for years running Windows 2000 and Office 2000. Shyamtronics knocked out the leftovers on the Tottenham Court Road, and they are available cheap on eBay.co.uk. However, the limited RAM can be a problem if you need to run new software. Also, there's no built-in Wi-Fi, but mine worked fine with a Cicso card in the PCMCIA (PC Card) slot.
Photo: EngadgetEngadget went to Intel's Destination Innovation event and got its "hands on theRuby, a concept design for a PDA-sized PCthat can run Windows XP (or Vista…)." It looks huge for a PDA, of course, but t isn't one....
"An accidental discovery announced this week has taken LED lighting to a new level, suggesting it could soon offer a cheaper, longer-lasting alternative to the traditional light bulb. The miniature breakthrough adds to a growing trend that is likely to eventually make Thomas Edison's bright invention obsolete," reportsMSNBC.The breakthrough was made by Michael Bowers, a graduate student at Vanderbilt University. He was trying to make "quantum dots" -- crystals only a few nanometers long."The new device gives off a warm, yellowish-white light that shines twice as bright and lasts 50 times longer than the standard 60 watt light bulb."
"The [class action] lawsuit, filed Wednesday on behalf of all those who have bought a Nano, alleges that Apple violated state consumer protection statutes, as well as express and implied warranties. The complaint charges that Apple knew that there were design problems with the Nano," reportsCNet."These Nanos scratch excessively during normal usage, rendering the screen on the Nanos unreadable," according to the complaint, which was filed in U.S. District Court in San Jose, Calif., by attorneys with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro in Seattle and Columbus, Ohio-based David P. Meyer &amp; Associates. The suit seeks to have the complaint certified as a class action claim and asks for "damages in the amount of monies paid for Nanos," as well as unspecified actual, statutory and punitive damages.
