In this era of relentless franchise-milking (fuelled by risk-aversion), it's always a pleasure to see a completely original new game and, on the face of it, that's what Inversion appears to be. It's a third-person shooter with a twist: you get to manipulate gravity (and your enemies can do likewise to hinder your efforts). But there's a problem: anyone approaching Inversion and anticipating true individuality will be appalled by how much in thrall to Gears of War it seems to be.Which is no bad thing when you take into account a nicely fettled, accurate and responsive aiming system, allied to a rock-solid cover system. But unfortunately – at least during the early stages of the game – the GoW-worship extends to meat-headed characters who utter nothing but the most appalling, clichéd, gung-ho Americanisms, and the colour palette is composed almost entirely of brown and grey. There's nothing wrong with taking inspiration from one of the games industry's most revered franchises (although I've never quite understood its appeal) – but preserving its least appealing aspects is a bit rich.However, first impressions prove a bit illusory in Inversion's case. It's pretty enjoyable to play once you're past the initial stages. In many ways, it's quite an old-fashioned game, but that's not meant in a disparaging way. Its single-player game builds slowly, taking care to introduce each gameplay element discretely, and you can see why: its single-player game is unusually meaty and long-lasting by modern standards. It builds up the confidence of those who don't necessarily have the hand-eye co-ordination and fast-twitch responses of an Olympic table-tennis player.The story offers a bit more than Gears of War. You play Davis Russel, a cop in the fictional, identikit US city of Vanguard, who is heading home after a day's work with his partner Leo Delgado in tow when all hell breaks loose. Huge, heavily-armed guys (who make the Incredible Hulk sound like Noel Coward) appear, along with weird gravity anomalies that rip the city apart. The pair find Leo's dead wife, but are captured by the Lutadores, as the (apparently alien) baddies are known. Naturally, they escape and a hunt for Leo's missing daughter ensues.While that hunt never really involves many brain cells, it's quite satisfying in gaming terms. You gradually acquire the ability to manipulate gravity yourself (by aiming at things and either making them weightless or extra-heavy, thanks to a pack on your shoulders which must be recharged), which you can use to solve puzzles (such as creating cover from fixed guns or picking up cars and firing them through locked gates) or to flush enemies out from cover. Plus, when you get the heavy-gravity option, you can use it as a bullet-deflecting shield.There are some decent boss-battles, and Inversion demonstrates an unexpected level of polish. Within its poorly art-directed confines, it looks pretty good, and the shooting and gravity manipulation impress thanks to their precision and absence of glitchiness. The weapons are commendable, although again overly reminiscent of Gears of War – the stock assault rifle even has a blade attached, and there's a preposterous (although satisfying) shotgun which can take out enemies even if they are 50 feet away. Although it only holds six cartridges, at least.The whole game can be played co-operatively, which is appealing, and even the single-player game contains well-judged co-operative moments in which you have to look out for your buddy Leo. The multiplayer might attract Gears of War fanatics, but it doesn't really convince.Overall, Inversion is a tiny bit frustrating. It's a nicely crafted game with some good ideas, which nevertheless seems unwilling to claim an identity of its own. If you liked Gears of War, you'll enjoy playing it, but you might find its sheer familiarity a bit annoying. And if you like third-person shooters that don't require superhuman skills, you'll enjoy it, too. But if you're looking for something futuristic, cutting-edge and distinctive, keep on looking.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
This weekAleks Krotoskiand Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthurdiscuss the upside to Yahoo's appointment of former Google executive Marissa Mayer.  Also, why Google bought out the email client Sparrow and if the Samsung v Apple patent wars will ever end.Aleks talks exclusively to the new deputy chief executive of the Tech City Advisory Board,Benjamin Southworth, and one of the board advisers, tech investorEileen Burbidge, about the future of East London's tech industries and why the government and investment sector should focus efforts on this growth area.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Apple's next iPhone, already being dubbed the iPhone 5, is expected to launch in mid-September, with a new "nano-sim" system to enable the device,  the Guardian has learned.Sources also say that the device will introduce a new 19-pin power and control connector on its base, dumping the 30-pin connector first introduced with the third-generation iPod in April 2003.The new phone is also expected to include 4G mobile broadband capability, but only offer compatibility with networks in the US. 4G networks in Europe and the rest of the world transmit on different frequencies and so are incompatible with US systems.Apple will be the first major manufacturer to use the nano-sim card. Some operators began ordering the chip cards in substantial numbers even while Apple, Nokia and BlackBerry-maker RIM were still wrangling over the fine details in spring this year.The nano-sim design is 40% smaller even than the micro-sim used in smartphones such as the iPhone 4S, Samsung Galaxy S3 and Nokia Lumia range introduced in the past 12 months, and was onlyagreed by the European standards body ETSI on 1 June.Mobile phone companies anticipate a mid-September launch for the iPhone 5, and expect demand to be extremely high as present owners of iPhone 3G and 3GS look to upgrade, and those who have not yet bought a smartphone consider a shift from an older featurephone.The Taiwanese electronics news site Digitimes has quoted industry sources saying that Pegatron, a contract manufacturer, hasbegun making the new iPhoneat its factory in Shanghai. It also says that Pegatron is making new versions of the iPad for a third-quarter shipment date.Another source in China, quoted bythe French site App4Phone, suggests that Apple will release the next iPhone on Friday 21 September.If correct, that would be the day on which the phone goes on sale, because manufacturers want to release new handsets to consumers at the beginning of the weekend.Last year, Apple chief executive Tim Cook unveiled the iPhone 4S on Tuesday 4 October, and the phone went on sale on Friday 14 October.If the 21 September release date is correct, that would imply a public unveiling by Apple on Tuesday 11 September this year.Dumping the 30-pin connector for a new design could hobble the multi-billion-dollar business for iPhone, iPod and iPad accessories, which relied on the now likely-to-be-outmoded proprietary socket to connect the Apple equipment to the power supply or other devices.Apple will be keen to begin selling a new iPhone as soon as possible. Last year expectations were high that, as from 2007 to 2010, it would announce the new model in June and start selling it soon afterwards.But instead the iPhone 4S launch did not come until October, leading to a dramatic dip in iPhone sales in the July-September quarter.Though sales of the 4S and the rest of the iPhone range was very high, Cook said at Apple's earnings announcement that month that the company knew there was great anticipation in June and July and that speculation hit extreme highs by September 2011.Consumers held off buying Apple phones that month in anticipation of the new model.Accessory makers will be holding their breath to find out more about the new design.The website iMore, which was the first to report in February that the next iPhone would remodel its connector,said on Tuesday nightthat Apple would offer an adapter to enable 19-pin devices to link to older 30-pin connectors and accessories.But that will still leave accessory makers in a quandary about whether to focus on the newer connector, in the expectation that more devices will use those in the future, or to stick with the old one – which fits more than half a billion iPods, iPhone and iPads.The accessory business is highly competitive, yet offers retailers a better margin than selling Apple devices alone.Retail margins on the items are typically around 40%, compared to about 10% on iPods or iPads. Some manufacturers will almost certainly make adapters to let older iOS 30-pin devices connect to the new 19-pin systems.Speculation is already building, with asurvey carried out by ChangeWave Researchreporting unprecedented demand for the next iPhone: a poll of 4,042 American consumers found 14% "very likely" to buy one, and 17% "somewhat likely" to.The iPhone commands a substantial share of the US market, helped by subsidies from US carriers.UK operators, too,  expect to see heavy demand for the new phone, whose release would also bring a new version of Apple's iOS which dispenses with Google for its mapping system.O2, which originally signed up many iPhone users in the UK, could lose out as the new phone is expected to be available through every carrier, leading to a more competitive market than previously for owners looking to upgrade.Apple said it did not comment on rumours and speculation.
Telecoms watchdog Ofcom has fired the starting gun on thelong-delayed spectrum auction, which will bring 4G superfast mobile phone internet to the UK next year and could raise £4bn for the public purse.The much-disputed design of the auction, which has seen all four mobile networks threaten to sue the regulator in recent years, was set out in a final draft by Ofcom on Tuesday morning.At least 98% of the population will be within indoor range of a 4G signal by 31 December 2017, bringing an internet signal to many rural homes who currently cannot receive even basic broadband.In the largest-ever auction of British airwaves, the spectrum to be auctioned has been divided into various lots. The winner of the most-prized chunk of spectrum, which has a reserve price of £250m, will be tasked with ensuring the 98% coverage obligation.And Ofcom has also taken the contentious move of reserving a slice of spectrum for Three, the UK's newest and traditionally unprofitable mobile network, or a new entrant should one emerge."As a direct result of the measures Ofcom is introducing, consumers will be able to surf the web, stream videos and download email attachments on their mobile device from almost every home in the UK," said Ofcom chief executive Ed Richards.Two bands of mobile spectrum are being auctioned. The most sought after is the lower frequency 800MHz band, which travels further and so requires fewer masts. The least desirable 2600MHz band requires more masts, but is ideal for delivering the faster speeds needed to transmit data hungry services such as video to mobile phones.These two bands add up to 250 MHz of additional mobile spectrum, compared with 333 MHz in use currently.Ofcom said it had decided to reserve spectrum for Three or a new entrant to ensure that four players continue to compete in the UK market, keeping prices lower and ensuring better coverage.In a move designed to forestall any further threats of legal action the regulator has published a draft legal instrument that implements the auction rules and consultation on this closes on 11 September. Ofcom will assess applications from prospective bidders this year, with bidding due to begin in early 2013. This would mean networks could start rolling out 4G services in mid 2013, offering the service to consumers later that year.
A selection of 13 new and notable apps for you today:The Unilever Series at Tate ModernLondon's Tate Modern has launched an official app for its 13-year "Unilever Series' of installations, "from Olafur Eliasson's sun to Ai Weiwei's carpet of sunflower seeds". That means more than 250 photos and 12 videos, as well as articles by curators and artists, and some of the early sketches for each exhibit.iPadBing Get MeThereMicrosoft has launched a London travel app for iPhone using its Bing brand, promising "true door-to-door directions using Bing maps and live tube updates". Favourite journeys can also be set up for quick access.iPhoneSoFitSoFit is the latest social fitness app (hence the name, presumably), which awards points every time you exercise. It promises real-life rewards for this: "exclusive products from your favorite brands; downloads like music, videos and games; as well as fundraise for the causes you care about".AndroidGoldstar Savings BankThis iPad app wants to teach children about financial basics, without making it dry and boring. A tall order, but Goldstar Savings Bank may just have nailed it: the idea being it's an app for children to record their savings and earn money for household chores, in order to buy rewards.iPadJurassic Park BuilderThe latest family-friendly brand to spawn its own freemium game is Jurassic Park, with this new iOS game from Ludia. It follows the Smurfs' Village / FarmVille template with players building their own parks, buying virtual bucks through in-app purchases to fund it. $99.99 IAP in a game that's likely to appeal to children? Hmm. The game is US-only for now.iPhone / iPadAssistantAssistant is the latest Siri-like voice recognition app for a non-iOS platform. In this case: Windows Phone. It's a "virtual buddy for your smartphone that uses natural language technology" to answer questions, search for information and launch apps, hooking into Google, Facebook, Twitter, Foursquare, Evernote and other services.Windows PhoneThe Icky Mr FoxUK studio Ickypen has launched a children's book app that sees Icky Mr Fox trying to ruin the afternoon tea of Mr Rabbit and Mr Mole, with "tippy-tappy objects" that speak their name when touched. Unusually, it's available on Android and BlackBerry PlayBook as well as iPad.Android / iPad / BlackBerry PlayBookAround The ClockSwedish developer Wombi Apps has a characterful new iOS app for children all about clocks. It includes a mini-game for each hour of the day, from teeth-brushing and biking home from pre-school to hammering nails and slicing butter. The idea being to familiarise children with the clock, rather than overtly teach them how to read it.iPhone / iPadX-Ray for AndroidAndroid owners concerned about nasty malward have a number of apps to choose from, as security companies pile onto the platform to capitalise on reports of Android viruses. X-Ray for Android is the latest, promising to scan for vulnerabilities and "keep your carrier honest".Android5K To Marathon Runmeter GPSCompleted the programme set by a "couch to 5k" app? Time to step up, perhaps: this app focuses on going beyond 5k races to "give you feedback and motivation to go farther, be healthier, and live longer".iPhoneParty WaveCartoon-surfing game Party Wave looks fun on iOS, getting you to position a bunch of surfers to ride a big wave in top-down view, before switching to a side-on perspective to guide them through it. The game is also notable, though, for being the first from Japanese developer Mistwalker – founded by Final Fantasy creator Hironobu Sakaguchi.iPhone / iPadCardagram PostcardFrench digital-to-physical postcards app Cardagram has launched in the UK. Like established rival Touchnote, it turns iPhone photos into real postcards to be sent worldwide – usually charging £1.99, although it's £0.99 in a launch offer. One nice touch: it can pull in photos from Instagram and Facebook.iPhoneHistorables: Marie Ant-toinetteYes, Marie Antoinette re-imagined as a cartoon "ant queen" in a story-app for children. No, I have no idea how they handle the guillotine part. But yes, the app sees Marie baking and decorating a cake, setting up a castle room and wander through underground ant tunnels. More Historables apps are following from developer Base Camp Films: stand by for Teddy Bear Roosevelt and Lionardo Da Vinci...iPad
How much is a patent worth, and how much should a licence for one cost? Apple's chief executive Tim Cook and top Samsung executives disagreed in a face-to-face meeting last week on the value of each other's patents at a settlement conference ahead of a high-profile trial in the US, sources have told Reuters.Apple and Samsung, the world's largest consumer electronics corporations, are waging legal war in several countries, accusing each other of patent violations as they vie for supremacy in the fast-growing market for mobile devices.With more than 20 cases ongoing in countries around the world – including the US, Germany, UK and Australia – the two companies are at each other's throats, even while one is the biggest parts buyer from the other.The trial is scheduled to begin on 30 July in a San Jose federal court in the US.Cook participated in mediation with Samsung's vice-chairman Choi Gee-sung and mobile chief Shin Jong-Kyun on Monday 16 July in San Francisco to see if the two sides could resolve the dispute, sources have told Reuters.At issue are some of the key claims that Apple is bringing against Samsung, including whether the South Korean company. "stole" design ideas and infringed patentsSamsung has responded in the US and elsewhere by asserting that Apple has failed to license its 3G patents – as in a case which began in Australia on Monday.The judge there suggested that the two sides might be ordered simply to seek mediation, although none of the cases brought by the two against each other worldwide has yet seen successful mediation.Cook and his team, and the Samsung executives, met as part of the court-directed mediation process to try to head off full litigation. But while a settlement is always possible, it is unlikely to come ahead of the California trial scheduled to start on Monday 30 July.The Wall Street Journal is calling it "The patent trial of the century" – although those who recall the battle between Oracle and Google earlier this year over the Android mobile operating system might disagree.There, Oracle initially sought billions in payment for what it claimed were infringements of its software patents; in the end, a jury sent it away essentially empty-handed.Apple's case is that Samsung's position at the top of the world smartphone market, where it has outdistanced both Apple and Nokia, has come through a strategy of copying the American company.Samsung has repeatedly argued that Apple's designs are not unique, or novel, and have many precedents.Among the major issues also in dispute between Apple and Samsung is how to value so-called standard essential patents (SEPs). These are patents which are agreed by standards boards to be essential to creating industry standards.Nokia, Samsung and Motorola are among the companies which own SEPs relating to mobile phones and wireless connectivity.SEP holders are obliged under the terms of being declared "essential" to license them to any competitor on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" (FRAND) terms. Apple has been obliged to license a number of SEPs from Nokia after long court battles.The trial will feature both "utility" and "design" patents. Apple utility patents in the case include those that cover how touch-screen devices discriminate between one finger on the screen, or more, and respond accordingly. Apple design patents include those that relate to the black front surface of a phone.There are questions over whether Apple is using technologies covered by Samsung SEPs, and on what terms Samsung should license them.In Europe, both Samsung and Motorola are under antitrust investigation over claims that they declined to license SEPs relating to 3G mobile technology on FRAND terms, which could attract hefty fines if they are found guilty.Equally, judges in the US are often reluctant to issue injunctions over SEPs, preferring the companies to negotiate settlements.Apple declined to comment on the case, and a Samsung spokesman declined to provide details on any discussions, saying that it was an ongoing legal matter.The US case is being closely watched, given the lucrative American smartphone and tablet market.Apple believes SEPs should be valued lower due to those dynamics, one of the sources told Reuters.Additionally, Samsung believes it has a stronger patent portfolio than Apple when it comes to next-generation technology such as 4G, the source said.The mediation last week was at least the second between top executives. A previous session in May did not produce any settlements.While both the companies are arch-rivals in the smartphone and tablet marketplace, the case is complicated by the fact that Apple is one of Samsung's largest component customers.
Okay, any Monday night gaming then?
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCustomer satisfaction with Windows smart phones rise by 18% &gt;&gt; Amplified Analytics BlogAndroid shows rising popularity; RIM's is falling; iOS is steady; Windows Phone is the top.How high is 'unbelievably high' piracy? Dead Trigger dev's not saying &gt;&gt; Android CentralThe given link is to a comment:First of all, you should all know that the world does not revolve around the USA. I come from a 3rd world country, Kenya(I wish it was not but...fate :( ). It is with that in mind that I shall go ahead and list why people pirate games:And he does so, eloquently and reasonably.Australia judge calls Apple-Samsung dispute over 3G 'ridiculous' &gt;&gt; BloombergApple refused to pay a license fee for the technology that allows phones to conduct multiple tasks including taking calls while uploading photos to the Internet, Samsung's lawyer Neil Young said at the start of the trial. Apple was willing to pay and Samsung refused, the Cupertino, California-based company's lawyer Stephen Burley said."Why on earth are these proceedings going ahead?" Bennett asked the lawyers in court today. "It's just ridiculous." A similar dispute between any other two companies would be immediately ordered to mediation, she said."Why shouldn't I order the parties to mediation?" she asked. She said she would expect an answer before the end of the week.They simply won't stop, and there doesn't seem to be anything anyone can do to make them stop.China's fixed broadband population is shrinking &gt;&gt; The RegisterChina's internet population reached a whopping 530m over the past six months, but its [fixed] broadband subscriber base actually shrank as mobile became the most popular way for users to get online for the first time.The government's latest twice-yearly data dump, the Statistical Report on Internet Development in China, recorded total internet users at 538m by the end of June, up from 513m in December and 438m a year ago.Of these, 380m were fixed broadband users, down from 396m in December, and 388m were mobile internet users, up from 356m.More mobile than fixed users. The overlap (those with both forms of connection) is about 150m, or slightly less than half. That's a huge number of mobile-only subscribers.Windows 8 Review - Part 3: As seen through the eyes of a desktop user &gt;&gt; Gartner analyst blogsGunnar Berg:My job is to enable organizations to deliver a similar experience regardless of the end point. Which leads me to today's discussion: What is the experience like on Windows 8 when the end point isn't touch enabled?In a word: Bad.This post has been kicked up and down the internet, but Berg's point is a simple one: if enterprises try just sticking Windows 8 in to replace, say, XP, the howls of user pain will be gigantic.Siri-like voice commands on BlackBerry 10 Dev Alpha (w/video) &gt;&gt; N4BBOne feature stuck out, a voice command function with an operator whose voice sounded terrifyingly similar to Siri. Could RIM be using the same technology from Nuance? Using the voice commands also allow you to access the new Universal Search feature.It definitely is voice command, though it's pretty rough. The two-stage approach is clunky. But this means all the major phone OSs would have voice input by next year.Counterparties: Marissa Mayer's vacillating pay &gt;&gt; Felix SalmonExplains precisely what Mayer's pay package is, but also how it kept ratcheting up once reported by news organisations. Do we hear $50m? $75m?Features Update &gt;&gt; Delicious BlogWe introduced stacks last year as a visually rich way to think about your links and we've been blown away by the amazing content you've created. But given the upcoming launch of new products from Delicious' parent company, AVOS, and our focus on simplifying the Delicious site, we realized the value of stacks is limited for our users moving forward.For this reason, we've decided to simplify how users organize links on Delicious by consolidating stacks into tags.This sort of vacillation and general repeating-the-past is part of why we stopped using Delicious to gather these links. (We use Pinboard.)Freemium has run its course (well, not really) &gt;&gt;GigaomGood analysis of how the idea of "freemium" came about (via chocolates) and why it might not fit all business models or situations.DoItQuick: Fast Domains for Dirty Deeds &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityA new service offered in the cybercriminal underground is geared toward spammers, scammers and malware purveyors interested in mass-registering dozens of dodgy domains in one go.The service -- doitquick.net -- will auto-register up to 15 domains simultaneously, choosing randomly named domains unless the customer specifies otherwise.Krebs doesn't specify whether it's done cheap, but kudos anyway for getting theAC/DC referencein there.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
TheGuardian Interactive teamhas long dreamt of paying homage to the classic 8-bit wonders of the 1980s (under the auspices of producing  "a rich, data-driven interactive", of course).Our chance came when, during one of many long Olympics planning sessions, it emerged thatSean Ingle, our Sport Editor, was keen to relive the youth he misspent playing C64 and Spectrum classics like Summer Games and Daley Thompson's Decathlon.How to do it, though? Asmany have discovered, making any even the most tangential reference to the Olympics is fraught withlegal complications. Drawing Olympic rings or medals is a no-go. Making any kind of game is absolutely off limits.Around the same time, it emerged that Sport had another idea in the chest: giving readers the chance to compare their personal best times with those of sporting greats throughout history. What if we could add a bit of 8-bit charm to that? Could historic data combine with retro graphics to produce a compelling interactive?We took our start from an inspired hack day piece byJonathan Richardswhich gave users a chance to compete in a 100m sprint.The first hurdle was working out how to recreate an authentic 8-bit aesthetic. Fortunately (for us), in the Guardian's vast stable of talented designers isJamie Lenman, a marvellously eccentric man who not only plays mean banjo but has a deep affinity for the look and feel of 1980s games.Jamie quickly warmed to the idea, but made it clear that, because every single character in the game would need to be drawn pixel by pixel, we'd have to limit the scope - so he could create the sprites that needed creating in the time available.We whittled the scope down to four events: 100m sprint, bicycle road race, freestyle swimming, and 10k run. These sports were similar enough to be able to share the same graphical format. They were also the type of sports where amateurs would likely know their personal best time.Having compiled a database of the best times from athletes across history, the next step was to add some flair: what about if you could compare your time not just with athletes but with creatures from the animal kingdom?EnterNicola Hughes: a data specialist on the Interactive team who turned out to be a secret weapon on this project because she completed her undergraduate degree in...zoology. After a series of calls to top university departments, we had what we were satisfied were accurate speeds for a range of beasts, including cheetahs, orcas, zebras, as well as less stellar performers such as mallards and coots.As the data grew - we realised we needed yet more graphics. Convincing 8-bit replicas of every flag in the world are hard to come by, but thanks to the diligent efforts ofMariana Santos, we would soon have not only a full set of flags, but also a variety of title screens and other essential pieces.It then occurred to us that a defining characteristic of the genre was the crude chiptune music playing in the background. This was the perfect opportunity to get Jordan Gray involved.Alastair Dantfirst encounteredStarpausein San Francisco, and had been looking for an excuse to incorporate his bleeps and bloops for some time.Finally, to ensure the sharing mechanic was as rich as possible, we integrated the piece fully into theGuardian Facebook application- a technical first for the Guardian Interactive team. For this we're deeply indebted to Kenneth Lim, Nicholas Smith, and David Vella, from the Core Technology team.How to pull it all together, though? At this points we must doff our hats toRobin Beitra, developer extraordinaire, designer-that-we-didn't-know-was-a-designer, and all-round safe-pair-of-hands, without whose unstinting enthusiasm - and unparalleled skills - the project would not have come to life.Not only did Robin work miracles to develop a rendering engine that switches seamlessly between WebGL, Canvas and Flash display modes, depending on the browser or device used, but his love of the C64 and NES systems meant he chipped in with countless authentic touches - not least the cheat modes, which we now take great pleasure in sharing with you:Turbo charge mode:up up, down, down, left, right, left, right, b, aJesus mode:jesusCrackle mode:konamiAll-round weirdness:debug(Re-typing the code gets you out of the mode.)We hope you enjoy 'Could you be a medallist?'!
My Nexus 7 arrived in a box that was open and badly squashed. It was a day late, after Google had somehow managed to preside over the misaddressing of every single one toGordon House. The box inside was undamaged though, as was the unit. Still, not an auspicious start.It quickly got better. The Nexus 7 really is a fantastic piece of kit. The screen is lovely: crisp and sharp, with a good resolution making small text clean and readable. The build quality is on the good side of cheap - it certainly feels nothing like the £80 Android craplets that you can buy.If you want a tablet and you only want to spent £200 on one, then great. If that's absolutely the top of your budget, and you'd rather spend money on that than continue investing in yourunicorn figurine collection, go for it!You might be disappointed, mind.CampingHere's a video of a father and son out on a camping trip. It's an advert for the Nexus 7, and in it you can really see that Google gets what tablets are for. Like all post-PC devices, it's not about the technology, it's about the relationships. In this case, you could transport the father than son back to the 1970s without the technology and they would have an equally good time. All the Nexus 7 is doing in this video is making the experience better and meaning they have don't have to carry books, chess sets, world atlases, etc. (Happily, they're in range of a Wi-Fi network all the time.)So I love that. It's perfect. It's exactly how you sell a tablet. It's an advert that Apple could have made to sell an iPad, or an advert that Microsoft could have made to sell a Surface. Or for that matter, Motorola could have made it to sell a Xoom.Ten inchesSmartphones are small-scale computing devices, small enough for you to carry around with you all the time. Most people don't notice them - they're as ubiquitous as car keys, wallets, and purses. I bet yours is within arm's reach at this moment.Tablets are an entirely different proposition. Tablets are something you deliberately choose to tote around, depending on the context of the task. You might not take your iPad to the pub on most visits. But you might if you're bidding on a set of collectible unicorn figurines from eBay and the sale is ending whilst the football is on. You need a different tool for that job, and what we've learned over the period the iPad has been on the market is that tablets are a great tool for lots of different jobs.Depending on context, different devices make jobs easier or harder. I'm writing this post on a Mac, but I have an iPad, iPhone, Windows 8 tablet, and Nexus 7 device all here with me. I'm using the Mac because the proper keyboard is easier to use. (Since you ask, I'm a Windows developer. See the endnote on this post.)One of the classic things that people say when considering tablets is along the lines of "I've got a full PC, why do I need a tablet?" In isolation, that's a very hard question to answer. But we have a continuum of devices from the smartphone, through the tablet, and to the PC/Mac. If we're lucky enough to have all three, we can switch between these devices depending on the task at hand. At the weekend when my daughter was continually nudging me to buy her the DVD of Tangled, I didn't do it with my phone (which I had with me), but went to get my iPad and we bought it together.That flow doesn't work properly with the Nexus 7, both because of the screen size and the keyboard. The keyboard is so bad that I would rather write a 10,000 word dissertation using T9 on a Nokia 6210 than write one tweet with the stock Nexus keyboard. The screen is clear enough, but when browsing in portrait mode it's too narrow, and in landscape mode is too short. The genius of the iPad is not its 10in screen, but the aspect ratio that makes it practical to use in either orientation. That aspect ratio was a bold move, especially given the importance of iTunes video content to Apple. But it works. Google should have put a 4:3 aspect display on the unit. Watching video is less important on a tablet than its engineers might think.What I find is that if I'm using my iPhone and need to do something on a bigger device, I leapfrog the Nexus 7 and going straight for my Mac, whereas I would have happily gone for my iPad or Windows 7 tablet. It's too fiddly to use.When Google launched the Nexus 7 at Google I/O, Hugo Barra went on about being able to "consume content", "immersing yourself in media", "being delighted when you read books", and so on. (Look about 39 minutes in on thisvideo of the keynote.) But that's not what tablets are for! Yes, they can used for that, but all of that stuff is a secondary happenstance.In practical terms, a tablet is about providing a third way to connect digitally to people or things outside of the smartphone and PC form factors. The Nexus 7 doesn't move that debate on, because the only thing it's good at is looking at movies, and reading books. It's notgoodat web browsing; it'sacceptable. The iPad, in comparison is good at all of those things.The only problem that the Nexus 7 solves is showcasing that Google can build an operating system that runs on a decent quality tablet. But the only people who care about that problem are Google's shareholders. It doesn't really help you or me.ConclusionThe high-end iPad costs quite a lot more than a Nexus 7, but if you're at the low end of the market, to go from a 16GB Nexus 7 to a 16GB iPad 2 you've got to find £130. Is the iPad worth that extra money? Yes. For the reasons stated above.It's a shame that the Windows RT devices aren't around yet to really mix this up discussion; the only thing in the market today is the iPad. And if Apple doesproduce a 7in iPad- well, that'll really put the cybernetic cat among the robotic pigeons.If you're in a situation where you have to physically carry a tablet around in order to do something, is there a size/weight advantage is carrying a Nexus 7 compared to an iPad? I doubt it. Can you do more with an iPad? Yes, you can - and in all senses: the apps are better, the screen lets you get more content on it (making it easier to read) and the keyboard is better. And it'll probably hold its value better.At the end of the day, the Nexus 7 is a good tablet. It may even be agreattablet. But it's not a world changing post-PC device.Good effort, though.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Apple has notified app developers of a fix for a Russian hacker's method that let him make more than 8.4m fake in-app purchases and pass them on to users.The fix gives developers access to two of Apple's private APIs on iOS, a move the company has not made before and which demonstrates the seriousness of the flaw.At least 115 games were affected, including Tap Tap Revenge 4, Temple Run, Plants vs Zombies HD, Infinity Blade 1 and 2, Fruit Ninja, Fifa 2012 and Angry Birds.The fix will check whether both new and old purchases are valid – meaning that once it is implemented in an app, faked purchases will effectively be wiped off on the devices of users who used the system developed by Alexey Borodin, and which he made public a fortnight ago.That could, however, dissuade those who have already used the fake system from upgrading their apps. Apple says that the hack will be irrevocably fixed in iOS6. Meanwhile, it is trying to block attempts by Borodin to connect to its servers to make further faked purchases.In-app purchases have become an increasingly important way for developers to make money from apps, by letting users download a simple version for free and then offering paid-for levels, upgrades or capabilities inside the game.Borodin, who figured outhow to hack the system for in-app purchasesby spoofing the receipt from Apple's servers,says on his blogthat once developers implement and roll out the fix, "[the] game is over. Currently we have no way to bypass updated APIs."But he adds that he will keep offering the service until the next version of iOS is released, expected some time in the autumn.Next he says that he will look to see if the App Store on Apple's Mac OSX desktop operating system has a similar vulnerability. "We are still waiting for Apple's reaction and we have some cards in the hand," Borodin notes. "It's good that OS X is open."Borodin's hack will probably keep working on apps until they are updated, and users download the revised apps. After posting that the game is over, on Monday he posted a further hack suggesting that he has now figured out how to get content from Apple's Newsstand, giving access to magazines and comics.His workaround uses his own In-Appstore website to act as a proxy server that pretends, from the app's viewpoint, to be Apple's servers which validates in-app purchases.In the app, such purchases check that an SSL certificate has been received, to indicate that a secure transaction has taken place – but Apple failed to build in checks to let apps confirm that the transaction was made with Apple's servers, rather than any site returning the correct code and a certificate.In anew page on the iOS developer site, Apple says that developers can re-validate transactions that have already been carried out by checking them against Apple's SSL certificate for its own server, using two private APIs:This listing uses the symbols kSecTrustInfoExtendedValidationKey and SecTrustCopyInfo, which are not public API. Your app is allowed to use them for this specific purpose.Developers who use their own servers for validating in-app purchases, which then connect to Apple's servers, will not have been affected by the hack, which Borodin began showing off around a fortnight ago.However Tony Million, an iOS developer running Zummer, a startup, suggested that developers should never have fallen victim to the hack."Apple has an entire server architecture for developers to confirm the receipt they've received from the in-app purchase was valid and made via the iTunes store," he said."Once you have performed the in-app purchase, you contact Apple's servers separately, send them the receipt data, and they [Apple's servers] respond with a YES or NO. You then act on this result. The second part of this [process] is to store the receipt so it can't be reused fraudulently – every receipt from the iTunes store is unique."Million said that while the documentation was somewhat obscure, it is on Apple's site. But Apple made a mistake in not letting developers check the validity of the SSL certificate returned from the transaction. "That's why the hack works in the first place," he said.
EA Sports has announced a bunch of new features for Fifa 13. Key among them is the decision to add an international element to the game's in-depth Career mode. Whether you're taking part as a player or a manager, good performances may earn you an international call-up. For managers, that will mean abandoning your domestic side for a new life as a national coach."It's the number one fan request," says lead producer Dave Rutter. "We've been asked to put it in for years, but we've really been trying to address the fundamentals and make a really solid mode, before laying in other features on top. We feel we've done that now, so we're ready to add internationals."Apparently, the sorts on international roles you're offered as a manager will depend on the prestige of your club achievements. Guide a modest side to League One victory, for example, and you may get a call from one of the, shall we say, less auspicious nations. Guide Liverpool to a treble-winning season, however, and you may attract the attention of one of the sides that really deserves to be in Fifa's top five international rankings. Or from England."The idea is that it's a bit of a meta-game, going on alongside the main game," says Rutter. "It has it's own set of screens and it's own commentary so it looks and feels very different, and obviously we're supporting the whole gamut of international tournaments."The whole structure of the game also changes. "Obviously it then becomes about squad selection for whatever friendlies you've got lines up and then committing squad selections to tournaments. You'll be looking at players and figuring out who's on form rather than getting involved in the weekly grind of domestic football. It's quite different."It looks as though there will be another way to try out a career in international football however. As announced at E3 2012, any experience points earned through Fifa 12's EA Sports Club online infrastructure will be accessible in Fifa 13, as all regular Fifa buyers will now have persistent identities within the series. And one option will be to spend XP on the international management or playing career of your choice.Meanwhile, for those undertaking a player rather than manager career, EA Sports is adding to the range of match, club and season-based objectives. There will be more challenges on offer, revolving around tasks such as scoring a certain number of goals in a single match, or converting 50% of your passes in a season.Objectives are also being added to the manager option, and to liven things up, there are also mid-season career swaps, so if you're performing well, a better club might come in for you before the year is complete.To enhance the authenticity of the career element, inexperienced players and young virtual pros can now be sent out on loans from their chosen clubs. "It's another big fan request," says Rutter. "It allows you to pick up experience rather than sitting on the bench and having no fun."For transfers, the concept of part-exchanges has been added, so if managers can't afford the players they want to buy in, they can offer cash, plus members of their own squad.Elsewhere, the EA Sports team is also adding a new tutorial feature named Skill Moves. "For the last few years we've had tyne idea of putting some training in the game, but it's always been cut in favour of something more important," says Rutter."This year, one of the guys was messing around with the player impact engine and started putting targets around empty stadia – just things you could try to hit with the ball. We said 'that's it! That's what we need to do'. So we've created 32 mini-games based around the eight core skills of the game: passing, long passing, shooting, advanced shooting, dribbling, crossing, penalties and free kicks."Each challenge will have three skill levels – bronze, silver and gold. Passing and shooting tasks will involve accurately hitting targets, while dribbling will involve an obstacle course."Our game is pretty intimidating at times, so Ii's just to help new users get used to the controls," says Rutter. "However, we hope to help intermediate and skilled players to hone their skills even more."Naturally, the challenges are linked into social leader boards so friends will be able to compare their results. "It's been a massive time sink in the office," admits Rutter.While talking to Dave, we asked another couple of questions, which have cropped up recently. For example, how is Fifa 13 going to handle the Rangers situation? "We're not confirming what we're up to there, at the moment," he says. "We're trying to figure things out. It's one of those crazy situations, it's so unfortunate, we're just trying to fathom it out."And of course, the subject of goal line technology hit the news during Euro 2012, and it now seems as though it will be implemented from next season. Any plans to bring it into the Fifa titles?"Ah, that's a good one," says Rutter. "We had this minor panic when that came in, thinking, what are we going to do?! But ultimately, the referees in Fifa don't make goal line mistakes so we've really already got it."That's a cheat answer, I know! But the fact that they've implemented it has been very helpful to us, We used to get asked all the time, can referees make mistakes in Fifa and disallow goals? And we were always saying no, we get enough rage from the internet without us adding fuel to the fire!"Due out in September, Fifa 13 is also bringing in new attacking features including a more useful ranged dribbling option, and more intense physical contact, with players able to knock each other off the ball. You can see our previewhere.
You could count the number of decent licensed video games on one hand. But a surprise inclusion might be 2010'sToy Story 3, developed by Avalanche Studios, which combined the usual kiddie-focused platformer with a smart "Toybox" mode where players build their own levels.Toybox seemed like a watershed for Pixar tie-ins because, rather than cramming the movie's narrative beats into a standard template, it fit the Toy Story concept to an experience the movies couldn't offer. What do kids do with toys, after all, but set them up and play?Brave: The Video Game is a return to more straightforward territory, a third-person platformer-stroke-shooter developed by Behaviour Interactive (formerly Artificial Mind and Movement). The remit is clear: expand on the film's universe, and try to recreate some of the ever-popular Lego series' magic.Since2005's Lego Star Wars, these games (developed by Traveller's Tales) have enjoyed such popular success they're seen as a template for family-friendly gaming – in other words, great for playing with the kids.Their influence on Brave is heavy, most obvious in the coins forever flowing into flame-haired protagonist Merida, whose grunts and squeals are voiced with considerable vigour by Kelly MacDonald.The game's story is a companion piece to the movie rather than following it, with the teenage Merida out to defeat a big bad bear with a little help from her family. Brave's working title was The Bear and the Bow, which fits the game perfectly because it's built around Merida's skill with the bow – which here resembles a wooden machine gun.Everything from defeating enemies to destroying background objects unleashes jingling currency, which tumbles out before homing in and hitting you with a little tinkle. This never-ending stream of tiny rewards gives any action, regardless of significance, a veneer of achievement.Other lifts are more subtle, such as the bite-sized checkpointing that ensures no restart is too far back, or the instant respawns after a failed jump – of which there will be many.Brave's platforming sections are plagued by bad camera angles that fool you into thinking a column is more to one side than it actually is. Merida tumbles into oblivion again and again and again.Thanks to those instant respawns and a generous double-jump these sections never holds things back for too long, but that hardly makes them fun. It's somewhat amusing, though cold comfort, that Lego games share exactly the same flaw.Brave's own identity is in the combat, a 3D twin-stick shooter built around Merida's combination of bow and sword. She fires bolts continuously in whichever direction you hold the right analogue stick, and four colour-coded ammunition types (unlocked over the first few levels) can be cycled through with the bumpers.These correspond to handy floating symbols above each enemy's head, and matching ammo to foe kills everything faster.The ranged combat is initially quick and satisfying, with different types of enemy jumbled together to encourage regular ammo-switching and a mix of offensive styles – wolves dash in to knock Merida off her feet, while tree-like foes take potshots from a distance. When enemies get close a sword swipe usually does for them, though in practice it's rarely unsheathed.There's not really enough variety to keep things interesting after the first hour or so, though Merida's moveset can be upgraded thanks to those ever-flowing coins, with essential abilities like the dodging roll and jumping attack swiftly unlocked.All abilities are shared with player 2, who controls a Will O' The Wisp, which in one of the game's biggest missteps is pretty hard to actually see. The film's Wisps have an ethereal blue colouring, which is extraordinarily difficult to keep track of in the game – nevermind the fact that the camera remains locked to Merida, frequently leaving your partner off-screen and waiting for a respawn.Most of Brave is spent controlling Merida, but there are digressions into lever-pulling puzzles and controlling a big bear. On a few occasions you're a hulking beast, capable of swinging wildly in the general direction of luckless enemies.The bear has a certain therapeutic quality, letting you forget bumper-fiddling and precision shots in favour of just whacking stuff. It could use an auto-assist, but perhaps looking for subtlety in what is basically HULK SMASH misses the point.That goes for Brave as a whole. As a straight video game it doesn't excel, yet in terms of its target audience it arguably delivers. The feel of the movie runs through its organic enemies and environments, little hints of Pixar's artistry surviving in the rocks and stones and trees of its world.Even if it can't hope to match the lushness of its source material, the video game still offers its own impressive vistas and even indulges in the occasional flourish – such as small areas blooming, Okami-style, after larger battles.Is that enough? Doubtless the charts will tell us it is. The disappointment is that following Toy Story 3's video game, which tried to fit the subject to the medium, Disney Interactive should choose to play it so safe.No movie studio in the world makes films that bridge generations quite as Pixar does, that mix of wisdom and wonder that can entrance adult and child alike. Perhaps the only interactive equivalent is something as magical as Mario.As a piece of merchandise, this does the job it needs to. As a video game, it's anything but Brave.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
With 400m activated devices and another 1m added every day, Android is on a roll. So why are many games developers still wary of porting their iOS titles to Google's platform? Piracy is a key reason.Developer Madfinger Games is the latest company to fuel the debate, after changing itsDead Trigger gamefrom paid to free on the Google Play Store. The zombie-themed first-person shooter launched earlier in July for $0.99."Regarding price drop. HERE is our statement. The main reason: piracy rate on Android devices, that was unbelievably high," the companypostedon its official Dead Trigger Facebook page, comparing the game to its previous title Shadowgun."At first we intend to make this game available for as many people as possible - that's why it was for as little as buck. - It was much less than 8$ for SHADOWGUN but on the other hand we didn't dare to provide it for free, since we hadn't got XP with free-to-play format so far. - However, even for one buck, the piracy rate is soooo giant, that we finally decided to provide DEAD TRIGGER for free."The company's post was likely in response to criticism from players who had paid $0.99 for Dead Trigger in its first few weeks on the Google Play Store. Pocket Gamer reports that a number hadposted one-star reviewsafter the change, angry at having paid for a game that is now free.Madfinger stresses in its Facebook post that Dead Trigger "is not FREEMIUM, it always was and still remains FREE-TO-PLAY", in an effort to head off suggestions that it's pushing players to pay for items using in-app purchases. "We stand up for this statement, because all members of our team are playing (and enjoying) DEAD TRIGGER without IAP."The iOS version of Dead Trigger remains a $0.99 paid game, although like the Android version it also uses IAP.Madfinger isn't the first developer to talk publicly about high levels of piracy for its Android games. In April 2012, Sports Interactive said that in the first two weeks after it launched its Football Manager Handheld game for Android,its piracy rate was 9:1– that's one sale for every nine illegal downloads."There's no working copy protection on the platform currently, so it's pretty easy for someone to get it working," SI's' Miles Jacobson told Eurogamer at the time. "The platform is also very popular in some countries where there's a larger piracy problem than in others."It was SI's first game for Android, and possibly its last. "If it doesn't hit targets, then we won't be doing another one for the platform - that's a simple business decision though for a couple of months' time."Earlier, Korean developer com2uS had said some games see piracy ratesas high as 98%on Android, while US developer Appy Entertainment's FaceFighter Gold game saw apiracy rate of 70:1 on Androidversus 3:1 on iOS.In September 2011, analyst firm Yankee Grouppolled 75 Android developersin the US on the subject of piracy, and found 27% saying it's a huge problem, and 26% saying it's somewhat of a problem – meaning that 47% aren't as fussed, presumably.However, a third of developers questioned said they believed piracy had cost them more than $10,000 in revenue, while 32% noted that it increases their support costs for apps and games.It's important not to rush to conclusions on the subject of piracy, whatever media you're talking about. Figuring out what proportion of illegal downloads represent lost sales (versus people who would have never bought the game) is notoriously tricky, for example.Meanwhile, high piracy rates on Android do not mean it is impossible to make money as a games developer: in-app purchases and advertising offer revenue streams for free-to-play games, although as Apple hasfound out in recent days, IAP systems are targets for piracy too.Even so, Google can't afford to ignore the complaints of paid app developers about high piracy rates on Android. In fact, there's already evidence that it is working to address the matter.A new feature in its Android Jelly Bean 4.1 software is app encryption, which the Android developers blogdescribes thus:"From Jelly Bean and forward, paid apps in Google Play are encrypted with a device-specific key before they are delivered and stored on the device. We know you work hard building your apps. We work hard to protect your investment."Madfinger Games clearly hasn't given up on Android – switching to a free-to-play model for Dead Trigger to see if it can make money that way.But the company's experience represents a challenge to Google: Android has huge scale, and the latest devices are more than capable of running impressive games. But anything that makes developers worry about getting a return on their investment – piracy included – means less of these games coming to Android.
Sometimes it's hard to resist the promises made by the all-singing, all-dancing computer printers that line the shelves of stores of computer retailers. Yet perhaps we should resist, as it looks as if there may be a dark side to the printer revolution that few people are aware of; a dark side that threatens to turn the saviours of print into the spies within. Researchers are increasingly concerned by the possibility of direct attacks on the printers themselves – and have since the game changed in November 2011. Now, research to be published by a Finnish security company in the next week suggests printers are vulnerable to attack.The first crack came seven months ago, when what had long had been discussed as theoretically possible – and was part of hacker lore – became reality, when two academics in New York publicly hacked into a Hewlett-Packard laser jet printer.Using freely available information and a budget of $2,000 (£1,280), professor Salvatore Stolfo and researcher Ang Cui from Columbia University's appropriately namedIntrusion Detection System Laboratoryused the printer's remote firmware update to install potentially crippling malware that could even be targeted to destroy the device itself.While HP did challenge what turned out to be aspects of the way the demonstration was reported, the company took the conclusions seriously, acting quickly and with "diligence" to issue more than 56 firmware updates.However, seven months later, Stolfo's and Cui's latest – and as yet unpublished – research into embedded system insecurity and symbiote technology suggests people still haven't got the message. Based on a wide-area scan of HP laser jet printers on the internet, only 1–2% have been updated. Of those, one in four is still using default password settings for printer updates.Stolfo suspects other brands may be just as vulnerable. "There are always myths and hoaxes, but not in this case," he argues. "We have demonstrated not only that the firmware update function of certain printers is faulty, but that there are still a number of known vulnerabilities in the real-time operating systems [such as Linux] used in a large number of printer models."These include more than 100 known vulnerabilities in versions of the OpenSSL encryption protocols that – for example – could be used to turn them into "reconnaissance devices that operate behind corporate firewalls, spread malware to internal systems, and even exfiltrate printed documents outside of a protected site".Such attacks, he believes, could be successful against whole families of printers that have the same design flaws, whatever modifications there have been for their various specific purposes. The myth that the diversity of printer firmware would act as a deterrence to hackers is just that – a myth. In reality, whatever the badge on the box, many printers are actually built with similar general-purpose real-time operating systems and using the same stock components.Firmware weaknesses are made worse by people's lack of awareness about the nature of these embedded devices so that there are "many many devices out there and not much attention being paid to them", and as a result, his scans have found firmware dating back to 1992 to be still in use.Ari Takanen agrees with Stolfo that the vulnerability of computer printers to such hacking is "all about awareness". Takanen is founder and chief technical officer of Finland-based robustness-testing companyCodenomicon. The company has used its world-leading fuzzy solutions (software testing for security problems) product Defensics to test 15 protocols found commonly in consumer and low-end enterprise printers from six unnamed manufacturers for vulnerabilities that could open doors to hackers. Of these 15 protocols, five failed by demonstrating exceptions such as crashes on more than half of the printers, and two – the data transmission protocols TCPv4 and IPV6 – failed on every printer that they were installed on.More detailed results of the tests will be published in a white paper by the end of July.The key flaw comes because printers now have capabilities that let them receive documents from the cloud – in effect, emails."The more and more we are using our printers to send and receive emails the more and more they are liable to be attacked," says Takanen. "But few people realise that a lot of devices they have in their home don't have the firewalls and anti-viral software they have come to expect from their PC and can compromise the networks they are on due to the vulnerabilities in their firmware." He says that such vulnerabilities "are made worse by out-of-date code, because people don't treat their printer like a PC and update it regularly".His team found Linux code dating back to 2006 in their sample.Eeva Starck, a security analyst at Codenomicon, called the flaws "surprising" and "sort of scary".She explained: "Files that get sent to the printers get cached before printing, and sometimes emailed forward. So if someone got in between these connections then they could cause the printer to crash, leak out confidential data and even put at risk the LAN [local area network] they are a part of."While for the home user this is less likely to be a problem, it is, she believes, more of a serious issue "for startups who don't have the money to be investing in security, and yet whose printers are handling confidential information".Denial-of-service attacksvia TCPv4 have been seen on other embedded devices that use similar protocols, such as Wi-Fi routers, but not yet,"as far as we, know on any printers".In the long run Takanen is pessimistic about the chances of improving printer security, as these flaws are "easy for hackers to find".He explains: "Even though some vendors are waking up and taking it seriously, others don't care because they don't need to, even though just simple testing would highlight the problems, as consumers are motivated by price and there is too little competition."Starck concurs, adding "it takes time and money to put these things right" and some companies are manufacturing these low-end printers "on a shoestring, their revenue model being to chug out as many printers as cheaply as possible. And basically what can seem like washing their hands of them".By contrast, Stolfo does see printer security as a "massive new market" for the industry, with the development of new products such as Mocana's Smart Device Security Platform. Yet he shares Takanen's concerns, since "the industry seems to be responding by building in cryptographic protocols to allow embedded devices to talk to each other, even though the code used is itself vulnerable, as are the devices still themselves".Stolfo is particularly concerned by the "legacy of insecurity" created by all the devices that are going to be replaced only when they break down – potentially years in the future – while other embedded devices such as smart TVs may use similar firmware."Good security software design is a big help, better real-time OS's for sure, but none of these will do much about the huge existing base of devices. For that we have invented a technology we have to come call Symbiote".This technology allows the injection of security software (and hence security properties) into legacy firmware and "protects the firmware from malicious attack".Stolfo and Cui are hoping to commercialise this technology with their new spinoff, Red Balloon Security.After all, he sys, "we have been contacted by quite a few people asking for details of the RFU attack, as well as our software. There is no doubt the vulnerability and the opportunity is being seriously studied by attackers."Ultimately, Takanen believes, it is "hard to know the best solution to an industry that can seem to have poor quality requirements" although some kind of formalised "test requirements" or "certification" could be possibilities.And, he says drily, perhaps the "the safest bet is just not to be connected to the internet in the first place."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 21 July 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (13)Wii (12)52 (2)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (42)PC (1)43 (5)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (32)PC (1)94 (3)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)Wii (2)3DS (1)45 (6)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (40)PC (5)Wii (2)356 (–)Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance(12+)3DS (100)17 (11)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (44)PC (3)278 (10)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (63)3DS (37)349 (12)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (48)PC (2)1010 (7)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (34)PC (14)3411 (4)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)PC (3)312 (8)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (34)Wii (11)PSP (8)4313 (20)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (51)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (15)3DS (6)2714 (14)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)PC (3)1215 (9)Spec Ops: The Line(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)416 (13)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)1917 (15)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (39)PC (9)5418 (17)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (26)DS (23)PS3 (22)Xbox 360 (19)3019 (–)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)1220 (–)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (42)29UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 16 new and notable apps today:The Blur AppWith the reformed Blur set for more gigs this summer, label EMI has launched an official iPhone and iPad app celebrating the band's 21-year career. It includes exclusive interviews, demos, remixes and live performances, as well as a discography, videography and gigography – complete with set-lists – and the ability to play albums from your iTunes library within the app.iPhone / iPadSports Illustrated Live from London 2012Time Inc's Sports Illustrated has launched a standalone Olympic Games app to provide news, scores, results and medal counts during the Games, along with schedules, photos, a daily video recap and live Twitter feeds.iPadFridayFacebook turns your social networking life into a timeline, but Friday is looking to do the same thing for your Android life. Or, as it puts it: "Friday brings self discovery by introducing the first passive auto journal... It captures your entire life through your phone and builds a beautiful timeline of your life." Then lets you filter and search the entries.AndroidZiteCNN's personalised magazine app Zite has made the jump to Windows Phone, promising that it "learns what you like and gets smarter as you use it". It's the latest sign of this app genre (see also: Flipboard, News360, Taptu) going well beyond its origins on iOS.Windows PhoneOne Direction Fan FictionIncluded half out of sheer disbelief, this really is an iPhone app just for fan fiction about boy-band One Direction. I'm not sure how saucy it gets. The app is the work of mobile fiction startup Movellas, which has clearly spied a trend in the stories being submitted to its main service. The app includes the ability to rate and comment on stories, and sign up for updates as they're published.iPhoneApptivity BatmanMattel's line ofApptivityapps involve using real toys with Apple's iPad. The latest is Batman, following Hot Wheels and WWE Rumblers. Place the compatible Batman figure onto the screen, and it's recognised by the game, which is based around saving Gotham City from its latest arch-villain Bane. Players without figurines can still enjoy a Quick Play mode.iPadCooper's Pack – London Children's Travel GuideThe Cooper's Pack books are travel guides for children, hosted by a stuffed dog called Cooper. Their latest app incarnation focuses on London, just ahead of the Olympic Games. It lists landmarks and activities for kids visiting the capital city, with additional educational information.iPhone / iPadStardunk with MobageIndie developer Godzilab's Stardunk space-basketball game has been out on Android for a while now, racking up well over 1m installs with its free version. Now it's been relaunched with the Mobage games community, bringing social features in from that.AndroidAesop for ChildrenThe US Library of Congress has thrown its hat into the crowded children's book-apps ring, with an iOS version of 1919 book The Aesop for Children: with Pictures by Milo Winter. Now a public-domain work, it's been updated for iPhone and iPad with illustrations and animations.iPhone / iPadDiscovery Channel: Speed MachinesBook publisher Miles Kelly has teamed up with the Discovery Channel for Speed Machines, an e-book in Apple's iBooks format that crams in plenty of app-like features – including 3D models, videos and slideshows.iPad (iBooks)SooqiniLive in beta, Sooqini wants to be "the trusted mobile marketplace for almost anything", connecting people to others in their neighbourhood to buy goods, services and information. A location-based eBay, of sorts, but with a focus that goes beyond items.iPhoneLegend of Master 3The latest in a flurry of Android gamed from Korean publisher Gamevil is an "ultimate mystery RPG", complete with a sorceress' curse and deep skill-building, dungeon-questing action.AndroidFur Fighters: Viggo on GlassAs a former staff writer on Official Dreamcast Magazine in the UK, I have fond memories of Fur Fighters on Sega's console. Now it's been revived for iPad, with more than 30 levels to romp through as the six animal commandos. Now, can someone get to work on a similar update of Ready 2 Rumble...iPadMineKart 64Mario Kart meets Minecraft? Sounds like a good plan. This racing game pits characters from the Minecraft universe against one another on a succession of blocky tracks.iPhoneThe Three Little Pigs StoryThere have been many attempts to retell the Three Little Pigs fairytale on iOS, but this is the first (as far as I'm aware) to do it with plasticine. Moscow-based developer Sozdano created all the illustrations in plasticine, then stop-motion animated them for its 17-page book-app.iPadCadbury Happy MissionCadbury's Malaysian division has launched a new iPhone app that wants to get people to "share more happiness now to make this world a happier place". As opposed to cramming Dairy Milks into their faces rather than share with anyone, presumably.iPhone
Monday, here we go again. How was your weekend, then? Tell us about the gaming bits – and then the other bits. No wait, start with the other stuff.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNexus7 nightmare &gt;&gt; Digital by DefaultOccasionally, you'll get a dud. Matt Jukes did: his Nexus 7 wouldn't power on. But what happens next?So then at 7pm on Wednesday I emailed Google Play Devices support *AND* Google Wallet complaints. It is now 11am Saturday morning and I haven't even had a human acknowledge either email.I also found the Google Play customer service telephone number (which as I use a mobile costs me 14p in minute!). Since Thursday morning I have called NINE times for a minimum of 10 minutes each times without ever getting beyond the hold music.To say the whole experience so far has been disappointing would be an understatement. I understand that a 'dead on arrival' piece of hardware is just bad luck but the simple fact is if this had been Amazon, Apple or even f**king Argos I'd have had better service.HTC devices getting Android 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich Updates &gt;&gt; HTCIt's a long list, though oddly it excludes the HTC Desire HD, which gets this "explanation":After extensive testing, we've determined that the current version of HTC Sense with Android provides customers with the best experience on the HTC Desire HD. When we consider new versions of software, we weigh a number of factors, but ultimately the customer experience on the product is the deciding factor.The first Free Our Data question? Ordnance Survey Maps &gt;&gt; Hansard, 22 July 1912You could call it the first open data question, sure. Anyhow, it has a long heritage.Beats buys back controlling interest from HTC, mobile exclusivity to continue &gt;&gt; The Verge[In August] Last year HTC made waves when it spent $300m to acquire a majority stake in audio brand Beats -- but things have new flipped back around, with HTC announcing that it sold 25% of Beats' shares back to the audio manufacturer for $150m.Turns out people won't select a smartphone principally on its promised audio quality. HTC is probably glad of the money now.Sources: Google's Sparrow purchase cost under $25 million, will bring 'beauty' to Gmail &gt;&gt; The VergeSparrow is also known first for its Mac client, and the Google purchase makes a native Mac Gmail client more of a reality. We heard that the acquisition is less about "building for a specific platform," and that Sparrow's experience at building simple and powerful email clients will be helpful in bringing consistency to the Gmail ecosystem. Our sources also noted that Google isn't ruling out native Gmail clients for platforms beyond iOS and Android, and emphasized that Google wants to bring polish, "beauty," and ease of use to all of its Gmail experiences across platformsSparrow for Windows Phone? Then again, how many email clients does the world need?Our news &gt;&gt; SparrowWe're excited to announce that Sparrow has been acquired by Google!We care a lot about how people communicate, and we did our best to provide you with the most intuitive and pleasurable mailing experience.Now we're joining the Gmail team to accomplish a bigger vision -- one that we think we can better achieve with Google.How to prepare for Google's acquisition of Sparrow &gt;&gt; Boing BoingGoogle announced today [Friday] that it had acquired Sparrow, the OS X email app much-loved for its uncluttered layout and minimal user experience. This HOWTO will help get you ready for all the enhancements and developments to come as it is integrated into Google's established mail and messaging services.It's a short video - worth your attention. (Works with or without volume.)From 2006: Marissa Mayer: hologram or android? &gt;&gt; GawkerAnother CNN-affiliated magazine issue, another Marissa Mayer profile.Fortune's new self-written pieceon the Google VP's insane schedule (which somehow left time for contributing to Fortune) allows only two explanations for her lifestyle. Either Marissa Mayer is an artificially constructed hologram delivering a carefully performed script, or she is an artificially constructed android running a Google A.I.Check for spinning saw attachments on the end of her arms. That should settle it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Complaints are multiplying online about quality issues with the new Google Nexus 7 tablet, with a number of people complaining about "loose screens" which bleed light from the edges or move when touched. Some of those who have had problems say Google has been slow to respond to their concerns.Reports of "loose screens" have begun occurring almost since the devices first arrived. Some users have complained that the touchscreen glass is slightly lifted around the edge of the device. In some cases that means that light seems to "bleed" into the display of a page, while others have said it means the screen actually moves.In aposton the Android Central forums, a user called psycho9x reported that "Just got [my] N7 yesterday and I love it BUT I have noticed that the glass on the left side is separating from the case… When you look at it from the side you can see the glass sticking up a bit and when you push it back down you can hear the adhesive grab on then it lets go. I haven't even had it for 12 hours yet."Similar problems have been echoed by a number of people in the same andsimilar threads.Other users have reported "stuck" pixels on the 1280x800 screen. Others have said that it is unresponsive to some touchscreen input.Other reports show "phantom" typing because of uneven screen attachment.It is impossible to say whether the number of people reporting problems are a significant number of those who have received the device. Google has not offered shipment figures, although it hasstopped taking orders for the 16GB versionof the device through its Google Play store, suggesting very heavy demand for the £199 version of the device. The £159 8GB version is shown as still in stock.The suspension of new orders for the 16GB version has worried users who are hoping for a replacement, since it indicates that Google's hardware partner for the Nexus 7, Asus, has not been able yet to meet demand. That in turn implies a longer time waiting for a replacement to be shipped.Users have also complained that it has been hard to contact Google to complain about problems. Matt Jukes, based in Bristol, found that his Nexus 7 which arrived on Wednesdaywould not power on. He tried emailing and then ringing Google to complain on the helpline provided - but despite calling nine times and holding for 10 minutes, at 14p per minute from his mobile provider, was not able to get answered.Jon Silk, another early purchaser via Google,had problems with the screen- noting that it kept popping out, but also that many others had reported the same problems online - and was unable to make contact with Google's helplines. He has called Asus and Google but been unable to get an answer.Google has had similar problems with a previous venture into providing hardware, when inJanuary 2010 it tried to sell the Nexus One in the US by itselfrather than through carriers. It was overwhelmed with customer support requests and complaints, and eventually stopped selling the device itself, leaving it to carriers to sell it.People who buy the tablet from physical outlets such as Carphone Warehouse, Currys Digital or PC World should be able to return the item if they find its quality unsatisfactory.
Sources close to Google say the search giant seriously underestimated the demand for the 16GB version of its 7in Nexus 7 tablet, which has sold out from stockists and other sources while demand for the smaller 8GB version remains comparatively low.The company has now halted further orders of the 16GB version of the tablet, costing £199, on its Google Play store in the US and UK. Orders made in the period up to the end of last week are due to be fulfilled, but a shortage of stock now means a hiatus in sales.While the8GB model, which costs £159, is shown as "in stock"and being delivered in 3-5 business days, the16GB version only offers an option to "sign up to be notified by email"when it becomes available.The 8GB version is only being sold through Google's own store, rather than physical retailers - but online buyers appear to have shunned it, surprising Google, which had thought that the cheaper version, despite having only half as much storage, would sell better than it has.The Guardian understands that Google's planners had thought that buyers on the Google Play store, more than from physical or online retailers, would be more committed to the company's "cloud" concept, and so would have more of their content stored online, rather than wanting to keep it on the device.But most buyers appear to have noted that the storage on the device cannot be upgraded and decided to get the larger model.The Nexus 7 appears to have been a huge hit, although Google has not yet released any figures for sales. Its principal competitors for sales in physical stores such as Currys and PC World in the UK are Apple's iPad and Amazon's Kindle Touch. A spokesperson for Dixons Retail, which sells all three, said sales of the Nexus 7 have been "extremely brisk" but declined to say where it ranked against the other two.Google hasalready put off the date for deliveries of the 16GB versiononce, extending it by up to a week. Asus is believed to be ramping up production of another batch of models, but that could take some weeks to arrive.In the UK, Tesco is understood to have turned down a number of orders made online for the 16GB version after overwhelming demand. It is not selling the 8GB version.Google has seen huge demand for the Nexus 7 since announcing it on 27 June and offering online ordering directly from the Google Play online store, followed a few days later by the announcement that a number of physical retailers would be selling it.The Nexus 7 marks Google's first foray into the tablet business. The device is made to Google's specifications by Asus; the 8GB version is being sold almost at cost ($199 compared to the build cost of $157), according toestimates by IHS iSuppli. The 16GB version is more profitable for Google.The popularity of the 7in Nexus 7 has prompted speculation that Apple, which presently dominates the tablet market, will launch an "iPad mini" with a smaller screen than its existing 10in device later this year. The company has declined to comment.
Often free of commercial concerns and the controlling hand of a parent company, browser developers continue to earn themselves a reputation as game design's creatively risky frontiersmen.Black Box, the latest effort by developer Eyezmaze, is a case in point – a perfect specimen of a title unlikely to appear anywhere else. Taking only a brief period to complete,Black Boxis as much a digital toy as video game and presents the player with little more at the start than the eponymous cube. Jabbing away at the box with a cursor causes the container to evolve, gradually turning it into a charming and elaborate robot, brimming with playful mysteries.Elsewhere,Eruption, created in just one week, delivers a lo-fi platform game based around ideas of the soul and the theme of "contrast". The brief was set in a recent round of theLudum&nbsp;Darecompetition, which challenges developers to create games in short periods of time. This is a bare-bones experience, but none the less full of good&nbsp;ideas.If that isn't abstract enough, then maybeir/rationalwill suit. Something of an exploration of propositional logic crossed with a word game, it asks players to question the reality of their existence, the possibility of God's presence and other big ideas. The player is charged with presenting arguments to progress, making it a title unlike any other mainstream release.None of these titles dazzles with big‑budget gloss, but all display no shortage of imagination.
Renault TwizyPrice £6,690Top speed 50mphRange 62 milesThe first time I saw Renault's Twizy – a sort of stubby Shetland pony of  a car, dressed in garish Versace  disco wear for good measure – was on a test track in the countryside outside Milton Keynes. Parked up among a fleet of dignified, soon-to-be-launched premium cars it seemed as incongruous as seeing a beach buggy on the M4. Yes, it had four wheels, an engine and a steering wheel, but that's where the similarity ended. It is a&nbsp;car, but not as we know it. Maybe it was to do with the context: the Twizy is, after all, at the cutting edge of modernurbantransport. But then last week I was in Paris and saw a pair of them powering across the cobbles outside the Gare du Nord and… well, they still looked like the Double-take Brothers.Like many things ahead of their time, the electric Twizy seems curiously simplistic, even backwards. It looks sci-fi, but only in a&nbsp;kitsch, 70s way. It's a scooter for people who like cars, or a car for people who love scooters. Old Mods, maybe. The Twizy… hang on, let's pause here for a moment. Twizy! Are you thinking about a&nbsp;turkey twizzler? Or a&nbsp;Twix? Could it be a&nbsp;play on whizzy – a whizzy Twizy? I can't decide if it's inspired or ridiculous. A&nbsp;bit like the car itself, in fact.The Twizy has two comfortable seats which are arranged in tandem, so your passenger sits behind you. The driver clunk- clicks with a&nbsp;four-point seatbelt before confronting a traditional steering wheel and a&nbsp;digital display showing speed, battery charge and range. It's very straightforward to use. Turn it on, release the parking brake, depress the accelerator and you're off. It's driving at its purest and least complicated.The 17bhp electric engine has a&nbsp;top speed of 50mph and a range of 30-65 miles, depending on how you drive. It then takes about three hours to fully recharge – about as long as it takes to enjoy a&nbsp;leisurely French lunch.Returning to the car from lunch, you won't have to trouble yourself with opening a door to climb in, checking you've locked the boot or even that you've remembered to shut the windows as the Twizy doesn't trouble itself with these road-going necessities. Youcanopt for a pair of doors (an extra £545), but you still won't get windows. Perhaps better to invest in a branded Renault water-resistant blanket (£110) – known as a&nbsp;jupe(skirt) in France – and, instead of a boot, a leisure bag for £95. If that all sounds a bit bleak, start up the Twizy and it will soon win you over.The electric motor whines gently, press the accelerator and it lurches into life. At first, the ride feels alarmingly firm on its hard little wheels, but as you pick up speed, the timorous beastie comes into its own. The steering is so direct and immediate it feels as if you're in an animated go-kart that's jumped out of the screen and soon you're whooping and swooping through tiny spaces and roaring away from traffic lights.Despite being totally open, it feels planted and secure, though how it would fare in a smash I wouldn't like to guess. It's the most fun you'll have had in a tiny, two-seat, bootless, doorless electric car – since the last time you went on the dodgems.Good neighboursCar owners in London and Glasgow have become the first two people in the UK to put their newly purchased Twizy onWhipCar.com, allowing their neighbours a unique opportunity to drive this fun and striking vehicle for as little as £36 per day. Vinay Gupta, co-founder of WhipCar says: "Many of our car owners are interested in hybrid and all-electric vehicles and have been asking us whether they can list such cars on the site. We're delighted to now be able to accept certain all-electric models and help car owners embrace new technologies while offsetting the cost of ownership. It's really satisfying to see our customers trust WhipCar to the point that they're willing to rent out their new cars on the site immediately. Increasingly customers are asking us what cars they should purchase because they want to ensure their car has rental value when it's not being used. We believe WhipCar is currently the only service in the UK where you can rent the new Twizy."Since its launch in London in April 2010, WhipCar has expanded nationwide and now has a presence in hundreds of towns across the country – 90% of Londoners can now find WhipCars to hire less than 10 minutes from their front door. Its service now has nearly 19,000 cars available for rental around the UK.Mum's the wordMumsnetandWhat Car?have joined forces to launchMumsnet Cars, a brand new car reviews section of Mumsnet which offers user-generated reviews as well as expert advice. The site contains straight talking reviews written by Mumsnet users, answering all the real questions that parents often have about cars: "Will it fit three car seats?" "Is it easy to maintain?" "How much should I be paying for this?" "Can I fit in my entire family and still have legroom?" along with expert insight from What Car?In a survey of car owners conducted on the Mumsnet website to coincide with the launch of the site, Mumsnet users were presented with a list of celebrities whose influence might persuade them to buy a car. Despite the list ranging from Kylie to Clarkson to Cameron, nearly half of respondents (48%) said that they would not trust any celebrity recommendation. David Cameron rated the lowest, with fewer than 1% of respondents saying they would trust him the most. In contrast, over three quarters (77%) say that a recommendation from a friend or a relation would be influential.Justine Roberts, CEO and co-founder of Mumsnet, said: "When it comes to buying cars, we know that priorities change once people start a family and that parents are looking for safe, economical and practical cars without the hard sell. Most of our users seek advice or read reviews on Mumsnet when they are planning to buy a child-related product, and judging from the number of car discussions on the site there's a clear need for similar advice when it comes to cars."And finally… calling all speed loversOn the 25 and 26 August, speed lovers would do well to make their way to the beautiful Pentillie Castle as it launches the southwest's newest motorsport event in its stunning grounds. The adrenalin-packed weekend will feature a hill climb, endorsed by the Motor Sports Association, which will run from the banks of the River Tamar, while members of the public can apply for the opportunity to drive the hill in their own fine, performance or classic car and be a racing driver for the day. There will also be the chance to see some classic and rare cars, take a 4x4 around the estate, have a go at clay pigeon shooting, drive a simulator and all the while sample some fine West Country food and drink. Ted Coryton, owner of Pentillie Castle said: "The castle grounds are the perfect challenge for motoring fans and will provide a stunning backdrop for some beautiful cars." For further information, go topentilliefestivalofspeed.co.ukEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Suffer one too many snakebites and your character will die. A venomous spider drops on you and death ensues. Fall down a hole from too great a height, the same. Misjudge a leap over a deadly set of spikes and… well, you get the picture. Yet despite the often brutal difficulty curve, indie gameSpelunkysomehow avoids being infuriating and instead positions itself as one of the finest action platformers around.Armed only with a trusty whip, players descend into an ever-changing labyrinth of subterranean locales, hoarding treasure and rescuing damsels while tackling or avoiding an endless stream of lethal obstacles – and you will die. A lot. Perhaps it'sSpelunky's cutesy aesthetic that alleviates frustration or its wry sense of humour – visual gags aplenty, with more than a few aimed at a certain cinematic academic-cum-archeologist – but either way, you'll succumb to its siren call of "one more go" well into the early hours of the morning; each small progression will feel like an accomplishment well earned.Upgraded from the PC version of a few years prior, thisXbox digital downloadalso boasts aBomberman-style multiplayer survival mode and massively enhanced graphics. Easily the most addictive indie game available.
Manuel Castells, the leading scholar of cyberspace, has coined a neat term to describe our current mental state in relation to the internet: "informed bewilderment". Our problem is not that we are short of information about the phenomenon: on the contrary, we are awash with numbers. The problem is that we don't know what they mean.With that in mind, let us peruseOfcom's ninth annual communications market report. This is the most intensive annual survey we have of what's happening in our media ecosystem. The only other studies that come anywhere near it are theOxford internet surveysconducted by theOxford Internet Institute– and they focus exclusively on the net, whereas Ofcom takes in TV, radio, telecoms and letter post (aka snail-mail) as well.The Ofcom document runs to 411 pages, so it is custom-built for empirical masochists. Given that life is short, and you may have other things to do on a Sunday morning, I will just focus on some findings in the report that leapt out at me, and ponder their implications.  The survey shows that home internet access in the UK rose by 3% between 2011 and 2012 and now stands at 80%. So eight out of 10 people have access to the network. And the speed of that access is increasing: by the first quarter of 2012, for example, 76% of UK homes had a broadband connection of some description. Equally interesting is the discovery that the largest rise in internet access over the last year – 9% – was among 65&nbsp;to 74-year-olds. So the idea of "silver surfers" as an endangered minority needs recalibrating.Next, we find that two-fifths of UK adults are now smartphone users. Take-up has risen from 27% in 2011 to 39%. This is interesting because the mobile networks and the telecoms industry have in the past consistently underestimated the popularity of internet-enabled mobile phones. It's also one of the reasons why Nokia finds itself in so much trouble.It's hard to exaggerate the significance of the smartphone tsunami, especially when we see Ofcom's discovery that more than four in 10 smartphone users say their phone is more important for accessing the internetthan any other device. Smartphones are increasingly central to consumers' lives – for online shopping (57%), social networking (30%), tweeting (23%) and even watching TV/film content (22%). I've seen this time and again among family, colleagues, friends and acquaintances: the moment people acquire smartphones, their reliance on PCs or laptops declines, sometimes dramatically. But up to now those observations had a purely anecdotal status. The Ofcom report changes that.The key thing about smartphones is that they are essentially handheld networked computers which also happen to be able to make voice calls. This is what Steve Jobs realised before most industry figures, and it explains why Apple has driven the mobile revolution. The Ofcom report is a testament to Jobs's perceptiveness, not just because of what it reveals about the centrality of smartphones in their users' lives, but also because it shows that the use of mobile phones for voice calls has peaked. The volume of calls made from mobile phones fell for the first time: down 1.1% on 2010 figures. Mobile voice revenues fell by 0.9% to £10.5bn while mobile messaging and handset data revenues increased 5.5% to £4.6bn.Other highlights from the Ofcom report include the revelation that each household in the UK has on average three different types of internet-enabled device; that a third of people aged 16 to 24 live in homes where mobiles are the sole form of telephony; that users are spending longer on YouTube (where the time per person on the site increased by 42% between March 2011 and March 2012, to 1.5 hours); that online retailing increased by 30% in a year and is now worth £2.6bn a year. Oh and I almost forgot the most staggering revelation of all – that spending on internet advertising is now greater than on any other category of advertising. In 2011 advertising spend on the internet was £4.8bn, exceeding the spend not just on print (£3.9bn) but also on TV (£4.2bn).So – to return to Professor Castells's observation – what does this mean? Firstly that the distinction between the virtual and the real worlds has essentially evaporated: the internet is now part of "normal" life. Secondly that people will increasingly access the net via tethered appliances (smartphones and tablets), with all that that implies in terms of corporate control. And thirdly, that providers of cloud computing will inherit the Earth, because all mobile devices are essentially windows on to the cloud. So, clearly, the future's mobile. The only question is whether it's also bleak. To find out we'll have to wait for Ofcom's 19th report. Assuming it's still around, that is.
The future wears Lycra, or at least it would seem that way as British cycling scales yet new peaks. As you read this, grown men and women are out on the road pretending to be Bradley Wiggins or Mark Cavendish, before spinning home to watch the peloton rattles up the Champs Elysées when the Tour de France reaches its conclusion.Tour de France 2012takes the obsession a step further, rolling the sport's tactics and top riders into a first-person, chafing-free zone.Wannabedirecteurs sportifswill appreciate the aggregation of minor improvements on this tour simulator from last year's edition, which was more a desperate attempt to fill a void rather than a sensible use of anyone's time, and a far cry from the obsessive verisimilitude of its sister release,Pro&nbsp;Cycling Manager. Rider profiles have improved, you can skip less compelling sections of parkour, and the time trial is now a button-hammering punishment for your thumbs.If the latter feels irksome and unnecessarily retro, it is part of something altogether more challenging, offering a worthwhile and&nbsp;viable tonic for those who feel bereft when La Grand Boucle packs up its barriers for another year.
Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance, Nintendo 3DSTelling the story of Sora and Riku's quest to defeat the naughty Xehanort, Kingdom Hearts: Dream Drop Distance (3D – geddit?) is the latest extension to this Disney/Final Fantasy crossover franchise in which spiky-haired heroes and Tron characters rub shoulders in a shiny, sparkly cartoon world.You'll be doing a lot of fighting, this time livened up by Flowmotion, which lets you grind rails and swing from poles and enemies, hurling your characters about in a trail of sparks. You can also use magic, good old-fashioned sword play, and something called "Reality Shift", which converts enemies and scenery into bouncy artillery and an expanding set of Pokémon-style creatures that fight alongside you. That's before you've even got started on levelling up or dealing with your two heroes in parallel dimensions. The tinkly Disney effects look and sound magnificent on 3DS, belying the astonishing complexity of interlinking systems that's always characterised Final Fantasy and its spin-offs.Square Enix, £30-£39.99Spelunky, Xbox 360SpelunkyAbout as unassuming as a game can be, on the surface Spelunky looks like a modern reinvention of Super Mario Bros, with your tiny Indiana Jones-alike hero hopping around in pursuit of treasure and a lost city of gold. First impressions, however, can deceive: despite a pretty HD makeover, this rock-hard, formerly free indie game is as brutal as ever, offering repeated lessons in cave exploration, with each death resetting your character to the very start of the game. Learning by rote won't work either, because restarting prompts levels to regenerate, serving  up random traps, drops and monsters to impale, crush and nibble you to death. There is some respite in the form of Tunnel Man who, over several encounters, can be bribed into building a permanent shortcut to deeper levels, but the joy in Spelunky is your gradual betterment as an explorer, even if any new-found confidence soon has its vital organs pierced by arrows. It's a brilliantly conceived and oddly momentous-feeling voyage of discovery.Mossmouth via Xbox Live Arcade, £10.20 (1,200 Microsoft points)Games newsOne of the world's most costly videogame collections appears to have been sold on eBay, containing more than 20 "full sets", which means a console and every game ever released for it in every set. An anonymous bidder paid €1m for this instant games museum, however similarly enormous sales in the past have turned out to be disappointing hoaxes …Ouya, a putative cloud-based games console based on open-source software running on Android 4.0, had raised more than twice its $1m target on crowd-sourced funding website, Kickstarter within hours of being posted. The $99 device promises a controller that combines joysticks and buttons with a touchpad, and can also be used as a development kit, allowing gamers to become developers …Finally, a Wolverhampton man has taken his complaints to the media, after his 12-year-old son spent more than £1,150 onXbox Livedownloads in six months. Presumably, as well as having a stern word with the boy, the father blames Microsoft's somewhat laid back, password-free purchase process for his enormous bill and potential destitution.
You're doubtless aware of the kind of car review where a writer takes delivery of a&nbsp;Ferrari Enzo or a&nbsp;Mercedes SLS and proceeds to test its limits and their own mettle by hurtling around a test track, deliberately oversteering so the car drifts like mad. It was in the same spirit of reckless daring that I&nbsp;drove a Nissan Qashqai to Croydon Ikea. The bloke screaming round the Nürburgring with smoke coming off the tyres may be risking terrible physical injury, but I was prepared to risk my own mental health. It was Sunday lunchtime, a time of the week when a visit to Croydon Ikea can make you seriously consider whether life has anything left to offer you.I took the Qashqai to Ikea because&nbsp;I thought that was the kind&nbsp;of journey a Qashqai might take&nbsp;in normal life. Nissan has a&nbsp;tendency to talk about the Qashqai&nbsp;as if describing Harvey Keitel inBad Lieutenant– "King of&nbsp;the urban jungle", "Tough enough for the meanest streets" –&nbsp;but I suspect its main market consists of what you might call Renault Scenic refuseniks. They're conscientious objectors to the Kangoo, C4 Picasso seceders, MPV malcontents: people, to paraphrase Barbra Streisand, who need people carriers. But they can't bring themselves to buy something that ugly, that redolent of middle age.I say that with no slight intended, because I'm one of them. We nearly bought a Qashqai a couple of years ago, before our innate conservatism kicked in and we settled for a cheaper, stolid Ford C-Max. And now, whenever we pass one on the motorway, my wife says, "Look, a&nbsp;Qashqai" in the same tone of voice that some women say, "Look, Michael Fassbender in the knack": a&nbsp;wistful tone of voice that speaks of&nbsp;a more exciting, sexier world, tantalisingly out of reach.And now said world was, at least temporarily, in our grasp. My immediate thought was as boring as the car I normally drive: well, what you gain in styling – newly, if slightly, spiffed up, it looks more Bad Lieutentant than ever – you sacrifice in interior space. We could fit enough flatpacked garden furniture in the boot to make me mildly hysterical at the thought of assembling it all, but the cabin felt more cramped than a compact MPV when loaded with two kids and their accompanying car-seats.That said, it feels substantially less like you're steering a vast wardrobe around the A23. Furthermore, it's more nippy than&nbsp;you'd think given its size, as&nbsp;I&nbsp;discovered when I made my traditional departure from Ikea: at&nbsp;about 140mph, with my sanity hanging by a thread.Nissan Qashqai n-tec+ 1.6dCi manualPrice£23,687Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.3 secondsCO2 emissions119g/kmGreen rating6/10Cool rating2/10
Google is under pressure from the European Commission to include its mobile services in any concessions it makes to avoid antitrust investigation, according to reports.TheFinancial Times has reportedthat Joaquín Almunia's office has asked Google to include mobile services in any consideration of its position on search.Almunia, the antitrust commissioner, is also reported to be preparing to serve formal charges against Google if the talks fail to reach an agreement, and to have asked the organisations which originally complained to the EC about Google to provide versions of their complaints which could be released to the public without releasing commercially confidential data.That is a formal step that precedes the public release of a charge sheet against companies in antitrust dealings, though it could in this case simply be a formality.With Google's Android mobile software powering about half of the smartphones sold in Europe, and with that category of phone expected to become dominant in the next three to five years, Almunia's move could create challenges for Google.It is unclear whether he would require it to offer other default search engines on Android – as Microsoft is required to do with its Windows software – or whether he would seek to make any changes in search engine listings on the desktop apply also to the mobile space."We continue to work cooperatively with the European Commission," a Google spokesperson said.Google is accused by Almunia's office of preferring its own products in search results, of "scraping" content from rivals to offer in search results without permission, closing off competition in advertising on sites, and putting obstacles in the way of those seeking to move advertising campaigns away from Google.The search giant, which has about 90% of the European search market – far more than in its home market, where it has about 65% – replied early in July to Almunia's objections in a formal, and private letter setting out its proposed fixes.If Almunia thinks that they are satisfactory he may put them out to "market test" by publishing them to seek comment.Almunia's office has shown its willingness to take on big targets recently,winning an appeal case against Microsoftover the size of a fine for failing to provide interoperability with other products, and warning that it could fine Microsoft after errors led to itbreaching an undertakingto allow users to choose other browsers besides Internet Explorer.A commission spokesperson declined to comment.
Google tightened its grip on the UK advertising sector in the second quarter of 2012, with total revenues before traffic acquisition costs (TAC) of $1.198bn (£777m) in the period from April to June from its search business here.After TAC – the money paid back to sites which refer people to Google's advertising – is subtracted at the 25% rate that Google says it paid across its network in the quarter, its UK ad revenues were $900m.A year ago, Google generated $895m of advertising in the UK before TAC, meaning headline growth year on year in sterling terms was 42%.After TAC UK revenues that went direct to Google were $700m in the second quarter of last year or £429m, meaning the annual growth in advertising income after commissions were paid out was 36%.Thefiguresshow it has long since passed TV network ITV as the UK's largest collector of ad revenue. While ITV's figures will not be announced until next week, its first-quarter results showed revenues of £652m – but that includes sponsorship revenues. ITV's advertising revenue in the first quarter was £352m.Google's top-line figures for the UK, which now makes 11% of its advertising revenues, totalled $1.21bn because it now also owns mobile handset maker Motorola Mobility (MMI), whose UK contribution in the period from the takeover on 22 May to 30 June amounted to just $11m.The UK has been a significant source of revenues for Google since at least 2004; under US stock rules it is obliged to break out details of revenues for any country that is a source of more than 10% of revenues. Only the UK has that position; every other country besides the US is lumped into "rest of world".The UK's contribution to Google revenues started at 11.7% at the start of 2004, and peaked as a proportion of the company's overall revenues in the first quarter of 2007 at 15.8%. Since then it has slid to 11.0% in the current quarter, and even waved just under the 10% figure in the fourth quarter of 2011. Google does not discuss reasons for variations in country revenues, though the widespread use of mobile phones in the UK, and the lower ad revenues that Google has so far been able to earn on them, may be a factor.
All of a sudden, no one can get enough of Dreamcast. Launched back in 1999, Sega's revolutionary 128bit console was the first games machine to ship with a built-in modem; it also invented the concept of a separate display on each controller a decade before the Nintendo Wii U Game Pad.And then there were the games – oh, some really amazing games. Bridging the design gap between the 16bit era and the current gen machines, the likes of Sonic Adventure, Soul Calibur and Shenmue showed us where mainstream trends would be heading. And ten years after the failure of the machine, it's little wonder we're seeing so many of its key titles, including Jet Set Radio, Jojo's Bizarre Adventure and Sonic Adventure 2, being re-released as digital downloads.Today, sees the re-launch of another cult classic. Originally released on Dreamcast in 2000, Fur Fighters was an extraordinary action adventure, combining puzzles, platforming and anarchic humour into one dark cartoon world. At the time, developer Bizarre Creations was much more famous for its racing games, including the fine PlayStation F1 simulations and the excellent Metropolis Street Racer, and this idiosyncratic foray into the action platfomer genre was not a huge success, despite critical acclaim.But somehow, the game's creators couldn't let it go. "In 2007 Bizarre Creations was undergoing a bit of a re-structure," explains lead designer, Jeff Lewis. "It was pretty clear that Fur Fighters 2 wasn't likely to happen by this point so the franchise was probably just going to evaporate. As I had designed most of the game's characters and the world, my boss  generously sold me the rights for the princely sum of a pound. I gave him a fiver".Originally, it was just a gesture, but then three years later, Bizarre Creations was shut down by owner Activision, and the staff went their separate ways. Jeff and lead programmer Mark Craig ended up atLucid Games, where Mark had the idea of going back to the Fur Fighters code. "After Bizarre closed I started looking at iOS development," says craig. "When I looked at the specs of the devices, I realised that they were getting pretty close in power to the Dreamcast console. Since Jeff had bought the rights and I still had all the code I thought it would be an interesting project to try and make work on iOS devices".A few months later, and Fur Fighters has now been released on iPad, the result of 200 hours of work in the duo's spare time. Once again, players control six fluffy heroes who must save their kidnapped babies from the evil General Viggo and his army of over stuffed teddy bears. While the platforming is challenging, the game has a great sense of humour with lots of movie parodies and daft dialogue, all of which are captured here. While converting the main control system has required the implementation of a virtual pad, there are also iPad native controls. "As Fur Fighters was originally a Dreamcast game we pretty much had to use virtual thumbsticks for the Ipad version's main control scheme," says Lewis. "The game is however packed with mini-games, so whenever we could we reworked them with a more modern touchscreen interface".Meanwhile, Lucid Games is happy to support the initiative. "We allow any of our team to work on their own projects and reap the benefits," says Nick Davies, the founder of Lucid and another Bizarre Creations alumnus. "We'll help as much as we can along the way, and as long as it doesn't interfere with the day job, then we're happy. We're really not interested in stifling creativity because you never know where it might lead. We have three other hobby projects at various stages of development, whether they all see the light of day we don't know, but we try and make sure we learn something new from each project which can only benefit the studio going forward".So could this revival lead to a long-awaited Fur Fighters sequel? "We'd love to," says Craig. "We'll have to see how well it does financially as a completely new Fur Fighters adventure game would be quite expensive to develop and certainly not something we could do in our spare time". I also ask if they managed to secure the rights to other Bizarre Creations titles, perhaps the company's massively underrated shooter, The Club? "Sadly not," says Lewis. "But if whoever owns it wants an iPad version, we're more than happy to give it a go!"Fur Fighters is available on iPad now,via the App Store.
On the surface, it's easy to dismiss Sleeping Dogs as yet another Grand Theft Auto clone, but that would be doing it a great disservice. Aside from Rockstar's license to print money, UFG's new game borrows liberally from Assassin's Creed, Just Cause, Batman: Arkham City and pretty much all of late 80s/early 90s Hong Kong action cinema. Here is a game that wears its influences on its sleeve, and proudly at that. It's also an absolute blast to play.Sleeping Dogs centres on the story of one Wei Shen, a Hong Kong-born, American-raised ne'er-do-well who has recently returned to the Pearl of the Orient to make some quick cash. To that end, he hooks up with some of his childhood friends who have now become low-rent thugs situated at the bottom of Hong Kong's criminal food chain. Unbeknown to his mates, however, Wei's actually an undercover cop being used to spearhead police efforts aimed at smashing the local Triads.If the story reads like the premise for a film from Hong Kong's late 80s/early 90s heyday, it's because it bears more than a passing resemblance Ringo Lam's City On Fire. But UFG's love of the whole HK action film subgenre is evident throughout Sleeping Dogs; they may borrow a lot of gameplay elements from other open world games, but they pay homage to the like of Lam and John Woo in the game's plot and mechanics, too.Wei Shen is your typical HK action hero: cocky, confident but conflicted about his loyalties because of his close association with his criminal chums. Not only is this a decent plot point, it actually feeds into the gameplay; for every criminal act Wei commits, his Triad XP rises, eventually unlocking gruesome combat moves, Triad suits and vehicles.If he upholds the law, the Police XP meter rises, opening up new weapons and equipment. There's also an overall Face XP meter that dictates how other characters react to Wei. This can lead to him getting discounts in stores or getting hassled by cop or criminal elements.Like any action hero, Wei is also a dab hand at firearms and unarmed combat. The fighting engine is one of the best things in Sleeping Dogs, because while its set-up is deceptively simple and easy to get to grips with, it boasts a pretty lengthy combo list just waiting to be unlocked.Players are able to dish standard throw, kick and punch attacks, but they can also use objects in their environment to deliver eye-watering damage, such as ramming their opponent's face into a fan, or slamming their head in a car door. Indeed, a lot of the violence in Sleeping Dogs would be right at home in a film on Palisades Tartan's Asia Extreme label. My personal favourite involved using a store shutter to snap an opponent's spine.For the gunplay, UFG has borrowed elements from Gears Of War – a lot of the firefights are cover-based – but it has also added a pinch of the bullet ballet from the films of John Woo. When Wei breaks cover, the game activates a small window of bullet-time. The action slows down, the soundtrack is reduced to muffled thumps and thuds and the player has a few seconds where they can target their enemies more easily.The bullet-time here isn't as integral to the proceedings as it is in the recently released Max Payne 3, but it certainly gives the player a slight edge in a gun battle and it looks cool, too, which is kind of the point.Slow motion also activates every time Wei blasts a car off the road with gunfire from the back of a motorbike. Like any decent action flick, Sleeping Dogs has more than a couple of car chases and they move at a pretty high-octane pace.They're also filled with ridiculously over-the-top action; aside from causing cars to pinwheel end over end with gunfire, players can use Wei to hijack vehicles in mid-chase. They simply position his car or bike near a target vehicle and press "A" when prompted, in a move that will be familiar to anyone who ever played Midway's open-world crime thriller, Wheelman.UGC has also borrowed Wheelman's shunt mechanic, allowing players to crash into the side or rear fenders of other vehicles at the touch of a button. This feature also comes in rather handy in the ton of street races that are dotted around the game's huge map. Not only does racing earn Wei cash and cars, it raises his Face rating in the Hong Kong underworld.Aside from races, the map of Hong Kong is filled to bursting with activities for players to get stuck into. Some of these increase Wei's standing with the cops or the Triads – hacking CCTV cameras and bringing in drug dealers, or collecting protection money and beating rival gangs – and some are simply ends in themselves.One mission, for example, involves taking pictures around Hong Kong for a lady selling postcards. Players can also visit dojos to unlock new combat moves, underground fight clubs to earn cash and they can indulge in a spot of gambling on Mahjong or cockfighting. The can even visit one of the city's many massage parlours … for a massage, obviously.The wealth of content in the game goes a long way towards immersing the player in the Hong Kong environment. The production values don't hurt, either; the neon-encrusted streets look enticingly seedy, the character models are intricately detailed and the voice acting is superb.Sleeping Dogs's cast also features some pretty big names from the acting world in the voiceover cast. Apart from Will Yun Lee (Die Another Day), Tom Wilkinson plays Wei's handler Pedrew and Parr Shen from Infernal Affairs fame appears as Chu, Wei's childhood mate and police target. The likes of Emma Stone, Lucy Liu and James Hong also put in appearances in supporting roles.Sleeping Dogs is certainly derivative, but UFG has assembled it with enough care and affection to make it feel like more than the sum of its parts. It may be derivative and it may not boast much in the way of innovation, but it's heaps of fun to play. If the final release lives up the promise of its preview, it should provide gamers with a needed burst of excitement during the relatively dry release window in August.• Sleeping Dogs will be released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 17 August
Apple has expanded its iTunes in the Cloud service for films to the UK, a year after it was first introduced in the US.The service lets film fans watch movies purchased through iTunes on iPhones and iPads without using any extra storage space on the devices.The expansion gives Apple a head start over rivals Google and Amazon, which have so far failed to settle rights deals to allow cloud-based storage of films in the UK. Amazon's Cloud Player is only available in the US, and Google's Play store in the UKdoes not include music, magazines or TV shows. Google Play does though mean that people who have rented a film on one device can watch it on another without extra cost.Apple says it has secured rights deals with major studios, including Warner Bros and Universal, to bring the service to the UK, Ireland and 38 other countries around the world. Films such as Sherlock Holmes and Bridesmaids will be available from Friday.iTunes in the Cloud is part of Apple's iCloud service, which allows music, films and TV shows to be digitally transferred to a number of devices via wireless connections. Apple also has multi-country deals for its iTunes Match service, which lets users stream and download "matched" copies of songs they own which exist on iTunes, or which have been uploaded to the service, on up to five devices. Though Amazon and Google have US deals for "music locker" services that let people upload and stream their own music, neither has been able to extend it beyond the US after more than nine months.Apple's latest move means UK users can store music, music videos, movies, TV shows, apps and books purchased through iTunes in the cloud.International rights issues mean that manufacturers must strike deals for music and TV shows in individual countries. Settling the costly deals has become a thorny issue for Apple, Amazon, Google and Microsoft as they each battle for primacy in the increasingly competitive tablet and smartphone markets.Apple says it has signed rights deals with major studios including Warner Bros, ABC-Disney, Universal, Fox, Paramount and Sony Pictures.
As I staggered along the street bearing the box with Sonos's new product in it, I began to foster fond hopes that I would be mugged. My attacker, I thought, would then pick up the large box and start heading off along the street. With any luck he – for it would have to be a he – would go in the same direction as I had, which would mean that I could walk briskly after him and once we got to an intersection pull him over and pinoin him under the box while calling the police. Two jobs for one.In the event, this didn't happen, but it did show that Sonos's new subwoofer device – the Sub – is a force to be reckoned with. About 157 Newtons, to be precise.Once you unpack it from its (large, and hence unwieldy) box, though, the Sonos Sub reveals itself as comparatively small, although still far bigger than anything else the American wireless audio company has ever made. Denser, too.The Sub weighs about 16kg. It's shaped like a squared-off wheel, with a neat Polo-like hole in the middle (also squared-off), which makes it easier to heft around. Inside the Polo hole are the speakers, so take care. They're what make the device special. Unlike a Polo, it's large and black. The current models are glossy; cheaper matt models are coming in October, says Sonos.The advantage of a subwoofer is that it doesn't have to be close to the amplifier that's generating it, and Sonos's advantage is that because it uses its own mesh Wi-Fi network, you can put the Sub almost anywhere, connect it wirelessly to your Sonos amplifier or other Sonos output, and it will do its job. So hide it away under a sofa or shelves. Don't put it on a floor if you live above someone, unless you want to meet your downstairs neighbour.Setup: quick and lightThe setup via the controller or iOS/Android app is quick and painless. Using the Sub does require an upgrade to the Sonos software for every other device (which is quick and easy; Sonos really has the update thing nailed). You then pair the Sub with your other Sonos device (it won't pair with a standard amp, or with the Sonos portable) and go through a quick sound test – is this sound louder or softer, is this more or less bassy – and you're good to go.And you'll certainly notice the difference that the Sub makes. It adds huge depth to sound. I have a setup with Bose speakers (including a subwoofer), which I had thought was quite well set up for bass.Boom!Turns out: no, it wasn't. I put onFiona Apple's Sleep To Dream, since it's got a big open sound with plenty of room for the prominent bass to show what it can do.It nearlyblew the bloody doors off. There's a heft to the sound that can rattle your fillings, given the chance. That's why putting it on the floor might not be such a great idea if you're a flat-dweller on anything but the ground floor. It enhanced everything I put through it, including TV sound (using the line-in to the Sonos) or internet radio.Sonos Sub: these are the devices that it will connect withPrice thatBut that's where we come to the sticking point of the Sub. At £599 for the existing glossy version (though £499 for the matt version, due in October), are its likely owners going to be in flats? Wouldn't they have houses? Sonos doesn't compromise on anything, least of all price, although the price tag on many of its other components has come down over the years so that a "starter pack" (to connect to a router and then a Sonos 3 or Sonos 5 player) is about half what it was.You can certainly get a subwoofer system for far less than this costs. Whether it will be better depends on what you prefer. What Sonos offers is really easy setup, wireless listening, and the many services that you can get directly off the internet, such as live radio streaming, Deezer, Last.fm and Spotify. As yet, there's no way to play iPlayer content; Sonos hasn't given any indication it's planning that.ConclusionsThose in favour:easy setup, fantastic sound, wireless capability means it can be put anywhere in a roomThose against:at £599, it's pricey (the matt black version in October will be £100 cheaper).•The Sonos SUB works with all Sonos amplified components: CONNECT:AMP/ZonePlayer 120/ZonePlayer 100; PLAY:5; PLAY:3. It does not work with the non-amplified Sonos CONNECT/ZP90/ZP80.
UK-based publisherTouch Presshas sold more than half a million copies of its iOS book-apps, with the vast majority of them being bought outside the UK.Chief executive Max Whitby revealed the milestone at the Mobile Culture conference earlier this week in London. "90% of Touch Press sales – and we're at 500,000 apps now – are outside the UK," said Whitby."For 25 people based in London without an international marketing department, that's an extraordinary number. And a real eye-opener for any cultural organisation thinking about how to reach the world."Whitby was addressing an audience including plenty of representatives of libraries and museums – hence the reference to cultural organisations.He also revealed that Touch Press has now sold more than 290,000 copies of its first iOS app, The Elements, which was originally released for iPad in March 2010.In December 2011, Whitbytold The Guardianthat The Elements was past the 250,000 sales mark, meaning that more than two years after its release, the app has still been selling around 5,700 copies a month – not bad considering that until mid-June it cost £9.99 (it's now £4.99).At Mobile Culture, Whitby was presenting with book publisher Faber's head of digital Henry Volans. The two companies have worked together on three apps: Solar System, The Waste Land and most recently onThe Sonnets by William Shakespeare.The app includes the full text of all 154 sonnets, notes from Arden Shakespeare and poet Don Paterson, and filmed readings by actors including Sir Patrick Stewart, Stephen Fry, Dominic West, Fiona Shaw and David Tennant.Volans talked about the benefits of this long-term relationship. "It's rare to find partnerships that are ongoing and survive beyond one project," he said, before noting that The Sonnets app involved two more partners: Bloomsbury subsidiary Arden and TV production company Illuminations."It's worked extremely well, because all of us in the partnership have been good at knowing when not to seek too much control," said Volans."The total budget was around £120k, which includes investment, time, IP and skills, contributed in varying quantities by the four partners, and which will be reflected in the share of revenues back."One notable aspect of The Sonnets is its social features, with users able to share any sonnet with friends through email, Facebook or Twitter.What is shared is a link to a webpage with the full performance video and text for the individual sonnet, rather than simply a marketing message telling the recipient to buy the app.Here's an example."We had quite a few arguments about whether we should give away these precious recordings – crown jewels that we spent a lot of money recording," said Whitby. "But we felt giving the content away was a very good way to get word out about the project, and we hope it will result in more sales."Meanwhile, Volans said he's been particularly pleased at the way The Sonnets has attracted press coverage from some unusual places, well beyond Faber's stomping ground of literary critics."The review I'm proudest of isthe reviewon technology blog The Verge, which positions this at the heart of technology writing," he said. "It's hard to get people writing about tech to sully themselves writing about content, but there should be more of this. It's good."
Yesterday, I had a hangover. It was the sort of hangover which begins with an explosion of nausea, and then evolves into a thudding headache, before drifting out on a sea of tiredness and ennui. I was out all day, but when I got home, I collapsed in front of the Xbox and played Minecraft (on Peaceful mode, of course), allowing its gentle piano music and formless gameplay to sooth my poorly head.So in case you ever find yourself in a similar situation (hey, it could happen), here are the five best ever games for post-alcohol recovery. Feel free to add your own in the comments sections. We can get through this together.Super Mario 64 (Nintendo, N64, DS)I'm not sure what it is – perhaps the simple, jovial soundtrack, maybe those soft Nintendo 64 visuals – but Super Mario 64 is one calming game. It can be hugely challenging and frustrating too, of course, but Miyamoto is an expert in providing areas of safe exploration as well as frantic platform-leaping action – you can, for example, just mess about outside Princess Peach's Castle if you feel like it. Don't own a DS or N64? Super Mario 3D Land on the 3DS has a similar effect.Flower (Thatgamecompany, PS3)LA-based studio Thatgamecompany is an expert in developing relaxing ambient experiences, beginning with its very first title, Cloud, and continuing through to this year's wonderful Journey. I've gone for Flower, though, because it's another title that involves exploring freely while beautiful music plays in the background. Your aim is simply to guide petals through the air, and over beautiful landscapes, intersecting with some very gentle environmental puzzles on the way. Best enjoyed while wrapped in a huge, freshly-laundered blanket.Harvest Moon series (VIS/Marvelous, multiple platforms)I suspect that farming isn't a particularly relaxing occupation in real life, but tending to the cute livestock and planting seeds in these gorgeous games is a sure route to recuperation. Guided by the rhythms of the seasons and the whims of the weather, Harvest Moon players can easily zone out into a realm of fantasised agricultural bliss, tilling the land, having strange conversations with locals and ... tilling some more land. And unlike all the Facebook games this lovely series spawned, you won't be bothered every five minutes by micro-transactions and prompts to share your achievements with other players. Ugh.Tiny Wings (Andreas Illiger, smartphone, iPad)If you're looking for some portable hungover gaming therapy, this "endless flying" sim is the obvious choice. Your role is simply to keep your teeny bird in the air as long as possible, swooping down onto hillsides to gather extra momentum. It's the rhythmic structure, gentle handicraft visuals and whooshing soundtrack that get you through; and with no end as such, there's no pressure to complete a level or mission. An HD iPad version has recently been released and a sequel is on the way too.Eve Online (CCP, PC)In March, PC Gamer did an interview with Eve Online designer Kristoffer Touborg whoclaimedthat the mining element of this vast online multiplayer space game is the perfect hangover cure. Spending hours obliterating asteroids and then hauling cargo across the galaxy might not sound like fun, but it does have a certain restorative calm about it – and played on a big screen with the visual settings on max, there are some truly breathtaking views out there in the Eve galaxy. It also reminds me of Elite, the great space trading game, which was similarly relaxing as you hopped from planet to planet selling your wares and worrying only about pirates or random Thargoid invasions.What'syourfavourite hangover game, then? Let us know in the comments section.
Have you heard any more about pre-2008 Mac Pros being plagued with an unpleasant smell? I've been trying to resolve my 2007 smelly Mac Pro issue with Apple since 2009. After having thermal pastes, heat sinks and the power unit replaced over two-and-a-half years of repairs, the problem still persists. I'm at the end of my tether, because Apple have said that they're no longer prepared to do anything about it, leaving me with a machine that I can't use.I've been met with verbal denials about the supposed toxicity of the emissions, but I'm yet to receive any proof of Apple's tests, which seems unreasonable and a bit odd. I'm planning to do a Sales of Goods Act claim as I'm still within six years of purchase.Alasdair HopwoodThe "smelly Mac Pro" issue became a story in 2008 when a French newspaper, Liberation, publishedMac Pro, le pépin toxique pour Apple?I wrote a blog post about it at the time:Anyone got a really smelly Mac Pro?The problem wasn't so much the smell – to which some people might be more sensitive than others – but whether it might be harmful. Briefly, an anonymous molecular biologist working for CNRS in France had taken a smelly Mac Pro to Greenpeace, which called in Analytica. Its analysis reportedly identified seven volatile organic contaminants including styrene and benzene derivatives. Liberation sent Analytica's report to Inéris, France's national institute covering the industrial environment, which said that someone inhaling benzine fumes for a long period could develop leukemia.Apple said it had no evidence to support the claim that the smell was dangerous, and that its products complied with European Union restrictions on the use of potentially hazardous chemicals.I am sure this is true, but as you said in another letter: "There are some troubling findings reported in a number of articles and discussion groups about the issue. This has caused great anxiety as I didn't expect to be dealing with a potential risk to my health when I bought the system in good faith."Searching the community support section of Apple's website turns up plenty ofcomplaints and queriesabout smelly Macs. This includes a strong chemical smell from aMac Mini, "toxic fumes" from a 27iniMac, and evenMacBook Proswith Intel Core i7 processors.In other words, it's not just Mac Pros that can be smelly. Also, the problem is by no means restricted to Apple computers: plenty of PC users have complained aboutcomputer burning smells.However, while I haven't tried to tabulate them, most of the Apple-related complaints seem to be quite old. It looks as though there was a problem with some old Mac Pros, including yours, but it doesn't appear to be a generic problem with recent or current Apple products.Unfortunately, it's hard to identify a specific cause, except overheating, so you should check your Mac Pro thoroughly for any signs of that.I asked Geek Squad about smelly PCs, since the company probably sees far more malfunctioning computers than the average repairer. Agent Emma Holloway said: "It is a very rare thing for this to happen, but it can be caused by overheating and the burning of components inside of the computer."This could include leaky capacitors. Another Geek Squad agent, Leon Andrews, said: "We very rarely encounter smelly laptops! Usually it's down to the dust that gets inside the unit and burns when the laptop gets hot, or it can be glue used inside the computer burning. It's a strange one that without looking at the machine is tough to diagnose."Burning dust and fibres (eg, from clothes and carpets) do get sucked into computers, and especially into laptops. Dust and clogged fans may even be to blame for most smells. However, that's more likely to be a problem with old computers than with new ones, and the solution should be relatively simple: turn off the machine, open it up, and remove the dust.Overheating graphics cards and failing power supplies can also produce burning smells. Modern graphics cards tend to run hot at the best of times, and are likely to burn if the built-in fan fails. PSUs can also overheat, particularly if users add fast video graphics cards and other upgrades that draw more power than the system was designed to provide.Replacing the power supply solved the problem for at least one Mac Pro user – seeMy Mac Pro stinks, from 2007 – but Apple has already replaced your PSU.Thesmell of burning thermal pasteis another known issue, particularly among users who fit new cooling fans and overclock their processors. (Overclocking the processor makes it run hotter.) Again, Apple has already replaced the thermal pastes in your Mac Pro.One user on Apple's support board, Freezo, had a Mac Pro that smelled of burning rubber, and heposted a solution. He wrote: "Apple uses two (actually three) strips of this rubber, about 1.5in wide and several inches long, on the sides of the CPU cooling towers to keep them apart and cushion them. Unfortunately, these towers get hot and that gives you that strong Latex smell – especially when you stress the CPUs, which is what some people did to try and get rid of it! So I took those strips off, replaced them with some other foam with comparable thickness and voila: smell is completely gone. The strips really stink, but that's Latex rubber for ya."Freezo's answer didn't get any support from other Mac Pro users, but he has the right idea: look for something that's overheating. However, not many computers are as easy to open as the Mac Pro, and probably not many users would risk replacing overheating parts themselves. Most people should probably leave this kind of thing to the manufacturer or a qualified repairer.I did ask Apple about your "smelly Mac Pro" problem, and it replied, reasonably enough: "The best thing any customer can do who experiences problems with any of their Apple products is to contact Apple Care (Apple – Support)."The problem is that Apple Care has already had three goes at solving your problem without success. This has involved a Senior TechnicalSupport Advisor based in Cork, where your 2007 Mac Pro was built. If Cork's experts can't solve the problem, the rest of us don't have much hope.With hindsight, it would probably have been cheaper to replace the machine in the first place, which Apple reportedly did in some cases. Replacing a five-year-old Mac Pro is a trickier proposition: its best days are behind it. It would be simpler to sell yours second hand and buy a later model. If you can sell it locally, you could let the buyer smell it first.You can, of course, bring a case under the Sales of Goods Act, at some cost in time and trouble. Sometimes this involves paying an independent expert for an opinion, to confirm that the product had a manufacturing fault, or is otherwise not fit for the purpose for which you bought it. Also, the result could take into account the length of time you have had the Mac Pro, and the use you have made of it, so you might get a pro rata offer rather than a refund. However, I don't have any expertise at all in this area, so you should seek advice elsewhere.If you do bring a case, please let us know what happens. Also, if any readers have useful tips on taking this route, please add them below.
A selection of 11 new and notable apps today:The Dark Knight Rises Z+British music-apps startup Reality Jockey (of RjDj fame) has released an innovative new app for Batman film The Dark Knight Rises. It uses Hans Zimmer's movie score and other sound effects to "transform your world into Gotham City". It follows a previous app for Inception.iPhoneThe Dark Knight RisesYou wait ages for a Dark Knight Rises app, and... Here's today's second blockbuster Batman app – an action-adventure game from Gameloft that sees you protecting Gotham City from villain Bane. The link above is for Android buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadThe Bourne Legacy: Operation IntelMore movie-based appage here, albeit only available in the US for now. NBC Universal's new iPhone app offers "real-world missions" based on The Bourne Legacy. Players have to complete the Google Map-based missions and compete using Facebook Connect.iPhoneOmegaFresh from launching an Olympic Games-themed app for iPad, watch-maker Omega has a new Android smartphone app too. This one is focused on its wider collection, including news, plenty of photographs and images of "brand ambassadors" like George Clooney and Nicole Kidman.AndroidCheckmarkCheckmark is picking up a lot of buzz: it's a reminders app for iPhone that lets you set reminders based on date and time, but also based on location. For example, reminding yourself to buy milk next time you're near the local supermarket, or an alert when you reach your train stop.iPhoneViral Video eXchangeHere's something fun: a game for trading virtual shares in viral videos, with the aim of getting people to pick the videos they think will find a wide audience, as early as possible. It's an HTML5-based web app that runs in smartphone and tablet browsers as well as on the desktop.HTML5Fotopedia ChinaPhotography service Fotopedia has launched its latest travel app, this time focusing on China. It promises photos and visual stories from across the country, as well as interactive maps and a trip builder feature for users who are actually going there.iPhone / iPadChange4Life Fun GeneratorToday is the last day of term for many schools in the UK, with parents wondering how to keep their children occupied for the six-week summer holiday. This app from the Department of Health's Games4Life campaign hopes to help, suggesting more than 100 indoor and outdoor games and activities for children.Android / iPhone / iPadShark Dash FreeGameloft's fishy physics-puzzler Shark Dash gets a new free-to-play version for Android, tying in with the Discovery Channel's annual Shark Week. The game involves launching a shark at ducks while jumping through levels.AndroidCat Cora's KitchenTV chef Cat Cora is a famous name in the US thanks to her appearances on the Iron Chef America show, and more recently on Bravo's Around the World in 80 Plates. Now she has an iPad app with 76 recipes and more than 20 tutorial videos, as well as a scheduling feature that helps you time when cooking multiple dishes at once.iPadBakery Story: World GamesSocial/mobile games developer TeamLava has released a spin-off from its Bakery Story freemium game that In No Way At All is related to this summer's Olympic Games. Expect gold medal cookies, podium cakes, trampoline tables and torches.iPhone / iPad
The biggest problem facing indie developers in the digital era is discovery. With hundreds of new games hitting the Apple and Android stores every day, just getting noticed amid the onslaught is a major challenge. It can feel like a lonely struggle.Earlier this year, then, a bunch of UK studios got together to formBest of British, a sort of lose unofficial trade body, designed to provide support and co-operation between members. The likes ofSpilt Milk,Mobile Pie,Future Games of LondonandBig Pixelhave all produced great games, but are looking to raise awareness and increase exposure at a time in which hundreds of new, small developers are entering the iOS and Android markets."Gaining exposure for our apps is a big challenge for any developer," says co-organiser Alistair Aitcheson, a one-man studio, responsible for the excellentGreedy Bankersgames. "However, by teaming up we can be part of something bigger, and share our audiences by introducing them to each other's work. We've also been able to share contacts, advice and experience with the other developers, which has been invaluable for my business".To solidify the relationship, the companies are meeting up this weekend for a 48 hour gamejam, being held at the offices of Mind Candy, the creators of Moshi Monsters. A couple of the studio's staff make indie games in their spare time, and managed to secure the canteen for the weekend. "The mobile space is becoming harder and harder for indies to survive in," says one of the Mind Candy team, Moo Yu. "I was part of the launch of Applifier, a cross promotion network for indies on Facebook, and had a great experience there. I think that Best of British could be a similar force in the mobile gaming space".The idea with the jam is for each studio to create one or two small mini-games, which can then all be strung together into a sort of WarioWare collection. It will then be released on iOS platforms as a free-to-play title. Gamejams tend to have a theme to guide development, and with this one it's 'summer sports' – "Although it is no way connected with any other major sporting event that might be happen this summer in London," says Will Luton of Mobile Pie.From here, BoB is planning a series of speed dating events in which members meet journalists, investors and companies offering work for hire, so that new contacts can be spawned. "There's no hierarchy and no agenda," says Luton. "It's just a good way to do some networking - a lot of these developers work from home; you have people like Andrew Smith at Spilt Milk who works in a shed in his parent's garden; BoB is a good way to meet up and have a bit of a bitch. You don't pay a subscription fee to be a member, it's free, and it serves a lot of functions that trade bodies like Tiga and Ukie don't".The Summer of Sports title will be ready for download very soon. You can check theBest of British Facebook pagefor updates.
Let's talk about games, it's Friday!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAs The Yahoo-Microsoft search alliance falls short, could a Yahoo-Google deal emerge? &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandOnce again, Yahoo is earning so little under its search deal with Microsoft that Microsoft is having to make up the difference due to a revenue guarantee. If the performance doesn't improve, Yahoo might go looking for a new partner, which could include Google.Long piece, but the evidence is there. Very bad news for Microsoft if it happens.What is the future of the iPhone 3GS? &gt;&gt; The Tech Blog, GhanaMatt Panzarino of The Next Web suggested this:But, if the prices were right, Apple could expand the 3GS from a contract device to an off-contract pre-paid model that might finally give the company a horse in the developing nations race.'Which drew this response:This would be of huge benefit to Apple. Speaking from Ghana (West Africa), I know hundreds of people who have iPhones but use either the GEVEY SIM or ultrasn0w method to unlock their iPhone for it to work here.We don't hear enough about how smartphones are changing developing nations. But they are.Brit Military Visit May Hasten GPS Signal Patent Dispute Resolution &gt;&gt; Inside GNSSThe US visit of a high-level official from the British Ministry of Defense (MoD) is spurring efforts to settle a dispute over a patent that could drive up prices on satellite navigation receivers for users around the world.Inside GNSS has learned that Peter Luff, UK Minister for Defense Equipment, Support, and Technology, will meet with U.S. State Department officials on Thursday (July 19, 2012) to discuss the efforts of the MoD's commercial arm to patent and charge royalties for use of the new common civil GNSS signal agreed on by Europe and the United States.Prediction: Britain won't be able to enforce this patent.Nokia Q2 2012 results &gt;&gt; Nokia (PDF)The full results. Worth reading; Nokia provides fantastic transparency into its whole phone business, which gives an insight into wider trends around the world.Benedict Evans o iPhone in the USAHe's updating his chart of iPhone share by operator; Verizon just announced that iPhone sales were 46% of smartphone sales in 2Q 2012.Pretty hard to look at this chart and argue that the iPhone is doing second-best to Android in the USA...iPhone market share heavily depends on carrier subsidies &gt;&gt; BetanewsFrom June:Based on the outputs of our regression analysis, we see that the iPhone's market share is heavily dependent on carrier subsidies but, interestingly, does not depend on purchasing power in a given country. More than 70% of the variation in the iPhone's market share can be explained exclusively by carrier subsidies. This figure improves to more than 80% if we consider NPD's US market share figures, which not only proves the dependence of the iPhone's market share on carrier subsidies, but also that our model is fairly accurate. We have also been able to prove that carrier subsidies have no impact on the market share of Android smartphones.So carrier subsidies boost the iPhone share in the US? This may ring bells with some people. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)What I Have Learned: Attorney-Client Privileged and Confidential &gt;&gt; isaach.comA quick primer on what is and isn't covered (in the US, though also applicable to the UK) over discovery: "by default, all emails are subject to discovery". (It's not quite the same in the UK.) Google is currently arguing with parts of the US government over whether some emails that fell under discovery are covered by this.Face blurring: when footage requires anonymity &gt;&gt; YouTube BlogAs citizens continue to play a critical role in supplying news and human rights footage from around the world, YouTube is committed to creating even better tools to help them. According to the international human rights organization WITNESS' Cameras Everywhere report, "No video-sharing site or hardware manufacturer currently offers users the option to blur faces or protect identity."YouTube is excited to be among the first.Today we're launching face blurring - a new tool that allows you to obscure faces within videos with the click of a button.Great idea for activists. And anyone else who wants to film themselves doing things anonymously. Quite what the legal playout of this will be isn't obvious.Qantas signs on for Office 365 &gt;&gt; iTnews.com.auQantas has signed an enterprise agreement with Microsoft that will set Australia's national airline on a migration path to the Singapore-hosted Office 365 cloud computing service.The airline signed up for the entire Office 365 solution after six months of complex negotiations.iTnews has learned that due diligence work on the contract included two key tests: the first, a "bake-off" comparing Microsoft's online office productivity options against competing products from Google and, second, a comparative analysis of whether to lease the Office 365 package directly from Microsoft in Singapore or from a local service provided by incumbent desktop supplier Fujitsu.Both exercises were used to drive a better price from Redmond-based Microsoft.First it dumps BlackBerry for iPhone, and now this. Of note: next year it's upgrading its fleet of Windows XP machines to... Windows 7. (Thanks @timacheson for the link.)Commentary: Is Nexus 7 launch a blessing or a curse for other Android tablet vendors? &gt;&gt; DigitimesWith the exception of the iPads, all of tablets currently available in the market are running on Android platforms, which means that price competition within the Android segment will continue to intensify and that it will be more difficult for hardware brands to generate profits out of the production of Android tablets.Google's strategy of setting the pricing of the Nexus 7 to a level close to the BOM clearly indicates that Google doesn't want to make money from hardware sales. But such a practice actually enacts a barrier that is hard for other hardware vendors to pursue.The new price competition triggered by the Nexus 7 may enable Google to cut a small piece of market share enjoyed by Apple, but to a great extent, Google eventually will eat up the share held by other members in the Android club.Hardware brands which have climbed on to the Android bandwagon might come out empty-handed, while seeing Google continue to enjoy profit growth due to expanded advertisement income generated through the increasing popularity of the Nexus 7.And if you were a hardware brand in that position, your next move would be...? (Note: Digitimes content goes behind a paywall after a few days.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Microsoft reported its first ever quarterly loss as a public company as the software giant made accounting changes relating to a troubled online services business.The loss was triggered by a previously announced $6.19bn charge for writing down the value of aQuantive, an advertising business Microsoft bought in 2007 in an attempt to catch up with Google's ad business.The company posted a loss of $192m after the charge, its first since going public in 1986.Shares rose in after hours trading, however, as the company announced record quarterly revenue of $18.06bn for the quarter ending June 30.For the company's fiscal year Microsoft's revenues were a record $73.72bn."We delivered record fourth quarter and annual revenue, and we're fast approaching the most exciting launch season in Microsoft history," said Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer of Microsoft."Over the coming year, we'll release the next versions of Windows, Office, Windows Server, Windows Phone, and many other products and services that will drive our business forward and provide unprecedented opportunity to our customers and partners."Microsoft paid $6.3bn for aQuantive, the biggest deal in its history before last year's $8.5bn acquisition of Skype.The buy came just a month after Google paid $3.1bn for the DoubleClick advertising business, a purchase that has proved one of the search firm's smartest moves.Microsoft's news came as Google reported a stronger than expected second quarter as profit rose 11% and revenue increased by 39% from the same period a year earlier.Google said it earned $2.79bn profit on revenue of $9.61bn. But Google too had its issues as the price paid for its internet search advertising continued to fall, down 16% from the same quarter a year ago.The number of paid clicks, a measure of how frequently consumers click on Google's advertisements, rose 42% from a year earlier and were up 1% from the first quarter.In part the price fall came because Google is showing more ads on mobile devices, where ads are less valuable to advertisers.This was the first quarterly result since Google finalised its $12.5bn purchase of Motorola Mobility in May.The new unit brought in $1.25bn in revenue – about 10% of Google's total."Google standalone had a strong quarter with 21% year-on-year revenue growth," said Larry Page, CEO of Google. "This quarter is also special because Motorola is now part of the Google family, and we're excited about the potential to build great devices for users."
Washington is expected to become the first state in the US to offer voters the opportunity to register via Facebook with a new application that could launch as early as next week.Facebook, in collaboration with Microsoft, approached Washington just as state officials were looking for ways to increase the use of its existing online voter registration programs and MyVote online service.The application takes an individual's name and date of birth – information Facebook already has stored – and opens a frame within the Facebook page that takes users to the voting portals on offer.Washington's co-director of elections Shane Hamlin said that the data would not be collected by Facebook."Even though you're on a Facebook page, the information you provide to us isn't going through them," Hamlin told the Guardian. "They're not collecting it and giving it to us, you're interacting directly with us, but in a frame that is Facebook's – and you get to us through Facebook."Not everyone is enthusiastic about the application.Lillie Coney, associate director at the Electronic Privacy Information Center, recommends that users avoid the Facebook app and register directly through Washington's voter registration website.Coney said: "Facebook is known for taking whatever data users provide through Facebook and having access to that. In providing even more personal information, like driver's license number and current mailing address, the information could be used in ways that people would not anticipate with the app."Hamlin insists that the the only interaction between Facebook and Washington's own voting applications is the inital name and birth date exchange. After that, users go directly to the state's voting apps, where they must provide state ID or driver's license information to verify that the user is a real person.For those already registered to vote in Washington, the MyVote page can be used to check ballot status, see who the current elected officials are and to see the history of who a user has voted for.In 2008, Washington was the second state to offer online registration, but all of the state's voting is done by mail. The Facebook initiative will be available at no cost to the government.In traditional Facebook style, users will also be able to "like" the app to let their friends know they recommend the product.
Human rights activists and campaigners will be able to appear anonymously in videos posted to YouTube, after parent company Google introduced new face-blurring technology to the website.Google said the move was designed to help protect the identity of protesters who appear on the video-sharing site from being exposed to authorities.YouTube has become a popular destination for videos of protest and civil disobediance in many countries around the world. Activists involved in the Arab Spring uprising in the Middle East used the site as a way to share footage of unrest in the region."As citizens continue to play a critical role in supplying news and human rights footage from around the world, YouTube is committed to creating even better tools to help them," said Amanda Conway, policy associate at YouTube, ina blogpost on the site.More than 100,000 videos were uploaded to YouTube from Egypt in a two-week period at the height of the Arab Spring last year. That was a 72% increase on the previous three months. More than 72 hours of video are uploaded to YouTube each minute.YouTube users who upload a video to the site are asked whether they want to apply a "Blur All Faces" option which will obscure all identities in the clip. Once faces have been obscured, YouTube creates two versions of the video, one without the blurring and one with. Users can decide whether to publish either or both of the videos. If they choose to delete the unblurred version, it will be removed permanently from Google's servers.Conway said visual anonymity on the site would allow people to "share personal footage more widely and to speak out when they otherwise may not".The face-blurring technology opens a new front in Google's attempt to help activists sidestep autocratic regimes. It comes weeks after the search giant said it wouldbegin notifying Gmail users if it believes they are being targeted by state-sponsored hackers.Conway added: "Because human rights footage, in particular, opens up new risks to the people posting videos and to those filmed, it's important to keep in mind other ways to protect yourself and the people in your videos."YouTube is proud to be a destination where people worldwide come to share their stories, including activists. Along with efforts like the Human Rights Channel and Citizentube that curate these voices, we hope that the new technologies we're rolling out will facilitate the sharing of even more stories on our platform."However, the move is likely to be seen as a further blow to some MPs and local authorities who have said videos on YouTube can be used as a "recruitment mechanism for gangs". Heidi Alexander MP and Southwark council in central London are among those calling for extra powers for courts to block and take down gang-related videos that could incite violence.Google maintains that violent content is banned from YouTube and will be removed from the site if it is flagged to moderators.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Apple's court battle against Korea's Samsung in the US has yielded pictures of a prototype iPad, and testimony from chief designer Jonathan Ive which indicates that the American company was working on a tablet design called "035" as far back as 2002 - even though Steve Jobs denied exactly that a year later.Jobs told an audience at the AllThingsD conference in April 2003 that tablets were a "niche market": "a bunch of rich guys who can afford their third computers." Hetold Walt Mossberg: "If you do email of any volume you've gotta have a keyboard. We looked at the [Microsoft] tablet and we think it's gonna fail." The audience would be too small, limited to the very wealthy: "You know, they've got their desktop, they got a portable, and now they got one of these to read with, that's your market."But testimony from Ive, given in one of the many court battles between Samsung and Apple in the US, says that he had seen the prototype - in effect a mockup of a working product - as early as 2002. "My recollection of first seeing it is very hazy, but it was, I'm guessing, some time between 2002 and 2004… I remember seeing this and perhaps models similar to this when we were first exploring tablet designs that ultimately became the iPad."The '035' prototype (on left) was much thicker than the final iPad 2 (on right) Photograph: BuzzfeedThe prototype - pictures of which are shown here (some from the original court documents, and some courtesy of Buzzfeed) show that Ive's original designs for the iPad were a bulky device almost as large as the Macbook laptop that the company then made.It has no home button, although it does have an Apple logo on the back. Compared to the iPad launched in 2010, the "035" looks enormously thick. It has the same rounded corners used on the existing iPad.Samsung is using the evidence of the prototype - which was referenced in a patent filed by Apple - to say that there should be no restriction on sales of its Galaxy Tab in the US.Apple '035' iPad prototype shown against Samsung Galaxy Tab. Source: court documents.In line with the way that the cases between Samsung and Apple have thrown both companies into contorted legal positions - withApple now facing the prospect of advertising its rival's product, while Samsung saw a complaint from Appledismissed on the basis that the Korean's product was "not cool"- in a docket filed on 6 July, Samsung insists that Apple should not be able to injunct its sales in the US because they are so small: "Even when the entire family of Galaxy Tab tablets is considered collectively, Samsung only has a 15.4% share of Android tablets," it says in its deposition. "This new evidence demonstrates that Samsung is not only not 'flooding the market;' it is actually losing market share to Apple and other manufacturers."Samsung also says that Apple invalidated one of its own patents on the iPad-style design with an earlier product, the "Brain Box" display which it showed off in 1997, which had a flat surface from edge to edge.iPad '035' prototype from 2002 v Samsung Galaxy Tab. Source: court documentsThe difference in size is emphasised by the photos from the court case, where Samsung is comparing the 035 prototype with its own Samsung Galaxy Tab, and with the existing Apple iPad, to show that the device on which the patent is based is too different from its own for the latter to be considered an infringement.The '035' prototype featured a headphone jack. Photograph: BuzzfeedThat Apple had been working on the iPad and a tablet - after Jobs saw Bill Gates launch the idea at Comdex 2000 - before the iPhone had been known; Ive and his team shelved the idea because of cost issues, because touchscreens were still very expensive early in the decade. Instead they focussed on the iPhone because of the far larger potential in the phone market and the fact that the smaller screens would bring down costs.But the existence of the "035" prototype had remained secret beyond Apple and the courtroom until this week.The fact that Jobs in effect lied about Apple's work on a tablet only indicates how such large organisations are very good at keeping secrets. John-Henry Barac, a former designer with The Guardian, recalls visiting Apple in October 2004 as part of a personal visit.His first day was spent meeting people at the Graphic design studio - where, he says, "where many things were covered with white paper so I couldn't see them, but due to someone's carelessness or some kind of bizarre test - I'll never know - there was a poster for a device which didn't yet exist; it turned out to be the iPod shuffle which was announced a short time later."The next day he met Ive, and the conversation veered towards personal organisers: "I talked to him about my Palm Pilot, and how I liked it, but it felt a little clunky (I have a note to myself which says 'PDA-other directions?') - I said - 'you have this Inkwell (handwriting) technology, and this notion of the digital hub. Why not build a device that is not a PDA, but relies on the computer for doing much of the work but you have some limited input abilities, and perhaps video viewing ability, and easy sync email and addresses via Wi-Fi?'  Jony gave me a look which was, I though slightly playful and just said 'iiiinteresting' in a way that you just know there is something going on, but you know not to ask anything more."So this week images emerge of prototype iPads dating back to 2002-4. And we all know now that by then [Apple's designers] were definitely beginning to look at touch screen, iPhone ideas etc. It puts my conversation with Jony Ive in a different perspective. There WAS stuff going on, and my desires as a consumer and designer connected with their secret works... but the story was all yet to unfold."While I was sitting there chatting to Jony there was also a brief interruption as a smiling Phil Schiller came to within a few feet of us and said 'Hey Jony, you know that thing that was black? I just made it green -  OK?' He was beaming. Jony just said 'Uh - OK, Phil... i liked the sense of play and knowledge that they were playing with stuff that could change the world in some small ways."Thanks toBuzzfeedfor permission to use the credited photos.Updated:Corrected some incorrect spellings.
Ptchis guaranteed to get app-sceptics hot under the collar. It's missing a vowel, launching on iPhone alone, and is the kind of social videos'n'photos app thatgenerates talkof "Instagram meets Viddy meets Animoto meets a mashup contest" before it even launches.Yet Ptch, which launches in the US today, is interesting. Not least because it's a startup incubated within film studio DreamWorks Animation, its sole financial backer.Alongside the two obvious questions for any new social app – is it good, and will it be successful? – there's a third question about why a Hollywood studio is incubating an app startup.Is it good? Yes. The free app aims to get its users sharing animated slideshows of up to 60 seconds in length, pulling in photos, videos, music and comments from social networks including Facebook, Twitter and Google+.The clips can be sent to friends or posted on Ptch itself – a self-contained social network in the same way that Instagram and Viddy are – as well as to Facebook and Twitter, or sent by email."What we're trying to do is to really transform how consumers think about sharing their media in a visual way," says chief executive Ed Leonard, who was previously chief technology officer at DreamWorks."It enables you to do something that would take you hours on a desktop computer using a heavyweight tool, and share it in a way that's super-satisfying."The app is certainly easy to use: dragging and dropping elements into a timeline, adding titles, and choosing comments that were made when those photos and videos were originally posted on social networks. Its equivalent of Instagram's filters are "styles" – black'n'white, vintage, comic-book and so on.Ptch also wants to get its users remixing one another's clips, so the app is capable of breaking each down into its constituent parts again. "If I send you a ptch, you can reshape it, take out pictures, pick a different style or song, and remash it easily," says Leonard."When you get sent a YouTube movie from the web, that's the end of the conversation. Well, you can comment on it and like it, but you can't really interact with the content. Ptch is really the beginning of the conversation."One problem Ptch faces is that it's hard to convince someone why they might like the app without them actually using it – a challenge shared by another new video-sharing appVyclone, which I wrote about in May. That said, Ptch is viral by its nature: people are most likely to discover it by being sent a clip by a friend.Anyway, your level of app-scepticism will define whether you think Ptch has a chance of becoming popular. But it's the DreamWorks connection that's fascinating – that third question about why a big studio is financing an app that isn't directly promoting one of its films."About a year ago, we started to think about how we could take the insight and intellectual property around the movies and the [animation] technology and apply it to different businesses: not just making great films, but creating value and new business in other areas" says Leonard."I was put in charge of finding some of these ideas, and Ptch is the one I became obsessed by. And obsessed is the best word! So I went to Jeffrey [Katzenberg, DreamWorks' chief executive] and said 'Not only is this a great idea, but I wants to do this full time. Give me a year to build the company'."That idea of studio as startup incubator is fascinating. And remember, this was nearly a year before Facebook tabled its $1bn acquisition offer for Instagram. If DreamWorks' rivals weren't considering similar strategies of spinning off their own startups, they may well be now.Does the studio's involvement mean Ptch will be involved in its own film marketing campaigns sooner rather than later, though? The obvious way would be to provide styles, titles and music based on whatever movie was about to come out, for fans to use in their own slideshows."We'll definitely be doing that sort of thing, but it will be a little bit later," says Leonard. "We want this to be seen as a very fun and cool social tool for everybody to use, not a movie marketing tool."He also says that Ptch has very deliberately been created as a separate startup to enable it to be more nimble than a large studio – this, admittedly, is what any skunkworks team within a large company is duty-bound to say, but it's likely true.Ptch's entertainment industry background is affecting what it does in other ways, though. For example, its approach to music.Each style has 8-10 songs to use as a soundtrack, and they're real songs from the likes of U2, Justin Bieber, Kanye West, Florence + The Machine and The Killers, through to Godsmack, Steppenwolf, Andrew WK and Steely Dan."We're working with music labels to deliver a variety of music into the app," says Leonard."We believe that the right long-term strategy is allowing people to open their iTunes libraries and put in the music that they want. But we're working with the labels on a way to do that where they can monetise through pieces of songs."Which is where the DreamWorks connection comes in. "Our DNA is rooted in content owners, so we're trying to do this in the right way and make sure we respect content owners' rights," he says. "We really want this to be an opportunity for the content guys to make new revenue."Some fun licensing talks ahead, then. But those new revenue opportunities won't come until Ptch itself is popular enough.Today's launch is US-only and iPhone-only, but Leonard says Android will follow once the app has iterated through a few updates to hone the product, and that a global rollout is also high on the company's priorities.
Augmented reality, wearable computing and mobile search areexciting new technologies. But where will the data come from to illuminate yourGoogle Glassesor theAR layeron your phone? No one wants to stare out at an augmented street full of Starbucks with bland corporate tunnel vision – but Google at present ignores thegeotagsof independent content that would locate it precisely for augmented reality and mobile search. So what's going on and is Google about to make an important shift?The Layar augmented reality app shows details of a location via a smartphone app.Augmented reality in the Google Glass or mobile phone contextoverlays information from a web page or blog postabout a place on to the screen in front of you. The AR app on your phone or in your glasses knows where you are and it has to know what the content it overlays into your vision is about. But where does it get geo-tagged content from? Mobile search is at the heart of this. A search for a cafe on mobile will turn up cafes Google finds near you and your phone. Then you can look at the cafe's own website and follow a map to get there.But what if the cafe has lousy food hygiene scores, or locals know that there is a much better one 50 metres further away that maybe doesn't have a website? You won't find that on the cafe's own website, nor in Yelp, Zagat nor Google+ Local. You need independent local blogs and tweets to turn up that sort of useful local intelligence.A local blogger can help people trying to find local information by tagging posts with the specific place to which the post relatesusing a geotag. In most blogging platforms, this is as simple asclicking a mapbefore you publish a post, upon which the latitude and longitude of your post is burned into the HTML. When another computer – such as a search engine – scans the page, it will associate the location with the post. This should be a huge boon to mobile search by helping people who seek place-specific local stuff to find a wide range of independent local information, not just corporate content from a directory run by a search engine.Bing and Yahoo both use location attributes somehow in search, but with the greatest respect (and putting Facebook to one side), Google is where it's at for mobile search. Google, however, has historically chosen to ignore geotags from third-party content. Even if you have created your blog on Google's own Blogger and geotagged it there, Google still ignores your geotag when delivering search results. Even Google's otherwise excellent blog on geo-things ëLat Long' doesn't seem to geotag its posts.Google relies heavily on Google's giant gazetteer Google Places, which recently morphed into "Google+ Local" (and which until Monday was overseen by Marissa Mayer). It isn't easy to correct or enter new information other than anodyne reviews using Google-ownedZagatinto Google+ Places - you pretty well have to be a company or a public authority with some physical ownership of the place in question.This isn't great - no one wants the future of search and AR to be solely about bland corporate blah that you get in a gazetteer or directory. For the best experience, we need mobile search and AR to seek out third-party, independent content about places and put it alongside the corporate stuff. With Google Glass on the horizon and other augmented reality products already here on mobile phones, geotagging becomes even more important. No one wants to put on someGoogle glassesand only see a "Starbucks street" of branded chain stores andGoogle Zagatreviews.Google's position is a longstanding one,set in 2009andrestated in 2012 on the Google Webmaster Central blog in 2012:"Note that we do not use locational meta tags (like "geo.position" or "distribution") or HTML attributes for geotargeting. While these may be useful in other regards, we've found that they are generally not reliable enough to use for geotargeting."I've been doing somework on public service content in ARlately and have asked Google about its position in an email dialogue with the London office, setting out a discussion in the terms above. There are now signs that this may be about to change (although this will depend on how you interpret the Kremlinology). Google says:"As we've mentioned in the Webmaster Central blog, currently we don't use locational meta tags as a signal for geographic relevance in web search. We generally don't comment on future plans, but keep an eye on the Webmaster blog and the Lat Long blog."This is a good sign. The big platforms should learn to trust geotags by bloggers, just as the loyal audiences bloggers attract trust their content. Apple too would do well to start off on the right foot with its new mapping product, rather thanjust relying on Yelp. I wouldn't suggest for a moment that Google should trust every geotagl it could simply start by recognising the ones in its own blogging platform (Blogger) and other established platforms such as wordpress.com, and then extend the circle to blogs more generally, and maybe even encourage local newspapers to geotag.If Google were to take a step in the right direction, it could set off a virtuous cycle where people add geotags to their web information because they can see the value being returned when they do a search on a mobile device, which increases the utility of mobile search, thus further increasing the value to the people who geotag in the first place. The people who use mobile search win all around, and the future of mobile search and augmented reality moves from the narrow tunnel vision of "Starbucks Street" to show a more diverse and vivid side to our communities.William Perrin runsTalk About Local, a company that helps people find a voice for their community online.This article was prompted by work Talk About Local is doing funded byNESTA, the UK innovation charity andThe Nominet Trustvia theDestination Localprogram. This article is the author's view alone, not the funders'.
Nokia'slatest set of financial resultsshows the challenges the company is facing as it tries to establish itself as a significant smartphone maker in the years ahead. But what about the ideas it had a few years ago?There's aninteresting article on the Wall Street Journalabout this which quotes the company's former chief designer Frank Nuovo talking about the never-realised concepts that Nokia had for future mobile phones."Oh my God, we had it completely nailed," he tells the WSJ. "I was heartbroken when Apple got the jump on this concept. When people say the iPhone as a concept, a piece of hardware, is unique, that upsets me."Nuovo is talking about concepts that Nokia dreamed up in the late 1990s, but the article reminded me of something more recent: two videos I shot at the Nokia World conference in 2006, and uploaded to YouTube.I was basically pointing my camera at the conference's big screen as Nokia showed two videos that it said provided a glimpse at its ideas for the future.This was a couple of months before Apple unveiled its first iPhone in January 2007, although the device was already strongly rumoured to be on the way. Meanwhile, Google had quietly acquired mobile software startup Android in 2005, although its plans for Android phones were yet to be announced.In other words, this was a time when Nokia was riding high in the smartphone market – or with hindsight, cruising towards a rude awakening.Here's the first video:The half-width touchscreen phone concept hasn't caught on (yet), nor has an Instagram-esque filters app been developed to change the colour of an actual phone. But the video does show Nokia was thinking about social, location and NFC-like features.Here's the second video:Augmented reality, a user interface that's a world away from even later incarnations of Symbian, and some quirky hardware.An interesting glimpse at what could-have-been, even if these are obviously pie-in-the-sky concept videos designed to create buzz at the end of a conference, rather than specific product plans.The videos might even have been an attempt to influence the latter. Here's another quote from the Wall Street Journal piece, from Nokia's former chief designer Alastair Curtis: "You were spending more time fighting politics than doing design... it was hard for the team to drive through a coherent, consistent, beautiful experience."
The woes at the Finnish mobile phone company Nokia continue to mount, with further losses in its main division in the second quarter of 2012, and a €220m (£170m) write-off on unsold stock of its smartphones.But the ailing group's shares jumped by 10% to €1.50 as financial analysts said the losses were less grim than expected, and the firm had done better in the low-end "feature phone" market.Nokia also admitted its high-profile attempt to break back into the US smartphone market with its new range of Lumia phones, running Microsoft's Windows Phone software, had led to only about 600,000 sales in the US – down on the 1.5m sold in the same period a year ago when the company was only offering its outdated Symbian software.The mobile phone division recorded an operating loss of €474m, its second successive quarter of losses, on revenues down 26% year-on-year to €4.02bn. Overall, the company recorded a loss, including one-off restructuring costs, of €826m compared to a loss of €487m in the same period in 2011. Without the restructuring costs, losses would be €327m.Stephen Elop, the chief executive appointed in September 2010 to try to pull Nokia out of its nosedive as rivals including Apple and Samsung began eating into the top-end smartphone market, said: "Nokia is taking action to manage through this transition period. While this was a difficult quarter, Nokia employees are demonstrating their determination to strengthen our competitiveness, improve our operating model and carefully manage our financial resources." He added that Nokia was "executing with urgency" on restructuring which has seen the company plan to fire 10,000 staff in the coming year.Elop amazed Nokia and the mobile phone business in January 2011 when he announced that Nokia would abandon the Symbian software, which he described as a "burning platform", and adopt Microsoft's new Windows Phone software for its smartphones. The first Lumia phone running that software appeared in October 2011.Elop said Nokia had delivered 4m Lumia smartphones in the second quarter, and that he expected Microsoft's launch of the new Windows Phone 8 software in the autumn would be "an important catalyst".The write-off of €220m against stock of its Lumia, Symbian and Meego smartphones may indicate slow sales in some regions, though Nokia did not specify where. This week AT&amp;T halved the headline cost of the Lumia 900 smartphone to $50 (£32), which could indicate slow sales – although Nokia said it was part of "a normal strategy".The 4m figure for Lumia shipments is only a small proportion of the overall smartphone market, where the highest values and profit are now found. The old-fashioned "feature phone" market is moving to commodity status. About 150m smartphones were sold worldwide in the second quarter; Nokia's total of 10.2m smartphones, including its Symbian and Meego platforms, gives it less than 10%, compared to the 40% share it enjoyed a few years ago.Elop warned that the third quarter would be "difficult" and that it was "a critical priority" to return the mobile phone division to positive operating cash flow "as quickly as possible", although the company has managed to retain its cash position.On the financial markets, Nokia's stock has lost 95% of its value from its high point, and its bonds have been downgraded to junk.Analysts says its main challenges are the growing competition at the high end from Apple's iPhone and phones running Google's Android software, especially Samsung, and at the low end from manufacturers in countries such as China, where cheap handsets using Android have made it the largest phone market in the world. Nokia's revenues in China, an important market, shrank by 41%; only the US saw a growth in net revenues for the mobile division.Francisco Jeronimo, the mobile analyst at the research company IDC, said Nokia faced a tough third quarter in the US: "Operators are not stocking up Lumia devices as the new handsets running on Windows Phone 8 are expected soon for the Christmas season. As the current Nokia handsets will only get light updates of the new platform and will not be fully compatible, operators don't see any reason to push the current Lumia devices this summer. Nokia will continue to suffer until their Windows Phones 8 are launched."Jeronimo added: "Overall, despite the gloomy outlook and the results, we believe Nokia continues on the right track. They took a long-term strategy, compromising short-term results – although the clock is ticking, and if their sales don't wake up from the fourth quarter this year, Nokia and Stephen Elop will have to come up with a magical plan."The Ovum analyst Nick Dillon said: "After a seemingly endless run of bad news, these results offer a glimmer of hope for Nokia."
