Palm's sales tumbled by almost a third to $209 million in the quarter ended February 28, and its losses were not much smaller than its revenues -- $172 million. "The company said that excluding the effects of amortization of intangible assets, separation costs, impairment charges and restructuring charges, its loss was $26.5 million," reportsReuters.
Few products have created more hype than the so-called third generation (3G) mobile phones on which UK telcos spent more than &#163;22bn for the licences alone almost three years ago. So when you hold one of the first production models in your hand, there is inevitably an air of exaggerated expectations.In fact, Hutchison's   clamshell e606 phone (made by NEC) impresses even after only a day's trial. The video phone worked first time when I rang my colleague Stuart Jeffries, who also has a phone on trial. (Like fax machines and telephones, you need a network of users to make them a viable proposition.)No reflection on him, but I'm not sure there is a vast untapped demand out there   for seeing the person you are talking to once the novelty has worn off. But if every phone eventually has the facility (as is likely to happen with picture phones), it will seamlesly become part of the culture.Meanwhile, it is easy to see how the three "Gs" of video phone applications (girls, gaming and gambling) could   take off in a big way if enough people buy the phones. The porn industry is doubtless clearing out more space in the bank vaults in anticipation.The video clips showing Premiership goals (for which Hutchison has the rights) were impressive, as was Stuart's brief video film of his cat. There are plenty of Java   games to download, including PlayGolf and Klondike.Viewing ITN's news bulletin - showing President Bush's speech on Monday night - was easy by downloading the clip, saving it and then playing. Cute, but I'm not sure how many times users would want to do it.Access to the web was easy, with a single stroke of the keyboard. But it did take longer than you would expect from a phone that is supposedly cutting edge and "always on" to the network. Setting up an address and sending an email was the easiest I have come across on a phone.The service is designed to tell you where you are so you can find the nearest restaurant, bar or cash machine. It has some nice-looking maps but was half a mile off target in locating where I was (though you can type in an exact postcode instead).It would be unfair to judge a phone like this after such a brief acquaintance; a fuller review will appear later. It is sleek and well designed, with an easy to use four-directional navigation button with a joystick button in the middle.It may find the going difficult, not least because it needs a critical mass of users to make it work at a time when picture phones have exactly the same idea.It is quite expensive, with a starting price of &#163;399, and a bit heavier (at 150g) than the latest picture phones. But considering the features it manages to pack into such a small space, it is a minor miracle in its own right.
A few weeks ago, Red Herring, the technology business magazine I used to write for, finally went out of business. It was another casualty of a weak economy and an even weaker advertising market.Four years ago, I got my start as a writer at Red Herring. It was a different time then. During the dotcom boom, a 24-year-old with almost no journalism experience could wind up as associate editor of the fastest-growing magazine in America. Based in San Francisco, Red Herring embodied the new world of technology that nearly everyone was convinced we were on the brink of. Billions of dollars of investment capital had been unleashed upon Silicon Valley, and startup after startup was being launched at record speed.As the preferred magazine of the venture capitalists funding these companies, Red Herring was at the eye of the storm. It was a unique moment for magazine publishing and one that, given the rise of weblogging, probably marked the last moment of glory for a long-troubled industry.There was a palpable sense of excitement everyday when I walked into work: we were writing about the people and companies that were supposedly going to change the world.  Our readership went up nearly four-fold in the two years I was there, and the magazine kept getting bigger each month. At its peak in June 2000, we published a 640-page issue brimming with adverts, each costing tens of thousands of dollars.The number of staff grew astronomically as well. When I started, the magazine had    barely 15 editors and writers. At its largest, Red Herring had well over 100 editorial staffers throughout Europe, the United States, and Asia - someone had to fill the pages. I wrote and wrote and wrote, sometimes as many as nine pieces a month. The magazine had so much space and money that it even sent me to South Africa with a photographer for two weeks to write a feature about racism in the technology industry.It was hard to maintain perspective. Things were moving so quickly in the technology industry in 1999 and 2000 with so many companies being launched that it became almost impossible to keep up. We all knew that the dot.com stocks were overvalued.Tony Perkins, Red Herring's founder, wrote a book about it called The Internet Bubble. But no one knew exactly when or how the bubble was going to burst, and there was a na&#239;ve hope that either the air would be let out of the economy very slowly, or that the internet would continue to grow fast enough to justify some of that overinvestment.It didn't turn out that way, and getting laid off in May 2001 didn't come as much of a surprise. In October 2000,    we moved into expensive new offices to accommodate our growing staff, but by then the bubble had burst. The Nasdaq had peaked months earlier and was in steady decline. Each issue of the magazine was thinner than the last, and a decision to publish twice-monthly to suck up more ad dollars backfired. Many of our advertisers were either going out of business or cutting their budgets, and we had locked ourselves into a costly publishing schedule.Red Herring had dozens of writers but little for them to do. The last six months I was there I had one, maybe two stories published.  In the wake of its demise, it has been fashionable to bash Red Herring. It's pathetic that a business magazine that sold everyone on its own foresightedness and acumen failed to anticipate the economic decline. But while decisions were made that   flabbergasted even those who worked there - such as unrealistic staffing levels, million-dollar leases on office space, millions spent on consultants, and acquiring another websiteto use its technology, only to discover that integrating it with our system wasn't possible - Red Herring was only doing what every other business was doing.The potential to grow seemed limitless, especially since every time between 1996 and 1999 that the stock market was supposed to have crashed it didn't. In many ways, taking a more conservative approach would have been riskier. Red Herring ceased publication just a month shy of its 10th anniversary. Despite the economic slump we're still in, the irony is that the world of technology is more interesting now than it ever was at the height of the boom.With nanotechnology, hydrogen fuel cells, blogging, wireless internet, mobile phones, and biotech just beginning to take off, the world needs more people thinking and writing about where these innovations might take us, not fewer.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
OscarsThe 75th Academy Awards ceremony is almost upon us, and the official site is running a competition that lets you predict the winners. There's a lot of it about. Hello! magazine has an online poll, a quiz and a sweepstake, while the BBC has a "watch and vote" section. The Guardian Unlimited Academy not only lets you vote, it lets you see who is winning first. Yahoo is running polls and an Awards Challenge for people who can pick the winners. This has the added attraction that you can hold your own competition with a few friends. And if it all gets too much, there's the annual Razzies, from the Golden Raspberry Award Foundation.Eventually, of course, thoughts turn to the really important part of the evening: what the stars wear on the red carpet. The official Academy Awards site has a fashion poll that lets you choose your favourite dress in    each of five eras. Hello! has a fashion section on Original Style Statements, with another chance to vote. However, it is unlikely that anyone will match the triumph of South Park creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone in 2000.www.oscar.comwww.hellomagazine.com/specials/oscars2003BBC Oscars 2003http://film.guardian.co.uk/oscarshttp://movies.yahoo.com/oscarswww.razzies.comwww.razzies.com http://kewlstuff.editthispage.com/stories/storyReader$62An udder storyIf you read or write weblogs, have you been following the tale of the Raging Cow? Have you been reading the other side of the story from lovely ranting farm girl, Shelby LouAnn Brown, or the epic-writing noblepig, Sir Lee Pig? Spread the news and become a Cadbury's marketing tool. In the US, the company's Dr Pepper/Seven Up division is exploiting the herd mentality to milk the market for a new range of flavoured (and sugared) dairy drink products. These are now being sold in five test markets, pending national distribution.Teens writing influential blogs are reportedly being peppered with milk to test, and promotional merchandise, in the hope that their comments will    help raise awareness of the Raging Cow. And one of the great things about this kind of "viral marketing" is that even the inevitable anti-blogs perform essentially the same function. Is the blogosphere now ripe for the advertising and marketing agencies to exploit? As the Raging Cow loves to say: The Revolution Will Be Homogenized.www.ragingcow.comwww.barnyardrant.comwww.sirleepig.comhttp://ragingcow.blogspot.comGoogle linkswww.sirleepig.comGoogle hacksIf you were thinking of buying Google Hacks, this month's new book by search expert Tara Calishain, it's being reprinted and more copies should appear in the US next week. However, you can try some of her Happy Google Hacks in the Research Buzz    Toolbox, or search the text of the book at O'Reilly, the publisher's site. GooNews, Calishain's advanced Google News search page, is also worth a look, since Google doesn't provide one.www.buzztoolbox.com/googlewww.oreilly.com/catalog/googlehkswww.buzztoolbox.com/google/goonews.shtmlNet headsAre you, or do you know, someone who could be Silver Surfer of the Year. Nominations are open for the over 50s, and entries must be in by April 4. The competition has been organised by Hairnet, which offers one-to-one internet and computer training to the over 50s.www.silversurfersday.orgAnthemicArtist Nick Crowe has created a set of Axis of Evil ring tones based on the national anthems of Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria, and Korea. Crowe's page at Artones also offers a number of his logos including "jihad" in Arabic, Boycott USA, kill the queen, and Fucktoy. It's part of a project by The-phone-book.ltd. Production director Fee Plumley says: "The point behind the commission (funded by The Arts Council    of England's North West Board) is to examine the commercial potential of SMS technology for artists."www.artones.net/nick.htmwww.nickcrowe.netwww.the-phone-book.ltd.ukName danceIf you enjoyed Josea "Ze" Frank's colourful kaleidoscope, then you should be tempted to see what he can do with your name: just type it into lp1. ZeFrank's site now offers 20 interactive toys like this, six games, 14 interactive projects, and 10 interactive/educational projects, including How To Dance Properly, which first propelled ZeFrank to internet stardom and a Webby Award.http://zefrank.com/lp1http://zefrank.comNew &amp; noted&#183;The BT Learning Centre (&#163;3.99 a month):www.btopenworld.com/thelearningcentre&#183;World at the Crossroads:www.shelleystory.co.uk&#183;Trendspotting, obviously:www.trendwatching.com&#183;Brian Livingston, the man behind the Windows Secrets books, now has a website and a newsletter:www.briansbuzz.com&#183;Splat the Nazi (hard):www.activehistory.co.uk/games/splat/introSix of the bestBest filmChicagowww.miramax.com/chicagoGangs of New Yorkwww.gangsofnewyork.comThe Hourswww.thehoursmovie.comThe Pianistwww.thepianist-themovie.comThe Two Towerswww.lordoftherings.netThe Oddswww.online-betting-guide.co.uk/Oscars-2003.htm
Have computers changed the way you approach your writing?Dawn &#91;French&#93; always used to say I had lots of scribbled-on bits of paper but I never actually wrote anything. Using a computer made me try to write things and finish them off. Since getting my Mac G4, I've written three or four screenplays and treatments for TV series. I learnt to type usingMavis. If I look at my Work folder on my hard drive, I've got all my stand-up stuff that dates back to 1991 so I can quickly reference it and find out if I've done a joke before. The only glitch seems to be that my G4 can't really readMIME filesso when I'm sent those it's always a problem. Whenever I send a document toTiger Aspect, they run a different set-up so they have to get their IT guy to decode my emails!Any special scriptwriting software?I mainly useWord. Jennifer Saunders usesFinal Draft, which I found too elaborate. What's great about show business is that someone else can worry about formatting it. Spellchecker is a godsend as the least you can do with a script is make sure it's punctuated and spelt properly.Do you surf the net much?I useGoogle,www.amazon.co.ukandwww.barnesandnoble.com. I like the online librarywww.questia.com,www.guardian.co.ukandwww.bbc.co.uk. I'm surprised how straight some comedians' websites are - some are very serious indeed!Harry Hill'sis a funny site, though, as isAli G's.Any plans for your website?There are a few unofficial sites but I'm designing a site for LennyHenry.com, which I have the rights for. That should be up and running shortly. I'm going to have a web diary, archives, and possibly a couple of competitions for comedy writing.Comic relief?You can still donate viawww.comicrelief.comand there are video clips you can watch. I'm on thespeaking clockfor Comic Relief. It's weird to have someone doing silly stuff on the speaking clock when you dial 123.Data loss?I've lost stuff loads of times. The other day I spent an hour and a half on something and forgot to save it so ended up having to do it all over again. Sometimes you end up improving it. Emma Thompson once lost an early draft of Sense and Sensibility but Stephen Fry managed to retrieve it.Favourite gadgets?MyiPodis fantastic! Every time I buy a CD it goes straight on toiTunesand into the iPod. It's great having all the music I like in one machine - so much better than having to carry loads of CDs!Visit:www.bbc.co.uk/comedy/previews/index_lenny.shtml
Rip offThe article on online auctions (Working the web, March 13) was interesting and there is no doubt that the online marketplace is lively and thriving. It also has as many sharks in the pool as any bazaar or penny market anywhere in the world - only online they can rip you off extremely effectively, anonymously and from afar.As the victim of an online scam, to the tune of &#163;3,000, I should know. I should have exercised the same caution that I would use were some character to sidle up to me and offer me cheap audio equipment in a pub, but you can't see the character so you can't tell if he's sidling or not. By the time you realise you've been had, the seller has disappeared, his site has disappeared and the auction site has "removed" him.I was left with a hole in my bank balance, a couple of useless email addresses and an unquenchable desire to beat the crap out of someone. But who? The auction site was not interested enough to give me   more than an automated response. After all, they still make money even if some of us are getting fleeced.Despite the fact that online auction sites claim a low abuse rate, with transactions numbered in the millions per day, even a 1% abuse rate means there are a lot of mugs getting taken - myself included.Tony Gilmoretony.gilmore@ btinternet.comRuling partyRe: Tough rules (Feedback, March 13). Richard Taylor is shooting at the wrong target. The European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) is to Europe as the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) is to the US: they arestandards institutes, not regulators.British rules are imposed by the Department of Trade and Industry, which is occasionally influenced by the European Commission. These bodies are equivalent to the Federal Communications Commission. Taylor did state that Europe leads the worldin mobile phones, but didn't mention that GSM happened to be an ETSI standard!Richard A Adamsrichard@aadams1.fsnet.co.ukOS X-ratedI wasn't totally surprised to hear of the problems caused by the latest Mac OS X   upgrade, with reduced battery life, clocks reset to 1970, modems disconnecting, etc. When I bought my iBook a year ago and tried running OS X, I had four weeks of unmitigated hassle, until the shop that sold it to me sent an engineer, who listened to my problems, then told me it was all down to OS X and advised me to avoid it like the plague.There were some inherent problems. Like the way the Apple menu was gone, replaced by the dock, and the annoying, Microsoftesque icons that bounce stupidly every time you want to open an application. Or the way the "Most Recent" command in Appleworks didn't show the most recent documents, but instead listed the first 10 in alphabetical order, irrespective of when they were last opened.The way iPhoto, on my machine at least, refused to work. Worst of all, when I copied three important folders to a disc in the CD-R drive, it moved (not copied) two of them and lost the third, which means before I can back up to the CD-R drive, I have to make a copy of the relevant folder on the hard disc, just in case.Best of all, Apple's unbelievably bad call centre responded to each of these problems by giving me a unique reference number for each issue, promising to look into it, doing nothing about it, then denying all knowledge of the original calls each time I   chased them up.Since that first month, I've been running OS 9 and it's been like old times again, though I have long since decided my next machine will not be a Mac.David Murphymail@davidmurphy.orgSide of hamI read your article on the growing spam problem with interest (Mail out of order, February 27). Recently, I returned after a weekend away to 72 spam emails.Using Eudora's filter, all but 10 had been sent straight to trash. This system diverts much more spam when just the salient part of the email after @ is used to filter messages.Ann Morgan-Hughesann@blackcatbooks.co.ukISP trialsOn March 7, my husband received the BT Broadband package. For reasons too lengthy to explain here, we are committed to Compuserve for our emails. We asked both BT and Compuserve whether we could continue this service once we had broadband. Both companies assured us this would be all right.That afternoon, we installed BT Broadband to the point where it could not finish installing the driver for the modem. My husband spent several hours a day, over   the next seven days, following instructions, waiting for calls back for specialist advice. Finally, we learnt the truth: BT Broadband cannot be used with Compuserve or AOL. BT blocks these two ISPs from email access and it is not possible to access BT broadband if a normal phone line email provider remains with files on the computer.We are concerned that no one had been able to tell us that simple fact. We are now back on ordinary internet. Other users of Compuserve/ AOL should be warned.Geraldine Murraymandgm@compuserve.com
I spend far more time moving my mouse than holding a hoe. But, rather like hanging out in garden centre coffee shops on a Sunday afternoon, there's something appealing about surfing gardening sites on the web: the promise of sunny days pottering about in the garden while putting behind you all the wilted pot plants, aphid-riddled shrubs and seeds that simply refused to germinate.The web provides a shortcut to sourcing gardening equipment and plants, finding beautiful gardens to visit and learning more about your hobby - all of which means a few minutes spent online should make your horticultural habits all the more productive and rewarding.As a fan of carnivorous plants, I can get hold of seeds, equipment and seedlings that would otherwise entail a long drive to a distant nursery. Unfortunately, many of the small family firms that specialise in such niche areas don't have the resources to set up a secure shopping and payment site. That means they fall back on a "send an email, write a cheque and post it snail mail" system. But it's better than nothing, and there are an increasing number of general interest gardening shops online that do   offer the standards of service we've come to expect from e-business success stories such as Amazon and eBay.A great starting point for tracking down a rare or unusual addition to your collection is theRoyal Horticultural Society's plant finder. This database of 70,000 plants helps you pin down the exact specimen you're looking for, and then lists nurseries in your area and mail order firms that can supply you with them.If you'd rather buy your horticultural supplies online, two one-stop-shop gardening sites make a good starting point.Birstall Garden Centresells everything from gourmet mushroom growing kits to chicken coops.Crocusis more slick, albeit with a slightly more limited choice of products, but it offers a chance to sign up for regular advice emails from Alan Titchmarsh. Crocus also boasts a selection of cut flowers by "celebrity florists" (no, I can't name one either) and a chance to order a printed catalogue.Dig-Itis also worth a look and has a wedding list service.One of my first stops online is alwaysThe Henry Doubleday Research Centre, a magnet for organic gardeners. It offers rich resources for established and would-be organic enthusiasts, including factsheets on compost, pest control and weeds without using harmful substances.The organic credo also encourages welcome visitors such as hedgehogs, birds and the rather less cute but nevertheless important worm to the garden. Wildlife gardenerJenny Steel's websiterecords her efforts to create her own wildlife garden and sells wild seeds. The fabulousWiggly Wigglers sitewill help you learn about composting and buy all the kit you need to get started on a compost heap or wormery.If you'd rather be using engine grease than elbow grease to do the labour,GardenWise Directhas a good range of mowers, shredders, leaf blowers and other mechanical garden aids. The online version of theInnovations cataloguefeatures breathless descriptions of all those nifty gardening gadgets you never knew you needed, including the Unbelievable Saw and a telescopic hedge trimmer.Meanwhile, if you get fed up with the sight of your own patch and need some fresh inspiration, theNational Gardens Schemehas a searchable list of more than a thousand gardens open for visits.When I meet someone who says they're keen on gardening, I always ask if they listen toRadio 4's Gardeners' Question Time. If the answer is yes, I know they're bona fide. This long-running radio programme has a web presence that lets you listen to the most recent show and browse a host of factsheets answering your tricky garden queries.The best source of advice is other gardeners. The Real Gardeners site has abusy forumwhere fellow gardeners both amateur and professional will leap to your aid if you post a question, provided your eyes can cope with the irritating animated icons that litter the page. Online shopE-garden Communityalso has a message board section, which is better laid out but just as lively.If you're interested in reading about other gardeners' experiences,Carry On Gardeninghas a great My Garden section - currently featuring Fred and Linda Short, who have adapted their garden to suit the fact that they are both short. And when all the hard graft is done, what better way to relax than in ahammockin your garden?
The resignation on Tuesday of Lord Hunt of Kings Heath, health minister responsible for performance and quality, leaves the government without a minister in charge of NHS computing.It is a bad time for a vacancy to arise. As usual with IT ministers, Hunt was very junior, ranking fifth out of six in health secretary Alan Milburn's team. But he was a big fish in one pond - the &#163;2.3 billion project to computerise the NHS in England. As ministerial sponsor of the "national programme", Hunt received a    weekly report from Richard Granger, the IT director general charged with turning the programme into reality.Without such a sponsor, Granger will have a more difficult time persuading the health service that the revolution is going to happen.  The scheme will be in the spotlight next week, when NHS IT chiefs, including Granger, report to the biggest event in the healthcare computing calendar, the annual conference in Harrogate.They will have an upbeat message: arrangements are well under way to replacing the NHS's alphabet soup of    outdated systems with standard, national applications. And the biggest names in the industry are clamouring for the chance to supply them.But if Granger thinks he will be speaking to a home crowd, he will be in for a shock. Although the attendees, whether doctors, hospi  tal managers or computer specialists, are by definition interested in IT, they also tend to be pioneers. They are people who, often in the face of scepticism from colleagues, created the IT systems that Granger wants to replace with his "national applications".The problem is that,    although many deserve to be replaced, there are successes. Their creators don't want them to be thrown out with the bath water.  One example is the new medical assessment unit at Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth. The unit is a revolutionary concept: it takes in patients referred by GPs or the A&amp;E department for intensive monitoring and investigation, rather than letting them languish in general wards. The idea is to identify quickly those patients who need specialist care.IT is vital to the unit. About 70 patients, suffering from a huge range of conditions, pass through the unit each day. Their details are stored on an electronic patient record, which displays at a glance every patient waiting to be admitted or receiving treatment, and the state of each of the unit's 58 beds.The implications are interesting. According to Dr Paul Schmidt, a physician on the unit, 35% of patients in NHS hospital beds don't need to be there. The rest are waiting; to   be seen, to receive results, for a prescription, for a discharge summary or for social care to be available. The electronic patient record identifies these factors, enabling the unit's workflow to be revolutionised in a similar way to Japanese car factories in the 1960s.Doctors can see the initial diagnosis at a glance and share knowledge with other professionals in the "virtual team" that forms around each patient. NHS doctors normally carry this information on scraps of paper in their pocket.Persuading doctors to use the system hasn't been easy, Schmidt says - "There are a lot of irrational fears" - but at the unit, the electronic record is now a fact of life.The problem is where to go from here. Schmidt agrees the NHS needs to take a more corporate approach to its IT. But he is frustrated at the prospect of having to wait until national specifications are agreed and systems procured.Granger says he does not want to stifle local good practice and innovation. But as the national IT plan rolls out, conflicts between centre and front line will inevitably arise. It's in these kind of situations that we need a minister in charge.
At the tail end of the dotcom craze, with broadband about to come online, there was much talk about how the time of interactive entertainment had come. Unfortunately, much of the groundbreaking stuff was little more than sub-Viz Flash-toons bashed out on the cheap.But a few innovative projects did push boundaries and build significant audiences. None more so than Online Caroline, a clever mix of Bridget Jones-style social comedy, anti-corporate satire and "woman in peril" drama updated for the net.Created by the British companyXPT, Online Caroline used webcams, email and telephone messages to draw users into the story of a young twentysomething woman being given the runaround by the men in her life.During its run here and in Germany, the site picked up 100,000 users, won a Bafta interactive award and became the subject of various academic essays pondering its narrative innovations. Jill Walker'sHow I was played by Online Carolineis one example.Caroline's travails also    impressed people at theNational Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts, a lottery-funded body that attempts to encourage scientific and cultural innovation.Nesta was looking for ways to get young teenage girls interested in continuing to study science as they grew up. Discussions with Rob Bevan and Tim Wright, the double-act behind XPT, led to the idea of creating an Online Caroline-style narrative relationship that also delivered messages about science.  The result isPlanet Jemma, which has just gone live.It tells the story of Jemma, a 19-year-old in her first year of a physics/ astrophysics course at university. Once users register, they can see video diaries and receive emails from Jemma describing the problems she faces as one of only two women on her course.These range from routine sexism and predatory lab technicians    to the disappearance of her best friend and the arrival of Jamie, a good-looking media studies student who wants to lure her away from her work.The idea, Bevan explains, is that Jemma should be like a big sister to the intended audience of 13- to 15-year-old girls, an inspirational figure, a kind of role model, drawing them into an interesting, exciting world."Think of her as Buffy the astrophysicist," Wright jokes.  Jemma's role model in the story is her tutor, Dr Shepherd, one of the few women in the science faculty at her university. Through Dr Shepherd, various kinds of scientific content are introduced - biographies of women scientists and offsite links to scientific material."Jemma's always trying to relate things that are going on in her life to the things she's learning about," says Bevan. "So, when her best friend just disappears, it sets her off thinking about quantum teleportation."The science content was generated after consultation with a specially created board of women scientists. After initial development by Bevan and Wright, the story was written by Jo Leigh, who has worked in TV drama and online. "Then I came in and added a lot of    cheap gags about interactivity," Wright says. The site builds on the narrative technologies used in Caroline."Everything you do on the site affects the emails sent to you. Jemma will talk to you based on whether you've seen the video, and whether you voted in one of the polls," Bevan explains.In other words, as users move around the site and take part in interactive games, such as polls concerning her dilemmas (should she bunk off a lecture to go for coffee with Jamie), they are tracked. The data they generate is stored and used to personalise or change the narrative. The result has been labelled "database-driven personalised narrative".Put more simply, Jemma is a story that changes ever so slightly for each user, while sticking to the same basic narrative arc. Consequently, it can be very involving.Certainly, Online Caroline proved very immersive for some. Bevan points out that some users took a long time to realise that Caroline wasn't real. Wright reckons that Planet Jemma is a different kind of experience."One of the powerful things about Caroline was that, with the webcam, you had to interpret a silent movie to figure out    what was going on. All you had to go on was what she said in her emails, which might not have been true. There were gaps in the narrative that your imagination filled in. But with Jemma's video diaries, you can hear her voice. A kind of mystery gets taken away and the relationship doesn't seem quite so powerful. It's more like television," he says.With Planet Jemma, Wright and Bevan are also using mobile phones to get their story (and its scientific messages) across. Users can do a 10-day text message quiz about science (the cost of the calls is subsidised by Nesta). There are 10 multiple-choice questions, Wright explains. For each, there's a right answer and a ludicrous answer. If users get 10 right answers, they get put in the pot for a prize. If they get 10 ludicrous answers, they are also put in the pot for a silly prize."But mid-way through the quiz, you get a message telling you whether you're silly or sensible, based on your answers. It's another form of personalisation: it's saying, I know how you're playing the game. People seem to like it a lot," says Wright.Now that Jemma is up and running, Bevan and Wright are looking around for their   next big project. They are developing an interactive story with a mobile/wireless element as part of Newcastle's bid to be the European City of Culture. They also have a sequel to Online Caroline ready to go. However, getting funding is difficult.The first wave of interest in interactive entertainment came too early, before the broadband audience was there. Now it's beginning to build, but the money has disappeared."I think people are still interested in this kind of thing. But there's less of a willingness to take risks. The economic climate has something to do with that, obviously," says Bevan. Freeserve, one of XPT's major backers, remains interested in the field. "Perhaps next year things will pick up," says Wright."We just need to address the question of how you make money out of this. With Online Caroline 2, perhaps the thing that will make it more acceptable is if they pay three quid up front. It will make this whole area feel less strange."&#183;To get involved in the Planet Jemma SMS quiz, users should text "Jemmaquiz" to 07946 200 200. All texts are standard rate but everything she sends to the caller is free.
Legend of Zelda: A Link to the PastGame Boy Advance 	&#163;29.99 Capcom/Nintendo	 *****With Mario's star seemingly on the wane - Super Mario Sunshine sold disappointingly - it seems the Legend of Zelda is now Nintendo's flagship franchise. The latest    instalment is out on the GameCube in May, but whetting the appetite is a Game Boy Advance conversion of one of the finest Zelda adventures - A Link to the Past.Initially released 12 years ago, the game has lost little of its sparkle, remaining as engrossing and playable as ever. In many ways, this set the template for the N64 classic Ocarina of Time, with a freeform world, full of secrets and mini-games, a number of brilliantly designed dungeons and a challenge/reward system so effective that it borders on genius.For example, completion of one dungeon will reward players with a hookshot. Not only does this allow progress to the previously unreachable    next dungeon, but also to other areas full of goodies and challenges. The Dark World - same map, subtly altered environment - is another example of the imagination shown by the developers.The conversion to GBA is good, with the top-down look perfect for the handheld. The graphics weren't earth shattering in 1991 but are charming none the less.  This conversion also includes the first multiplayer Zelda game, called Four Swords. The action involves basic team-based puzzles combined with hacking and money collecting. Although it waters down the more sophisticated gameplay elements, Four Swords is an enjoyable dessert to the main course.  It may be another SNES conversion, but Zelda: A Link to the Past is as relevant and enjoyable as ever and a title every gamer should own.  (GH)Racing EvoluzioneXbox £39.99 Infogrames **Games that attempt something new tread a fine line between
    bravery and foolhardiness, particularly at a time when the most successful are rehashes of franchise games.Racing Evoluzione's premise is that you have inherited a run-down garage in which you find blueprints for several
    sports cars. You decide to make and drive them. As you progress by winning races, the ramshackle garage is
    transformed into a world-class sports car factory, and the tedium of the racing game format is leavened by an
    element of management.That's the theory. In practice, Racing Evoluzione is unsatisfying, although not as much of a
    mish-mash as one might fear. The management element is perfunctory and largely automated, which leaves you
    feeling it has been tacked on. The fact that success in Dream mode (what other games call Career mode) unlocks
    cars to use in the Arcade mode is laudable.And the racing, although nowhere near as impressive as Gran Turismo's,
    improves dramatically once you start winning races and uprating your car. There are plenty of decent racetracks,
    and the AI breeds some bruising racing.Car feel is all but absent, though, and limpet-like handling will bore devotees
    of driving games. Racing Evoluzione may have set out to put a new spin on racing games but, sadly, it has ended up
    mired in mediocrity. (SB)Jimmy Neutron: Boy GeniusGameCube £24.99 Kalisto/THQ ***Despite trailing PlayStation2 and Xbox, the
    GameCube dominates some genres. The arcade adventure, for instance, as epitomised by Luigi's Castle, is a classic
    because it puts gameplay first. And while Jimmy Neutron wants to be Super Mario, there the similarity ends.Based
    on the Nickelodeon cartoon series, your boy genius has to travel six huge levels looking for items to free his
    parents and friends. At first glance, the 3D engine looks spot on - expansive and varied while gloriously weird. With
    gadgets galore (in the shape of a morphing robotic dog) and excellent use of sound using the same actors as the
    cartoon, this should be a trip worth taking - had Kalisto possessed Nintendo's skill in turning imagination into
    reality.What you have instead is a by-the-numbers arcade adventure, ideally suited to a younger audience were the
    gameplay up to scratch. Unfortunately, the 3D camera is fixed and seemingly determined to make progress as
    frustrating as possible.For example, although you can turn, run and jump in full 3D, you can never see very far in
    front of you - resulting in Jimmy running in circles until something catches his peripheral vision or attacks him.
    Consequently, all the gadgets in the world won't make up for a game that seems to play you rather than the other
    way round. Also, given its three to eight-year-old target audience, the cross-promotion of Neutron merchandise
    seems far from innocent. (MA)
CeBIT, Europe's premier information technology exhibition, kicked off last week in Hanover with a stirring speech delivered by German chancellor, Gerhard Schr&#246;der.Laying the blame for the industry's current economic gloom on the poor global economy and the crisis in Iraq, Schr&#246;der predicted "the IT industry would return to the path of growth after its period of adjustment".Sadly, the number of delegates to hear Schr&#246;der's rallying cry was significantly down on last year - a sign that both CeBIT and the IT industry are still struggling.The punters in the gargantuan exhibition halls were left in no doubt as to the technology that the industry hoped would deliver its lifeline - connected home networks.While Intel was unveiling its Centrino PC chip set, which has Wi-Fi (802.11b) capabilities built in as reported in Online last week, Microsoft was   announcing a transatlantic crossing for its successful Windows XP Media Centre operating system.The operating system's key facility is its second user interface, which enables owners to control digital media on the PC including a TV tuner, and video recorder, via a remote control handset.Original versions of XP MC won't, however, be compatible with digital TV transmissions as they have analogue tuners. Further, consumers won't be able to buy XP MC as an upgrade - they will have to invest in a new PC.The company is already said to be working on the next generation of XP MC, which is being groomed to take the role of the server of an integrated home entertainment network.Consumer electronics companies were also out in force at CeBIT promoting their home networking gadgets.Arguing that "the connected home is here and now", Philips's chief executive officer, Gerard Kleisterlee, touted a   range of goodies, from its DesXcape 150DMN detachable monitor that can be used around the home wirelessly to its i-Pronto, a wireless web tablet with a programmable system for controlling home entertainment appliances.Proving that there is life in the other wireless technology - Bluetooth - Wave Industries launched the first ever Bluetooth phone for the home. The CDP-24 201 creates a mini wireless network enabling owners to access the net via Bluetooth-powered devices such as laptops and personal digital assistants. An integrated 56k modem also enables users to make voice calls while surfing the internet. The phone is due in the UK very soon retailing for around &#163;200. Wave also launched the InfoGlobe, an unusual spherical display that connects to a home phone line and displays caller ID.Wireless technology isn't just going to transform entertainment systems - it is heading for the car too. German company Cyclops paraded its in-car PC which sits in the boot and connects wirelessly using Bluetooth or Wi-Fi to screens, gadgets and   other electronic devices.CeBIT also witnessed early outings for several new screen technologies. Sharp gave its 3D LCD technology a run promising that a 15inch version of the monitor would be on sale by the end of the year. Sharp claims 3D screens will be popular among gamers and computer-aided design engineers.Meanwhile, several companies displayed OLED (organic light emitting diode) screens at CeBIT. The tiny screens from Toshiba, Kodak and Sanyo, among others, are thinner, brighter and more flexible than traditional LCDs. Foldable OLEDs, which fit inside a pocket, are the manufacturers' long-term goal.CeBIT also saw a re-run of that old IT chestnut - voice controlled electronic appliances. On display this year was Hermine, an interactive washing machine that responds to voice commands. It is expected to arrive next year, but don't get too excited yet, as the first versions will probably only speak German.
Porn freeMy teenage son has been surfing the net for porn sites. I have deleted the files in the Temporary Internet Files folder, but could photos be stored elsewhere? If so, how can I get rid of them?Name withheldJack Schofield replies:Windows doesn't store image files in other places, though there are any number of ways that people can hide files. These include changing the name    (eg, from sexscene.jpg to expences.xml), and by compressing or encrypting them using a password. Also, bear in mind that images can often be recovered after they have been deleted, depending on how much time and money someone is prepared to spend doing it. Programs such as theForensic Graphics File Extractorcan reconstruct graphics files from "swap files" and from the TIF folder, even if they have been deleted. (Windows uses its swap file, WIN386.SWP, as a temporary scratch pad to store things when there is no room in memory.)Several companies offer products to "clean up" a personal computer, which includes removing records the average user is rarely aware of. The best known isWebroot's Window Washer. Alternatives includeAllera System Cleaner,Privacy EraserandEvidence Killer. Webroot also sells a Mac Washer. However, this is probably overkill in your case.Clean outI shall shortly be upgrading, and it is likely that my current laptop will be sold. Is there any way I can irretrievably erase the various files, which contain personal information, before I sell it?Colin BurgessJS:You could try one of the "clean up" programs mentioned above, but there is a better solution: delete everything and re-install Windows (or whatever) from scratch on a clean hard drive. This should be even easier if your supplier has included a Windows CD designed to restore the system to its "factory fresh" installation, as many do. However, it is not enough simply to delete the existing files, because computers don't usually delete files: they delete the index references to the files.To make it more or less impossible to recover personal data, the disk sectors have to be over-written many times with random data. This can be done with a "disk cleaner" such asBC WipeorDriveScrubber. BC Wipe's BCWipePD utility can wipe a whole hard drive from a command line. Hospitals, the armed forces and public bodies could have saved themselves much embarrassment by using such products before disposing of old PCs.Convert itAre there any packages that will automatically produce a text version of a standard website.Marcellina BoyleJS:If you are looking at a web page, you can select File|Save As, and then in the "Save as type" box (Alt-T), select.txt for text. Otherwise, there are a number of utilities that will convert HTML to other    formats. There's a list under Plain text and setext atwww.w3.org/Tools/html2things.html. One commercial example isDetagger.News needMy home page used to be My BBC, a news service that allowed users to select subjects from pre-defined panels. It was discontinued last week. I know Yahoo offers something similar, but I find their default layout, with a large banner ad at the top of the page, irritating. Are there any alternatives?Keith ArrowsmithJS:TheYahoo news servicelooks the best alternative, and you can suppress the ad banner withProxomitron. Rivals includeMSN UK, which includes a Guardian Unlimited feed, andGoogle's automated news service, which is still American.Otherwise, the most configurable option could beNews2you. This lets you choose from a wide range of categories and also use your own saved searches. Let me know if you find anything better.Stop itTwo weeks ago, you directed us to Control Panel|Administrative tools|Services in Windows XP to stop messenger popups. There are a lot of other programs run  ning that may not be needed and are using memory. Is there a guide to what is there and its function?David CarlsonJS:I use Black Viper's site atwww.blackviper.com/WinXP/servicecfg.htm, but this is dangerous ground. For safety's sake, it is better to change an XP profile rather than the default configuration. Seewww.blackviper.com/WinXP/xpprofiles.htm.UnrealI downloaded Real Player One because I thought it would be an improvement on my old Real Player. Is there any way to get the older version back?Jamie ClarkeJS:You can sometimes download old versions of programs fromwww.oldversion.com.   Also, if you install software manually, by downloading and running the program file separately, you can keep old versions yourself. Always remember to uninstall the new and worse version first.BackchatLast week, Philip Rayner and Kate Ashcroft asked about copying music to the hard drive. Simon Bicknell reminds me (sorry, I forgot) that "Windows Media Player 9 does not allow music to be copied to MP3. Other MP3 decoding programs ask for a charge to enable full MP3 copying features - Audiograbber, for example - but I    find it frustrating that the old version I had of Media Player did this perfectly well." You can add MP3 ripping ability to WMP9 by using a $9.95 plug-in such as theIntervideo MP3 XPack. There are still free rippers around, such as theCDex 1.5 beta 10. You can also get a freeCD Ripper for Winamp3.&#183;James Jones agrees that MP3 has "critical mass - I would probably recommend it for that reason myself," he says - but thinks my opinion of Ogg Vorbis "is outdated and doesn't reflect where the format currently stands, ie it is better than both WMA and MP3". However, he suggestsCD-DA X-Tractor, which "bypasses the whole issue and allows users to choose how to encode their CDs".&#183;I suggested the Ping and Trace route commands as a quick way to check net speeds and referred toGoogle's Web directoryas a source of utilities. In response to a query from Jonathan Theobald: one option for Mac users, apart from OS X, isWhatRoute, though I don't know if it is the best available.
Oh dear: Amazon accidentally put some iPaq PocketPCs on sale for a particularly bargain-tastic £23, instead of £500, today. The ensuing hoo-ha saw thousands of office workers placing a huge number of orders. Indeed, there could have been significant danger of the personal digital assistant (PDA) market moving out its tiny niche which, in the UK, consists mostly of young-ish men living in the South East of England. Instead, Amazon took down its UK site for a full 50 minutes while it got things fixed, and is now refusing to honour the sales. Guardian Unlimited's Owen Gibson has done thestory.
E-commerce giant Amazon has refused to honour orders from thousands of bargain hunters who snapped up handheld computers worth hundreds of pounds that were erroneously placed on sale for less than £10.Two Hewlett-Packard iPaq handheld pocket PCs were listed on the Amazon site this morning with hundreds of pounds knocked off their value after a mistake priced one of the models, which usually retails at around £500, for just £23. A cheaper model, normally £192, was on sale for £7.The site was deluged with orders after the mistake was posted on message boards such as Popbitch and spread like wildfire in offices around the country as customers emailed their friends.Amazon, Europe's most popular e-commerce site, finally took its site down altogether at lunchtime. Visitors were redirected to its US site for 50 minutes while the items were removed.Some customers were attempting to buy upwards of 50 hand held computers at a time as they cashed in on the mistake.However, the deal is likely to turn out to be too good to be true after Amazon admitted the mistake and said according to its terms and conditions, it was not bound to honour orders until it had confirmed them by email."As the conditions of use clearly state, there is no contract between Amazon.co.uk and the customer for an item until Amazon.co.uk accepts the customer order by e-mail, confirming that it has dispatched the item.  Until that time, Amazon.co.uk is within its rights to not accept any customer order," it said in a statement.While Amazon's stance is likely to be accepted by the courts, it could lose it thousands of disgruntled customers.In similar cases in the past, high street store Argos had to disappoint thousands of customers who ordered a television priced at just three pounds on its website. And Kodak eventually agreed to honour orders from customers who ordered a £399 digital camera accidentally offered for sale online for £100."No customer credit card has been charged for orders made this morning at the incorrect price, as we do not charge a customer's credit card until the order has entered the dispatch process," added the Amazon statement.
"Time Education, a TIME Group Ltd company, is displaying the Time Tablet PC at the Education Show in Birmingham, England starting today [March 13]. The Time Tablet PC weighs just three pounds and offers a unique alternative to the standard notebook computer," according to a press release on theTransmetaWeb site. Unlike Research Machines, Time has not taken the Intel Centrino route: its Tablet PC uses a Transmeta processor. Both companies target UK schools.
"Accelent Systems Inc. of Akron, Ohio, has designed a tri-mode wireless personal digital assistant that combines wireless LAN, Bluetooth and GSM/GPRS connectivity to specifications provided by Texas Instruments Inc," saysEE Times. "Texas Instruments said the design, called Wanda for Wireless Any Network Digital Assistant, would become available in April 2003, but did not indicate whether customers would be given the design for free or should license the design from Accelent or Texas Instruments."
Creamhackeredhas posted a guide to the various versions at Neowin, and the screen shots have some nostalgia value.
Gateway, still one of the larger PC manufacturers, continues to struggle, and "has begun laying off 17 percent of its 11,200-person staff and closing 76 of its retail stores" in the US, reportsCNet. Gateway started as a direct supplier and diversified into retailing when Dell turned up the heat. Gateway's annual revenues have slumped from $9.6 billion in 2000 to only $4.2 billion in 2002. Dell's annual sales grew from $25.3 billion to $31.2 billion at the same time, and most recently hit $35.4 billion. In the late 90s, the two firms had the same business model, sold similar products and were about the same size.
DivX has launched a beta test version of a new application calledMastermind. It's a file organiser for MP3 and video files that "gives you the ability to access your entire music and movie collection from anywhere with an Internet connection. Install the Mastermind application on every computer where you store your media files, then use the Mastermind web client to see a combined and organized view of your media. Play back your media from anywhere, to anywhere."
Today, Heathrow airport became the first to try an electronic version of a sniffer dog, reportsReuters. TheBBC Newssite has that story, and adds that Heathrow has also introduced a 3D X-ray machine for inspecting hand luggage. "Security staff operating the new X-ray machine will have to wear special glasses to see the hand luggage in three dimensions."
IDC has, surprisingly, released numbers for the first sales of Tablet PCs, revealing that HP's Compaq model has given it an early lead, reports theIDG News Service. Sales are almost microscopic by PC standards, though IDC's analyst claims: "For only six weeks, 70,000 units is pretty significant. We're still at the very early stages of the early adopters."
"Research in Motion and Symbian are working to bring RIM's BlackBerry wireless e-mail to Symbian-based cell phones," reports theIDG News Service. Sorry, there's no date for a launch yet. Over atComputerworldis the news that Microsoft has also licensed the RIM system for use with PocketPC-based smartphones.
It's almost 10 years since the Web browser came to public view with the first version of NCSA Mosaic, andUSA Todayhas taken the opportunity to refresh old timers' memories, and enlighten the youngsters. It's a fascinating story, and made Marc Andreessen a media star. Mosaic changed the Web, compared with Tim Berners-Lee's original browser, because it left out the page creation aspect and introduced graphics, making it more of a one way and less of a two-way medium. One story that is new to me: "At a conference, Berners-Lee yelled at Andreessen, telling him that adding images to the Web was going to bring in a flood of new users who would do things like post photos of nude women."
The world might be facing war, the tech sector bumping along the bottom of a terrible slump, but these are heady days for one niche: Wi-Fi, or wireless internet access.Last week's launch of the Centino chip from Intel, which plumbs Wi-Fi into Windows laptops, all but guaranteed that within a year most new laptops will have the ability to surf wirelessly built in (and yes, Apple users, I know: we've had this ability for years).Moreover, laptops are becoming popular as replacements for bulky desktop computers. This, combined with the rapid rolling-out of new networks, means both the number of laptop users and the number of Wi-Fi enabled laptops will grow very quickly.There is also a rash of new Wi-Fi "hotspots" appearing in the UK. Inspired Broadcast Networks - a new Wi-Fi provider - has just said it will create 3,000 new hotspots by the end of the year, mostly in upscale pubs. T-Mobile has also said it will expand its Starbucks network to 56 locations by the end of May. BT Openzone, which has the biggest existing network of hotspots, is also adding new locations.But wait. This might be where the Wi-Fi equation begins to break down. At least two of these providers - T-Mobile and BT - are betting that we will be willing to pay lots to access the internet in coffee shops, hotel lobbies and airports. T-Mobile's UK charges, announced last week, suggest this is a premium service: £5.50 for an hour, £14 for two, £37 a month. BT charges even more: £6 an hour, £15 for 24-hours unlimited, £40 for 900 minutes a month.The big question is: are all these new potential users going to stump up? Let's look at three reasons why they might not - or, at least, might not in the numbers T-Mobile and BT  hope they will.First, the prices are too high. When fixed line broadband internet access is seen as steep at £25 a month, paying up to £40 a month for Wi-Fi you're likely to use less will feel very expensive indeed. You could choose to buy access hour by hour, but at £6 a go you won't want to use this too often.Second, you can't roam. A number of different Wi-Fi networks are springing up, and you will need either to buy access on a day-by-day basis - by far the most expensive option - or throw in your lot with one Wi-Fi provider. This will dramatically reduce your options for access, unless you can swallow your pride and stump up £5-6 an hour to use a rival network - while still paying a hefty monthly fee to the provider you can't use.Third - and this is the one that gives the operators sleepless nights - there's the airconditioning scenario. Today, when you choose to go to a hotel or a restaurant, you're likely to take it for granted that it will be reasonably warm or cool: you expect there will be some form of air-conditioning. Once it was a benefit an owner could sell: today it is ubiquitous, and free.The same is already happening with Wi-Fi, albeit on a small scale so far. Individual coffee shops and small chains of eateries are realising that they can tie sales of drinks and food to internet access. Wi-Fi is cheap to install and run, and it gives them an edge in their competitive main business. Notoriously flighty customers might choose to go regularly to a particular deli if they know there's fast internet access, even if they're bored with the sandwiches or prefer the coffee elsewhere.Even McDonald's is getting in on the act. Last week the chain announced that 10 of its outlets in the US have Wi-Fi. If you're brave enough to use a laptop in one, you can now have Wi-Fi with fries.All this is bad news for the subscription model being relied on by BT and T-Mobile. BT is in a stronger position, since it has managed to sign up places such as motorway service stations and airports where alternative Wi-Fi networks are unlikely to pop up.Besides, BT stands to win even if we use someone else's hotspot: it's almost certainly a BT fixed line that provides the bandwidth anyway, and it doesn't matter to it if it is the user or the hotspot owner that pays the bill.For T-Mobile, determined to "own" both the hotspots and the users, things are trickier. Already (albeit only in central London, for now) I have the choice of a paid-for T-Mobile hotspot in Starbucks, or a free hotspot in a deli nearby. Guess which one I'm choosing? (And the coffee is better too.)Away from a few locations, such as airports and service stations, where we are already resigned to paying through the nose for anything, it's hard to see how today's hefty subscriptions are going to survive.Paid-for Wi-Fi might find its niche in rural areas, where some enterprising souls are experimenting with ways to use it to bring high-speed internet access to areas which otherwise would be using dial-up.But for those of us who live in urban areas, there is likely to be greater choice. And there will also be enough pubs and cafes willing to pay the nominal fees for bandwidth on the basis that we'll be happy to pay for high-margin coffee, buns and pints while we use the internet.That is bad news for anyone hoping to sell this as some kind of premium service: the dreaded air-conditioning scenario has just arrived. For the people who sell laptops, bandwidth and coffee it's going to be business as usual. And for those of us who like coffee and the internet, it's great news: fast net access is becoming as free as the air we breathe.
Most of the Silicon Valley companies that were sold to investors in the dot.com boom are now roadkill, according toa Mercury News article on theWake of the Crash. However, it is not all bad news: the investment bankers made pots of money. What a surprise.
Business 2.0has a very odd story about how Adobe is beating Bill Gates, and I think it's odd because it is based on a couple of very odd ideas. First, Adobe is supposed to have "beaten Gates" because Microsoft's Picture It! software hasn't replaced PhotoShop. But anybody who actually looked at Picture It! would recognise that it's a cheap program aimed at home users, not a PhotoShop rival at all. In fact, Adobe is able to command amazingly high prices for its software precisely because it hasn't faced competition from Microsoft, which typically slashes prices at least in half, and usually a lot more. The second odd notion is that Microsoft's forthcoming XDocs program, renamed InfoPath, is supposed to rival Adobe Acrobat. Again, I don't see how this idea could survive five minutes actually looking at the two products. XDocs is an XML-based forms authoring application based on customer-written schema. (Who said SGML?) I can't image why anybody would decide to use that to create a PDF of, say, an advertising brochure, and that's by far the most common sort of thing Acrobat is used for. Of course, the Business 2.0 piece isn't any sort of technical article, it is the Tech Investor column, and tech investors are not exactly known for having a clue. But if there are tech investors who seriously think that Picture It! competes with PhotoShop, surely it would be a public service just to tell them not to be so daft.
The Bibrog-B worm, "which is spreading (modestly) by email and through file sharing networks ... contains not just malicious code but a shooting game too." saysThe Register. Check theSophossite and hope you don't recognise it.
CNethas a round-up of news from the CeBIT computer trade show in Hanover.
Motorola has "received a grant ... from the Federal Communications Commission to sell what is referred to in filings as the A920 multimedia communicator" -- a Symbian-based smartphone -- reportsCNet.
Martyn Williams of the IDG News Service reports from Tokyo on some of the latest consumer electronicsgadgets and gizmos, including some early products that include Wi-Fi wireless networking.;
At a meeting in San Francisco, Donald Knuth, professor emeritus of computer science at Stanford University and something of a legend in the field of computer programming, was questioned by Google co-founder Sergey Brin, a former student of Knuth's, and Jennifer Chayes, a professor of mathematics and physics at the University of Washington, who also heads a research group at Microsoft, says theMercury News. Knuth gave up e-mail in 1990. He said: "E-mail is a wonderful thing for people whose role in life is to be on top of things. But not for me; my role is to be on the bottom of things. What I do takes long hours of studying and uninterruptible concentration.''I was amused to find that Brin has adopted the same e-mail strategy as me. "He only reads and responds to the most recent messages in his inbox, ignoring older messages as soon as he gets distracted by more pressing business.'This way you can trick some small number of people into thinking you're prompt,' Brin said." Knuth would undoutedly recognise this as a LIFO stack, which is the phrase I always use. ("Why haven't you answered the e-mail I sent last week?" "Sorry, I operate a LIFO stack.") But I don't recommend it if you feel guilty about have 2,284 (and rising) unanswered e-mails in your in-box....
The theme of this series has been that, in today's computer  industry, platforms beat products every time. So, if you want to take  over the world, you have to get other people to support your product,  use it, and build on it. In other words, you have to get them to "buy in" to  your platform."Buy in" means business. While some people see computing as  a science, an art, or an entertaining hobby, it is actually a trillion dollar   business. In the long run, what matters is the number of people  plonking dollar bills, pounds, euros or yen in suppliers' hands.But anyone distressed by the naked commerciality of "buy in"  should appreciate that what it replaced was "lock in", and that was  worse. To get "buy in", you almost always have to support other people's  standards and platforms, whereas with "lock in", the more incompatibilities  you can get away with, the better.The differences are partly historical. In the beginning, the  computer industry was vertically integrated: each company tried to do  everything, from developing its own chips to running your data centre.  IBM did this better than anyone. It not only made the whole kit and  caboodle, it installed it, maintained it, and would even lend you the money  to buy it. (SeeSchofield on Saturday, February 1.)Although this system had many advantages - you knew where  the buck stopped - it had some huge disadvantages. The first was lock  in. Once you had bought, say, an all-IBM outfit, it could become impossibly  expensive to switch to a different supplier. Like an inhabitant of the old  Soviet empire, your only way out was to defect, leaving most of your  goods and chattels behind.In the 1980s, the bulk of the IT industry shifted to a horizontal   structure where different companies provided different parts of  the product stack. Examples included Intel processors, Microsoft  operating systems, Novell networking, Oracle databases, and so on. It  may be hard to change one layer in the stack - from Microsoft Office to  OpenOffice, for example - but it's nothing like as traumatic as changing every  layer at once.Another disadvantage of vertical integration was that it could  make life hard for third-party suppliers. For example, suppose you set  up a business to supply a product for IBM S/360 mainframes. If you were  successful, you could expect IBM to produce an equivalent product. Indeed,  this is exactly what many IBM computer buyers would expect IBM to do,  and they would welcome it.   This seems short-sighted, because it discourages other companies from   supporting the range. But it is common. Look, for example, at the warmth   with which Apple Macintosh users welcome Apple products that compete   with its third-party supporters. Not even retailers are safe. Well, how  much effort would you put into selling Macs if you expected Apple to open its own store down the street? A platform, however, absolutely depends on third party support: on "buy in".One of the things IBM recognised when it launched the IBM PC in 1981 was that one company could not supply everything users wanted. It therefore followed existing market standards, and invited third  parties to produce add-ons and peripherals. The PC division even encouraged the growth of independent retailers at the expense of the IBM sales force (which is not to say the rest of the giant IBM organisation necessarily went along with it, but it did have some effect).In the long term, helping your enemies can be the best way to help   yourself, because if a platform is successful, everybody wins. The rising tide lifts all boats.   Of course, in today's computer businesses, most companies are much more interdependent than IBM, Digital Equipment, Wang and other vertically-integrated giants used to be, so there are few recent  examples of "buy in" versus "lock in". However, it is still possible to lean one way rather than the other, as happened in the browser wars between Netscape and Microsoft.Netscape, founded in 1994 as Mosaic Communications, wrote a browser as a way of monetizing the NCSA Mosaic browser created by Marc Andreessen and Eric Bina at America's National Centre for  Supercomputing Applications in Urbana, Illinois. Its strategy was to own the browser market, so you   could only get Navigator (the browser) from Netscape, and you couldn't change it.Although the browser was, like Mosaic, free, Netscape planned to make money by selling lots of server software to work with it. Also, the number of users obliged to visit Netscape's web portal would create a valuable web property. Netscape could not literally lock users in, but its actions tended to lock verybody else out.The other part of Netscape's strategy was to be "cross platform" (Unix, Mac, Windows etc), so it didn't follow Windows standards or integrate with other Windows products. This was a fundamental mistake:  Netscape was putting the majority of its effort into supporting a tiny minority (less than 10%) of the market. For Microsoft, however, competing was a no-brainer. Microsoft is a platform company, so it set about building a better Windows platform.In an earlier column, I discussed the concept of "the whole product". This is simply a model that helps you describe how consumers make purchasing decisions (Schofield on Saturday, January 25). It is useful because buying decisions are influenced by things that are not visibly parts of the product. For example, car buyers look at other things besides the time it takes to get from 0-60mph. These can include the price of insurance, whether spare parts are readily available, the image created by advertising, and whether the manufacturer is about to go bust.All these are part of "the whole product".  Companies that want to succeed therefore have to focus on  other things besides innovation and technical excellence. They often have to enhance "the whole product" by enlisting the help of third-party suppliers. These are the kinds of thing platform companies do, and Microsoft did them.To quote what I wrote in the summer of 1997, Microsoft's marketing plan "aimed to satisfy users (it works, you don't have to download it, it's free), internet service providers (easily configurable, has an   administration kit), online services like AOL (object-based and can be customised to add proprietary features), web masters (HTML standards, automation of plug-ins via ActiveX, subsidised access to sites like the Wall Street Journal and ESPN), programmers (can use their existing skills and OLE expertise), magazine publishers (free code for cover-mount CDs),  PC suppliers (free extra feature with pre-loaded Windows 95) and many more."All these extras were aimed at creating "buy in" because, as I added way back then: "given roughly equivalent technology, the product that more people want to win will generally win." This is not, I concede, a particularly clean example of "buy in" versus "lock in". However, it is by far the most interesting example available, and it is illuminating.First, notice that merely giving away and/or bundling Internet Explorer  with Windows was not a winning strategy, and failed to dent Netscape's monopoly market share. Users continued to download  Navigator rather than use IE1 or IE2.Second, Microsoft didn't focus on "buy in" until its browser was as good as Navigator and, in some respects, better - which it was around the middle of 1997. Netscape was as good as dead just 18  months later, when it was taken over by AOL.Third, Microsoft made decisions that favoured the platform even when they were to the detriment of its users. ISPs, for example, loved the IEAK (Internet Explorer Administration Kit), because it let them customize and brand the browser. But users are almost universal in their hatred of NTL and Freeserve and other branded versions of IE, especially after they have switched ISPs.Fourth, Netscape knew what it was trying to do, which was specifically to create a "whole product". Its strategy came straight out of my favourite Silicon Valley marketing books, Geoffrey Moore's Crossing  the Chasm and Inside the Tornado, so you can read it yourself. When I went to see chief executive Jim Barksdale in Mountain View, California, we quoted bits at one another. When I asked him if he was in the bowling alley, he told me what all his pins were.Netscape's real problem was that it didn't have a clue about Windows or how the Windows business operated. Barksdale had worked at IBM on mainframes, at Federal Express, and at McCaw, a mobile  phone company. Andreessen and Bina had worked on the Unix (X Window) version of Mosaic, not the Windows version. Mike Homer, the marketing man, had worked at Go (a failure in pen computing) and Apple. Apparently, none of them could see that their strategy made it impossible for Netscape to  compete with Microsoft. They did not fail by accident, but by design (See chapter 9 of High Stakes, No Prisoners by Charles Ferguson for "a strategic analysis of  Netscape's failure").To anyone who understood the concepts I've been discussing in this column, Netscape's demise was therefore no surprise. Ferguson, who dealt with the company, says it died "primarily because it was  unspeakably arrogant and stupid": "They were heading into combat without a helmet. I was trying to warn Barksdale that Netscape was about to get shot to pieces, and he wasn't listening."Of course, the fact that Netscape deliberately chose a losing strategy while Microsoft chose a winning strategy doesn't tell you whether or not the fight was fair. Owning the Windows platform does give  Microsoft a lot of power to abuse, and as Al Capone is supposed to have remarked: "You get   a lot more with a kind word and a gun than you do with a kind word alone."
The internet chalked up another first last night when Britain's newest political party, the People's Alliance, launched itself online.The Alliance promises to introduce a written constitution, a single universal benefit for all (or guaranteed minimum income), and have all legislation approved by electronic referendums.The alliance is being promoted by three former Conservative party officials, including Iain Duncan Smith's former chief of staff. Its key spokesman is, however, a former undertaker.Howard Hodgeson made his fortune in the funeral business, before selling up and becoming a motivational speaker and author - one of his books is titled "How to become dead rich".Mr Hodgeson said today: "this is a historic moment - the first ever political party to launch via the internet.""The internet is a vital part of our democratic and constitutional proposals which will give the people the right to decide to which laws are passed and which are scrapped, through a process we are calling "direct democracy"."People will be able to cast their votes online - as well as by phone or post."The alliance's policies are inspired by two very different political cultures - those of California and Switzerland, where government legislation is frequently overturned by referendum.It is set to run as a populist alternative to the Tories in the Scottish parliament election in May. Its founders hope it will benefit from the Conservatives' unpopularity north of the border, where the party is seen as an English party.They also believes that by first contesting an election run under a system of proportional representation it will be able to gather public support before the next general election. Britain's first-past-the-post system has historically prevented new parties from making an electoral breakthrough.The alliance is funded by a Scottish millionaire and former donor to the Conservative party, Robert Dunward. He has ruled out entering politics himself.Though the main parties have dismissed the alliance's prospects, Mr Hodgeson is bullish about its future."Since our new website went live last night we have already signed up our first members online and are on target for 2,000 members within the first few weeks," he said.
The BBC is winding down websites dedicated to Crimewatch and Watchdog despite investing an estimated £500,000 of licence payers' money in developing the services.BBC insiders said both sites would effectively be closed later this year and that the BBC's Holiday, motoring and homes and antiques sites would be severely cut back.Insiders said most of the staff on the corporation's Holiday site faced redundancy after BBCi decided to scale back the amount of online support for the TV programme."In the BBCi Lifestyle genre, only Food and Gardening will continue to be updated on a regular basis," claimed one insider.The high profile websites have been targeted as part of swingeing cutbacks ordered by Ashley Highfield, the head of the BBC's online arm, who is trying to cut spending by £6m to £68m this year.The BBC said the decision to integrate the Holiday site into a lifestyle portal will save licence fee money.A spokesman said:  "No individuals have yet been identified for redundancy. Staffing levels are going to change, but we are looking at retraining and redeployment options, as  well as 'natural wastage' as a means of reducing these numbers."It said it had mistakenly given the impression its website was grinding to a halt because of a typographical error. 
Ê
"'The  latest appeals will appear here on Wednesday 26 February after 9pm',"  is an editorial error," the BBC said after the message appeared on the site today. "This should have read Wednesday 26 March and this has subsequently been corrected by the  site producer."It added that due to legal reasons not all information relating to past appeals from the programme appears on the site.Sources say the BBC has spent about £250,000 developing each site over the last few years.But it is probable the sites do not attract many users, as Mr Highfield has hinted this week that unpopular sites would not survive."We've got to work out what people look at and what they don't," he told MediaGuardian.co.uk.One BBCi insider accused the corporation of abandoning sites with a strong public service role."At a time when there is a review about to start into BBCi, it &#91;the BBC&#93; is closing sites with a very public service remit or genuine reason to remain."A BBCi spokesman however denied Crimewatch and Watchdog would close down entirely."Crimewatch and Watchdog will remain but their focus will change. Rather than supporting every programme, they will provide generic content that will be refreshed," he said.The spokesman also said the Holiday site would be integrated into a general lifestyle portal offering users a "one stop shop".Mr Highfield denied the cuts were linked to the forthcoming DCMS review of BBCi ordered by the culture secretary, Tessa Jowell, last December.Although the terms of reference for the investigation have yet to be revealed, it is understood the main thrust of the enquiry will be into whether the BBC is spending too much money providing web services in areas that are already catered for by commercial competitors.About 100 jobs are expected to go as a result of the cuts as BBCi diverts more of its resources into developing interactive television."We have strategically positioned the move towards interactive TV because we've seen how popular it can be, and it reaches people that don't necessarily spend a lot of time on the web," Mr Highfield said.
A typically splendidball by ball commentaryon the cricket early this morning is now circulating the web rapidly this afternoon. At least four people have emailed me, two urging me to take a look before the bosses take it down, one pleading with me not to tell anyone Upstairs. Tom atPlasticbaghas even written about it in a post entitled "Meltdown at the Guardian". Guys: the guys on the GU sportsdesk have been producing some of the most consistently entertaining sports reportage on the web foryears. Although I'm delighted they're finally getting the recognition they deserve, the conspiracy theorists should really take a lie down in a darkened room... or a dip into the archives.
On the face of it, internet advertising has been established for a few years, despite the collapse of the boom. According to the Internet Advertising Bureau, &#163;165m was spent on online advertising in the UK in 2001, a rise of 7% on the year before. The 2002 figures are expected to show a similar increase; the picture for 2003 looks even rosier. Estimates vary for this year, but growth is expected to soar into double digit figures, with predictions spread between 20% and 46%.But the advertising community feels quality is losing out to quantity. Media buyers believe the sector is being held back by a lack of imaginative, high quality ads. As a result, online advertising is dominated by bland banners and buttons. The finger is being pointed at the big creative agencies, which develop expensive TV, billboard and cinema campaigns and leave the internet by the wayside."It is holding our industry back. Clients place a huge amount of trust in the feedback they get from creative agencies. I can spend a lot of time working on a great media plan for online advertising but the missing link will still be the creative side, because the client does not think the right creative solution is in place."Even the creative agencies themselves would tell you that thay have not engaged it in the way that media buyers have. If you reeled off great creative work in TV and billboards and then asked what their offering was like online, there would be a big difference," says Robert Horler of media buyer Carat Interactive.He admits that a glut of on line advertising specialists has been a disincentive to large agencies because intense competition for clients pushes down margins - and with them profits.Charlie Dobres, of online media buyer i-level, thinks net advertising has proved it can work but not enough companies are listening; the appointment of former ITV chief executive Richard Eyre as chairman of the IAB will help put the message across, he says. Double digit growth for 2003 would be impressive, but still a drop in the ocean compared to the spending on TV, radio and outdoor campaigns. The IAB's key target is to double the web's share of UK advertising to 2% by 2004."The main issue is making people know about it, and when they know about it, will they believe what they hear? Going from spending 2% of your advertising budget on the internet to spending 5% is sticking your neck out."Spend(Estimates for February 2003)eBay	&#163;1.9mEDiets.com	&#163;1.4mAmazon	&#163;1mMBNA Europe	&#163;0.83mGaming Club	&#163;0.7mBSkyB	&#163;0.57mBT	&#163;0.4mEgg	&#163;0.36m365 Corporation	&#163;0.35mTrafalgar Betting	&#163;0.27mData supplied by Thomson Intermedia plc
Microsoft has formed an Extended Platforms Division with "900 employees assembled from the Windows, research and business-productivity divisions. It also includes industrial designers and evangelists who will pitch the concept computers to manufacturers," saysThe Seattle Times. The idea is to create new platforms on which PC manufacturers can base their own designs. Examples include the Tablet PC and Media Center PC. Traditionally, this sort of thing used to be done by chip manufacturers as a way of encouraging companies to use their processors, eg the Tandy Color Computer and the WebPad. It helps companies that don't have a lot of cash for R&amp;D or a high level of skills to get into new markets. The scary part would be if Microsoft was really convinced a concept would appeal to the market and couldn't get anyone to take it up.... which is how it eventually arrived at doing the Xbox in-house.
HP will add 802.11b wireless to some of its desktop PCs "in conjunction with the Cisco Compatible Extensions program, a program that tests products for interoperability with the Cisco AirOne network", reportsExtreme Tech. It will be using Texas Instruments chips.
Every time a bunch of PC manufacturers get together, they bitch about Dell, which is beating them on efficiency and undercutting them on price. And one of Dell's most bitched about advantages is the low prices it pays Microsoft for Windows and Office. Microsoft has got the message, according toCRN, but it is not clear what it can do about it. Obviously Dell gets a volume discount -- most companies in most businesses offer volume discounts, so that's not an issue. The problem is that it is very tough to compete with Dell on volume. Last year, it shipped 20.7 million units, which (unless my arithmetic is wrong) is 40 per minute, 365 days a year.
Funniest part of the London launch of Centrino, held at Vinopolis in London yesterday evening. Intel was demonstrating how the Wi-Fi wireless network would take over from a fixed connection if the fixed connection was disconnected. Instead of unplugging it, the demonstrator produced a meat cleaver and chopped straight through the CAT-5 cable. A tool-tip popped up for the Wi-Fi network and the streaming video kept on playing. It certainly woke up the first three rows....
Intel launched its Centrino chip set for mobile computers yesterday (see today'sOnline), and there's a steady stream of new PCs using the technology.ComputerWorldlists a few....
Thousands of foreign visitors are tempted to travel to Britain every year not by our museums, architecture, shopping or nightlife but to visit our great libraries - the unsung home of our cultural and intellectual heritage.These great libraries - the six "legal deposit" libraries - were built with the aid of the 1911 Copyright Act, which allows the British Library and five others to claim a copy of all printed material published in Britain.The legal deposit libraries provide vital collections for everyone in Britain, including researchers in business and industry, academics and students. However, with the explosion in e-publishing, they face the prospect of becoming increasingly irrelevant. Unless we extend the law, as many other countries have done, valuable material will be lost forever. Examples of non-print include CD-ROMs, DVDs, microfilm/fiche and selected website materials, but who knows what form these will take in the future.     The legal deposit libraries bill, set to get its second reading tomorrow, aims to ensure that non-print materials are saved, alongside printed publications, for the nation. This is not a minor issue. More than 60,000 non-print items were published in Britain last year - a figure that will increase by a factor of four or five by 2005. Non-commercial publications, including websites, add enormously to this number.Although there is a voluntary code of practice between publishers and the legal deposit libraries - set up in January 2000 and functioning reasonably successfully -legislation is still needed urgently. More than 50% of electronically delivered publications - usually specialist journals - and around 25% of "hand-held" publications, such as CD-ROMs, are not being collected. These are typically materials of considerable long-term research and cultural significance.So what are we losing? The types of material at risk include major directories, such as the Europe Info directory on DVD; news sources, including the web-published results of public opinion polls from companies such as MORI; and indexes to help researchers locate materials, such as the Legal Journals Index. There's the Cochrane Library, arguably the best single source of reliable evidence about the effects of health care, available only on CD-ROM and the web; a wide range of important local and national government documents, such as the Home Office series of "online only" research reports; and an increasing number of e-journals, like Sociological Research Online, only available on the web.Added to this, the bill will allow the legal deposit libraries to look seriously at archiving selected material from websites. There are already nearly 3 million dotUK websites. Frankly, many contain material that is trivial and irrelevant, but we should be thinking about archiving coverage of important events such as 9/11, or what about sites covering general elections, the millennium celebrations, the Queen's Golden Jubilee and the Commonwealth Games? All of these contain material that future generations of researchers will want to access.Collecting, storing and preserving this material will present the legal deposit libraries with a major challenge. The legal deposit libraries are already working with other countries to identify the best ways to preserve electronic materials. New systems are being developed to allow information to be "migrated" to the media of future generations - allowing materials to be accessed even when their original formats have become obsolete. No one expects an easy answer, but solutions are evolving.The bill will lay the framework to enable the secretary of state to implement secondary legislation, in the form of orders, addressing exactly how the new media material will be collected. This is necessary to make sure the legislation is future proof and that materials published by those technologies being developed or not even invented can be brought within the scope of the legal deposit if necessary.The British Library is taking part in setting up an international consortium - which will also include the Library of Congress and the Bibliotheque Nationale - to look at the best ways to archive websites.  This consortium will work with the Internet Archive - an American project that has been archiving parts of the internet, from newsgroups to home pages, since 1996, using "web-crawling robots". The library recently completed a specialist project to look at the types of website materials it should select and how they might be "harvested". What seems likely is that the library will take "snapshots" of selected sites at regular intervals.While some of this work is exploratory, both publishers and libraries recognise that they need to act now. Without new legislation to ensure non-print materials are saved for future generations, the 21st century will be seen as a cultural Dark Age, which failed to archive a substantial and vital part of the nation's published heritage.&#183;Chris Mole is Labour MP for Ipswich.
The line between genuine online advertising and spam is a thin one. While spam traditionally comes from pornographers or con-men, it can sometimes come from the most unlikely sources.This week, it seems, the most infamous spammer is also perhaps the most surprising: the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals - the RSPCA. Three reports sent to the newsgroup news.admin.net-abuse.sightings have the RSPCA sending unsolicited email to addresses as far away as Texas and north Virginia - somewhat irrelevant to a campaign based on contacting your local MP about new fireworks legislation.The RSPCA claims it is all the work of a rogue mailing house, acting without their permission.  Their international campaigns head, David Bowles, claims that their media company, the London-based PHDiq, employed an American company to send out two mailings.The company,Extralists.com, sent one to a list of people who had signed up at the RSPCA site, and the other to one of their own lists, purportedly of UK-based cat and dog owners. Both these mailings went successfully, Bowles says, with no complaints. But then, towards the middle of last week, he claims the RSPCA started to receive complaints about a third mailing, one the RSPCA did not authorise.This time, it would appear, the mailings were sent indiscriminately. Bowles claims that Extralists.com sent out a third mailing to another list, without the go-ahead of either the RSPCA or PHDiq. ExtraLists.com claims that the mailing lists they supply are all "opt-in" - the recipient has specifically asked to receive the mail.Not so, say the complaints to news.admin.net-abuse. sightings. None of them had. ExtraLists.com, based in Florida, could not be reached for comment, but Bowles says he will be asking them for a full explanation and an apology. This isn't the first time the RSPCA has inadvertently over-stepped the mark in its online campaigns. Last month, the volunteer-run service FaxYourMP.com was   overwhelmed with submissions after an email campaign from the RSPCA pointed directly to them, with instructions to cut and paste sections of the email into the message that would be faxed to the MP.This was despite a specific instruction of the FaxYourMP site not to do this. Spam is the blight of the internet. AOL recently stated that it filters more than 1bn spam emails a day from its servers, while small ISPs estimate that around 30% of their costs come from dealing with spam. That 30% is passed on to you, the customer.
Music to goWe are going to Ethiopia to work as volunteers for two years, and we plan to transfer our CDs on to the hard drive of our laptop. What are the pros and cons of the various music formats?Philip RaynerandKate Ashcroft.Jack Schofield replies:The main choices are the MP3 (MPeg-1 Audio Layer 3) and WMA (Windows Media Audio) file formats. MP3 is most widely available and gives you the biggest choice of music and players, and the quality is acceptable for computer audio. At 128kbps, one minute of music takes up about a megabyte of disk space.WMA has better compression, and delivers similar performance with smaller file sizes, but is not as widely supported. It is useful for portable players with limited memories, but I would stick to MP3 if you have the disk space. However, if you do use Windows Media Player to copy your CDs, turn off the Personal Rights Management feature that copy-protects tracks, as explained inAsk Jack last August. Other candidates include Ogg Vorbis and MPC. Ogg Vorbis is a worthy attempt to produce an open file format to replace MP3, but is not yet good enough for me to recommend it. A HREF="http://www.heibrink.nl/mpcworld/" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;MPC or MPEGplusis like MP3 but delivers much better quality at high (variable) bit rates. It is obscure, so only try it you find MP3 files sound much worse than CDs - you probably need a hi-fi to notice. You can convert between most formats. Seewww.mp3-to-wav.com/for suitable software.The g spotI want to connect three PCs and a laptop in a small home office set up using Wi-Fi 802.11b or preferably 8011.2g. Could you advise on the new 802.11g hardware on the market from Buffalo, Netgear, Belkin and others, which seems to be capable of 54Mbps and backwardly compatible with 802.11b?Ken KiniJS:The problem with 802.11g is that the standard has not been ratified, and it has not been tested for interoperability. Under the circumstances, I cannot recommend it for business use. At the very least, you should not buy anything that cannot be upgraded, free, to meet the standard when it appears, eg by downloading updated software.  But I am not convinced 11g is worth the risk. First, it will never give anything like 54Mbps throughput - 22Mbps is more likely. Second, the extra speed has no advantage over 802.11b when connecting to a broadband internet service where you are sharing 0.5Mbps or 1.0Mbps.Of course, 802.11g will make a big difference for local PC-to-PC file transfers (ie not talking to the net). But if speed is important, connecting your desktop PCs with standard 10/100mbps Ethernet cards and Cat-5e cable will deliver much higher performance than 802.11g at a lower cost.Snail emailSome of the emails I send are being delayed by hours, even days. Is there a way of telling which ones have been sent? I know you can ask the addressee to confirm receipt, but that has to wait until they open their mailbox, which may not be for a day or two.Tim PearceJS:My solution is, like the    internet's email system, astonishingly crude, but effective. I just copy (BCC:) important mail to my own web-based mailbox. It does not guarantee the message has been delivered, but at least I know my ISP has sent it. A less crude system such asFirstClass, used by some universities, offers receipt on delivery and even "receipt on route", but not with your average internet mail server.Slow netAt certain times, my internet connection downloads at a reasonable speed, but then it can stop completely for minutes on end! A local expert told me it was probably due to the BT exchange and I must ask them to increase the gain. This has not made any difference, and BT blames my server - usually Beeb.net.Graham KnightJS:Try using the Ping and Trace route commands, which will tell you where your IP (Internet Protocol) packets are going, and the delay in milliseconds for each hop. Open a command prompt window, or a DOS box, and type pingwww.google.comand tracertwww.google.comand you should be able to see where the delays are.You can also download much more sophisticated software to do the same job, such asVisualRoute&lt;/A. SeeGoogle's web directory of Internet IP... Utilitiesfor a wide selection.Backchat&#183;Rosemary Robertson, working on site, wanted to email large files via a mobile phone. Dr Michael Quigley ofKudos Satellite Communicationssays she could consider a mobile satellite modem. "The new Inmarsat Regional BGAN (Broadband Global Area Network) service will deliver 144 kbps to a terminal the size of a notebook computer.  The terminal costs around &#163;800 and data transmission is around $12 per megabyte. Seehttp://regionalbgan.inmarsat.comandwww.deltawavecomm.com".* Steve Cande wanted to preserve the EXIF (Exchangeable Image File Format) data stored by digital cameras, and I asked about digital album programs that did the job. John French usesBreeze's Downloaderto retain the data, then stores images in iMatch from Photools.com, which "handles EXIF info brilliantly. I use it to catalogue and query my Canon RAW files. Perhaps it's a little daunting for first timers, but it's a professional tool at a shareware price". Keith Ramsey uses useExtensis Portfolio,    which can "extract EXIF data from an image and automatically enter it into the database when the image is catalogued".David Hughes recommends PIE (Picture Information Extractor) fromwww.picmeta.com. "It looks and behaves very much like that old warhorse ACDSee, but adds the EXIF information to the picture or file title."  Jo, from Homeless International, says: "I think just about the best image management software out there isThumbs Plus. It combines a customisable Access-based database with thumbnails of images. You can save keywords, annotations, and an unlimited number of user-defined fields.You can also search by image similarity." If you create user-defined fields with the same names as EXIF fields, the EXIF data is entered automatically when the thumbnail is created.  Finally, my apologies for mentioning EXIF-O-Matic without mentioning that it required Java. Following Sun's court cases, Microsoft has stopped distributing Java, but you can download Sun's version (almost 10MB) fromhttp://java.sun.com/getjavaorhttp://java.sun.com/getjava/manual.html.&#183;Send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.ukPublished letters will be edited for brevity but please include full details with your query.
Soon we will be able to know where everyone and everything is, all the time. The rapidly evolving combination of technologies - the global positioning system, GSM and 3G location-based services, wireless local area networks and personal area networks and, in particular, radio frequency identification - will make sure of it. What will this do to us?Radio frequency identification is about smart cards, smart tags and the like. Essentially, we can now add tiny computer chips to everything from medicine bottles to cans of beans (or London Transport tickets) and read and update data on these chips at a distance. Gillette has just begun to add these chips to 500m razor blades.There are two broad categories of these chips; proximity and vicinity. Proximity chips (such as those used for the new London Underground smart tickets) have to be within a few inches of a reader to be accessed. Vicinity chips can be much, much further away. There are already systems that put the chips in smart tags for industrial applications and can then read 40 tags per second from 20 feet away. These are perfect for tracking packages through a factory and so on. I can also see how they might be even more useful for tracking children around a school.One field where they have been spreading is road tolling. Unlike London's rather odd congestion charging scheme (which seems to have more to do with spying on people than actually charging them for anything), in most other places in the world, drivers put a vicinity   tag on their dashboard - see, for example, the Dartford Tunnel. This is then read by roadside gantries. In several areas in the US, drivers can use their road toll tags to pay for burgers at the drive-through window and the use of both proximity and vicinity tags for payments will be one of this year's most interesting trends.The chips are, naturally, shrinking and get cheaper. One company, Hitachi, already has a proximity chip (the mu-chip) only 0.4mm square: these will find their way into bank notes, concert tickets, labels on medicine bottles and who knows what else. We're heading for a medium-term future where they will begin to supplement and eventually replace the bar codes on goods on supermarket shelves. Some chains are introducing the chips as anti-theft devices. Some manufacturers are to bring them in for brand protection. The list of potential applications ranges from toys and sports to crime prevention and safety.When you combine these chips with the pervasive communications offered by mobile phones, wireless LANs and the like, it means that stuff can locate other stuff all the time. In places   where networks are already pervasive and free, there is an explosion of creativity in this field. At the University of California, San Diego, students have location-enhanced buddy lists to show them where their friends are on campus. At Dartmouth there are location-based panic alarms, and software for personal digital assistants that adjusts appointment alarms depending on how far the user is from their next meeting place.Of course it will be great to know where your car keys are the whole time. I can easily see how you'll never go looking for them again, because you'll just get your TV, PC or mobile phone to tell you where the keys are. Imagine looking at a picture of your living room on the TV with a flashing blue dot showing you where the keys are.I can also see why people want to be in touch and get the information that they   want, whenever they want it, whether it's football scores or directions: perhaps using one of Microsoft's new "smart" watches that receives data via DirectBand FM radio. I'm not casting the first stone, by any means. If I go more than a few hours without seeing my email, I get very twitchy.I would have thought, however, that the ability to find private space and time is important to human beings. Shouldn't it be your right to go for a walk when you feel like it and be left alone?Above and beyond these concerns are worries about privacy and crime. Should abusive husbands be able to go to a website to see where their ex-wives are? If parents can see where their kids are then so, presumably, can bad people who've paid a mate to access the system.It's impossible to say whether a society deploying these technologies is good or bad. How could we know? No one knew whether cars were good or bad and how they might change society when they were invented. But I am sure of one thing: none of us has internalised the magnitude of these changes.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Kung Fu ChaosXbox		&#163;39.99 Microsoft		****When Microsoft entered the games console market with the Xbox, the most plausible sophistry rivals could come up with was that it was a    thinly disguised PC, and would run niche-market PC games rather than the mainstream efforts consoles require.  Kung Fu Chaos is one of the more successful of Microsoft's attempts to imbue as many games as possible with mass-market appeal.It is a cartoon-style beat-'em-up with an    interesting twist: whatever character you play is making a Jackie Chan-style kung fu film.  Thus, you fight your way through a number of levels, each of which is a film set that disintegrates as the fight proceeds. You must defeat the usual implausible numbers of enemies, while making sure    you jump from stages that are about to crumble and, at the end of each stage, defeat a boss. You can pick up and throw any objects lying around. As a result, the game resembles a cross between the classic Double Dragon and Capcom's more modern PowerStone.The control system is pretty simple: to prosper, you must master three or four short combo moves. But the game's most impressive aspect - which may endow it with cult status - is its humour. It misses no opportunity to poke fun at kung fu movies, as well as the likes of Titanic and Godzilla, and never takes itself seriously. A frenzied multiplayer mode, in which up to four people can take each other on, should prove popular with the post-pub and clubbing crowd. (SB)The Mark of KriPlayStation 2 £39.99 Sony/Sony ****A quick glance at Mark of Kri, with its cartoonish      characters depicted in sumptuous tropical environments, could fool you into thinking you were looking at a      Disney game. However, when the lead character - a barbarian slab of meat named Rau - skewers a hapless      guard to a tree with his sword and smashes another repeatedly against a wall, you realise you're far from the      Magic Kingdom.At its heart, the game is a stylish button basher, with an innovative combat system through      which you can use the analogue stick to quickly assign enemies to individual buttons, allowing for fluid combat      against multiple opponents and a host of deadly combo moves.To break up the hack-and-slash elements,      there is a certain amount of stealth needed to work your way through the various missions. As well as Rau's      ability to sneak up behind guards and creep along walls, he also has a raven spirit guide called Kuzo, who can      fly to various points and scout out locations or trigger levers.The danger with games of this nature is that      they become extremely repetitive and, in that respect, Mark of Kri is no different. Once you have mastered      the stealth and fight moves, there isn't much else to the game. However, the combat aspect is so well      polished and exhilarating that, combined with the beautiful backdrops, it lifts the game above the average      beat-'em-up. (RP)Resident Evil 0Gamecube £44.99 Capcom ***Shocking controls, unhelpful "arty" camera angles, dialogue      from the B-movie school of linguistics: Resident Evil is back. Titled Zero, this is a prequel to the series and      fills in much of the back story.Chances are you'll be more interested in the action, though. Think lumbering      zombies, gruesome baddies and annoying crawly things that are hard to hit. Just don't expect much      originality. The only real innovation is the ability to control two characters at once. When not under your      direct control, the GameCube takes over, with varying degrees of success. Luckily, you can zap between them      quite easily, and you'll need to, as this is probably the hardest Resident Evil game yet.If it's not the      pernickety resource management, it's the hard-to-kill beasties. Regular save games are needed to cover all      eventualities. The graphics are fixed view, but as gorgeous as ever. Resident Evil 0 may look up to date but,      in most areas, it is a gaming anachronism. However, by throwing in some unsettling set pieces, Zero does just      enough to move the series forward. (GH)
Dystopian sci-fi movie Equilibrium (out tomorrow) may be full of cod philosophising and spectacular martial arts action, but that might just make you yearn all the more for the two proper sequels to The Matrix due later this year. In a shrewd demographic leap, Warner Brothers has also made a series of downloadable short films, set in The Matrix universe, in the Japanese anime style of animation. The first two seven-minute Animatrix episodes are already online.Just to prove that not all debates as to the true nature of reality are conducted   while flying through the air and/or brandishing a samurai sword, the site has also added a Philosophy Section. Here, academics contribute essays on Buddhism, gnosticism and, in the case of Reading University's ever-controversial Professor Kevin Warwick, a remarkable argument that The Matrix's scenario of humanity enslaved to hyper-intelligent machines is not only inevitable, but something we should all try to bring about as soon as we can.www.intothematrix.comhttp://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com/rl_cmp/phi.htmlHunt highFrench search engine Kartoo has just launched a new version of the "cartographic interface". "The subjects connecting the balls of sites are now represented topographically," the press release lucidly explains, before going on to clarify that "the most relevant subjects form large mountains, with secondary subjects displayed as small hills".  For anyone hoping they might be describing a 3D version of Multimap or Streetmap, it's actually a general purpose search engine which attempts to cluster similar sites or results together via a visual mapping metaphor. The results are undeniably attractive and, with practice, potentially even comprehensible enough to be useful, though the time taken to load its Flash 5 player output isn't going to give Google any sleepless nights.Visual clustering of search results has been something of a European obsession ever since Alta Vista's (now discontinued) LiveTopics, and can be still seen in action on the US-based "knowledge management" site WebBrain and the German film, books, and music recommendation engine, Global Network of Dreams.www.kartoo.comwww.webbrain.comwww.gnod.netDestinyLast October, the webmaster of 8march2003.com told readers of an "astounding discovery" he'd made after developing the film from a battered camera he'd stumbled across on a mountainside - but he wouldn't tell anyone what it was until March 8 2003.  Right on cue, last weekend he revealed the latest stage of this endearingly amateurish conspiracy mystery to be "photographs" of a giant metal boat being constructed in a remote valley in Australia, with Ark II and some mysterious symbols written on its side.  The site now also features various disclaimers emphasising its "fictitious nature" plus warnings not to believe a rival site which claims it's all part of a hoax publicity campaign - but isn't that exactly what "they" would want you to believe?www.8march2003.comJust the ticketSeveral US environmentalist sites are taking a rather more proactive approach to climate change, by "ticketing" gas-guzzling sports utility vehicles. Those big 4-wheel-drive cars ostensibly intended for going "off-road".  The downloadable PDFs may look like parking tickets, but when you print them out and tuck them under the offenders' wipers, the recipients find themselves accused of violations as varied as "Polluting twice as much as regular cars", "Contributing to childhood asthma", and, of course, "Holing self up in two-ton metal fortress."www.baaction.org/SUVticketStrange fruitAs reality music show Reborn in the USA selects its first casualties, true aficionados of 1980s nostalgia are wondering how ITV could have failed to include one of the true    pioneers of synth-pop, Gary Le Strange.  Leader of the Neo-Regency Face Warrior movement, Le Strange is best known for his haunting anthems of electronic alienation Sex Dummy and Geometry. ("I wrote a letter to Lego/ Expressing my disappointment/ That they don't do dodecahedrons.")  You can hear excerpts of both tracks on Gary's first official website, and learn why his live performances are still restricted to "comedy clubs, cinemas, battleships and clothes shops".www.garylestrange.co.ukMac duff?Experts agree that, had SMS phones and offshore data havens existed in Shakespeare's time, the setting of Macbeth would have been very different indeed. Fortunately, modern technology makes it possible to perform "the Scottish play" as the bard    originally intended: Pirate Utopia's production of Makb3th intercuts the original text with multimedia mayhem from a host of Linux PCs. The show is due to tour Norwich and Cambridge over the next few weeks, and is considered unsuitable for children under 16 and teachers who disapprove of text message abbreviations.www.pirateutopia.org/macbeth/about.htm.New &amp; noted&#183;Check your buzzwordosity:www.buzzwordometer.com&#183;Repository of software art:http://runme.org&#183;Last call for nominations for the UK Big Brother Awards:www.privacyinternational.org&#183;Tired: Red Herring, Wired: Rich Herring:www.richardherring.com/warmingup&#183;World leaders sing along to pop classics:www.proteinos.com/tvSix of the bestSnacksInconspicuous Consumptionwww.core77.com/inconspicuousBiscuit of the Weekwww.amdev.demon.co.uk/botwNice cup of Tea and a Sit Downwww.nicecupofteaandasitdown.comPizza and Garlic Breadwww.pizzandgarlicbread.comTaquitos USAwww.taquitos.netSandwich Selectorwww.fatsquirrel.org/sandwichselector
The evenings are getting longer, and the time for spring cleaning is approaching. Maybe you should kick off with that pile of Christmas gifts you're reluctant to share house room with, before moving on to the garage, bookshelves and wardrobe. It could also be the time when you need to re-clothe, re-stock and re-equip - but, sadly, your bank balance tells a different story. So how do you achieve both goals - the chucking out and the re-stocking? Do them on the web.With an internet auction, one could pay for the other. Fans say chasing a sought-after item at the lowest price or, if you're selling, at the highest, is a lot of fun as well as a cash saver. "I tell people to take a look ateBayjust once, and have a browse -they'll love it," says seller Shona McLeod-Clarke. She is astounded to find herself, after less than a year, making a "very reasonable" living from buying and selling over the web. McLeod-Clarke retired from a high-powered City job to start a family, and her first foray into auctions was when she sold the family's old    freezer for &#163;40."A couple drove from Wales to London to collect it," she says. "I got hooked." Now she runs an eBay business four days a week, pays for full-time childcare, and currently has 250 items waiting to be uploaded on to the site. Not freezers, though, but designer fashion. She collects bin bags full of designer labels from well-heeled neighbours and friends, and sells on commission. See her stuff by searching on seller shona_mac at eBay.McLeod-Clarke also buys from other eBayers, bidding when she thinks her buyers are likely to be interested enough to pay more. "That bit's a gamble. You can't tell what stuff is like until you see it. But I enjoy not knowing: I often get a pleasant surprise!" Compare it with UK-based auction sites such aswww.auctionlotwatch.co.uk, which also searches several sites simultaneously.The number of returns shows the overwhelming dominance of eBay. Newcomerwww.coco-bay.co.ukis clean, quick to load and deserves to succeed, but it has just 199 items on sale. You don't need to stick to Britain. Mcleod-Clarke regularly buys from the US for    herself, while her best customer lives in Hong Kong."I got a brand new Marc Jacobs jacket from the States for &#163;124 including postage - half the price it was in Harrods," she says. The allure of auctions lies in getting what you want cheaper than you hoped. Selling can be equally rewarding.Yesterday's discarded craze is today's valuable collectable: a friend delighted her son when she sold his dust-gathering Pokemon collection and turned it into hard cash. There's also the glow of recycling, and the smug cleverclogs thrill when they win something they know others are after, or snatch it (called "sniping") in the last seconds. Sites such aswww.hammertap.comandwww.bidnapper.comoffer sniping and other sneaky (but legal) services.If you're a seller, auctions are an easy way to launch a home-based business. Capital outlay is virtually nil, and you start by selling stuff you'd otherwise have binned. Build up to your own virtual shop, which allows more space for your logo and a bit of marketing copy. Some sites charge a fee for selling, but others, such aswww.ebid.co.uk,www.yeehaauctions.comand Coco-bay are free.It seems that if you get a large enough potential market, you can sell anything. John Freyer in New York sold all his possessions - right down to his sideburns - on eBay. He received $6,000 for everything, including $19.50 for the sideburns, and a whole lot more for the book deal that resulted. Read more atwww.observer.co.uk/review/story/0,6903,855710,00.html.Sellers must agree to accept site rules on what's not acceptable. Websites regularly pull attempts to sell body parts, although a few people have managed to sell their souls. Buyers and sellers are partially protected from ripoffs by the opportunity to post comments when a transaction is completed. This is sometimes abused, but mostly positive ratings help build a profile of users. Buyers and sellers agree about the method and timing of payment and receipt of goods; if one side lets the other down, site management can be dragged in to mediate, and bad behaviour leads to accounts being blocked.Out and out fraud is rare, but check what fraud protection the site offers: there should be some. Ultimately, though, the system works on the presumption of honesty and good will, dashed with a common sense awareness that a few idiots love the idea of having a good time by wasting yours. Sound off about the good and the bad on site forums, and share your tips on making the good stuff even better.
Do you trust the security of the net?I do use my credit card - nowadays we give away our details all the time. Hundreds of people have your credit card details and nobody ever needs your signature. I find the internet fantastic for finding and buying second-hand books. The search facilities on sites such aswww.abebooks.co.ukandwww.alibris.comare breathtaking. Not only do they help you find the rarest books, but they also list the people who've got it and the prices they want.Will the printed word endure?I'm convinced of it. We've all become slaves to our computer screens but I can't imagine anyone wanting to curl up with anebook! People still want to turn pages. Similarly, if you're writing something long on a computer, you end up printing it out to read anyway! So much for the paperless office.Broadband?Still on a 56k dial-up modem, although you never even get that, as it usually connects at 28k: it takes months just to open the pages of sites with all theirFlashandShockwave. I live in Sussex and there's no digital exchange, so we don't have broadband, unfortunately. I think we still have a nice old lady saying "Marden 537 _ just putting you through".Mac or PC?PC - although I'm contemplating switching to Mac. I use a Toshiba Satellite 4090 laptop and it's been acting up of late. Ideally, I'd like something the whole family can use and I have to admit I've been won over by the look of the newiMacs. They win aesthetically, and I can't think why PC manufacturers aren't making their machines more like them! You might as well have your technology sexy.What do you use your PC for?I like to use sites such asMulti-Mapfor planning long car journeys. In the past year or so, my kids have started to use my computer and they found reams of features in MS Word that I didn't even know were in there. A lot are completely useless but the kids love them. There's even a picture of George Washington similar to the one on a dollar bill in the clip art section of Word!Is the dollar king of the internet currencies?With the advent of electronic currencies, there's so much retailing online now, and I guess the majority of traders denominate in dollars. The Americans are also the leading users of the internet - it's certainly a dollar world out there! The net's also still very America dominated - I'm withAOLand I useGoogleall the time.Favourite sites?www.bbc.co.uk;http://news.ft.com/home/uk;www.telegraph.co.ukVisit:www.penguin.co.uk
One billion plastic bags vanished from Ireland's streets and rubbish tips last year after the government      started charging shops 15 cents (around 10p) for every bag they hand out. The plastic bag environmental      levy was a triumph for Ireland's e-bureaucracy as well as the environment.The government announced plans      for the levy in December 2001: it became law in April, and the first returns were collected in July. The levy      could be enforced so quickly because back-office procedures were already in place to handle mandatory      electronic payments.It is one of the latest facilities offered by Ireland's remarkably successful web tax      system, Revenue On-Line Service (ROS). This is Ireland's star web public service and the reason the country      regularly tops league tables for e-government sophistication.Since going live in September 2000, ROSwww.ros.iehas logged more than 700,000 transactions - returns, inquiries and payments. It handles about      10% of income tax returns and payments. The service also allows users to view their tax and VAT accounts      and calculate their liability online.Security is protected by a public-key encryption infrastructure, with more      than 15,000 digital certificates issued. The team responsible for ROS admits that Ireland started with some      advantages in putting tax on the web. One is size: there are only 1.8m taxpayers. Another is administrative      simplicity: a single department, the Office of the Revenue Commissioners, collects almost all taxes."The      infrastructure was right," says Margaret Whelan, ROS strategy manager. But the team also made some good      decisions. One was to concentrate on services to employers, accountants and self-employed people, rather      than trying to get every citizen to file online. Another was to consult heavily with staff and users. The      service is Macintosh compatible, for example.The Revenue also had to promise that electronic filers would      not be investigated more frequently than paper filers. For security purposes, registering with the service      involves snail mail.The first step is to apply online for an access number. A password is then sent by post.      This password allows the user to apply for a digital certificate, which can be downloaded with another      password sent through the mail.Unlike in the UK, there is no cash incentive for filing online. However, ROS      was designed so that benefits are obvious to both users and the tax office. Users, mainly professional tax      agents, are less likely to make an error in filing.They can also schedule electronic payments in advance but      have the money deducted on the due date. The project cost ó24m (£15m) over three years. Whelan could not      put a value on the benefits, but estimates that ROS has replaced 400,000 phone calls and a mountain of      paper, enabling staff to be given more productive work.The target is for 75% of all tax returns (by value) to      be filed electronically by December 2005. Although e-tax is one of the benchmark services all European      countries are supposed to adopt, not many will achieve that."An awful lot of countries say they have e-tax,      but it's e-filling, not e-filing," says Whelan. "There's often a whole army of people printing out the forms and      keying in the data again."According to Whelan, ROS worked because it had top-level support, was based on a      good infrastructure, consulted fully with users and staff and was carried out in "very short, snappy phases".      The project is also tiny: the team consists of about 60, of whom 20 are employees of the prime contractor,      Accenture.The ROS team views its counterparts in the UK with bemused admiration for the scale and      complexity of their chosen challenge. The UK started out by targetting individual taxpayers, in a much larger      country with a much more complex bureaucracy."We were daunted by trying to market Revenue On Line to 1.8      million taxpayers," says Paul Duff, of Accenture. "How you would do that with 40 million-odd, I don't know."
