The app sensation Flappy Birdwas been removed from the iPhone and Android app storesby its developer over the weekend, but it is still available for those prepared to buy a smartphone or tablet with the game already installed.Dozens of enterprising eBay sellers are piggybacking on the popularity of the game - and the news of its sudden withdrawal over the weekend - by selling phones pre-installed with the Flappy Bird game on Apple iPhones and Android smartphones.Different sellers are offering mobile phones with Flappy Bird for between $300 to $5,000, mostly for white iPhone 5S.While secondhand mobiles are usually sold with the data removed, canny sellers will have been able to wipe the phone and then install an existing copy of the game from their desktop computers. Promoting Flappy Bird as a selling point may be simply a way of shifting a phone they were selling already.Flappy Bird craze powers high-priced smartphone auctions on eBay.One auction, however, seems to be exploiting the popularity of the game to an extreme. One white iPhone 5 is being offered by “kristenater91” started at $750 on Sunday and has now reached $90,000 after 62 bids by 18 different bidders.It is not clear whether fraudulent bids have inflated the price, but the auction is due to end at 17.43 PST on Monday.When on sale in the App Store, the Flappy Bird game was initially free, while the cost of a brand new white 16GB iPhone 5S is currently $649.Some sellers have also listed unauthorised sales of the Flappy Bird game for Android, taking advantage of the demand for the app now that it is no longer available via Google Play or the Apple App Store.• Hate playing Flappy Bird, but can’t put it down?That’s why it was so great
Boston DynamicsThe desire to make robots seem gentle and appealing is not foremost among Boston Dynamics' priorities. Its thuggish looking creations, usually inspired by an animal, have largely been developed for the US military, for purposes which are delicately described as "search and rescue" tasks. Boston Dynamics has also developed a humanoid prototype called Atlas, which is able to, in the company's words, "lift, carry and manipulate the environment"SchaftIf Meka is providing the foundations for the top half of Google's robot, Schaft may offer the bottom. The Japanese designed robot, which stays balanced even when jostled, trounced its rivals at a recent robotics competition held by the US department of defence. It made light work of rugged terrain and even nimbly climbed up and down a ladderRedwood RoboticsComprising of the amalgamated expertise of three major developers, including Meka, focused on the elusive goal of developing a fully functioning robotic arm. The arms Redwood is developing will draw on the advances already made by Meka in the area of compliant arms and hands. These already feature a jointed thumb and fingers and nimble elbow and shoulder joints, which regulate their grip and movement in response to human contact.Industrial perceptionUsing a unique variety of infra-red vision, IPI equips robots with the ability to see in three dimensions, differentiate between objects and colours, and be more aware of its surroundings than any robot before. Industrial Perception has so far been applied to warehouse robots to aid them handling packages more accurately, but this technology will likely form the eyes for Google's robot.MekaThe Meka M1 Manipulator is a humanoid torso, head and arms amalgamated into an approachable and friendly looking robot that uses complex series elastic motors to control its fluid, familiar movements. This human approach may be what makes Meka so valuable to Google; the company has also designed a "sociable humanoid head" named Dreamer, with appealing, oversized doe-eyes and colour-changing earsHolomniFor its robots' general movement, Google has hedged its bets by acquiring Holomni, a company that focuses solely on wheels and castors with 360-degree powered movement. Google may have in mind a variety of potential robots – some walking, some wheeled, or perhaps even a robot that combines both approaches to movementBot &amp; DollyBot &amp; Dolly's robots are used in film and TV – for instance in Gravity and Adidas ads. They not only film but also move actors and props in a frame. "If you want to move a cup six inches at two metres per second and have it stop on a dime, we want to give you a tool," says co-founder Jeff Linnell.
Security researchers have identified a new type of “ransomware” which blocks internet access and turns users’ computer into a bitcoin miner pending payment of a ransom.The malware, named by researchers at Emsisoft as “Trojan-Ransom.Win32.Linkup”, differs from previous examples of ransomware. “It does not directly lock your computer or encrypt files,”the researchers explain. “Instead, Linkup blocks internet access by modifying your DNS and can also turn your computer into a bitcoin mining robot.”When an infected computer loads up any page, they are taken to a fake website which accuses them of having viewed “child pornography” and demands payment of a €0.01 fine. The “payment” is taken by the user inputting a credit card number, making it extremely unlikely that the malware developers will limit themselves to just one cent; Emsisoft describes it as “most likely a blatant lie”.Once installed, the malware also attempts to download bitcoin-mining software. When installed, the software uses the computer’s processor to perform the energy-intensive tasks used to mine for bitcoin, which runs the risk of damaging the machine and will certainly run up a large electricity bill.“In the case of Linkup, the most important thing to understand about bitcoin mining is that if a hacker can get more computing power, he can earn more bitcoins,”Emsisoft writes.“That’s why in addition to blocking internet browsing, Linkup also attempts to connect your computer to a bitcoin-mining botnet, which can combine the computing power of multiple infected computers to earn new bitcoins for whoever is behind the attack.”But while Linkup is a fearsome combination of different types of malware, it’s not the most dangerous to recently hit the internet. Cryptolocker,the virus which recently forced a US police department to pay an £800 ransom in bitcoins, has a number of features which render it more concerning than Linkup.Cryptolocker’s modus operandi is to encrypt the victim’s hard drive, and then ask for money – usually two bitcoins – to decrypt it. Because the files really are encrypted, simply removing the virus won’t help, unlike with Linkup.But the most dangerous thing of all is that many variants of Cryptolocker actually keep their promise, and unlock the files when payment is received. Whereas victims of Linkup have a simple challenge, those infected with Cryptolocker have a much harder decision: do they pay up at all?•Meet Cody Wilson; creator of the 3D-printed gun, anarchist, libertarian
Oops, sorry everyone! I forgot this amid all the Flappy Bird drama. Hope you've all recovered from Saturday. Once again, sorry i couldn't make it - the trains in Somerset are a mess and they don't run the horse and cart at the weekend.
Flappy Bird has flapped its last. It is an ex-bird. The minimalist pipe-avoidance sim that scorched to the top of the iPhone free game rankings earlier this year has been removed by its creator, Dong Nguyen. “I am sorry ‘Flappy Bird’ users, 22 hours from now, I will take ‘Flappy Bird’ down,” hetweeted. “I cannot take this anymore.” Some have seen in this a sort of victory for honest game design. Others have lambasted Nguyen for whining about earning a reported $50,000 a day from the game. Both responses are reductive and unfair. Flappy Bird was despised, at least in part, because of misunderstandings about how the games industry and game creators work.In case you have somehow missed out on the short flight of this fascinating game, Flappy Bird is a free-to-play smartphone title in which the challenge is to guide a cute bird character through a tunnel of pipes, varying its altitude so that it can slip through the gaps. The interface is simple – just keep tapping the screen to flap the wings – but the game is extraordinarily difficult. Many players take several minutes just to pass through the first pipe gate, and hours of concerted effort are required to get a score over ten. The reaction from gamers has been one of utter frustration mixed with the hopeless need to continue. People hate it, but they can’t stop.Humble genius in a hateful systemThis infuriating ambiguity seems to have come as a shock to many observers. Last week, The Guardian’s own Stuart Heritage amusingly wrote about how hewanted to smash Flappy Bird into a pulp. But to me, a child of the 1980s who spent every seaside holiday pumping 10p pieces into brain-squelchingly tough arcade titles like Defender and Gunsmoke, Flappy Bird is just a continuation of a particularly unforgiving approach to game design. There is a long history behind this title’s cheerful sadism.Video games are about precarious balance – they are machines of compulsion, and they require an operator who is engaged enough to keep cranking the handle but not too comfortable that they get bored and want to stop. One good way to ensure compulsion is to make the operator believe that they can always do better, and if they don’t, that failure makes them angry enough at themselves to trap them in the loop. Early in his design career, Super Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto obsessively studied popular arcade titles like Pac-Man, trying to work out what made them so popular. He had an industrial design background and didn’t understand the appeal. Eventually, everything clicked. “I concluded that [it] was born of the players being mad at themselves,” heonce explained. “So I would try to analyse how the game made players feel that way.”What he learned was that players must very quickly understand the limits of their presence in the game world; that if the controls are simple and fair, interactions with complex systems start to become compulsive. But everything hinges on balance.Originally, the controllable character in Miyamoto’s classic arcade game Donkey Kong couldn’t leap over incoming barrels, which made the controls easy, but rendered the experience impossibly difficult. However, adding a jump button made players feel more in control, while only very slightly increasing the complexity of the interface. Miyamoto achieved the balance he needed. After this, he continually iterated and tested the extract angle and height of the jump to ensure it was just right – that it was just easy enough to use, but still reliant on skill and timing. It needed to be perfect, it needed to be an exact science, and it was. Donkey Kong became an enormous success.Similarly, Flappy Bird is based around a simple interaction: press screen to flap wings. But it is clear that Nguyen has spent time working out the exact vertical lift achieved by this single input; just as he has got the gap between pipes exactly right. The alchemy of these different parts has created a machine that players feel they ought to be able to operate, and when they fail, they blamethemselves. Once again, this is crucial – this is the kernel of compulsive game design, from Space Invaders to Call of Duty. A great game system turns a mirror on the player’s inefficiencies and errors. And Flappy Birdisgreat game design, when viewed at this molecular level.“What makes Flappy Bird work particularly well is that it eliminates all extraneous complexity to focus on one very simple input mechanic,” says game designerBennett Foddy, who specialises in extremely unforgiving physics-based titles like Qwop and Girp. “It also adds depth to that simple foundation using one extremely elegant and subtle innovation: the width of the barriers is just slightly wider than the half-width of your flap/jump. This forces you to make a series of difficult split-second decisions about whether and when to flap while you’re inside the barriers. In my opinion this is a very small, humble piece of genius. Flappy Bird provides solid evidence that simply tuning a game well can be far more important, in terms of the player’s ultimate enjoyment, than adding clever mechanics or beautiful art.”Super Mario ThievesSo why do people outside of the game’s large userbase hate it so vociferously? One familiar response is that the game has ‘ripped off’ its visuals from Super Mario Bros, that its character and pipe designs borrow heavily from Nintendo’s classic series. But then, video games have been appropriating elements of the Super Mario series for many years. The 1987 platformer Great Giana Sisters is an obvious ‘tribute’ to the Nintendo titles, yet received critical adulation. Since then a whole online community has grown aroundillicit hacks of the Super Mario titles, with authors adding new features and complications and distributing their works online to much press interest. They’re rarely for commercial gain, but yet in these cases, the act of remixing Mario elements is seen as a creative endeavour.“The art elements are no closer to Mario’s actual artwork than thousands of other famous and lesser-known indie games that have been released over the past 20 or 30 years,” says Foddy. “Much of the criticism has focused on the green ‘pipes’ that form the barriers in Flappy Bird — those green pipes have been cultural icons for three decades. Two of the most famous works in the indie games movement, Super Meat Boy and Braid, adapt language and visual elements from Super Mario Bros for exactly this reason, and quite rightly neither one faced anything like the kind of criticism that Flappy Bird has received.”Others have pointed out the similarities between Flappy Bird and earlier examples such as Piou Piou and the old Flash title,Helicopter Game. The word ‘clone’ is chucked about with abandon. In truth, the history of video game design is one in which inspiration and plagiarism have often been virtually indistinguishable. The big genres we know today have come about through developers taking ideas from successful releases, modifying them, and releasing new variations. Space Invaders begat Galaxian and many others, spawning the rich lineage of the space shoot-em’-up; Tetris gave us a new era of block-sorting puzzlers; Minecraft borrowed elements from earlier building games like Infiniminer and Dwarf Fortress. The British games industry of the early ‘80s was practically created by the young coders who got hold of cheap computers and made their own versions of games like Donkey Kong and Pac-Man. This is how ideas spread and evolved.“The truth is that Flappy Bird is a genre game, in one of the oldest genres of all, the forced-scrolling dodger,” says Foddy. “The roots of the genre go back to arcade games like Caverns of Mars, Jump Bug or Fly Boy from the very early 1980s, and there have been thousands upon thousands of similar games across the years, just as there have been thousands of falling-block games inspired by Tetris, and thousands of vertical shooters inspired by Space Invaders. One of my favourite indie games, Thrustburst, is very close in gameplay to Flappy Bird.”Clone warsOf course, therehavebeen deliberate attempts to misdirect gamers toward titles that are virtually identical to successful products – if only in name. This is now a common occurrence on smartphone app stores where unscrupulous developers will produce titles that mimic big sellers almost completely, taking advantage of a store where buying decisions are obfuscated behind difficult-to-use search options. This is what we mean by cloning – it is a business rather than game design practice. It is the reason why major publisher King felt it necessary to trademark the word Candy; the company wanted to protect its successful puzzler Candy Crush Saga from dozens of copycats. But then, in game design terms, Candy Crush owes much to other ‘match three’ titles like Bejeweled, which owes much to Puyo Pop, which owes much to Tetris, and on and on, back through the complex history of design and inspiration.It’s something a few game designers have picked up on. On Sunday morning, Robert Yang, a teacher at the NYU Game Center tweeted:did I rip the WASD mouse-look control scheme from quake? omg what if players think I invented it? only gamers, harassing me, can fix this&mdash; Robert Yang (@radiatoryang)February 9, 2014And from Sophie Houlden, a comparison with the recent uproar over Candy Crush Saga:&quot;Omg, these BASTARDS can&#39;t own &quot;CANDY&quot;!!!!!&quot;&#10;&#10;*minutes pass*&#10;&#10;&quot;You put PIPES in a game? BUT THAT BELONGS TO NINTENDO!&quot;&mdash; Sophie Houlden (@S0phieH)February 8, 2014Aside from design, there are the economic objections. There are criticisms of the fact that Flappy Bird is overloaded with adverts – and true, the screen is awash with them. But then, if you hate that, you’re really expressing frustration at a marketplace in which ‘free-to-play’ has become the only viable option for many designers. In the smartphone market, most players baulk at spending as little as 69p on a game that may have taken someone months to program, test and release. But 69p is a third of the cost of a Starbucks latte, a purchase many of us make almost by instinct every workday morning. I’ve actually heard from developers who say they have received death threats when seeking to charge a couple of pounds for add-on packs or new levels for their smartphone titles.So you don’t charge. But then how do you make money? You either start building your titles around microtransactions, asking players to pay out for customising their characters or getting around the time barriers artificially installed between game levels, or you sign up with an advertising platform and display ads on screen. Some players dislike both, but they dislike paying upfront too. You can’t win.Although of course, Nguyen has won. He was making a reported $50k a day from ad revenue, provoking even more fury. Such riches from a game that’s barely his own – and now his inability to cope is read as whiny ingratitude. There have beensuggestions that he used botsto post fake reviews and artificially boost the game up the App Store rankings. Certainly the meteoric rise of the title looks suspicious; it usually takes many months to build from utter obscurity to chart success. Rumours persist that Flappy Bird’s removal was forced, although Nguyen denies legal pressure. We may never know.Lurking behind it all is the shadow of xenophobia. Perhaps if Nguyen had been called, say, Jake Stern, perhaps if he’d been a USC student or a San Francisco media hipster everything would be okay. Then critics may have referred to his project as a pastiche of Super Mario or a new entry into the cultish ‘masocore’ genre like respected indie title I Wanna Be The guy, which ‘references’ Metroid, Mega Man and Castlevania rather than stealing from them. But no, Nguyen is from Vietnam in Asia, a region hazily associated with counterfeit consumer goods and online fantasy game gold farming. As game designer Merritt Kopas put it on Twitter:virulent anti-Asian discourse runs deep in games communities; been reading about backlash against gold farmers in WoW, now flappy bird&mdash; merritt kopas (@m_kopas)February 9, 2014Flappy Birds is clearly a game that borrows heavily from predecessors in its confined sub-genre. Its visuals hark back to Mario, just as many other titles have done. But somehow – perhaps with the sort of illicit tactics a digital app store invites, perhaps not – the title exploded in popularity, bringing in money and millions of players. Butit has been decidedthat the title is unworthy, that simply not downloading it isn’t enough. The sometimes infinitesimal divide between genre entrant and clone has apparently been breached. “I cannot take this anymore,” wrote Dong Nguyen over the weekend. And unless this is the clever marketing scam thatsome are now theorising, he has learned the age-old lesson that success does not always bring happiness. No, sometimes success brings the opposite, and in these days of instant social media judgement, it brings it in force.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSeven reasons why the Year of Code is just Am Dram… &gt;&gt; Emma MulqueenyMulqueeny has been running the Young Rewired State program for some years, and has just resigned from the board of the "Year of Code":IMHO this is damaging two very important movements:• girls and tech: a PR girl who has no idea• computational skills for young peopleSo I just do not want to know, and if the Year of Code becomes the *thing* that pivots this whole movement – I will celebrate its success obo the next gen, my daughters and yours (and sons too :))And I do not support this government policy.The Year of Code is turning into a car crash, and it's only been a week. (Via @adrianshort.)Microsoft Live platform &gt;&gt; Flickr - Photo Sharing!Niall Kennedy's quite famous picture of Bill Gates in 2005 outlining the "Microsoft Live Platform". Nine years on, has Microsoft achieved this? And has it had any effect?Ah, Microsoft! Should it give up Windows Phone, adopt Android, abandon Windows 8 "Metro"? No, and here is why. &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingThis was pointed to by Steve Sinofsky, ex-head of Windows, so might have some clues to Microsoft thinking:• Microsoft's remaining developer community would be broken irretrievably by yet another dramatic change of direction.• Whatever the differences may be between the Windows Runtime or Phone Runtime, and Windows Desktop, the differences between Android and Windows Desktop are even greater. The synergy between the two would be lost. The strategy for supporting multiple form factors outlined above would no longer be possible.(It's a response tothis suggestion that Microsoft fork AOSP.)Neither Microsoft, Nokia, nor anyone else should fork Android. It's unforkable. &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe main article by Peter Bright is a response to my suggestion that Microsoft should fork AOSP (Android Open Source Platform - the open source code that underpins Google's Android). In the comments, Dianne Hackborn, Android program manager, responds, starting with:There is a good discussion to be had about Microsoft using Android, and a lot of good reasons for them to not do so... which makes it especially unfortunate that instead this was turned into yet another article here of increasingly specious and misleading claims about the "open-sourceness" of Android and Google's hidden plan to Control Android And Then The World.The article and the comment definitely merit reading.Nokia and HTC signed a patent and technology collaboration agreement &gt;&gt; NokiaNokia and HTC have settled all pending patent litigation between them, and entered into a patent and technology collaboration agreement. HTC will make payments to Nokia and the collaboration will involve HTC's LTE patent portfolio, further strengthening Nokia's licensing offering. The companies will also explore future technology collaboration opportunities. The full terms of the agreement are confidential."We are very pleased to have reached a settlement and collaboration agreement with HTC, which is a long standing licensee for Nokia's standards essential patents," said Paul Melin, chief intellectual property officer at Nokia. "This agreement validates Nokia's implementation patents and enables us to focus on further licensing opportunities.""Nokia has one of the most preeminent patent portfolios in the industry," said Grace Lei, General Counsel of HTC. "As an industry pioneer in smartphones with a strong patent portfolio, HTC is pleased to come to this agreement, which will enable us to stay focused on innovation for consumers."Translation: don't think you can beat Nokia's lawyers over its patents. At a guess, money is flowing from HTC to Nokia.Motorola Mobility faces EU curbs in patent clash with Apple &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe company will get a "prohibition decision" for abusing key mobile-phone patents in its battle with the iPhone maker, Joaquin Almunia, the EU's competition commissioner, told reporters today in London. While such rulings typically include an order to modify behaviour, Almunia didn't specify whether the Google unit would face fines.The EU is cracking down on possible patent abuses as Motorola Mobility, Microsoft, Apple and Samsung Electronics trade victories in divergent court rulings across the world on intellectual property. Almunia has said he's targeting the "rules of the game" to prevent companies from unfairly leveraging their inventions to thwart rivals.The EU also plans to finalise a settlement of a similar case against Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung in April, Almunia said. Regulators have received "proposals that are good" from Samsung that could be made legally binding to end an antitrust probe without fining the company.All relating to the use of standards-essential patents (SEPs) by Motorola Mobility and Samsung to seek injunctions - a no-no in the US and Europe. What's unclear is whether the relevant MMI patents will end up with Lenovo, or stay with Google.The madness of HTC &gt;&gt; BGRTero Kuittinen is astonished at HTC's "plans" to regain its position, as told toBloomberg:how is a new marketing blitz going to change anything? The phones have excellent quality but are sold at a high price. This is a combination that does not work in a handset market where the growth in the luxury segment has evaporated. There is no marketing message that can solve that problem. You can add both Scarlett Johansson and Jennifer Lawrence to those Robert Downey, Jr. ads and it won't do HTC one bit of good. I would not be surprised if they tried, though.Mentioning smartwatches and wearables as a gamechanger is probably the most desperate Hail Mary pass I have heard in years.HTC has a call with analysts on Monday with its quarterly results and forecasts, and will also announce January revenues.Eluding the "Ministry of Truth" in China &gt;&gt; Nieman ReportsInternet censorship in China is not simply matter of blocking foreign websites and deleting anything deemed harmful, nor is the state the only actor. The government delegates censorship to private websites, which face punishment, including closure, if they do not comply. On social media platforms like Sina Weibo, the Twitter-like site where about 100 million posts appear daily, censors block keywords to keep people from discussing politically sensitive topics. Chinese Internet users skirt censorship by using a variety of innovative strategies.Great use of animated GIFs.Should you build for tablet? &gt;&gt; MixpanelFrom October 2013, but no less relevant:Must Build for TabletIf you are in the gaming, social, education, ecommerce, or media business and you don't have an experience–website or app–designed for tablet devices you're falling behind. Especially games which alone account for 22% of all activity on tablet. People are using their tablets to access your services and if you're forcing them to use a desktop site or a mobile app, odds are you are not keeping them happy.On the EdgeIf you are in the music, health, travel, or enterprise/B2B industries you should consider building a tablet experience. These verticals already account for a decent volume of the activity on tablet devices today and that's likely to increase over time. So depending on the size of their company and their available resources, they should get started on building a tablet experience.Don't BotherCompanies in the photo &amp; video, dating, or messaging business should not prioritize tablet highly on their product roadmaps.The top five "verticals" account for 71% of all activity. (Phones are used more than tablets, of course.)isaach: hacker news commenter in 2007 ... &gt;&gt; TwitterA Hacker News commenter in 2007 explains why Dropbox is lame. (You have to see it. Also, Dropbox has less space than a Nomad.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple has invested in the production of a new type of smartphone screen that is harder and more resistant to scratches,according to a report. Its new sapphire crystal production plant is expected to be up and running by the end of the month, but what has a precious gemstone got to do with smartphone and tablet computer screens?What is it?Sapphire is a super-hard form of optically transparent crystal that looks and behaves like glass or diamond.Isn’t sapphire a precious stone?Sapphire takes many forms, one of which is a gemstone. It comes in various colours including yellow, purple, orange, green and red. A red sapphire is known as a ruby, but the most recognised sapphire gemstone is of blue tint.Won&apos;t sapphire crystal make my screen blue?It’s the impurities in sapphire gemstones that give crystals their colours. The sapphire crystal used for screens, however, is colourless because it is more pure, lacking any of the iron, titanium, chromium, copper or magnesium that makes mined gemstones unique.Is it dug out of the ground?Sapphire gemstones are commonly mined like most other precious gems, but the sapphire crystal used in most non-jewellery applications is artificially manufactured.The first synthetic sapphire was created in 1902 by a French chemist called Auguste Verneuil. Since 1902 various methods of making sapphire have been developed, but generally they use high heat and pressure to turn aluminium oxide power into crystal.A video showing how artificial sapphire crystal screens are created.Where is sapphire crystal currently used?Most synthetic sapphire is used in industrial processes, but some colours of sapphire are useful for laser applications. Red ruby sapphires are used to create red and new-infrared lasers thanks to their relatively unique capacity to be turned to the appropriate wavelengths, thanks to their titanium or chromium impurities.Sapphire crystal is also used in protective windows, including bullet proof glass and the viewing windows for high pressure diagnostic and scientific equipment. The glass-like material covering supermarket barcode scanners is often sapphire crystal due to its scratch resistance.The most common consumer application for sapphire crystal is in the creation of extremely hard and scratch-resistant coverings for lenses or high-end watch faces. Rolex watches, for instance, have thick sapphire crystal watch faces, while the home button andTouchID sensor of Apple’s iPhone 5Sis covered by a laser-cut sapphire crystal lens.Where is sapphire crystal likely to be used in the future?Some very high-end smartphones currently use sapphire crystal screens. The handmade Vertu Ti, for instance, has a 3.7in crystal-covered screen, but sapphire crystal has historically been too expensive for mass produced smartphone screens.A recent report stated that Apple is actively looking atreplacing its glass iPhone screens with sapphire crystal. According to data from the supply chain, Apple has acquired the machinery and facilities necessary to make display-sized crystal in enough volume to build into future iPhones.Why would you want it over normal glass?Compared to regular glass, sapphire crystal is significantly harder and therefore much more scratch resistant, an important factor for screens and other optically clear coverings like camera lenses.The hardness of a material is rated in Mohs, where talc is rated as 1 Mohs and diamond 10 Mohs. Glass ranks around 5.5 to 7 Mohs, but sapphire crystal has a hardness of 9 Mohs, making it only slightly less hard than diamond.The Mohs rating of Corning’s Gorilla Glass, which is the chemically hardened glass used to make many smartphone screens including those found on the Google Nexus 5 and Samsung Galaxy S4, has not been released, but it is expected to be around 7 Mohs.Regular steel has a hardness of around 4 Mohs, but hardened steel a hardness of around 8 Mohs. Anything made of a substance that is harder with a higher Mohs rating will scratch anything that is not as hard, meaning a sapphire screen could resist scratches from almost anything likely to be carried in a pocket.How much will sapphire crystal screens cost?One of the reasons that sapphire crystal has not been used for smartphone screens has been its relatively high cost. Corning claims that Sapphire crystal screens would cost around 10 times as much as its Gorilla Glass.If Apple is serious about making iPhones with sapphire crystal screens it is unlikely to cost the consumer any more. The new iPhones with sapphire screens would likely be priced similarly to the current iPhone 5S.Are there any competitors to sapphire crystal in screens?There are a couple of different manufacturers and glass-like products competing for the smartphone and tablet screen. The most well know is Corning and its Gorilla Glass, which is in its third iteration and is found on many smartphone screens including the Samsung Galaxy S4. The alkali-aluminosilicate glass combines impact resistance with increased scratch resistance, but is also strong allowing the screen to be very thin.Japan’s Asahi Glass Co has its own competitor called Dragontail, which has similar properties to Gorilla Glass and is found on the Sony Xperia Z1 as well as the Samsung Galaxy Nexus smartphones.Sapphire crystal is harder than both these two glass products, and therefore more resistant to scratching, but could be less resistant to impact and fracturing. In its currently available form, sapphire crystal cannot be created as thinly as glass and therefore leads to heavier screens. It is unknown whether Apple has developed a way to make thinner, stronger sapphire crystal screens.• Apple’s iWatch -what we’d like to see from an Apple smartwatch
Having lunch with the 14th Most Dangerous Person in the World is less scary than you might think. Unless you happen to have a morbid fear of hipster beards, Cody Wilson, a good-looking 26-year-old who blends with the crowd in the east London cafe where I meet him, doesn't immediately strike fear into the heart.He chats away with the waitress, discussing the possibilities before ordering east London's hippest sandwich – the pulled pork burger – and has an easygoing, amiable manner. He is, frankly, about as threatening as a barista. A barista who has happened on a spectacular method of killing people.Last year,Wiredincluded him in its list of the deadliest people on the planet, alongside Qassem Suleimani, head of Iran's special forces, and the former Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi, though Wilson's notoriety is not to do with human rights abuses and killing. It's for uploading a bit of software. A bit of software that could unleash a whole new world: one in which anyone can download a set of blueprints and print their own gun at home.Wilson made news when he unveiled plans for the Liberator in 2012, but in May last year, he went one step further: he successfully fired it, and uploaded the plans on to his website,Defense Distributed. Two days later, the US state department removed them, but by that time they had been downloaded 100,000 times. This is a cat that is well and truly out of the bag. The 3D gun is with us whether we like it or not.Mostly not, I would say. It's a gun. It works. And any nut with access to a 3D printer can print one in the privacy of their bedroom and then … well, you get the picture. The plans include a metal shank so that it'll show up in an x-ray scanner, but it is the work of moments to remove it. And while it is an argument that has a different resonance in the US, where any aforesaid nut can simply go out and buy a gun in a shop, and the rights of nuts to go and buy such guns is enshrined in the constitution, even there, it has caused shockwaves. In Britain, where we hope our robbers carry nothing more than a big stick and arm our police officers accordingly, it's a potential societal revolution that none of us asked for.But then, that's generally the way with societal revolutions. Listening to the radio, just before setting off to meet Wilson, I hear a bulletin that includes the news that the Home Office has updated its firearms rules to make it clear it is illegal to manufacture, sell, purchase or possess 3D printed guns."Really?" says Wilson. "I didn't know about that." The legislation surrounding 3D guns is moving so fast that it seems not even he is keeping up with it. It follows a news story that a police raid in Manchester uncovered what police believed to be the country's first 3D-printed gun parts.They weren't, it turned out, and we already have plenty of laws that cover guns, 3D or otherwise, but it's a measure of how scary we consider the technology, and how seriously it's being taken, that this is before a single 3D-printed shot has been fired in anger.Though, it is perhaps only a matter of time. The technology is there. Hundreds of thousands of people have downloaded the blueprints. And while the Liberator is made of plastic and exploded when the FBI tried to test it, a Texan company has successfully made a metal versionI've been emailing Wilson for months, and we finally meet while he's visiting Britain and we chat for a few minutes about what he's been doing – picking up a design award, speaking at a conference, being followed around by a documentary crew, talking to publishers. Then before I can stop myself, I ask him the question that eventually everyone asks him: what happens when somebody downloads your design, prints it off and kills someone? When a child is shot with a Liberator?He stumbles a bit and then says: "Well, I mean, we have to ground it in … I mean it's a hypothetical … People ask me all the time …"No, but how would he react?"I want to reserve a space for the humane. I hope I would react humanely. And I hope it would affect me. But does that lead me to apologise for what was done? And I appeal back to standard discussions about respect for civil liberties. What does that mean? It means people will abuse these rights. But what does it mean, as a structural feature, to have access to military weapons as a society? I'm not trying to brush it off but it means accepting people will abuse their liberties, but that's why they deserve protection. If no one is going to abuse a gun, it wouldn't be a right worth protecting. If no one was going to make a speech, we wouldn't need to defend the principle of freedom of speech. The same thing with the right to be secure in your possessions."The problem with Wilson's argument is that's it's an argument, one that you might formulate in the sixth-form debating society. And on the other side, there would be a dead person. Your mother, perhaps. Or your son who, if it hadn't been for Wilson, and his desire to push the boundaries of internet freedom further, would still be alive. But I can't get through on this point.The Liberator. Photograph: V&A;"You're asking me how I would feel? If somebody shot a kid with a Liberator? I guess I'd feel bad. It would be bad. It'd become this whole event. I'm sure I'd have this sinking feeling, 'Oh my God, they're going to make a big circus out of it.'"Er, like, yes! But then isn't the projection of consequences one of the key aspects of human intelligence, I say. You look at what the potentially bad outcome of an action is and then you don't do it?"I think, that this is where it becomes a bit … not disingenuous. It's like withthe Silk Road. It's easy to accuse hobbyists of unleashing all hell on earth, right? But we literally live now – maybe I'll just refer to the US – but there are people pulling the levers that operate the greatest terrorist programme in the history of the world. And I don't just mean the surveillance thing, or warfare. But they are running arms into proxy battles all over the earth that are killing people every day. It's not something that should be left out of the discussion. Like, 'Oh Cody Wilson, you hobbyists in your garages, look at what you're doing.' But, I think that has to be in the discussion. The attorney general who has been so good about pushing this ban on my guns is accused of covering up the running of actual military grade assault rifles into Mexico. I'm sure he'd say, 'Well, white man's burden. We've got to make the world safe for democracy.' But they are killing millions of people."As an introduction to the libertarian politics and world view of Cody Wilson, the conversation is not a bad primer. He isn't some naive bad boy who thought it would be a laugh to make a gun. He's a self-styled "crypto-anarchist". He quotes Foucault. His Twitter handle is@Radomysisky, which was the real name of Zinoviev, the Russian revolutionary tried and executed at the start of the purges. He has a 19th-century taste for ideologies and theories. His hero is Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, a Frenchman who, it's claimed, is the "father of anarchism" and was the first to declare that property is theft. And he believes that the Liberator will be a mechanism for radical redistribution of power.He was a law student when he co-founded Defense Distributed . It's an organisation that describes itself as "a non-profit software developer and publisher dedicated to striking the roots of all statist monopolism". Its mission is to "radicalise digital natives" by "employing political philosophy, activism and technology … to subvert the physical and digital architecture of oppression on behalf of the public".What he isn't is some spotty loner who's dreamt all this up in his bedroom because he couldn't get a girlfriend. He was class president of his school, class president of his university, he had offers from Ivy League law schools. He is not even much of a geek. He didn't write the software, he announced it as a goal, at which point the company,Stratasys, that leased him his 3D printer, demanded its return, and the ensuing fight created headlines that led to developers and engineers flocking to his cause.He is an articulate proponent of an influential new subculture. Welcome to the world of the techno-libertarians, an ideology based on the convergence of libertarian politics and a free and open web. Its poster boy is Peter Thiel, the billionaire co-founder of PayPal, and a funder of causes ranging from paying young people not to go to college, toSeasteading, a floating offshore nation state. Its spiritual home is Silicon Valley but, like the internet, it's distributed everywhere, an increasingly visible, well-funded new political ideology.It is also for many people, liberals like myself, a pretty uncomfortable convergence. Because it's one thing to be pro-Edward Snowden, pro-internet privacy, pro-the open source movement. And it's another to be pro the freedom to print off your own assault weapon. And it's this discomfort that Cody Wilson is revelling in."There were a lot of comments on Reddit right when the government shut us down," says Wilson. "Reddit is normally anti-gun, by the way. It's young and it's left. And they were saying, 'Shit! I'm having to choose between a world of guns and a world of the managed internet! And I won't give up the internet, so therefore guns! It had forced the decision."In fact, the issues that 3D guns raise are more complicated, sophisticated and ultimately unknowable than might first appear. Wilson and Defense Distributed are pushing at the margins of the internet, the margins of freedom, of what the ramifications of this technology will mean. And it's impossible to know. Technology is changing our relationship with everything. The future, once a far-off place of mind control and replicants, is thundering up behind us in our rear-view mirror. And he's right: it couldn't be more political.Though being anti-government, anti-the rules and prohibitions of the nation state, Wilson is also anti-traditional politics. The Liberator came about, he tells me, because he and his friend Ben "were both in this transpolitical attitude".This what?"OK, so sometimes it's called post politics," says Wilson. "It's just his idea that there's this western consensus about what is democracy, what is liberal capitalism. And increasingly all questions that might have been traditionally political questions, that we could fight about, have been relegated to an administrative sphere … so I could spend my entire career becoming one member of some segment of the government yelling as hard as I could for many years making a career. Or I could write software that totally explodes the paradigm, right? We're so dissatisfied in participating in traditional politics, that we're looking for other kinds of projects that are still innately political and contest what can be done in political terms."And then they thought of the gun.On the one hand, Wilson has the slightly annoying air of being the smartest boy in the class. Or at least the one who likes to show off his intellectual credentials the most. He's  confident and expert at expounding a theory, even when the theory is rubbish. He could, frankly, make a very effective politician. But on the other hand … well, he's right. What he's done is more powerful and raises more fundamental political questions than any politician, in recent times.It's called the Liberator after the gun US forces devised to distribute to members of the resistance in occupied countries during the second world war. The goal was not what the weapon could do, per se. It was a crude, mass-produced single shot weapon. But what it could inspire: fear. That anyone, anywhere, at any time, could be carrying a Liberator. And that the Nazis would have to live with that knowledge.Its aim (though the plan was never put into action) was to flip the power dynamic between occupied and occupier. And Wilson believes the Liberator will undermine the power of government and radically democratise everything and transform the relationships between individuals and the state.Wilson believes this just as he believes that bitcoin, the crypto currency, will disrupt governments' economic functions, including their ability to raise taxes, which is why he is developing something called Dark Wallet, a secure means of storing and sending the currency.Project manager of Dark Wallet, Wilson speaks at the BitCoin Expo 2013. Photograph: Ray Tang/Rex FeaturesHe also believes there may be trouble ahead. When I ask him, at the end of the interview, about his plans for the future, he says: "I'm afraid that I'll be forced to engage in something that I don't want to be engaged in." What? I say. Like a career?"No, like a legal case or something. I don't want to be prosecuted as a criminal for some of the things that I've done or will do. And I'm afraid that my government is a bit jealous. I may not even stay there much longer. It's one thing … but once you start messing with their money …"He doesn't finish the sentence. But then he doesn't have to. There are enough headlines out there which ask: Is Cody Wilson a terrorist? Though my favourite is the one that asks: "Cody Wilson: troll, genius, patriot, provocateur, anarchist, attention whore, gun nut or Second Amendment champion."Though it could have added, "Or b) all of the above?"It wasn't obvious that Cody Wilson was going to become the internet's latest rebel philosopher king. Though, he's enjoying its dividends: awards, recognition, a certain fashionable notoriety, and, as of last month,a $250,000 book deal.His father is a lawyer and his mother worked in insurance until she went into business with his father. And he grew up outside Little Rock, Arkansas. His sister, Cheyenne, is a nurse practitioner. "We were named after western cities in Wyoming. Cody and Cheyenne are kind of like … I don't know." And he laughs.What?"Cody and Cheyenne are like America's manifest destiny. My mom picked a theme, I guess, although I don't know if she was conscious of it."The theme, it turns out, wasn't so far off. When I look up Cody the town, I discover it was named after William Frederick Cody, or Buffalo Bill. And there is a touch of Buffalo Billness to Wilson, one part frontiersman, to two parts showman. Though it raises the question of what, 100 years from now, we will make of the internet's early cowboy adventurists?Most cowboys don't start out at law school though. Wilson screws up his face as if trying to remember when I ask him what his ambitions were before the 3D gun was born. "I was interested in becoming a judge. I like the whole old-world, common law liberal court mentality. I like jurisprudence as a field of inquiry and practice. I thought maybe I'd work as a COO [chief operating officer] or become a lawyer." So what did your parents make of this transition, I say. From judge or COO to the gun guy on the TV?"They get it," he says. "I'd confessed my politics when I was in college. I said: 'Look, I don't think I'm just a Ron Paul Libertarian. You could call it … anarchism.' And my mom was like, 'Just don't tell your grandma.'"If she watches CNN she might have caught on by now that her grandson isn't just the gun guy off TV, he's also a "crypto-anarchist", which, I'm guessing, in Little Rock is not what you dream your little boy will grow up to be. It sounds like one of those made-up words that people who like wearing T-shirts with words on them might use to impress you, but it turns out it's the title of a1988 manifesto by Tim May, an electronic engineer at Intel in its early years, and a founder member of he Cypherpunk movement, the belief that strong cryptography will bring about social change."Computer technology is on the verge of providing the ability for individuals and groups to communicate and interact with each other in a totally anonymous manner," begins the manifesto. "Interactions over networks will be untraceable, via extensive rerouting of encrypted packets … these developments will alter completely the nature of government regulation, the ability to tax and control economic interactions, the ability to keep information secret, and will even alter the nature of trust and reputation."So, I'll concede. It doesn't sound that implausible now. Maybe Cody Wilson is a crypto-anarchist. And maybe we have no idea what that may mean.
Cars don't exactly offer a&nbsp;huge spectrum of emotional communication. The horn, at absolute most, can say only one of five things: double beep ("Hello"), single beep ("Excuse me, the light is now green"), longer single beep ("I&nbsp;said the light is green. I will stab you in the heart with a screwdriver if you don't move this second, you twat"), noveltyDukes of Hazzard Dixie horn("I'm an obnoxious person and&nbsp;a&nbsp;selfish lover"), and an unbroken beep lasting for upwards of two minutes ("I have collapsed at the wheel and died").One thing they really can't say is "sorry". Last week, US magazine Pacific Standardasked why cars don't come fittedwith a "horn-honk" for apologies. The argument was a good one: with a high-pressured, high-speed activity such as driving, we are far more likely to misread honest mistakes as acts of aggression, and the ability to tell other drivers that you're incompetent rather than rude might cut cases of road rage dramatically.Reading this on mobile?Click here to watch.As it stands, saying sorry with a traditional horn is hopeless. It is just too loud and crass. If you hit the horn after accidentally cutting someone up, for example – no matter how contritely you do it – it sounds as if you are blaming the other driver. Or, worse, that you are extravagantly declaring victory over them, like some kind of insane post-apocalyptic Mad Max gang member.Lights aren't much use, either. A quick headlight-flash is certainly more polite than a horn, but realistically it is hard to discern whether it means "No, after you" or "I know where you live". If a&nbsp;"sorry" signal were going to be introduced, it would need to be brand new and exclusively for apologising.But what form could it take? A&nbsp;sad trombone noise? Too sarcastic. A recording of the driver saying sorry out loud? No&nbsp;good if they're a mumbler. A&nbsp;glowing red light that mimics a&nbsp;blushing face? That's a sign of weakness. You may as well hold up a placard asking people to take advantage of you.A sorry signal would be no substitute for real, nuanced human interaction. As technology stands, nothing can possibly be as effective as the current method for in-car apologies: a raised palm, a grimace and the unshakeable fear that the driver you just wronged will follow you home and beat you unconscious on your doorstep.
Sir James Dyson is taking on the might of Google by investing £5m in a British university to develop a new generation of "intelligent domestic robots".His company, best known for its vacuum cleaners, is putting the money into a laboratory at Imperial College London, which has begun hiring up to 15 scientists who will work on developing robot vision systems that could be used in devices such as robot-controlled vacuums – a longstanding ambition of Dyson himself.The inventor said the plan was to create "practical everyday technologies that will make our lives easier".The move could put Dyson into a position where it is directly challenging Google, which has recently acquired eight robotics companies, including Boston Dynamics, which has made self-controlling robots for the US military. In January itspent £400m acquiring DeepMind Technologies, a London-based startup focusing on artificial intelligence.Dyson was critical of the decision by the two-year-old company to sell itself. "It seems a pity to me to sell out, as I don't quite understand the urge to give up," Dyson told the Guardian. "Long-term thinking is essential to new technology. We should be encouraging UK companies to invest in R&amp;D and take on armies of engineers so that they can grow and become UK world-beaters."Dyson established his company in 1985, and it now employs over 5,000 people worldwide and had a turnover of £1.1bn in 2012.The Dyson project inside Imperial College will be formally announced later this week. Its leader,Prof Andrew Davison, said he would be working on "perception and computer vision technology, with the goal of developing a new type of robot that can move beyond controlled locations such as factories, and into a wide range of applications and products in the home, and difficult environments."Davison, who has been working on robot vision since 1994, and joined Imperial College in 2005, is already a consultant to Dyson. He said robot technology was presently limited: "There might be nice demonstrations but we can't yet buy a robot that can do anything in the home for a reasonable price."Dyson is known to have been working for nearly a decade on a robot vacuum cleaner at the company's Malmesbury headquarters. But it is understood that he has been dissatisfied with prototypes' battery life, and the inability to navigate around a typical room with obstacles such as tables and chair legs.There are already a number of robot vacuum cleaners on sale, such as the Roomba from iRobot, which uses an infrared sensor and a contact-sensitive front bumper, as well as "cliff sensors" to avoid drops. But they have sold in limited numbers, and cannot deduce the contents of a room; instead their coverage comes from a series of automatically generated paths.Davison developed a breakthrough computing method which can carry out "simultaneous localisation and mapping" – known in the robotics world as Slam – to create a 3D map of a space with a single camera. Previous systems have required at least two cameras. In one academic paper, Davison showed how his system could be used for an autonomous robot that was able to walk around a room on its own using a wireless link to a computer."Professor Davison was the first to use vision as the only sensor on a robot," Dyson said. "Vision is key to creating a robot that can see and think in the way that humans do. Combining Dyson expertise in motors, electronics and artificial intelligence we hope to create a new generation of intelligent domestic robots."Davison said such systems could be built using relatively cheap cameras from smartphones. "The essential problem of understanding the world that's around a robot is still very challenging if you want to do it at a reasonable price rather than tens of thousands of pounds," he said.Google's acquisition of robotics companies is "closer to our interests in making practical robots that can move around and demonstrate real capability", Davison said. "But the whole area of mass-market robotics has yet to be defined."Dyson said: "I've no idea what companies Google intend to buy. Dyson aren't about to launch a car or a search engine. We are focused on developing technology for domestic robots for the home that logically navigate their surroundings."• This article was amended on 10 February, 2014, to correct the number of Dyson employees worldwide to over 5,000, not 3,100. Details of Professor Andrew Davison's biography were also wrong. He began working on robot vision in 1994 not 2002 and joined Imperial College in 2005, not 2012 as the article originally stated.
Price £16,395MPG 56.4mpgTop speed 119mphWhenKiaintroduced its newCarens, it seemed like a&nbsp;great idea to enlist the help of England's cricketers to get the marketing ball rolling. After all Kia is the headline sponsor of theOvaland English cricket was on a bounce having just won the Ashes (was that a dream?). So Surrey's finest players donned pads and gloves and walked out on to the immaculate wicket to see how many could fit into Kia's mid-size seven-seat vehicle. The result was an impressive 13. But in the light of the drubbing we received Down Under last month, 13 now sounds like a typically miserable score.Kia has never taken its eye off the ball, though. Last year it sold 72,090 new vehicles in the UK, up 10% on the year before, and one of its star performers is the Carens. Its tagline is: "Putting the fun into functional", which describes exactly what the new Carens is all about. When you boil it down, this MPV is a van-with-windows into which has been shoe-horned a choice of reassuringly responsive and economical enginesandseven seats. Yet Carens has managed its transition from van to car brilliantly. Most car impersonators can't disguise those giveaways – the slab sides, the heavy-set bumpers, the unrefined drive – but Carens is properly convincing.This is the third generation and it not only replaces Carens No 2 but also Kia's ponderous Sedona. The new model is smaller outside yet somehow bigger inside. This, it seems, is the opposite of what happens to us as we get older: we feel less significant yet we get bigger and bigger with each passing lunch.The Carens is a likable-looking car. Kia's head designer,Peter Schreyer, has now rolled his distinctive "tiger's nose" grillout across the whole Kia fleet. There is nothing of the big cat about the Carens but, to me, it's just the right side of unassuming. It won't catch your eye at first, but look again and you'll notice the sculpted headlamps, its understated panelling and a sparing accent of chrome.Inside story: the light-filled interior of the third-generation Kia Carens.It's certainly roomy, and though the 6th and 7th seats in the boot would be a little too snug in the long haul, they're just the job for a&nbsp;"nominated driver" ferrying friends safely home. There's plenty of fun and functionality to be found. The panoramic sun roof lets your passengers soak up the winter rays, while electric seats and mirrors, privacy glass, dynamic headlamps, automatic wipers and cruise control all make life more bearable. The passenger seat folds flat, as do the second and third rows, meaning the driver can sit in solitary splendour with the deck of a mini aircraft carrier stretched around them. The glove compartment is also a cool box and there's even a detachable torch for when you lose your keys in one of those dark, carpeted recesses that cars specialise in.The car comes in three trim levels and a choice of either a 1.6-litre petrol or two versions of a 1.7-litre diesel. All three do their job with uncomplaining competence, but the lower-powered diesel offers the best compromise of power and efficiency.Is it a driver's car? No. Why would it be? It's a family car and, as such, it knows exactly what it's doing. Which is more than can be said about English cricket. Boom!Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
What's the storyGiven that the original Tomb Raidercame out in 1996, last year's reboot was almost inevitable. This original story focuses on a more vulnerable Lara and adds features more typical to modern games, such as levels and skills to unlock. With the arrival of the next-generation consoles, the graphics have been polished to make this "definitive edition".GameplayShipwrecked with her friends on adangerous island, Lara must find the strength to survive, kill for the first time, and eventually be the heroine that she is destined to become. Play involves clambering up structures that tend to collapse around her, finding treasures and killing dozens of the islanders with a variety of upgradable weapons.Highs and lowsThe fundamental experience wasalready great so the "definitive edition" has little to add beyond next-generation flairs such as sounds that come out of the DualShock&nbsp;4 speaker, and aesthetic improvements. However, the celebrated but unnerving TressFX doesn't seem to respond properly to gravity and makes other characters look plastic in comparison.The verdictFor those who haven't already playedthe reboot, this graphically enhanced version is a worthy addition to the,  so far, small collection of next-generation games. Anyone who bought it the first time around, however, has no real reason to pay a full price again.
What's the Story?Gentleman scientist Wilson has had abad day: failed experiments, demonic trickery, and then he is left to fend for himself in a supernatural wilderness. With night looming, monsters lurking and nothing more to hand than whatever the land provides, he must find a way to survive. Chances are that he, and you as the player, will not – but that's part ofDon't Starve'scharm.GameplayLike any survival game, you'll start bygathering materials to craft weapons and tools, with the added wrinkle of monitoring hunger and sanity. There's more emphasis on combat than the game's peers, and while the bizarre monsters will certainly kill you, the temptation to nab key items is ever-present. Death earns experience, unlocking crafting options and making for compelling, if granular, progression.Highs and LowsMuch ofDon't Starve'sappealcomes from its gothic-yet-comedic aesthetic, as if Tim Burton had ingested the distilled essence of artists Edward Gorey, Ralph Steadman, and Ronald Searle, and then set about making a game. Originally released on PC, the controls map well to the PS4 controller but it suffers visually from scaling issues – on a large TV, onscreen icons are too small.VerdictA dark and darkly humorousexpression of survival gaming,Don't Starveisn't as much of a creative free-for-all as the like ofTerrariaorMinecraftbut it pulls players into its shadowy world all the same. Each play-through reveals something new, improving your next attempt, while unlockable bonus characters add variety and replay value to an already varied experience.
What's the storyThe first Mario Party game came outin 1998 on the Nintendo 64, and the basic format has stayed the same ever since. Multiple players, or one player, against characters controlled by the game. Roll the dice and move around a simple board game, with regular mini games to provide additional fun and items that can affect what happens on the board.GameplayThis version features multipleboards that vary the formula, perhaps with numbered cards instead of dice, or the reverse goal of being the last to the finish line, and a large selection of mini games that make use of the touch screen and other features of the 3DS. The single-player campaign is a chain of these mini games.Highs and lowsSome of the mini gamesare enjoyable enough when played against other humans, which is why Nintendo was sensible to allow multiple players with their own 3DS to play with one cartridge. But slow animations and lines of text between turns make the already mundane board games far from worth it.The verdictPlayers can pick and choose whichparts they want to play, but those who follow through with this logic may end up sticking to only a select few of the mini games. They might be worth a try for those who can find a friend who already owns the game, but it definitely doesn't make it worth a purchase.
What's the storyMax first appeared in Max &amp; theMagic Marker on platforms such as iOS and WiiWare in 2010. This reimagining is a side-scrolling platformer with regular puzzles, but presents a more refined version for the Xbox One, for which it is one of only a few games aimed at younger players.GameplayIn pursuit of his kidnapped brother,Max must run, jump and climb through various environments avoiding monsters and solving environmental puzzles on his way. In each section of the game, his magic marker gains the ability to draw a new kind of object, and puzzle solutions often require a combination of these.Highs and lowsThe platforming is simple, leaving thepuzzles as the focus. Happily they are difficult enough to give a sense of achievement, while remaining within the capability of a thoughtful child. Unfortunately, drawing shapes with an analog stick can be tricky, especially in speedy sections, but regular checkpoints soften the blow of failure.The verdictAdults may find the platformingmundane and the requirement to draw too frustrating, but this game is targeted well at a younger audience. The simple story doesn't get in the way of play; the child protagonist manages to sound like a real child; and the puzzles provide the challenge young players crave without stretching it to the point of frustration.
What's the Story?Strange murders, lost artefacts andreligious conspiracies – all par for the course for Broken Sword.The Serpent's Cursereintroduces American lawyer George Stobbart and French journalist Nico Collard, this time on a quest for a stolen painting. Prepare for a cliffhanger ending though as this is only the first of two episodes that comprise this game.GameplayThe series has dabbled with 3D andfree-roaming mechanics over the year, butSerpent's Cursereturns to the 2D point-and-click interface – or point and tap, using the Vita's screen. A quick poke will bring up context sensitive options, while items collected can be combined or examined as you try to solve puzzles. Unremarkable, but genre-perfect.Highs and LowsWith few icons clutteringthe display, the artistry of the game shines, offering richly coloured and atmospheric hand-drawn backgrounds. The duo's relationship is a delight – flirtatious but rarely cliched. Unfortunately the interface can be problematic, demanding several frustrated taps to register your intent, and there's little beyond the main storyline to tinker with.VerdictAs fans would expect, thisis a rip-roaring adventure in exotic locales, but its unapologetically old-school style may fail to attract those not already engaged with the series. A stronger second half – due around spring – could elevate the experience.
What's the Story?Fifteen years after theevents of Assassin's Creed IV's main game,Freedom Cryshifts the spotlight to Adéwalé, former quartermaster aboard Kenway's ship and now a member of the Assassin's Order and captain of his own vessel. This standalone chapter turns towards darker and more complex territory, as Adéwalé attempts to liberate slaves from the brutal regime in Port-au-Prince of the 1700s.GameplayEssentially the same asits parent title,Freedom Cryoffers the familiar blend of rooftop acrobatics, melee combat and stealth for which the series has become known. Opening with a maritime mission and offering some degree of exploration around the Caribbean, this remains largely a land-lubber's adventure, more focused on island missions and the potency of its story than piracy.Highs and LowsDespite – or perhaps becauseof – its brevity, this is one of the tightest examples of storytelling yet seen in the Assassin's Creed saga, with brilliantly scripted dialogue throughout. As downloadable content it's unfair to expect massive revisions to gameplay but some aspects of ACIV still irk, such as distant objectives yielding little to reward players for sailing the oceans for them.VerdictFreedom Cryrefuses to shy away fromits troubling themes or the attitudes of the era. Adéwalé encounters prejudice and oppression on a scale that's hard for modern audiences to comprehend, making for a powerfully emotional instalment. It's not breaking the Assassin's Creed mould but it does remind players that the series can skilfully tackle serious historical issues.
Game collectors have been around for years but the past decade has seen a considerable boom in the value of rare titles. The internet has made selling games all the easier, creating a larger pool of potential buyers and a resultant rise in the top bids.Arguably, the fact that an obscure game with a curious backstory becomes so expensive, and is only available to an elite few, has little meaning when most of the great games people want to play exist in great quantities. For the vast majority then, the real value of a game is the pleasure it delivers through its interaction, and not its desirability to those looking to collect rarities. Yet the fact that the most uncommon titles can fetch prices more typical of a Christie's art auction does reflect the increasing worth of games as a cultural artefact and that's what makes them fascinating.As with any collectibles, it all comes down to the details; a particular version of an otherwise common game or the position of a sticker can make all the difference. But if you have one of the following tucked away in the attic, you'd best make a call to the insurers.1 Batman Forever Woolworths  Box Set (SNES)There's a certain charm to the idea that a 1995 Woolworths-only edition of an otherwise common game could today court the attention of global collectors. But so it is, and quite possibly because youngsters that got their hands on a copy in the nineties filled the bundled diary with scrawling, tangled the included VHS making-of documentary and slapped the set's sticker on the underside of a skateboard. Nobody guessed it could be a future collectible, and as a result today devotees will offer up £750 for a copy. But to most the game is far from "well worth it"; on release it received a critical mauling, and it continues to stand as an immortal example of bad beat 'em up design.2 Nintendo World Championship  (Gold colour variant, NES)In 1990 Nintendo hosted a gaming tournament that took place across America, and the prizes were unquestionably generous. Cars, TVs and $10,000 savings bonds were showered on players that triumphed at Tetris, Super Mario Bros and Rad Racers. The concept was loosely based on the movie The Wizard, and it no doubt delighted its many victors. But many years later it emerged that the true winners were those that took away a copy of the NES catridge made for the contest. Of 1,200 manufactured, 90 were given to contestants as official grey-coloured cartridges. But it was the 26 gold versions, that have become icons of contemporary collectibles, and in January this year, a copy attracted bids of more than $100,000 on ebay.3 Music Machine (Atari 2600)There are more valuable games for the Atari 2600 than Music Machine, but few have as peculiar a reason for being desirable to collectors. A spin on Activision's Kaboom, Music Machine was only sold in religious bookshops in the US around 1983 by Sparrow; a company that remains in operation today. The release was the company's only game, and sees its youthful protagonists racing to collect "Fruits of the Spirit". A sealed copy recently sold for more than $4,500, but rumours of a rarer version continue to tantalise collectors. Sparrow published two LPs of music to accompany the game and inspire players, and it is suggested a version bundling a special LP and the game exists, with an audible instruction on the vinyl to allow synchronised consumption. If proven and found complete, it may be worth more than Atari 2600 rarity Gamma Attack, recently valued at between £12,000 and £30,000.4 Tetris (Megadrive)Tetris is among the most familiar games created, and dust-laden Megadrives can be found in cupboards across the globe. However, only between five and 20 copies of Tetris for the Japanese Megadrive were ever made, as legal wrangling stopped the game's production. As a result, Tetris Megadrive became a holy grail for game collectors, who pay up to £3,500 to have it on their shelves. One copy is known to be signed by Tetris creator Alexey Pajitnov, who famously struggled for years to get any royalties when his game became a phenomenon. That signed copy is rumoured to have changed hands for €11,000. Even the bootlegs have become desirable, with some prepared to hand over between £35 and £100 knowing they are purchasing a fake.5 Kizuna Encounter (NeoGeo AES)When Japanese game company SNK released the NeoGeo AES console, it brought the power of arcade machines to the living room in the early nineties. It was a time when people still had to leave their homes to see the most impressive games, and as such the console developed a cult following almost immediately, later spawning a furiously devoted collector community. There are, as a result, many expensive AES games, and numerous scandals around forgeries and bootlegs. Fighting game Kizuna Encounter's European release is one of the rarest, with a genuine copy rumoured to sell for up to $13,500. Meanwhile, the edition of the game for the NeoGeo arcade system is valued somewhere closer to £30.6 Bangai-O: Prize Edition (Dreamcast)Another release made desirable by its exclusive distribution at a high-scoring tournament, the disk inside the Bangai-O Prize Edition for Dreamcast packaging contains a game identical to the widely available standard release. However, a sticker on the package makes clear it was one of just five copies handed out to players who demonstrated supreme ability with the 2D shooter. The fact that it is made by cult Ikaruga and Gradius V developer Treasure adds to the attraction. Curious parties with shallower pockets can always try the Xbox Live sequel Bangai-O HD: Missile Fury for a more reasonable £6.80.
Point-and-click adventure games were once a prominent force with their emphasis on storytelling and mental challenges over bombastic action. Now, after a decline in popularity, they are enjoying a resurgence – and the revolution is global.PuzzlesFounded in 2007, Hamburg-based Daedalic Entertainment has created a steady stream of adventure games. Debuting withEdna &amp; Harvey: The Breakoutin 2008, subsequent titles have explored diverse genres and art styles and won awards. However, reaching an audience was an early problem. "Many gaming magazines feel their audiences aren't interested enough, so they opt out of reviewing or previewing adventure games," says Claas Wolter of Daedalic. "[But] we're doing adventure games the way we love them. We're trying to deliver the good old puzzle, and get the wide audience."  The success of titles including the comedyDeponiaseries and fantasyThe Night of the Rabbithas allowed the developer to produce more technologically impressive fare, such as the strategy role-playing gameBlackguards, alongside further adventure games.Dreamfall ended on a cliffhanger.CliffhangersProving there is an audience for adventure games isRed Thread Games. Founded by Ragnar Tørnquist, writer/director of modern fantasiesThe Longest Journeyand its sequelDreamfall, the company was created to satiate fans.Ben There, Dan That is a cult favourite.The series spans multiple worlds, exploring themes of determination versus destiny, family and the power of stories. After leavingDreamfallon a cliffhanger in 2006, Tørnquist says he was overwhelmed with demands for a conclusion. "Every day for the last seven years, I've had emails and tweets and letters – actual letters, on paper, with handwriting! – begging for this game."Dreamfall Chapters, the conclusion, is due for release this year, after being funded with $1.5m raised on the crowdfunding platformKickstarter. "I never thought people would care as much as I did," said Tørnquist. "Turns out, people care even more."Dry humourIn the UK, adventure games have seen a grassroots surge, with new titles largely from the indie scene. The 2009 point-and-clickBen There, Dan That! fromSize Five Gameshas been a cult favourite since release, inspiring other developers to pursue the style."There's a lot of room for wit in adventure games – you can really see the dry British humour in them," said indie developer Christos "failnaut" Reid,, currently working on sci-fi mysteryBreathe. "Adventure games diminished because the market moved towards mainstream AAA [high budget games produced by big development teams] experiences … But the ease of indie distribution has rocked the boat. People are selling games regardless of publisher backing, whether it's as simple as a [open source hypertext engine]Twinegame or something likeThe Walking Dead. It's an exciting time to be a fan."New generationConversely, the American approach to new adventure games is about beloved names, big money and technological clout. After a decade at the now-defunct development arm of LucasArts, Tim Schafer set up his own company,Double Fine. Another example of Kickstarter success for oft-ignored adventure games, it attracted more than $3.3m in funding. The result was the recently releasedBroken Age, his first foray into the genre since the classicGrim Fandango.Elsewhere, Telltale Games started small. An adaptation of indie comic Bone progressed to CSI tie-ins and new outings for former LucasArts title Sam &amp; Max, before winning considerable acclaim with mature properties The Walking Dead and The Wolf Among Us. With regular episodic releases, gorgeous art direction and deeply involving stories, Telltale has become the face of adventure games for a new generation.
We live in an age increasingly shaped by our attitudes to, and our definition of, privacy. It is arguable whether the state of privacy itself has ever been more comprehensively and routinely challenged, and in many ways our changing relationship with technology is at the heart of this.Reviewing the privacy controversies of the last few years reveals how far our sense of acceptable "inversion of privacy" has shifted. TakeFacebook,its billionaire founderMark Zuckerbergwallowing in the glory of his first decade in charge of one of privacy's biggest agents of change. Users first revolted when the site introduced the newsfeed — yet now it feels rather benign in terms of its challenge to our sense of privacy, as well as being the main reason for visiting the site.The boundary between the public and the private is porous, a slew of privacy levels to dial round and push back, depending on the audience; one person might be happy to overshare baby photos publicly, while another won't entertain being part of Facebook's semi-public "friends" discussion. The company's developer-first principle of pushing out a feature and then adapting it after feedback from users may have been good for business, but has also helped edge back the boundaries of what we define as public.Zuckerberg back-pedallsNow that we have all largely accepted the oversharing norm, Zuckerberg himself – who not so long ago claimed that privacy was over – seems curiously to have back-pedalled, introducing anonymous logins for some of Facebook's new apps."If you're always under the pressure of real identity, I think that is somewhat of a burden," he toldBusinessweeklast month, acknowledging the competition from lower-profile, anonymous chat tools such asSnapchat.Google has navigated a galaxy of privacy scandals. At one end of the spectrum, itsStreet Viewcameras have inadvertently recorded public sex acts, nose-picking, anda naked man climbing in the boot of his car– and at the other end of the scale had to reassure consumers after a more prescient scandal about them sucking up personal information fromunsecured wi-fi networks.Ultra-smart gadgetsGoogle has pledged thatGoogle Glass, its internet-connected tech specs, won't have image recognition switched on because of privacy concerns. "Well, never say never, but we have said we wouldn't do it," executive chairmanEric Schmidtsaid when I asked if that was a permanent commitment. And then there's last month's acquisition ofNest Labs, which makes ultra-smart gadgets for the home. Nest started with an internet-connected thermometer and then made a similarly wired-up smoke alarm; does this mean Google now has access to data inside your personal, physical space too?"These are conspiracy theories," Schmidt told me at the time. Crucially, his explanation was that Google relies on trust — lose that trust and Google loses the consumer.Just as privacy isn't absolute, neither is trust. We find different levels of appropriate privacy or publicness and, as consumers, we need to trust a company only enough to give it our data. If the person using the site doesn't have any experience of revealing too much, or needing to keep some kind of issue private, that can't be a fair exchange to make. Schmidt used teenagers as an example.'It's not OK to invade privacy'"Teenagers are not legally an adult for a reason. My advice to parents would be to know their passwords and monitor what they are doing."He said that with a straight face, but it's a suggestion that will no doubt have the parents of teenagers rofling. Schmidt claims 90% of privacy violations are self-generated."It's not OK fundamentally to invade privacy – just because we have the tools to invade privacy that doesn't make it right."All these developments are framed by the biggest technology story of the decade – that our online lives are accessed, monitored and stored by the UK and USsecurity services. So we face surveillance in our online world, on our mobiles, on the street through CCTV and perhaps next in our own internet-connected smarthomes, plus social scrutiny of the parts of our lives we choose to display on social networks. Surely there can't be more to come?Well, the next privacy scandal in waiting is the story of drones. Not military drones, but increasingly widespread use of drones for agriculture, disaster areas and emergencies, archaeology, forestry and property management, among others.Drones are banned in London and can't be used below a certain height in residential areas. But how many uses could there be for a small, silent, fast, remote-controlled drone? How long before the first sunbathing politician is snapped on holiday? If the public is banned from a venue, or refused access to private land, or if a property is under siege from journalists, how long before a drone is used for high-quality aerial video?The next time you step outside and head off for some time alone, remember to look up.
"Whatever you do, don't set it up to have email alerts," giggledWerner Vogels, Amazon's chief technology officer. "One thing you really don't want is to get an alert every time you get an email."He was telling me this early in 2013; we were talking about hisPebble smartwatch. I had ordered one (along with thousands of other people) on the funding platform,Kickstarter, and was waiting for it to be delivered. And waiting. But patience is a virtue and a smartwatch that could connect to my phone viaBluetoothseemed worth waiting for.And in time it arrived, and I was pleased with it: my review was positive. Now I didn't have to take my phone out to know if someone had rung me or messaged me; I could even be a good distance away from my phone. (In one case, I was well outside our house when my wife texted urgently. I wouldn't have seen or known about it for ages without my Pebble.) I didn't have it set up to tell me about Facebook or Twitter updates, because I don't consider those urgent enough to need to appear on my watch.Bliss it was to be alive at that time. Until – an update. A new version of iOS in September brought low-energy Bluetooth, and Pebble updated the software. Now, Pebble's people were delighted to say, you could control all sorts of notifications, and it would all use low-energy Bluetooth, so your phone (which for me was lasting about five days between charges) would go even longer before needing charging. Like a fool, I updated at the first opportunity, and discovered that the opportunity to be told only about phone calls and messages had gone. The information appearing on my Pebble watchface would now be the same as that on my iPhone's notification centre – where I see what emails, Twitter responses, calls and texts I'd received. Argh. If I wanted the Pebble only to show calls and texts, I'd have to configure the notification centre to show those.Dommage. I went online to the support forums to see if there was any help, and came up short. Pebble's chief executive waved the possibility of "an update" at some point in the future. That's a no, then. So while I still like my Pebble (I've set it to show when I get a call; texts are in the past), there's a bitter aftertaste. We're all familiar with this experience. We get something that is just right, and then a software update comes along and spoils it. If you're a compulsive early adopter, you tend to get bitten. Everyone's got a tale of a favourite piece of software that was just perfect, and then some damn fool spoiled it. It might be Windows (I heard a woman groaning about Windows 8 compared with Windows 7 last week), or Gmail (there areforumsstuffed with people disliking its web redesign) or Apple's (being generally crashy, and making some users feel ill with itszoom effects).There have even been cases where software updates have removed functionality: in December 2011 both Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble rolled out updates to their e-readers that prevented people getting access to the file system.More recently, Google's Android 4.4 update kills the ability to decidewhat permissions you want to give apps, on a per-app basis, rather than the usual "take it or leave it" that Android apps give you.For the writers of the software,  the upgrade path takes us all towards the sunlit uplands. Everything is better; why would you resist? Bugs are only a temporary stumble on the road. Downgrades? They're a retrograde step. We are always nearer to perfect functionality — yet we never quite  get there.Oh, and one other thing: everyone has to come on this journey. That point is the frustrating one. Although there are many people out there who can be your guinea pigs for new software – you can let them find the faults if you're patient – eventually you're forced to join them on the march forward. There'll be a killer new feature that you'll have to trade off against the functionality you used to like.Grin and bear it. The software update is coming round to you.
How has technology changed the life of an actor?Our work, particularly in film and television, has become more and more last minute, so technology is vital. It has made us much more flexible. I've reduced my paper output massively by reading scripts on iPad. Researching roles, especially historical ones, is a lot easier online. I've just doneLucanon ITV, so spent a lot of time surfing the web, reading up on my character, painter Dominick Elwes. Auditioning over Skype is becoming a lot more common too. My latest job wasRogue, an American cop drama withThandie Newton, and I had to do a Skype meeting with the showrunner for that.Are there any apps to help you learn your lines?Yes, there's one called Line Learner, which I use sometimes, but the best way is still good old person to person. I also use the web to help with accents. I go on YouTube, find people from the relevant place, then listen to their speech or how they say specific words.You're in a new biopic seriesFleming. Did you get to play with any retro gadgetry?Sadly not. My character, Ian Fleming's brother Peter, was a travel writer, so he was pretty old-school. Typewriters only.Dominic [Cooper,who plays the title role] got to play with all the cool stuff.What's your favourite Bond gadget?I always lovedLive And Let Die, when Roger Moore undid the zip on Miss Caruso's dress with his magnetic watch. I was a big watch freak as a kid and loved Casios with calculators on. I definitely got that from Bond.Did you write rude words upside down on calculators too?Of course. Mainly "boobs". And on special occasions, "boobless". (Laughs)What's the most technologically advanced project you've worked on?I supposeHellboy, in terms of its scale and big green screen work. But even inFleming, some of the opening skiing sequence was green-screened in Budapest. I also did the last ever Poirot series, which was set in Switzerland – but all shot just outside Oxford. Most dramas have some tinkering now, whether it's filling in the backdrop or just removing telephone wires.Didn't you have an embarrassing CGI incident onHellboy?Yes! We had a shot set up in this massive masonic hall near Prague. I was told to walk in and stand in the centre of a granite disc, which would sink under me and go down like a lift. I assumed it would drop on hydraulics. [Director] Guillermo Del Toro shouted, "Action!", I walked in and waited for this big moment to happen. But nothing did and he yelled "Cut, Cut!" It slowly dawned on me it wasn't actually going to descend, I just had to pretend. Very embarrassing in front of a 500-strong crew …What's your favourite of the gadgets you own?My Tivoli audio digital radios. I'm obsessed. I have a DAB radio in every room, so I can wander around the house, listening to cricket. Crystal-clearTest Match Specialis one of life's joys. Well, apart from the recent Ashes tour. (Laughs)Are you an Apple addict?Afraid so. I converted 10 years ago and it's very difficult to go back. I've got an iPhone 5S, MacBook and iPad. The clever thing about Apple products is that they allow you to express yourself. They've moved technology on from just being useful or a timesaver to being beautiful and creative.Do you have a gadget that you bought but never used?In between CDs and MP3s, I bought a Sony MiniDisc. Never used it. I still have an iNano, which I run with. My computer doesn't even recognise it now, so there are songs on there that I can never get off. I'm stuck with the same playlist from a decade ago. Thankfully, I went for the silver rather than the pink model.How do you listen to music?Like everyone now, I buy on iTunes or stream. Spotify's great when you travel. The next gadget on my wishlist is a Bose SoundLink – a travel speaker that I can plug into my iPhone and have incredible sound wherever I am.What's your favourite app?Oh, I love apps. I travel a lot, so useViberand FaceTime to stay in touch. They've saved my life – and my relationship! I'm into photography, so also Snapseed and Cross Process. I ran the London marathon last year and Runtastic was integral to my training. My favourite at the moment is Touchnote. You take a picture, add a quick note and it turns it into a postcard, which arrives a day or two later. It's a neat marriage of the new and the old.What's your all-time favourite computer game?I got addicted to Tiger Woods Golf. I'd be up till 3am every night and it ruined my life, so I had to go cold turkey and give them up. But I do have a chess app and I play against two or three friends. I get obsessed with that too. My girlfriend goes mental if she hears the noise of me moving a piece. I put my phone on silent so she doesn't know what I'm up to. It's my dirty secret.How often do you Google yourself?Never. I'm sureRupert Grintwill come up before me. And Rupert Friend,Rupert Everett, Rupert Penry-Jones … there's too many Ruperts in acting. I leave that to the more famous Ruperts.Has technology improved your life?No, I'm no happier receiving 100 emails a day. But I couldn't live without it. That's the paradox.Fleming starts on Sky Atlantic on Wednesday 12 February at 9pm
From smartwatches to health monitors and Google Glass, products of the future won't be held, they'll be worn. NowTech Monthlyis offering two readers and their guests the chance to see the cutting edge of wearable tech.Featuring speakers from Google, Intel, Cisco and more, theWearable Technology Showconsists of two days of debate surrounding both the potential applications and possible dangers of this technological trend, from privacy and data ownership to the wonders of augemented reality. There will also be a chance to take a peek at technologies that are changing the face of gaming as well as exploring whether fitness trackers are the answer for good health.Taking place at the Olympia Conference Centre in London on 18 and 19 March, the event will allow you to get your hands on some of the newest tech on the block as well as offering you the chance to take part in a hackfest. To be in with a chance of winning tickets for you and a guest answer the following question. What type of wearable device is the "Pebble"?Winners will be chosen at random from those sending the correct answer, by email, to tech.monthly@observer.com before 22 February.Terms and conditions1. The "Win a pair of tickets to the Wearable Technology Show" competition (the "competition") is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. The competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited ("GNM", the "promoter" or "we"), their group companies or family members, Evolve Digital Publishing Ltd, their group companies or family members, or anyone else connected with the competition.3. Entry into the competition is deemed as acceptance of these terms and conditions.4. To enter the competition you must answer the question correctly and email the answer to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk, together with your name, telephone number and postal address. If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the competition, please e-mail us at tech.monthly@observer.co.uk with "Wearable Technology Show Competition" in the subject line.5. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your competition entry to us.6. No responsibility is taken for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.7. The competition closes at 23:59 on Friday 21 February 2014.  Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.8. The winners will be chosen from a random draw of correct entries.9. Two winners will each receive a pair of tickets for The Wearable Technology Conference and Expo taking place at the Conference Centre, Olympia, Hammersmith Road, London ,W14 8UX on 18 and 19 March 2014 (the "event").  More details of the event can be found here. GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize including, without limitation, travel to or from the event, accommodation and/or meals.10. The winners will be notified by email on or before 26 February 2014 and given details of how to claim their prize. Due to the time-limited nature of the prize, if a winner does not respond within 7 days of being notified, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner (and that winner will have to respond to the email from GNM within 7 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If a winner rejects their prize, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize will be supplied to the winners by 1 March 2014.12. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.13. GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.14. The name and county of the winners can be obtained after 26 February 2014 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Observer Tech Monthly, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. The winners may be required for promotional activity related to the competition and each winner shall participate in such activity on the promoter's reasonable request.15. GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen here and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the competition, you agree to the collection, retention, use and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 14 above.16. No purchase necessary.17. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury as a result of its negligence.18. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person's computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the competition.19. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into. GNM reserves the right to discount votes if it suspects fraudulent bulk voting or multiple voting is taking or has taken place to inappropriately influence or manipulate the voting procedures.20. GNM shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other circumstances amounting to force majeure.21. The competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by English law and will be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.22. Promoter: Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
Q The Raspberry Pi is a brilliantly cheap way of getting young (and not so young) people into programming but, being Linux based, it is not to everyone's taste. Is there a low-cost equivalent – or DIY guide for sourcing components and building one – that will run Windows?Colin Meaden, Norfolk, via emailA TheRaspberry Piis an excellent little device, but it is compromised and likely to frustrate some users with its performance without some system tinkering. These limitations are arguably by design as it tries to encourage young people not to be afraid to explore what they can do with computers – this is where Linux is an excellent companion for the Pi. It makes it much easier to tinker with the core of the system or, if you get more proficient, even compile your own version of the operating system. (Compiling is when you pass in computer code, and a compiler breaks it down into the most basic instructions so that a computer processor can act on them.) Linux may not be quite as user-friendly, but it's incredibly flexible for learning and has amazing package managers to install compilers easily, as well as to install other software. This also has the benefit that, if you ruin the system, you can re-image (clear off and re-add a new version of the OS) the SD card and start again.If you require a Windows computer, however (for example, if its primary use is going to be office tasks with some light programming), it's hard to recommend anything close to that price point. This is because Windows is a much more bloated operating system and requires higher system specifications to operate and run well. You also have to be careful that you aren't buying a Windows RT device, as you won't be able to run your own code without some more setup and, even then, you'll be limited to which languages you can write.If you can afford the extra, and need Windows, then purchase as you would a home computer – but you'll have to be more careful with what you touch, especially if it has important files without backups.Q We recently upgraded to BT Infinity. My laptop is four years old and the wireless speed is rather slow. It shows a speed of 54Mbps for wireless and 100 for wired. Other computers are much faster. Do I need to upgrade my laptop?Robert Shaw, Worcester, via emailA The speeds shown (54/100), are not download speeds, but are in fact the connection speeds from your computer to the router and they suggest that you have at most a G wireless card which is likely to be quite slow and, even then, the computer is quite old and probably beginning to struggle. I would recommend upgrading, especially if other computers on the network are significantly faster. You could also buy a USB wireless card for your computer, but its benefit may be limited by the slow performance of your computer.Q The browsing history from my iPad comes up on my husband's Google Nexus 7. How can we  stop this happening?Gillian Bassett, Bedford,  via emailAssuming that you're using Chrome for iOS on the iPad (as Safari would not sync history with Chrome and Android), it sounds like you're both signed into the same Google account in Chrome. There are two ways to prevent the search history from being shared between them:1) Use personal rather than shared Google accounts.2) Disable history syncing in Chrome for iOS preferences.If you do use Safari, it's probably just search history being sync'd; you can fix this by using personal Google accounts.Having bought aWhich?best buy Google Nexus 10, I find it irritating that it does not support Sky Go. Whose fault is this – Sky or Google? Presumably it's just a question of someone writing the necessary software?Hugh Ball, Eastbourne,  via emailA The Sky Go tablet app (released on 3 December) supports all Android tablets (7" and larger that run Android 4.0 or newer) apart from the Asus Transformer TF101 and Amazon Kindles. You should be able to find it if you search "Sky Go Tablet". If this doesn't work, make sure that your tablet is fully updated by going to settings and checking for any updates that may be available to the OS.Daniel is a freelance programmer for iOS and the web. He is a student and has been coding since he was eight. He is an ambassador for Young Rewired State and can be found on Twitter @DanToml. If you have a tech problem for Daniel, email tech.questions@observer.co.uk with your full name and where you live
The original Fable, released almost a decade ago, was an ambitious action role-playing game set across the medieval realm of Albion. Although not the first to do so, it also hammered home the repercussions of player choices, with the world, its inhabitants and even your character's appearance reacting to the heroism or villainy of your actions. Ten years on and, aside from a beautiful visual overhaul, not much has changed.Fable's moral quandaries were, and remain, simplistic, clearly delineated between the actions of a mawkish do-gooder and a supervillain who would put theRed Skullto shame. The combat seems dated too, keeping the basic attack/block/fire-a-magic-bolt approach and feeling sluggish for it. That the more refined system used in Fable II or III hasn't been reverse-engineered into this feels like a missed opportunity.Simple isn't neccesarily synonymous with bad, however; while seasoned players – or even those returning to Fable having played its sequels – will find little real challenge here, the game still provides an enjoyable, charming experience, gifted with a particularly British sense of humour. Equally, the inclusion of the spinoff "Lost Chapters" content and good use of the Xbox Smartglass app improves the whole package making for entertaining, if undemanding, fantasy fare.
What would you most want as only the third-ever chief executive of a gigantic global company? Probably not to have your two predecessors on the board watching your every move, and the first boss giving up his role as chairman to take a more active day-to-day role.But that is the prospect facing Satya Nadella, who is just finishing his first week as chief executive of Microsoft, where his predecessor for 14 years, Steve Ballmer, is still on the board (possibly until November) and co-founder Bill Gates (who preceded Ballmer) announcing plans to take a bigger role in the company.Of course, if Nadella, who is 46 and a 22-year veteran of the company, is unhappy with this, he hasn't had time to say so. But for someone facing a sizeable challenge, it might be a couple of distractions too many. Publicity photos showed a relaxed-looking Nadella wearing a just-casual-enough hoodie and an energised expression. But below the calm surface, there's a lot of swimming going on.Microsoft is hugely successful: it posted record revenue of $24.5bn (£15bn) for October-December 2013 and profit of $6.6bn (not a record: that came two years ago, with $7.8bn on revenue of $21.5bn). Google, however, is close behind: it has just recorded $16.9bn of revenue and $3.9bn in profit for the quarter. Its revenue has doubled in two years, its market capitalisation overtook Microsoft's at the end of 2012 – and Google gets far more attention.Microsoft has to choose whether to play it safe – focusing on the large "enterprise" customers who generate so much of its profit by buying its Office software, Server suite and Windows licences – or to go after everything else too. Its Xbox games console business may start showing a profit (the new Xbox One is selling strongly), but its Windows Phone software has been a laggard while Google's Android and Apple's iOS have roared ahead. And consumers have been turning their noses up at PCs and Windows 8 in favour of tablet computers – another area where Microsoft lags badly.In the huge consumer computing market, smartphones are the next wave. Adoption has been dramatically fast – there are about as many smartphones in use as there are PCs (1.5bn or so), with the mobile market growing much faster. How can Microsoft regain its resonance with consumer without a zippy consumer-facing brand? More important, how can it keep pace with Google, and catch up with Apple (whose iPhone generates more revenue than the whole of Microsoft)?Nadella's expertise is with those business customers, and with "cloud" services such as Azure. Gates himself suggested years ago that Microsoft could transform the world through smart services connected to the devices on our desks, in our pockets and on our wrists. But it failed to do that, and left the door open to Google, which grabbed it through smartphone services such as Google Now.Nadella needs to impress people once again with what Microsoft can do in software. It has built a search engine (Bing) from scratch; it's vying for first place in the games console market; it has large research departments with deep thinkers. Google'ssugar-sensing contact lens for diabeticshad beenannounced in 2012 by the same researcher in a project with Microsoft.But while Gates will want Nadella to rouse the troops into writing world-beating software, will he be able to stop himself interfering? Nadella needs to shake up a very politicised culture, with much warring between divisions. Ballmer began knocking down the walls; Nadella has to finish it.Gates is surely too wise to see himself as Microsoft's saviour; he's not Steve Jobs at Apple, returning to bail out the company he founded. But as long as he's bobbing along the corridors, who will truly be in charge? Nadella needs to have control. And that might mean asking Gates to take a long break while he does what he needs to for Microsoft  to recapture its mojo.A crackdown on bonuses … and City pay soarsDid the financial crisis ever happen? It's a question you may well ask yourself when you read Barclays' results on Tuesday and learn that the bank is paying out more in bonuses for 2013 than it did the year before. Despite promises of pay restraint, on Friday the bank handed out large bonuses to its 140,000 staff – for fear of them decamping to rivals – despite having tapped investors for £6bn of emergency cash last year.If you are left shaking your head in confusion, think about the following. Barclays competes on the global stage – it really does take on Wall Street titans such as Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan – and it maintains that the US banks have not been feeling pressure to cut back on pay.Also think about the EU bonus cap, which will restrict bonuses to 100% of salary, or 200% if shareholders give their approval at the annual meeting. This may well be scaring banks into handing out bigger pay deals than they might otherwise have wanted to for 2013, the last year before the limits come into force, and is also having the perverse effect of apparently pushing up the fixed part of remunerations (salary, benefits). Barclays has started to tell staff affected by the cap that they will get another payment in the form of monthly cheques this year, a kind of "allowance" to ensure they keep getting paid as much as they would have done without the bonus cap.Barclays is not alone. All banks with European operations are exploring such additional payments. It is an extraordinary situation and one that the European Banking Authority, the pan-EU regulator, is watching. In any normal world the EBA would tell the banks to stop such wheezes (even if they are perfectly legal). But it won't get much support in the UK, where chancellor George Osborne is fighting the bonus rule and Bank of England governor Mark Carney has argued all along that it will lead to just such bigger payouts and make it harder to claw back pay when things go wrong. The EU has inadvertently opened the door to a pay bonanza in the City.There's no money in first class – ask RyanairMichael O'Leary has taken a monastic vow of silence, but there are plenty of other airline bosses willing to be indiscreet in his absence. The boss of Air France-KLM broke an aviation taboo this week with the admission on every airline executive's lips: first-class cabins are a financial disaster. "No one makes money out of it. It's impossible," said Alexandre de Juniac, commenting as Norwegian Air pledged to make a profitable success of its new, low-cost operation between London and New&nbsp;York.Perhaps it is time for low-cost, long-haul air travel to make its mark. Imagine: an entire A380 filled with 550 economy-class seats; a trolley run that would last the entire flight; and a Wi-Fi service to enable mass inflight FaceTiming, texting and phone calls.Sounds like hell – but let it be a reminder to us all that, despite his recent disappearance from newsprint and the airwaves, O'Leary's legacy is still setting the agenda.
From the abstract visuals to its vowel-light Swedish name,Rymdkapseldoes not at first glance appear overly welcoming. But don't abort the mission just yet, because this space-station-building strategy title is a wonderfully accessible spin on the classic "god game" genre, and newly released for Mac, PC and Linux.The player's task is to construct and defend a community amid the stars, plotting out corridors and labs, balancing raw material supply chains, a growing workforce, and researching monoliths suspended in the heavens. Handled differently, it could have been an unwieldy beast, but such is the elegance of its design that it remains remarkably simple, and all the better for having moved from pocket devices to bigger screens.Quick to learn and play, it's simultaneously meditative and frantic, since constant tweaking is needed to maintain a harmonious space station. After a handful of hours you will likely have seen all it has to offer, but Rymdkapsel is so rewarding that returning is never a chore.
Much like the now thriving console indie scene, the App Store has allowed developers to take risks and come up with fantastically diverse titles. Whether requiring the manipulation of your mind or your fingers, there's a staggering variety of mobile games to be enjoyed.The Room Two(Fireproof, iOS, £1.99) is the sequel to the original critically lauded, and Bafta-winning, title – meshing fiendish puzzles with a detailed story to create a tense horror-puzzler. Like its predecessor, you tackle puzzle boxes – but now there's more than one, with different objects and rooms to interact with – ramping up the difficulty but retaining the tactile nature of the challenge. An oppressive sense of fear permeates the game – and it's this haunting atmosphere that truly lifts this puzzler above the mind-bending pack.'Joyjoy': Lollipop 3: Eggs of Doom.Lollipop 3: Eggs of Doom(Moonbot, iOS, free) couldn't be more different in its look and feel – all bright primary colours and, as the game puts it, "joyjoy". You're tasked with releasing happiness into the world by catching the various eggs that drop down into the world and holding them with a fingertip until they hatch into puppies, kittens and other cheerful things. Easy enough with one, but when you're using all your digits to incubate multiple eggs and an evil vegetable emerges that must be flicked from the screen it becomes finger-twistingly tricky.
A few weeks ago I bought a copy ofThe Second Machine Ageby two MIT researchers,Erik BrynjolfssonandAndrew McAfee, who are two of the most insightful commentators currently writing about the likely impact on employment of advanced robotics, machine learning and big-data analytics. Since I already own more physical books than my house and office can hold, I tend now to buy the Kindle version of texts that are relevant to my work, and so it was with the Brynjolfsson and McAfee volume.Yesterday, I received a cheery email from Amazon. "Hello John Naughton," it read. "An updated version of your past Kindle purchase ofThe Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologiesby Erik Brynjolfsson is now available. The updated version contains the following changes: Improved formatting for readability. Significant editorial changes have been made. You can receive the improved versions of all your books by opting in to receive book updates automatically."Note the phrase, "significant editorial changes have been made". In their book, Brynjolfsson and McAfee use Ernest Hemingway's observation about how a man goes broke – "gradually and then suddenly" – as a metaphor for what's been happening in the part of the technological world that concerns them. "Progress on some of the oldest and toughest challenges associated with computers, robots and other digital gear," they write, "was gradual for a long time. Then in the past few years it became sudden; digital gear started racing ahead, accomplishing tasks it had always been lousy at and displaying skills it was not supposed to acquire any time soon."This process of slow and relatively unobtrusive change followed by a tipping point and then very rapid change seems to apply to many areas of information technology. We saw it, for example, in the way in which SMS bumped along for years until pre-pay tariffs arrived and suddenly teenagers could have mobile phones. Often the factor that marks the tipping point is when a particular device, service or technology becomes networked. In the case of the book, for example, early developments such as CD-Rom had relatively small impacts on the book trade (except in the case of reference works). Likewise, at the beginning, ebooks – texts in electronic form – were very much a minority sport. I had a Sony e-reader in the early days, but getting texts on to it was a bit of a pain and so, in the end, it came to seem like an expensive paperweight.What changed the ebook scene was not the actual device but the emergence of a networked ecosystem of which the device was just one component. The significant thing about Amazon's Kindle was not that it was an e-reader but that it was a networked device to which texts could be quickly and effortlessly downloaded from Amazon's online store. Once that tipping point had been passed a whole raft of interesting – and disruptive – possibilities begin to emerge.For example, reading a Kindle book can be – depending on one's preferences settings – a solitary or a communal experience. You can, for example, see the passages that other readers of the same book have highlighted. And they, in turn, can see yours. If you have bought a book in the Kindle store, you can then read it on any smartphone, tablet or computer on which you have installed the Kindle app. And when you switch to a different device you can pick up from where you were reading the text on another device. And so on.There are, of course, downsides to all this. There always are: networking is a two-edged sword. Amazon, for example, could remotely delete "your" book – as it did in at least one celebrated case. But the other side of that coin is the fact that a Kindle book, in contrast to a printed work, can be fluid, malleable – fungible almost. In the print world, we are accustomed to the idea of discrete editions of a text. But an ebook could have a new edition every month, or indeed every week.For fast-changing subjects (such as information technology) that might be very helpful – in which case the argument for physically printing such texts looks increasingly shaky. It will be amazing if, in 10 years' time, undergraduates will still be lugging round the astonishingly heavy textbooks that weigh down the rucksacks of today's students. For authors, the fact that it will technically be possible continually to update their books may be a mixed blessing. After all, one of the consolations of traditional authorship&nbsp;is that when a book is published, it's finished. There's that moment when the first hardbound copies come back from the publisher and one thinks: "Well, that's that: now on to the next thing." And for the reader there are new dilemmas. Such as what exactly are these "significant editorial changes" that Brynjolfsson and McAfee made?
Oculus Rift Sex SimulatorWhat do you get when you combine a robotic arm, anOculus Riftheadset and a tube (for want of a better word)? A fully immersive sex simulator called the VR Tenga. First demonstrated in November at a conference in Japan, the VR Tenga finally makes it possible to receive a "robot handjob", which adds a new dimension to the idea of robots taking over our jobs.Shame factorProbably best to tell people you only use your Oculus Rift for gaming.His and hers teledildonicsMove aside, sexting and phone sex, now you and your partner can have a physical connection from opposite sides of planet. LovePalz's "his and hers" sex toys connect via the internet and replicate the actions of each person on the other device. Which could get awkward if someone figures out how to hack these things.Shame factorJust make sure the other device doesn't fall into the wrong, er, hands.Turn your fingertips into supercharged vibratorsEver thought wondered what sex would be like if your fingertips could vibrate? Wonder no more! The HelloTouch wearable vibrator fits like a glove and places vibrating motors on your fingertips, giving you the magic touch in the bedroom.Shame factorTime to discover that bionic fetish you've kept bottled up inside.Don't have any of this high-tech equipment to hand? Use your phone or your iPad!The Sexy Vibes Android app hijacks your phone's vibrating function, using it for pleasure instead of text alerts. An iPad accessory still in development  allows you to attach a Fleshlight device to your iPad and so have sex with it.Shame factorDon't ask me to answer your phone for you.Google Glass Sex AppIf there's anything missing from sex, it's the ability to stare at ourselves during the act. Enter Sex with Glass, a Google Glass app that promises to solve this dire problem. With both partners wearing Google Glass, the app creates a shared livestream, allowing you to experience the other person's perspective.Shame factorLose the hat, but you can leave your glasses on.
'Daddy coming in&nbsp;the Bentley car," my not-quite-two-year-old boy has been saying to his nursery teachers. Jesus, that's a&nbsp;bit embarrassing. And anyway, he's not. They took awaythe Bentley car, brought Daddy a Dacia Duster instead. Daddy's come in the Duster car, how do you like that?"Don't like the Duster car," whines Wollaston Jr, spoiltly. "Like&nbsp;the Bentley car." Oi, stop it.To be fair to him, the Duster car isn't so nice, and testing one of the cheapest cars on the road straight after one of the most expensive is a&nbsp;bit of a culture shock. Just opening the door is a totally different experience; it's light, like opening the door of the shed, and there's no reassuringly expensive clunk. There are no televisions in the back; you even have to wind down your own windows back there, by hand. Imagine it, the ignominy. It also feels more like a shed to drive: insubstantial, a little noisy, not quick.On the plus side, it costs approximately a 15th of the price. Yes, one 15th – for half the comfort and half the speed. That's&nbsp;not bad, from a mathematical point of view.The Dacia Duster is a bargain: SUV poise and space – not bad-looking, either – for the price of a supermini (they start at £9,495). And because Dacia is owned by and shares parts with Renault, you won't find an ill-treated Romanian donkey chained up where the engine should be. It's&nbsp;French… No, only kidding, hahaha, it's an engine, a Renault engine (a&nbsp;capable 1.5-litre diesel in&nbsp;this case).We're finding it all more than adequate, functional, cheerful even. And actually, on a short journey, such as from nursery back home, it's quicker than the previous car. How so, when that did 0-60mph in 4.3&nbsp;seconds and had a top speed of 200mph? Yes, but this is quicker to get away, there's no electronic parking brakes, or unfolding of wing mirrors; you just go. Then we can bounce cheerfully over the speed bumps without a&nbsp;care in the world. And at the other end we don't have to find a vast parking space, or worry sick about kerbing expensive alloys. Door-to-door, the journey takes about half the time, I'd say. They should use that in their marketing. "Twice as quick as a Bentley" (with "on the school run" in small print). "For a&nbsp;15th of the price."As for you in the back, Little Lord Fauntleroy, get used to it, to the real world. And maybe tell them Daddy'll be coming in the Dacia tomorrow. Pronounced Datch-ya, by the way. Duster car's probably easier. That's a silly name, though. Sounds as if it should be up against not a&nbsp;Bentley but a Dyson.Dacia Duster Ambiance dCi 110 4x2Price£11,995Top speed106mphAcceleration 0-62mph in 11.6 secondsCombined fuel consumption56.5mpgCO2emissions130g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating7/10
The smartphone is arguably one of the most transformational advances in health care we have seen in recent years. This little device gives us access to a technological wonderland – the health app, and there are more than 50,000 to chose from.There areblood-pressure cuffs connected to a smartphone; sensors attached to phones that can collect myriad biological data; apps that monitor blood sugar, analyse sleep, measure pulse and respiratory rate.As a GP, I understand the power of this new technology and I welcome the control it gives my patients – making shared decision-making and self-care a reality (and bringing fun into it). But I also am wary of  overestimating the power of apps – either to change behaviour or improve health. Measuring bodily functions isn't everything. What can be measured doesn't always matter – a small drop or rise in blood pressure is neither here nor there. Doctors do more than process data – and while this technology is powerful and amazing, we must never forget that medicine is an art, as well as a science.1)British National Formulary Mobile App£165 for two-year subscriptionThe BNF is the doctors' Bible, containing information on thousands of medicines – their indications, contra-indications, side-effects, doses and much more. Now instead of being contained in an ever-increasingly large book, this little app saves time and space and improves patient safety by making sure I prescribe the right medicine to my patients.2)NHS Choices Drinks TrackeriPhone, freeDoes what it says. You enter what you drink and it calculates this into units of alcohol. It helps track how much one is drinking and gives free personalised feedback. I strongly recommend it. Using it often leads to reducing consumption – as the harsh reality of how much one drinks is brought home. Another app I'd recommend isDrink Coach.3) Instant Heart Rate MonitoriPhone,Android,Windows; free-$1.99A bit of fun – but not sure what actual use this one might have. However, for those fitness addicts who need instant affirmation of their fitness, this app is for you. Just touching the camera lens with your finger gives you your pulse rate.4) The Walk-GameiPhone, £2.49Android £2.59A fitness tracker that gamifies walking. You're told a bomb has exploded at Inverness station and you have to transport a package the length of the UK by foot to save the world. The app is being evaluated by King's College London to see its effectiveness in increasing walking in patients with rheumatoid problems. Anything that gets people walking – given the obesity epidemic we face, must be a good thing.5) Sleep CycleiPhone 69pOne of my favourites and one I recommend to many patients who suffer from insomnia. This app monitors sleep pattern, tells you how long you are in deep sleep and how long in light sleep. It tells you how many hours you actually are asleep – which is a lot longer than many patients think, and it wakes you up in the lightest phase of sleep so you can start the day feeling relaxed and rested.6) The Big White Wall£24 per monthThis is provides users with online support for mental health problems. It provides a safe space to share experiences and get support – from real (not virtual) people. The site is monitored 24/7 by moderators. The only down side is that it is subscription only – though some health service areas  pay for their local population to use it.7) Diabetes Risk CheckeriPhone, Android; 69pDeveloped by UK doctors and academics, this app works out your risk of developing type 2 diabetes in the next 10 years by asking you a series of simple questions. Being able to predict if you are risk of diabetes should lead to a change in behaviour.8) SlidersiPhone, 69pSliders allows you to track how you feel about your wellbeing, energy levels, sleep etc, using questions you can set yourself and simple sliders to input the answers. It then creates graphs that give you some insight into your highs and lows.9) Phobia FreeiPhone £2.49This app aims to cure users of arachnophobia. It uses "'systematic desensitisation" – mainly showing sufferers a series of picture of spiders, from drawings to an interactive tarantula. Created with the help of a psychiatrist, the app has recently been approved by the NHS.10) Headache Diary ProAndroid £1.99,WindowsEnables you to track your headaches: when they start and end, how severe they are, which area of the head you feel them and which medication you take. This can help build up a picture of what triggers them and how you might change your behaviour to reduce them. This app is recommended by the NHS – itsHealth Apps Libraryis also a good place when looking for medical apps.
Games currently doing the rounds includeUnepic(Wii U), the lighthearted formerly PC-only RPG-cum-platform game about a Dungeons &amp; Dragons player whose lavatory break transports him to a mythical realm; andDead Rising 3: Operation Broken EagleDLC (Xbox One), which is a short, boring, overpriced extra piece of single-player action for Capcom's zombie slaughter simulator. Coming later this year isLoading Human, a point-and-click adventure for PC, which its developer describes as "Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind meets Monkey Island in virtual reality". In it you inhabit the body of a writer, listen to his thoughts and use the Oculus Rift headset to see through his eyes as you re-experience his memories before being allowed to download his consciousness into a robot so he can be reunited with his dead wife! Promisingly surreal sci-fi lunacy.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewPoor Lara Croft. If she's not being impaled on metalwork or chased by gun-toting cultists, she's falling down a mud slide into someone's cadaver-strewn subterranean lair.In this, the Definitive Edition, the developers are particularly proud of graphical tweaks that let you see the blood, mud, and her more realistic-looking hair. In practice you'd be hard-pressed to notice much difference, except that her coiffure looks shampoo-ad fresh, even after frequent dunking in oily sludge. It's a great game and is well worth playing if you missed it the first time round, however – those locks apart – there's nothing new here.
Originally released in Japan in 1986, Super Mario Bros: The Lost Levels never made it as far as Europe, so it's only now that you can find out what you've been missing. Riffing on the original 8-bit Super Mario Bros, platforming action in The Lost Levels starts out very difficult and quickly becomes rock solid. As an early work of Nintendo's game design genius, Shigeru Miyamoto, it's brilliantly made, although you'll need some skills to see most of it. It's an interesting contrast with next month's prettier and far more forgiving Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, which is also coming to Wii U.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewBardbarian carries an axe that he plays like a lute. Using brief axe-lute solos to summon followers to lead into battle, you drag your finger around the screen to herd them out of harm's way, while protecting your base from attack. Gold earned at the end of each fight is used to upgrade your town, paying shops to stay open and supply you with delicious life-giving bacon, and toughening up your hero or his many classes of warrior-assistant, ranging from ninjas to necromancers who turn felled enemies into friendly exploding zombies. Playing is an unlikely-sounding mixture of RPG, tower defence and bullet-hell shooter, which works thanks to Bardbarian's admirable polish and refinement.
One of the most popular games on Apple’s App Store during February was built using a $10 template in a game-making program, the Guardian has discovered.Red Bouncing Ball Spikeswas made using the GameSalad program but with only very minor changes to a standard template.The game is now the third most downloaded app in the US and 33 in the UK, and costs £0.69 in the UK app store and $0.99 in the US app store.One of a wave of simple games inspired by the inexplicably popularFlappy Birdon the iOS App Store,Red Bouncing Ball Spikesis based almost entirely onRed Ball Template, a simple pre-made game which is available for download on the GameSalad website.GameSalad is a development platform for making mobile games, which streamlines the process of creating a game and releasing it on multiple platforms. Using the software, much of the programming can be done in a simple drag-and-drop interface. The platform also enables a developer marketplace, where graphics, audio, and whole game templates can be bought.The game was first uploaded to the App Store December 2012, but has shot up the charts since an update on 30 January.Red Bouncing Ball Spikes is at number three in the US paid-for apps chart. Photograph: iTunesRed Ball Template is one of the simplest assets available on the GameSalad site, sold for just $9.99. More complex packages, such as the “Super Mega Game Pack”, can cost hundreds of dollars. But Red Ball Template was designed as more of a tutorial, demonstrating a key feature of GameSalad to other developers. That hasn’t stopped thousands of users downloading the app, at a cost of a dollar each – although after nine reviews, it only has a three-star rating.It takesaround 4,000 downloadsto hit the top 10 paid apps on the app store, meaning that, including Apple’s 30% cut, the developer of the app has made back their money 277 times over.“The iOS games charts have always been of dubious quality,” says Craig Grannel,an iOS games journalist, “but the paid charts historically been harder to crack. I’ve no idea why something as dire as Red Bouncing Ball Spikes is zooming up the chart, and it sets off my suspicion alarm.“If not, it merely shows quality doesn’t count for much these days (did it ever?), that Apple should make more of an effort to push great titles on its stores (instead of regularly giving very prominent placement to grindy freemium rubbish).“The charts are self-perpetuating, especially on iOS devices where browsing is sub-par. In other words, once something gets wedged in the charts, it’s hard to shift, because that’s where people look first for new games.“Right now, there’s a disconnect: charts are too prominent, and although Apple’s end-of-year selection was mostly excellent (Device 6, Ridiculous Fishing, Badland, XCOM, Impossible Road, Plants vs. Zombies 2), the day-to-day selection too often focuses on exploitative freemium titles. Although at least Flappy Bird hasn’t (yet) got an Editor’s Choice award…”Neither GameSalad nor the developer of Red Bouncing Ball Spikes, Louis Leidenfrost, responded to requests for comment.•Flappy Bird is not the new Angry Birds
To add to all the advice being ladled out to Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s new chief, here’s another piece: stop bothering with Windows Phone. It’s a waste of money which will never pay off.Instead, focus the efforts of Microsoft and soon-to-be subsidiary Nokia on forking Android – because that way you can exploit the huge number of Chinese handset makers who want to burst out of China and sell to the rest of the world.Here’s the thing: Windows Phone was too late in coming to the smartphone race: when it was released in October 2010, the starting gun had long been fired. The race had been on for years before Microsoft showed up with a competitive product, and that meant the rival ecosystems had plenty of time to capture markets.Late to the raceYou can argue over whether Apple fired the gun in January 2007 by showing off the iPhone - which certainly seems to havegalvanised Andy Rubin’s team at Google to rewrite Android for a touch screenrather than a keyboard, as set out in Fred Vogelstein’s book Dogfight, or whether Google fired it by announcing the Open Handset Alliance andreleasing the Android open source in October 2008, or whether BlackBerry and Nokia had done it years before with their offerings. It doesn’t matter. The fact is that no mobile OS announced since 2009 has made any significant impact on the landscape for smartphone use.In the US, Android and iOSmake up 93% of the installed base of smartphones, with Microsoft on 3.1%, at a time when 65% of mobile phone users wield a smartphone. The remaining 35% will be increasingly difficult to reach, and likely less interested in using a smartphone. Windows Phone has arrived too late for them.In reality, Windows Phone has a very small user base; Paul Thurrottestimated it recently at 50mworldwide, which sounds reasonable. Compare that, though, against more than 500m iPhones and, conservatively, 800m Android phones (usingfigures from Flurry from mid-2013) - or perhaps a billion Android phones including those in China which don’t use Google services - and you realise that Windows Phone hasn’t just got a mountain to climb; it’s a sheer overhanging cliff.At this point someone is certain to say “Aha! ButWindows Phone is outselling iPhones in 24 countries!” This comes under the heading of “true (at the time the data was collected, which was just ahead of a new iPhone launch), but irrelevant”. The reality is that in every single one of those countries, Android is outselling Windows Phone. And the iPhone is outselling Android in one country - Japan (always a law unto itself, phone-wise).However, there are no countries where Windows Phone is outselling both Android handsetsandthe iPhone. Because it is always selling fewer than one or the other (or both, as is the case in many big European countries), it is continually falling further behind the three real mobile ecosystems (Google Android, non-Google Android in China, iOS). The chances of Nokia on its own ever catching the iPhone for installed base - which, remember, is the total of phones in peoples’ hands that has accumulated over years, not one month’s sales - in key territories such as the US and Europe are below minimal.In the US, a key market for all sorts of things, there are presently 65 million iPhones users and 80 million Android users, according to ComScore - and 4.8 million Windows Phone users. There are 83 million featurephone users left. If you truly believe Windows Phone will capture those remaining users in any significant amount, or persuade large numbers of Android and iPhone users to abandon their handset, your faith is touching, but surely misplaced. Windows Phone isnice enough. But this is about reality.US smartphone installed base, by platform, to December 2013. Windows Phone has fewer than 5m users; Android, 80m; iPhone, 65m. Source: ComScore. Photograph: Guardian/ComScoreThat red line struggling to take off? That’s the background to the problem. Now, what about the solution?Killing Windows Phone would be dramatic. But it’s a distraction at a time when Microsoft needs focus. As someone who has come from the cloud side of the business, Satya Nadella knows about providing services. (It’s said that Apple’s iCloud uses Microsoft’s Azure for some of its services.) As someone running a company which is going to focus on “devices and services” (via Steve Ballmer), the question is: which do you want to make your money from?Services everywhereApple’s good at devices, so-so at services. Google’s nowhere in devices, top-notch at services. Where does Microsoft want to be? As John Gruberargues, it should be trying to offer Microsoft services on every device, everywhere:Satya Nadella needs to find Microsoft’s new “a computer on every desk and in every home running Microsoft software”. Here’s my stab at it: Microsoft services, sending data to and from every networked device in the world. The next ubiquity isn’t running on every device, it’s talking to every device.So how does dumping Windows Phone and forking Android achieve that? First, it means that Microsoft doesn’t simply waste the money and talent from the Nokia mobile acquisition. Nokia’s expertise is in hardware and the supply chain. Microsoft’s is with software.Forking Android wouldn’t be trivial, but Microsoft could take the Android Open Source Platform (AOSP) that is already widely used in China and put new services on top. It is already licensing Here maps from Nokia (the bit that’s not being sold to it). It could add its own mail client and app store. It has its own search engine, Bing, which has needed a major mobile deal. As with Windows Phone, setting up or signing in to an outlook.com email account could be your first step. Everything’s ready.Most useful of all, developers who have written Android apps would be able to port them over with minimal effort - as has happened with Amazon’s Kindle Fire effort. (That also uses Nokia’s maps.) Microsoft already knows how to run an app store. There’s also the example of BlackBerry, which in its desperate efforts to create an attractive app store for BB10 (launched in 2013, and so at least five years late) has made Android compatibility a major playing point. (BlackBerry’s problem is that it can’t sell enough handsets.)After all, what’s been the biggest complaint about Windows Phone? Not enough apps. The handsets have been fine (that’s Nokia’s expertise) but the wildly popular apps for Android and iOS haven’t been ported. Going with AOSP would suddenly bring those in reach. And developers would love having a parallel customer base to reach.Plus it would make shifting from a Google Android phone to a Microsoft phone (now on AOSP) a lot simpler - and that’s what Microsoft wants to do. At present it’s a tough job persuading rival users to migrate.Though existing members of the Open Handset Alliance (that is, those handset makers who make devices with Google services installed) wouldn’t be able to sell Microsoft-Android handsets, there are plenty in China who would be happy to – and make them in volume. They could be additive to Nokia’s business, which could focus on the high end (where its cameras excel, but volumes are limited) while Chinese vendors aim for the rest of the market.Nokia did consider going with Android - butStephen Elop, then in charge, decided that Samsung was likely to crowd others out. Certainly, that has happened, but there is a large and thriving market of handset vendors in China who would like to expand beyond their borders.The patent carrotOne other carrot that Microsoft could dangle: it could promise to not demand patent royalties from Android manufacturers which come over to its version. Microsoft has been busily suing the members of Google’s OHA, demanding (and getting) licensing payments for patents that it claiims over Android use on handsets and other devices. So far, it has around 20 companies (including Samsung and HTC) signed up, andJan Dawson of Jackdaw Research calculates(based on some easily-overlooked details in Microsoft SEC filings) that it is heading towards being a billion-dollar business.By offering not to charge for patent licensing, Microsoft could make its forked Android much more attractive to handset companies, because they wouldn’t have a per-device overhead, which seems to average out to a few dollars per device. That doesn’t sound much, but it can be the Micawber-ish difference between profit and loss for a handset maker.ConclusionWindows Phone was a wonderful project, but it was too late; the benefits of integration across handset, tablet and desktop simply haven’t appeared. The vast majority of people who use a desktop PC don’t use a Windows smartphone, and there’s no chance of that changing any time soon - or ever, actually.AOSP offers Microsoft the chance to remake its mobile strategy so that it exploits all the strengths of its most bitter rival – it’s free, widely available – and grab mobile developer interest. An all-out war between Microsoft and Google using the Android platform would be absolutely fascinating; both would be pressed on their strengths and weaknesses. For Microsoft, presently a distant third in this race, it could be the answer it needs.It’s highly likely smarter minds have already considered this – and thatNokia’s “Normandy” phone, said to run Android, is the first beachhead in this war. (The codename would make sense.)My only fear is that while Nadella might have the vision and audacity to do this, that one voice in the Microsoft boardroom would resist throwing away years of effort. But let’s hope if this idea comes up that Bill Gates, in his new role as “technical adviser”, will see the potential in it - and won’t reject it as being “un-Microsoft”. Microsoft has tried that, and it hasn’t worked. Now it needs to try something that will.•Satya Nadella’s in-tray
Google has nailed its colours to the mast over Russia's gay rights record in a new Google doodle, which is dedicated to the Olympic charter.The internet company's logo was presented in the colours of the rainbow flag and also featured images of Winter Games events. The build-up to the Sochi Games, the opening ceremony of which takes place on Friday, has been disrupted by a debate over the apparent conflict between the central principles of the Games and anti-gay laws in Russia.The doodle linked to search results for "Olympic charter" and quoted from it: "The practice of sport is a human right. Every individual must have the possibility of practicing sport, without discrimination of any kind and in the Olympic spirit, which requires mutual understanding with a spirit of friendship, solidarity and fair play."There have been widespread protests over the decision to hold the Games in Russia, which bans providing information on homosexuality to under-18s by law. Gay rights activists in 19 cities across the world spoke out earlier this week.And, in a speech to the International Olympic Committee on Thursday, the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, spoke out against attacks on the LGBT community. He said that "many professional athletes, gay and straight, are speaking out against prejudice".
Next week my daughters turn five. They are growing up in a radically different world to the one I knew when I was a kid. I was one of the generation inspired by the first wave of home computers: I taught myself to program on a ZX81, then a BBC Micro. Those early computers were glacially slow, had almost no storage and you had to write code to get them to do even the simplest task.Today, I have a computer in my pocket that is more than 100,000 times faster and has 10,000,000 times more memory than a ZX81. It is connected to every other computer on the planet and can access virtually every piece of human knowledge ever created, nearly instantaneously. The pace of change in computing is extraordinary.Britain has a proud history of excellence in computing. All modern computers are based on the theoretical and practical work ofAlan Turing, one of the true geniuses of the 20th century. The home-computer boom of the 1980s set many of us on a course that would see Brits helping run major technology companies across the world. The world wide web was created bySir Tim Berners-Lee.Somewhere in the mid 1990s, we lost our way. The education system largely ignored the explosive growth of computing and the internet, instead focusing on teaching students how to write Word documents. Instead of a nation of builders and entrepreneurs, we were content for our children to become also-rans on the technology stage.We at theYear of Codeare going to help change that. The newcomputing curriculumstarts this September, and it puts coding at the heart of IT education. Coding is the art of telling a computer how to perform complex tasks. Once you know how to code, you can create virtual worlds within the computer where the only limit on what is possible is your imagination. We want to put this power into the hands and hearts of every child in Britain.Anyone can learn to code. In a few hours you can pick up the basic skills and in a few weeks you will be able to build useful applications and websites.In the last few years, the UK has finally woken up to the importance of coding. Organisations likeYoung Rewired State,Code ClubandCode Academyhave led the way, helping young people learn these key skills.Why is it so vital that we teach our children to code? We are already living in a world dominated by software. Your telephone calls go over software-controlled networks; your television is delivered over the internet; people don’t buy maps anymore, they use the web; we all shop online. The next generation’s world will be even more online and digital. Soon, your house will be controlled with software, some of your medical care will be delivered over the web and your car may even drive itself.Software is the language of our worldSoftware is becoming a critical layer of all our lives. It is the language of our world. In the future, not knowing the language of computers will be as challenging as being illiterate or innumerate are today.Will every job in the future involve programming? No. But it is still crucial that every child learns to code.This is not primarily about equipping the next generation to work as software engineers, it is about promotingcomputational thinking. Computational thinking is how software engineers solve problems. It combines mathematics, logic and algorithms, and teaches you a new way to think about the world.Computational thinking teaches you how to tackle large problems by breaking them down into a sequence of smaller, more manageable problems. It allows you to tackle complex problems in efficient ways that operate at huge scale. It involves creating models of the real world with a suitable level of abstraction, and focus on the most pertinent aspects. It helps you go from specific solutions to general ones.The applications of this approach stretch beyond writing software. Fields as diverse as mechanical engineering, fluid mechanics, physics, biology, archeology and music are applying the computational approach. In business we are beginning to understand that markets often follow rules that can be discerned using computational analysis.Computational thinking is a skill that everyone should learn. Even if you never become a professional software engineer, you will benefit from knowing how to think this way. It will help you understand and master technology of all sorts and solve problems in almost any discipline.UK coding culture on the riseThe Year of Code is an amazing initiative and one I am very proud to be supporting. It brings together computer scientists, entrepreneurs, business leaders and political thinkers to promote the education of our children for the world to come. The aim is to ensure that every British school child learns to code; not in a decade from now, but next school year. The charity will help train teachers on the new curriculum and promote the growth of a coding culture in the UK.The diversity of the project’s leadership and supporters is a great strength. The technology entrepreneur community strongly supports this effort as you can see from the list of advisers on the website. We are people with decades of deep technical experience, who understand the challenge involved in learning a new approach. We have members who have been pushing for coding in schools for years as well as new converts to the cause. This breadth stands us in good stead to accomplish a huge amount this year.We will help teach coding to every school child in the land. We will be teaching coding to anyone, of any age, who wants to learn. We are investing in Britain’s future. Will you join us?Dr Dan Crow is chief technology officer of Songkick, visiting professor of computer science at Leeds University and adviser to the Year of Code
Swan building the nest:'Collaboration male and female swan working together'. Photograph: garethnprice/GuardianWitnessLinking to the modern world:'Staying in the Chinese mountain village of Ping'An, we decided to walk through the rice terraces and to the next village. En route we came across a group of 3 or 4 men putting up wires to the higher buildings of the rice terraces. They were happy for us to photograph them at work and as the rice terraces were not in their 'glorious green' at the time, the people added colour and character to the scenes'. Photograph: cavegirluk/GuardianWitnessOlympic Site Under Construction:'Stratford. August 2011'. Photograph: freddygunn/GuardianWitnessStork's Nest:'As seen on a rooftop in Endingen, Germany. Photo taken using Canon EOS 5D Mark ll (200mm, f6.3, 1/500s iso 100)'. Photograph: Jenny Downing/GuardianWitnessTeamwork:'Wasps building their nest around the eggs laid'. Photograph: hennetjie/GuardianWitnessPath Construction 2:'During the Kumbh Mela 2013, the workers who were supposed to have finished making the whole camp hadn't done so even after we had been there for a week. This meant that it was up to our rishikumars to finish building the path. After a lot of messing around, they finally completed it and the whole place was finally finished'. Photograph: kalyanil/GuardianWitnessMen at Work.Photograph: incognito_traveler/GuardianWitnessNew boardwalk at Thursley Common NNR:'I love the way this new boardwalk over some boggy areas at Thursley common NNR has been constructed along an old hedge line to wrap around the existing trees and seems to float above surrounding marsh. Very popular with the local lizards too when the sun gets up a bit more'. Photograph: DaveRoberts/GuardianWitnessCrane:'Saw this crane on our resent trip to Santa Monica, CA. They were working on new supporting pillars along the pier. Used my iPhone camera app with one of its filters'. Photograph: vla7007/GuardianWitnessConstruction on Reclaimed Land, Central, Hong Kong 2010:'This shows ongoing construction on reclaimed land on the site of the old (now demolished) Star Ferry Pier in Central, Hong Kong'. Photograph: terencech/GuardianWitness
Wondering why a hand-drawn picture of a happy shiba inu surrounded by broken English in Comic Sans ended up on page 27 of today's Guardian? The simple answer is advertising.For those who don't recognise the image, above, it's an example of the doge meme – in this case, a newspaper-themed one, hence captions such as "Brekin newz: cates r ilegal" (breaking news: cats are illegal) and "pls red" (please read).It ended up in the financial pages of the paper thanks to a business data startup called DueDil, which won a competition run by theGuardian small business network."We were surprised that the Guardian would let us do it," explains DueDil's chief executive, Damian Kimmelman."We got the £50,000 [of advertising space, the prize in the competition] and we were like: 'Oh crap, how are we going to spend this money?' We debated, and decided on Friday we were going to do something funny. We don't really need the advertising anymore, we get enough traffic as it is.""I personally thought that doge was hilarious."DueDil isnow offering the next two ad slots to smaller businesses. Despite the fact that the initial advert has no indication at all of who ran it, Kimmelman was confident someone would work it out."The internet has a real good way of connecting things. We weren't going to release it, because what's the fun in claiming it? The internet loves a puzzle."
Sony Micro Television– Before the dawn of the pocket TV, Sony made the world’s smallest and lightest TV, first introduced in 1959. Some models could be run on batteries making them truly portable.  Photograph: Keystone/Getty ImagesSony Walkman– Arguably the most iconic music player ever made, the Sony Walkman was originally called the “Soundabout” in the US and the “Stowaway” in the UK. Launched in 1979, the original portable audio cassette player prototype was created by an audio engineer because the Sony co-chairman at the time wanted to listen to operas during his frequent pan-Pacific plane trips. By 2009,more than 385m had been sold. (Apple’s iPod narrowly passed that total last Christmas, to hit 388m.) Photograph: REXSony Watchman- Introduced in 1982, the Sony Watchman was one of the first pocket TVs with a 5cm greyscale display. It made its way to Europe by 1984 and was only discontinued in 2000.Photograph: Joe Haupt/flickrSony Discman –The Discman first took CDs portable in 1984, only five years after the release of cassette Walkman and only two years after the release of the first audio CD.Photograph: JJ Zúñiga/flickrSony Handycam– First introduced in 1985, the Handycam used the new small 8mm video cassette tape format,Video8. It was much smaller and more portable than the previous bulky and shoulder-mounted cameras using Betamax.Photograph: mr.g2003/flickrSony MiniDisc– Sony’s MiniDisc, first released in 1992, attempted to create a digital version of the analogue audio cassette by shrinking an optical disc and sticking it in a hardy plastic shell. The format died in 2013 with the discontinuation of the MD player.Photograph: Rae Allen/flickrSony PlayStation– Introduced in 1994, the original Sony PlayStation started life as a joint project between Nintendo and Sony to create a CD-ROM for the Super Nintendo. Nintendo pulled out over a revenue split argument, which infuriated Sony's president Norio Ohga who then committed to making a console specifically to rival Nintendo.Photograph: Nicholas Wang/flickrSony Aibo– Sony’s robotic dog, the Aibo, was one of the first consumer robots and launched in 1999. These “entertainment robots” were described as “the most sophisticated product ever offered in the consumer robot marketplace” by Carnegie Mellon University. They were way ahead of their time and were discontinued in 2006 in an effort to cut costs. Photograph: Nicolas Asfouri/EPASony Clié– In 2000, Sony’s Clié took the Palm OS pocket computer platform and turned it into a powerhouse smartphone predecessor, with cameras, folding keyboards and high-resolution displays.Photograph: Julien Houbrechts/flickrSony Vaio X505– An “ultrabook” before ultrabooks existed, the $3,000 Sony Vaio X505 was one of the thinnest computers in 2004 at only 9.7mm thick. It weighed just 822g with a nickel-carbon body and was the first laptop to sport the isolated key "chiclet" keyboard, way before Apple launched the MacBook Air.Photograph: Dylan T. Moore/flickrSony Rolly– A 2007 evolution of Sony’s robotics efforts, the Rolly was a digital music player that could roll around on a table and “dance” to music. Its closable speaker ports gave the impression of arms, which combined with lights and the ability to spin, allowed users to choreograph complex movements to specific tracks. Photograph: Yuriko Nakao/ReutersSony Xperia Z and Tablet Z– Sony's first waterproof Android smartphone and tablet, the Xperia Z series showed Sony could produce really great mobile products again.Sony PlayStation 4– Thelatest iteration of the PlayStation, the PS4 was launched in November 2013 and had sold 4.2m units by the end of the year. It is currently locked in a battle withMicrosoft's Xbox One, which launched about the same time. Photograph: Toshifumi Kitamura/AFP/Getty Images
On a Monday in January, I visited the front page&nbsp;ofthe social news site Redditto learn that, very occasionally, lobsters are pulled from the sea that are both orange and blue, the colours dividing in a neat line along the spine. Bottles of 7Up are used to contain a mood drug calledlithium citrate. Somebody pointed out that, to&nbsp;get&nbsp;drinking glasses properly clean, it was best&nbsp;to use Sellotape to remove smudges. An&nbsp;eight-year-old girl had been detained wearing a suicide vest in Afghanistan, and there was a photograph of a commuter reading a tantric sex&nbsp;guide on the tube.Like many people, around 7m on this particular Monday, I look in on reddit.com often, to see what happens to be capturing the imagination of this vast online community at any&nbsp;given moment. The people who run Reddit&nbsp;call it "the front page of the internet", bravado they can back up because more than 100&nbsp;million unique users visit every month. A&nbsp;link&nbsp;that appears on Reddit's front page, sparely&nbsp;rendered in blueVerdanaon a white background, will send traffic stampeding wherever it points.Gawker, an influential online voice in its own right,has called Reddit "the single dominant force in internet culture today"."It's unpredictable, and that's powerful," Reddit's general manager, Erik Martin, told me. Martin runs the site with three dozen colleagues out of a cluttered office in San Francisco: pot plants, postcards, blinds drawn against the sun. "When I&nbsp;rolled up this morning and checked on Reddit, I&nbsp;had no idea what was going to be on the front page. And I think that's rarer and rarer. If I go on Facebook, or Twitter, or Google News, I basically know what I'm going to see. But on Reddit…"But on Reddit there might bean item about&nbsp;multicoloured lobsters. The site is an  ever-revising digest of distraction, dealing in new&nbsp;news and old, intriguing facts; in pictures, videos, songs; in broad jokes, subtle jokes, in-jokes; in questions, answers, hypotheticals; in contradictions, the scandalous rubbing up against the mawkish, trifles muddled with real outrages; in photos of babies, sloths, baby sloths – all of it sloshes through, 70,000 daily posts in Reddit's 6,500 forums, sorted by the community so the best contributions rise to become most visible.Users vote. They click on arrows to push (say) a&nbsp;picture of a giant gingerbread statue up or down.&nbsp;Enough "up votes" and the link will rise in&nbsp;prominence, perhaps to the front page, where&nbsp;visitors are confronted by the 25 most popular posts of the moment. It was here that I&nbsp;learned of the death of Nelson Mandela. I also read abouta man who claimed to have two penisesand wept with laughter atan animated gif&nbsp;of people very intently dancing to electro house. I lost a night's sleep toexplicit footage of a&nbsp;Russian car crash.Now it was January, a time for resolution, and I&nbsp;planned to stop lurking on the fringes of Reddit.&nbsp;Instead, I'd take part, get an account and post something. Would it be possible to get to the&nbsp;rarefied ground of the front page? I spoke to&nbsp;some&nbsp;of the site's more successful contributors for advice.It is thought bad form on Reddit to reveal your real name, anda user going by the name Shitty_Watercolourwould not, except to say that he was&nbsp;an undergraduate at the University of York. "After a&nbsp;while you get a feel for what does well," he said, suggesting I focus on "quick, easily digestible content".A user called THENYEHHH, this confusing name no barrier to her gathering thousands of votes for her contributions, told me&nbsp;to keep content light, lively: "For the most part, everyone is just trying to have a good time."The front page, as Monday evening approached, featured a picture of a cat sitting upright on its owner's lap to eat. Beneath it wasan explanation of the science behind goosebumpsand a trailer for the new series of House Of Cards. The American comedianJerry Seinfeldhad offered himself up to be interviewed by Reddit users, as hada porn actor. While Seinfeld discussed coffee blends and models of car, the porn actor fielded questions on the importance of&nbsp;good microphone positioning. She revealed an&nbsp;out-of-hours liking for Harry Potter and a&nbsp;secret talent for the mandolin. I&nbsp;was so taken by this last revelation, I&nbsp;borrowed it for my username.Logged in asTalentForMandolin, I&nbsp;copied and pasted a link to an old&nbsp;news story from the BBC's website:a men's prison in Mexico had been subjected to a surprise inspection in&nbsp;2011, where guards had found plasma TVs and sacks of&nbsp;marijuana in the cells, also a couple of peacocks, 100 fighting hens and 25 women. I thought this&nbsp;was weird and punchy enough to get some attention. I wrote a new headline for&nbsp;the story&nbsp;and pressed submit.Some people have earned a lot of money through Reddit. In 2011, a user mused as to what might happen if a Roman legion fought America's modern military, and he wound up with a six-figure sum to write a screenplay on the subject. Others have earned just enough, for instance the struggling manufacturer of stained glass who put out a plea for custom at the end of 2013. ("Your support saved my little business," SenatorMars told the community.) Reddit's two founders are millionaires.'When I rolled up this morning and checked on Reddit, I had no idea what was going to be on the front page. That's rarer and rarer. If I go on Facebook, or Twitter, or Google News, I basically know what I'm going to see.' Illustration: Arthur ChivertonSteve HuffmanandAlexis Ohanianbecame friends the day they moved in to student halls at&nbsp;the University of Virginia. "Steve wasn't so excited to meet me," Ohanian recalled. "He'd seen my name on my door and thought I'd&nbsp;be a girl." Huffman studied computer science,&nbsp;Ohanian history and commerce. Before graduating in 2005, they decided to start a&nbsp;company. Ohanian says, "I&nbsp;wanted us to be able to live like college students for as long as we could."They spent months on a piece of software that would help people avoid queues in fast-food restaurants. It bombed in a meeting with investors, at which point they rushed together a&nbsp;new idea, "like a top 40 for interesting content", as they pitched it. Huffman admits to being light-fingered in the early days. He and Ohanian pinched the voting concept from a technology news site called Slashdot. From Slashdot, too, they spun off the idea of users collecting "karma" – brownie points, essentially, and worthless – in return for making beneficial contributions. Reddit's pared-down aesthetic "was copied almost entirely" from a bookmarking site called Delicious. Over a boiling summer, the friends sat at facing computers, listened to&nbsp;Gwen Stefaniand built Reddit."We were lean," said Ohanian, who recalled eating little but hummus that summer. It was a&nbsp;phrase echoed by Reddit's general manager, Erik Martin, when I spoke to him by phone from San Francisco. "We're lean," he said of Reddit's 35-person staff. In 2014, the site looks almost as stark and unattractive as it did when it launched in 2005. This, Martin explained, allowed Reddit to continue growing (5bn page views last month) while keeping maintenance costs low.These days, Reddit is a part of Advance Publications, which owns Condé Nast. Huffman and Ohanian, now 30, sold their creation in 2006. "Life-changing wealth," Ohanian called it, or$5m by industry estimates. Roughly speaking, Reddit has doubled in size every year since. It is yet to make a profit, "but we're not that far off", Martin said.Given its eight years under corporate ownership, it's near miraculous that Reddit's verve, the unruliness that makes it appealing to so many, has survived. "Condé Nast realised pretty early they're not a technology company," Ohanian said. (He still serves on the Reddit board.) "They gave Reddit a&nbsp;ton of autonomy." Martin called Advance Publications "extremely hands-off".Huffman has a different stance. He&nbsp;was kept on&nbsp;to run Reddit after its 2006 acquisition and launched the company's San&nbsp;Francisco office. Huffman found Reddit's ownership stifling and told me&nbsp;that by the end of his time at the company he wasn't on speaking terms with the then-president of Condé Nast Digital. One day&nbsp;on Reddit, the joke of the moment – there's always one – had beento mock the retail giant Sears, a big advertiser with Condé Nast. Sears complained, according to Huffman, who says he was told to remove certain posts, and eventually gave in. "I've still never forgiven them." Huffman left the company in 2009 and now runsa travel website, Hipmunk.'Reddit is a snapshot of humanity, with all the beautiful parts and all the ugly parts intact.' Illustration: Arthur Chiverton for the GuardianMartin told me that content is very rarely taken off Reddit. "There's only a handful of rules. Most of the time the moderators of the community remove [rule-breaking posts] before we even know&nbsp;about it. There are sometimes grey areas, edge cases, that we have to consider. But most of&nbsp;the time it's clear cut. Anything illegal is removed pretty quickly."A forum called Jailbait, where users were encouraged to post pictures of underage girls, was&nbsp;banned in 2011; another called Creepshots, for secretly taken photographs of women, went, too. There are, however, plenty of Reddit forums&nbsp;remaining that cause unease in the wider community. (One user I spoke to cited a forum called SexyAbortions.) On a site that has a male-female balance of around 65%-35%, many find there's too much breezy misogyny for comfort. "Genuinely disappointing," Shitty_Watercolour called it."There is certainly a dark side to Reddit," Huffman said. "You get it all." People sometimes confess to crimes on these boards – even murder, last year, which triggered a police investigation as&nbsp;well as mainstream media coverage. Unflattering headlines were made shortly after the Boston bombings, too, when an innocent man&nbsp;was identified and vilified on Reddit as the person responsible. "Reddit is a&nbsp;snapshot of humanity, with all the&nbsp;beautiful parts and all the ugly parts intact," Huffman says.Actually, given that people exist here anonymously, the site can seem a surprisingly affectionate and judicious place. It's a benefit of the voting system, which influences comments as&nbsp;well, so that ill-natured or illiterate remarks tend to&nbsp;be voted away out of sight. The&nbsp;comments under an average YouTube video might have been written by a different species. Unlike Facebook or&nbsp;Twitter, Reddit isn't dominated by the most tireless contributors. It's quite witty, quite warm.Users I interviewed counselled me against trying to personify Reddit, to reduce it to this or&nbsp;that way of thinking. The community, it was pointed out, consisted of "homeless people to rich people, fast-food employees to doctors, agoraphobes to adventurers". Even so, it's possible to single out conspicuous leanings. Reddit is leftwing, irreligious, extremely keen on the actorsJennifer LawrenceandPatrick Stewart. A spirit of contrarianism runs deep. In 2010, when a moderator put up a test post with the instruction "please ignore", it received more than 20,000 votes and became Reddit's most popular post of all time. The top comment underneath read: "Don't tell me what to do."My post about the Mexican prison was rising.Seinfeld's interviewnow topped the front page. Underneath him was the House Of Cards trailer and a question about what would happen ifChina "randomly" invaded New Zealand. There wasa post about worthwhile novels written in the 1940sand a video of a zookeeper masturbating a&nbsp;monkey. Whenmy Mexican prison storypushed on to the front page, just after 8pm, it nudged off a cartoon about the weather in Australia.I hadn't expected this. Plunging into the comments, I had to ask: wasn't it supposed to be&nbsp;hard to get to the front page? "One in a million,&nbsp;my friend," I was told. Someone else responded: "Meh, I've been there four times. It's&nbsp;no big."A&nbsp;veteran user called Aftli, who'd signed up for Reddit seven years ago, said one in a&nbsp;million was an&nbsp;exaggeration, but "it's pretty hard to do". And&nbsp;by the way, he added, "prepare for soul-crushing disappointment with the next 30 links you submit". A user calledToilet_Crusherwas conciliatory. "Your post's been seen worldwide for&nbsp;sure!"Sir David Attenborough took questions about mass extinction and shampooing during his Reddit AskMeAnything interview. Illustration: Arthur Chiverton for the GuardianMartin told me that one of Reddit's great&nbsp;strengths was that it&nbsp;was both intimate and&nbsp;enormous. "You put something out in the universe and get a response. That response might be one comment. Or that response might put you on talkshows the next day." Ohanian said: "I like measuring things in New York City. We had 100m unique visitors last month. That's more than 12&nbsp;New York Cities' worth of&nbsp;people. Mind-blowing!"It's why the famous are more and more likely to appear on Reddit. Not&nbsp;just Seinfeld;Madonna came on&nbsp;last summer,Arnold Schwarzenegger in early 2013,Barack Obama in 2012. In Reddit terminology, where forums are known as "subreddits", and "karma" points are discussed as though of real monetary value, these interviews are called "AskMeAnythings". Correctly so, because Reddit will ask anything.Molly Ringwald, was it true that on the set ofThe Breakfast Clubyou were bullied byJudd Nelson?Woody Harrelson, did your dad used to be a&nbsp;contract killer? Molly answered (in the affirmative); Woody didn't. AskMeAnythings don't always work, but when they do, they're wonderful.Sir David Attenborough took questions about mass extinction as well as his shampooing regime. When Shitty_Watercolour, who chose that name for a reason, painted a shitty watercolour as a gift for Attenborough and put it online, there was talk of printing, framing… Schwarzenegger enjoyed his Reddit interview so much he still drops by to post.So does the actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt.While my story about Mexican prisons was prospering – now at No5, No4 – Gordon-Levitt came online to put up a link. It quickly rose into&nbsp;the top 10 and together we made our assault&nbsp;on Seinfeld in the top spot. I found it absurdly exciting, Seinfeld in New York, Gordon-Levitt in California, me at my kitchen table, holding the collective attention of the internet for&nbsp;15 minutes or so.It fell apart. Our power alliance crumbled.A&nbsp;video about crab fishingbecame Reddit's new favourite item. Gordon-Levitt lodged at No7 and did not move further. Seinfeld dropped down a&nbsp;place. I fell off the front page altogether.In the days that followed, the prediction by my new friend Aftli – that I would face disappointment with my next posts – proved true. I put up an item about collective nouns and a biographical fact about Bruce Willis, to no response. I tried being edgy, with a joke about Hitler, and being cute, with a picture of a baby reading a&nbsp;newspaper on a&nbsp;bus. Reddit was indifferent.This community wouldn't be told what to think, what to click; their 20m daily votes couldn't be lobbied for. When I asked Martin if he was ever courted by companies who wanted to harness the site's awesome traffic, he said, "People who know Reddit know that we certainly don't, uh..." He paused, to chuckle. "Nobody tells Reddit what to&nbsp;pay attention to."Huffman insisted that from its earliest days he'd programmed Reddit to be resistant to anyone trying to "game" their way up the rankings. "Half of Reddit's source code was dedicated to catching bad content and users cheating." I was able to confirm this first-hand when I was banned from posting, temporarily, my contributions by now so terribly unsuccessful I was marked as a potential spammer. The&nbsp;Mexican prison story, which had peaked at No2, generated enough fresh traffic for&nbsp;the BBC to make this two-year-old item its most popular Latin American news story of the day. It had been voted on by 16,246 Reddit users. My subsequent posts, added up, got a grand total of 140. Which hurt.Tell me about it, consoled Aftli, who still felt bruised by the failure of a forum he'd once tried to&nbsp;found, about interesting cash registers. Aftli advised me to forget about the front page. "For me, and I think for most Redditors, the site is more about the discussion than the links that are posted." Huffman agreed – making the top 25 wasn't the point. "I guess there are individuals who feel like they're competing, and they've won something [if they get there], but in reality they're part of something much larger."Martin advised me to try looking "at the part of&nbsp;the iceberg that's underwater". Ohanian also suggested I venture deeper. Why not start with his favourite forum, calledBirdsWithArms? So&nbsp;I&nbsp;did, and spent a happy half-hour clicking through Photoshopped pictures of owls holding tobacco pipes, canaries brandishing swords. Then I dug about and founda fascinating debate about which inanimate object was the bigger "asshole", the printer or the automatic sink? On Aftli's advice I triedForwardsFromGrandma. I watched a&nbsp;thread develop in whicha woman admitted she was dreading her own wedding, mortified at the thought of her fiance's family seeing how few friends she had. Slowly, as commenters pieced together where and when the service was taking place, people offered to come along and fill seats."The community is where the real value is at," Huffman said. "Since very, very early on, Reddit has had a soul."It was a Wednesday and Huffman, like me, had spent hours riveted tothe on-site confessions of a&nbsp;former mob boss, who spoke of initiation rituals&nbsp;and his grandma's meatballs. Elsewhere, advice was sought about how to turn the pages of&nbsp;a 340-year-old Bible. Tongs or spatula? A&nbsp;Starbucks barista admitted intentionally misspelling teenagers' names, so they couldn't post pictures of their cups on Instagram. Later, a&nbsp;Reddit staffer put up a note to announce that the&nbsp;site would be taken offline, briefly, for maintenance. A user posted a two-word response that seemed to sum up the popular mood."Now what?"
Colonna &amp; Smalls, the Bath coffee shop where Maxwell Colonna Dashwood plies his brews, has more the feel of a seaside art gallery than a cafe. Indeed, the drinks he serves may not always even taste like coffee: "Speciality coffee is a different drink from everyday coffee, because when you roast lighter and use fresher crops, and carefully brew the coffee soon after roasting, you don't get that familiar toasted, smoky taste which is the flavour people think of as coffee-ish," says Dashwood.While running the shop and preparing for the annual UK barista championships, which begin this month in Birmingham (he won in 2012), Dashwood spends much of his time giving barista training."The general rule is you need to get around 20% of the coffee physically in the water. If you get less, your coffee will be sour, dry or empty. If you go too far, it will be flat, cardboardy and bitter. It can be a struggle to make perfect coffee at home."Maxwell himself seems to have no such trouble. In the dimly lit chamber below the shop, he teases out what he sees as a vastly different drink from each of the six machines. But, despite relishing the separate challenges offered by the technology, he returns always to his primary concern about making specialist coffee – simplicity."If you don't encourage people to find simple ways to make better coffee, you risk making the specialist industry more exclusive. Technology is best when it empowers the human input, enabling people to have more control over what they're doing."ROKROK espresso maker. Photograph: Stephen ShepherdElegant, industrial, hand-powered espresso maker,rokkitchentools.com, £129"The ROK is a very nice mechanism; clever and robust. It works very quickly and, although the result of the first attempt is slightly under-extracted, it's brought out all the fruity flavour in the beans.It's better than I thought it would be. It doesn't give much of a crema on the espresso, but in specialist coffee we don't really value the crema all that much. It's associated with thickness and richness but in isolation it tastes thin and bitter.The milk foamer included with the ROK feels like an afterthought, it doesn't give much foam,and the other complaint is that the machine cools the coffee quite a bit, but that will be a problem with most coffee makers that don't have their own heat source."VerdictTactile, involving and with pleasant results.AeropressAeropress coffee maker. Photograph: Stephen ShepherdFoolproof, fashionable coffee plunger,nextdaycoffee.co.uk, £21.99"You can use the Aeropress in a number of ways, but I use it upside down, which is a "full immersion" method. This way, nothing drips through at the beginning. The beauty of the Aeropress is that, because of the added pressure, you can brew for a shorter time and still achieve a good extraction. I've used  the same coffee as I used in the Chemex and it's miles better here, more elegant: it's much harder to mess up with the Aeropress. We use them on our bar, and for 30 quid everyone should give it a go. Its only shortcoming is that the papers don't create a complete seal, so coffee can slip through the sides of the paper, which can give a grainier, cloudier cup. Other than that I love Aeropresses; I think they're absolutely wonderful."VerdictQuick, easy and with limitless possibilities.HandpressoHandpresso. Photograph: Stephen ShepherdPortable, hand-pumped espresso maker, Wild Hybrid model,fairfaxcoffee.com, £95"You can't fit a lot of coffee in here, perhaps seven grams at a push: the minimum dose for espresso. It's also fiddly to get the coffee in, and it leaked a little water through its pressure switch, which is worrying. The results are promising though. I've never used it before, but my first attempt has come out well: it's got some crema and it's smooth, with a lot of the sweet, lemongrassy notes we wanted from the beans. The extraction is better here than in the ROK because the water doesn't cool as much inside this sealed container. It doesn't look as good as the ROK, and pumping the Handpresso might be a bit more mundane than the ROK's manual element, but I think this is better. I'm very impressed.People might be surprised to find out how good this is because they draw a correlation between substantial equipment and good espresso. It's the reason why filter coffee gets a bad rep: it seems too easy, and good coffee needs hard work."VerdictA surprisingly impressive espresso.GaggiaGaggia 'Baby' coffee maker. Photograph: Stephen ShepherdElectric kitchen espresso machine with milk steamer,gaggia.uk.com, £295"Nowadays you'd be unlikely to find a Gaggia in a specialist coffee shop, but they were at the forefront during the early days of espresso and the name still has a huge impact. A lot of people think a fancy machine makes a coffee special, whereas at our end it's the raw ingredient that's special, and we want to find the best way to display it. The espresso I've made here is very acidic, which means I need to use a finer grind or pull more water through. A machine like this can bring out a lot of volatile flavours, so you need to work hard to improve the result, but the frother is good for reproducing a coffee-shop experience: the harshness of the espresso cuts through the milk. I thought it might struggle to produce thick froth, but it's better than I expected. An experienced barista could even make simple patterns with the foam."You can make a more intense cup of coffee with the Gaggia than with the ROK or the Handpresso, but I would say those two are likely to make more palatable coffee with less effort."VerdictClosest to the coffee shop.ConaCona Vacuum pot. Photograph: Stephen ShepherdTheatrical, Victorian-style syphon machine, Table Model C,hasbean.co.uk, £90"This is another full immersion method, which means the water and coffee are in contact in their entirety for most of the brew. We put the water in the bottom bulb and put it over a heat, the air inside the bottom chamber expands which forces the water up top."They tell you to have your coffee in the top from the beginning, but I add it later because it means I can control the extraction. We start the timer, let it brew and then take it off the heat. The coffee then filters back into the bottom chamber through the bobble pattern under the glass rod. The glass filter idea is kind of cool – I like it."Like the Chemex, you can brew coffee for a lot of people, and if you do it at the dinner table it's very pretty. However, out of all the machines we're testing today, this gives the least control. The pressure that builds up inside is incredibly erratic and the heat is tricky to regulate. It's hard going, but you can achieve good coffee with it."VerdictGlamorous, but hard work.ChemexChemex Filter drip. Photograph: Stephen ShepherdSophisticated glass vessel for filter coffee, 6-cup model,origincoffee.co.uk, £42"A scientist invented the Chemex, with the idea that there was an optimum angle to achieve the best coffee extraction. Ergonomically, I like it; a lot of thought has gone into the shape of the glass, and the filter papers are purpose-built to remove coffee oils."The coffee I've made with it is over-extracted; it tastes flat and weak, so we would improve it by using a coarser grind. While that isn't the fault of the Chemex, without a lot of effort and practice it's a struggle to use."The specialist industry is obsessed with the Chemex because specialists like the craft element, but for me, a craft is only worthwhile if it delivers a better end product. With a 'pour-over' method like this you have to put a lot of time and effort into developing a technique. I'd rather just get people to focus on finding interesting coffee."VerdictWith care and attention, a  clean cup.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWho actually develops Linux? The answer might surprise you &gt;&gt; ExtremeTechIf I tell you to think of an open-source project, the first word that probably comes to mind is Linux. (Bonus points if you thought of Firefox or Apache, but for the sake of argument let's just say that you thought of Linux). Then, if I ask you what open-source actually means, you'd probably say something like: "Open source means everyone is free to use the code, and it's usually developed by lots of independent programmers, who contribute their work freely, to make the world/internet a better place." That's what I thought, too, until I read The Linux Foundation's somewhat-annual report on the state of the Linux kernel. The report's findings may surprise you.As might the size of the kernel: from 10,000 lines in 1991, to about 17m now.Google launches Chromebox for Meetings, a $999 videoconferencing system based on ChromeOS &gt;&gt; TechCrunchAt a small media event in Mountain View today, Google announced the launch of Chromebox for Meetings, a $999 Core i7-based ASUS Chromebox setup with a remote, camera and microphone for conference rooms. The system uses Hangouts in the backend and is also compatible with existing conferencing setups from Vidyo and UberConference (for phone calls).The system includes all the components necessary to run a meeting, with the exception of a display. For the first year, users don't have to pay any additional costs; after that, the cost is $250 per year. The product is available in the US today and is coming to Australia, Canada, France, Japan, New Zealand, Spain and UK…Typical video conferencing systems, Google argues, tend to be expensive and too hard to set up. Because of this, they are often only available to high-level executives. The company hopes that its solution will be quickly adapted among enterprise. The price, after all, is less than a single ticket between San Francisco and New York.This data explains Nintendo's mobile strategy &gt;&gt; ConsulgamerThe biggest challenge for Nintendo to port games to mobile is that consumers aren't buying games on mobile devices. In 2013, only 7% of revenue for mobile games came from non-free games. The obvious, but still staggering, size of this story is that free to play monetization tools bring in 93% of all spending on mobile games.Only 7% of all of the revenue made in mobile games is earned by games that do not support in-app purchases. (Source: AppAnnie)There are currently no titles in Nintendo's back-catalog of games that are designed from the ground up for free to play. The company has never designed games with a range of free to play monetization methods involved. Without planning from the start when to insert time gates, probability gates, grind gates, or other monetization methods, Nintendo's games would lag other game makers in a free to play environment.The Big iPhone &gt;&gt; Tab DumpStefan Constantinescu (formerly of Nokia):After listening to John Gruber and Marco Arment theorize what the next iPhone would look like in episode 69 of The Talk Show, it became clear to me that I should try and use what I know about mobile phone displays to come up with a rough sketch of what I think we'll be seeing from Apple later this year.The logic seems solid, though the result perhaps surprising.Apple sued over A7 processor design by University of Wisconsin patent enforcer &gt;&gt; The VergeThe Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF) has filed suit against the company, claiming that the iPhone 5S, iPad mini with Retina Display, and iPad Air all benefit from an information processing system developed at the University of Wisconsin - Madison and patented in 1998. The lawsuit asks for unspecified damages and an injunction stopping the sale of any product containing the A7 processor without a licensing payment — both are standard requests for these lawsuits, although WARF is asking for damages to be tripled because Apple knew of the patent and therefore willfully infringed on it.Interestingbackground: Intel, previously sued over the same patent, claimed it was developed using US government research funding and so should be publicly owned. (It lost.) (Thanks @Cuse for the link.)New York Police Department is beta-testing Google Glass &gt;&gt; VentureBeat | Gadgets | by Richard Byrne ReillyThe New York City Police Department's massive and controversial intelligence and analytics unit is evaluating whether Google Glass is a decent fit for investigating terrorists and helping cops lock up bad guys, VentureBeat has learned. The department recently received several pairs of the modernist-looking specs to test out."We signed up, got a few pairs of the Google glasses, and we're trying them out, seeing if they have any value in investigations, mostly for patrol purposes," a ranking New York City law enforcement official told VentureBeat."The Guardian" is testing a new-look, easy-to-read website &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedIt's being A/B tested right now, which means that only a limited amount of people will see the new design. The mobile site was switched over to the new template in October but now desktop PC users are gradually starting to see it.Are you one of the lucky 5% on desktop seeing it? (PS, Buzzfeed:easierto read, thank you.)Watch out Android: Windows Phone could become the world's 2nd most popular OS &gt;&gt; Jana MobileThanks to the growing popularity of Windows Phone in emerging markets, the availability of budget-priced (under $200) handset offerings, and an influx of new smartphone models, the Windows Phone could entrench itself as the second most popular mobile operating system in the world.However, not a single one of the country panels from the nine developing nations surveyed put Windows Phone as their first choice - all expect to be getting an Android phone. Don't hold your breath for any dramatic growth for Microsoft with the Windows Phone strategy. Android is already off to a flying start, and there's no reason for it not to continue.Steve Wozniak: Apple should make an Android phone &gt;&gt; Wired.comMat Honan:his most interesting comment by far was a heretical recommendation for his former company: Apple, he thinks, should release an Android handset."There's nothing that would keep Apple out of the Android market as a secondary phone market," said Wozniak–who, it should be noted, is no longer involved in the day-to-day workings of the company. "We could compete very well. People like the precious looks of stylings and manufacturing that we do in our product compared to the other Android offerings. We could play in two arenas at the same time."One feels Woz may have slightly lost touch with why people buy Apple devices. However, it's excellent advice for Microsoft, which absolutely should take AOSP and release its own phone running Microsoft Android.Pakistan retailer preps launch of own-brand Android phones &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaPakistan will soon have a new, homegrown phone brand. While that's not too unusual, it is surprising that the new phone is from Gourmet Foods, the well-known Pakistani bakery store chain.According to sources close to the retailer, the upcoming Gourmet phones will launch in March, and will come in two flavors: Android or Java-based. The Android smartphone will come with 4.2 Jelly Bean. There are no official prices set yet, but the basic Java phone might cost as little as $15. The phones will be made by an as yet unnamed Chinese manufacturer. The company is expected to announce more details later this month ahead of the anticipated March launch.Even if the early buyers don't get data services too, at some point they'll be able to afford them, and have an internet-connected phone. The implications are gigantic: internet connectivity for everyone, at almost zero price for the hardware.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
OnWikipedia, you're "Jimbo", are you called that in the real world too?No. Just Jimmy in the real world. Many many years ago, when I first got on the internet, I was on this mailing list where there was already a James, a Jim, a Jimmy, so I said: "I'll be Jimbo."And are you still the self-styled benevolent dictator of Wikipedia?No, I've always rejected that term. The community has always rejected the term. But I do say that I'm the constitutional monarch. Like the Queen. It doesn't mean I have any actual power. I do a lot of waving.Do you feel like you're an adopted Brit these days?I've been here for quite a while, and my wife is English. We live in central London and I'm quite stuck in here.We are meeting near "Silicon roundabout". Have you had much involvement with the UK tech start-up scene?I've been here for a while, and I know loads of people who've done different startups.  I love those guys and what they're doing. I think London is such a great place. In the US, Washington is politics, LA is Hollywood, San Francisco is tech, New York is advertising and finance, but London is all of those things. So, you get a real mix of people and you don't get that  in the US.You must get pitched by an awful lot of companies, but you've just announced you're joining a virtual mobile phone network, thePeople's Operatoras its co-chair. What was the draw?Usually I get pitched things that have some great noble purpose and a great vision, but no practical plan. Or I see quite perfectly nice business ideas and I've been on the board of some startups and I do enjoy that. But, this was both – the idea that we could raise a huge amount of money for good causes, while at the same time having a business model that worked. I thought that was actually an interesting combination.So 10% of a customer's bill will go to the cause of their choice, and 25% of profits to a foundation. And the plan is to raise a billion dollars for good causes?Yeah that would be amazing. It may take a while.In aNew York Timesprofile of you last year, there was a suggestion that it might be nice for you to do something that you actually get paid for.Well, that was the weirdest piece I've ever read. It was false on multiple points.They made quite a big deal about the fact that you were the only world famous internet entrepreneur who didn't actually have all that much money.That fact is true, I'm not a billionaire. So? You aren't either, so are not most people. It's kind of a stupid thing to bang on about.But most of us haven't set up this phenomenal thing, the fifth most popular website in the world.Yeah, but I love it. It's so fun.Do you get fed up with that question? Do you ever regret donating Wikipedia to the Wikipedia Foundation and not turning it into a commercial enterprise?No. I mean, I get asked it less now than I used to. But it's one of the least interesting questions I think there is, so ...TheNew York Timesclaimed that your net worth is $1m, which it said "isn't Silicon Valley money. It's not even London money." There is a point to that, because actually a million dollars wouldn't  buy you much more than a small terraced house in inner London these days.But then every conversation in London very quickly converges on property prices. People in London are obsessed with property prices. That and schools.You've spoken out publicly about the NSA revelations, but how surprised were you when that first headline hit? Or did you suspect something like that was going on?I was surprised by the scale, by some of the revelations. I was surprised - as Google was -that they were tapping into lines inside, between the data centres of Google. That's pretty amazing. And hacking Angela Merkel's phone – that was a surprise. But I think we haven't yet had the revelation that will really set people off.You've said that you're going to start encrypting communications on Wikipedia as a result…We have done. It's not completely finished yet but the only thing that GCHQ, hopefully, can see is that you're looking at Wikipedia. They can't see which  article you're reading. It's not the government's business to know what everybody is reading.You raise money for Wikipedia by campaigning and asking the public for money. Are there things you'd like to do that you can't because of lack of funds?We have certain goals which we want to achieve. Growing Wikipedia in the languages of the developing world is really important.If Wikipedia were capitalised in the same way as these Silicon Valley companies, wouldn't you have more money to do more things?No, no, because if we were in that situation, we wouldn't care about the languages, for example. If we were supported by advertising, we would care about entries that get another million users in the US but not what might be of interest to another million readers in India. A big part of my aesthetic vision for Wikipedia is that it is like a temple for the mind. I'm not anti-commerce, but I don't think it belongs in every aspect of life.But there are problems, aren't there, with commerce entering Wikipedia? One example of this was mentioned in the comments beneath an article about the People's Operator which claimed the Wikipedia entry for the People's Operator was written by its marketing consultant.No, it wasn't. I'd rather not talk about him.But, when I looked at theWikipedia entry for the People's Operatorand looked at thehistory of the article, and then Googled the name of the person who had written the initial entry andlooked him up on LinkedIn, it stated he was a marketing consultant for the People's Operator.I'll have to look that up. That's very interesting. A lot of companies struggle with what they're supposed to do. This was long before they got me in because we're very strict about this sort of thing. To me, it's quite important that companies understand the right way to deal and interact with Wikipedia. It's quite common, not only for companies, but for individuals to say: "Oh, there is an error about me. I think I'll fix it." We advise against it. It's just not the wisest thing to do.There was a funny story about younot being able to correct your own birth date on Wikipedia.Yeah, it's more complicated than that because all my legal documents say one thing, and my mum says another.And you couldn't verify it?With what? A note from my mum? The last I looked the discussions died down. I think it's right now.How much do you get involved in the day-to-day ongoing spats on Wikipedia?I edit Wikipedia almost everyday.Do you have pet entries that you like to look at?I used to edit a lot about the House of Lords. It was kind of a hobby. I don't any more because I know too many of them.I've read that of the people who write Wikipedia and edit it, something like 85% are male. And this is supposed to be the sum of all human knowledge. But it's the sum of all human knowledge as written by men about subjects that interest men from a male point of view.It's a huge problem. It's something that we're really keen to resolve. It's technically quite geeky which excludes a lot of people. Computer geeks are overwhelmingly male. That is a part of the gender imbalance.Another is that Wikipedia is written in this very authoritative style and, as you know, men have no problem speaking in an authoritative manner about something they know nothing about. And woman are much more sensible. And the third problem  is: are we a welcoming environment for a variety of people? There's a lot of internal research  going on about that sort of thing.Jimmy Wales (wikipedia founder) married Kate Garvey (Tony Blair's former diary secretary) in 2012 Photograph: Dwayne Senior/Dwayne Senior /eyevineTony Blair was at your wedding. Did you see him doing dad dancing?I have seen Tony Blair dance. That's all I'm allowed to say. My wife worked for him for 10 years so they are very good friends. The description he gave of her in his memoirs sounded a bit scary. "She ruled my diary with a rod of iron and if anyone interfered, she'd squeeze their balls so hard …" Or something. But always with a winning smile.
It's Friday.
Here is one of the original sketches of the redesigned Sonic, showing off his more athletic persona. The athletic tape around his feet and wrists is new, and symbolises the emphasis on action. The proportions of his feet and hands have been changed to suggest that he is older than preview versions.Here is a set of sketches depicting the various expressions of Sonic's faithful sidekick, Tails. In the new game he is depicted as a pilot and inventor, with flying goggles and a tool belt.Another of Sonic's close allies, Amy Rose, has been given a more detailed and mature look for the new game, with chunky boots, and a new take on her standard red dress. Also, that is a really big hammer.Here's an early design for the Tunnel Canyon stage of the game. Early in the design process, developer Big Red Button worked closely with OuiDo Entertainment, the French studio producing the tie-in animated TV series, to ensure a consistent environmental feel.A concept study of the game's Tropical Beach area. Levels will include both 3D and 2D areas. "We wanted to have classic 2D gameplay sections, via '2.5D sets in most levels," explains creative director, Bob Rafei. "2D gameplay set ups work great for tight platforming and allow better use of suspense and surprise as design tools because of the more limited display in frame. It was important for us to incorporate it."A view of the farm area.A view of the seaside area from the Sonic Boom animated cartoon series, developed to coincide with the game.Another piece of concept art from the animated series, this time of the village centre location. “We set out to create a new branch of that universe that would have its own look, feel, and features, but would feel true to the essence of the Sonic that people know and love,” says executive producer, Evan Baily.Another sketch from the game, showing the influence of the Sonic Adventure series in terms of scale.And one final character sketch of the new Sonic. The new design also adds a scarf, and extra spikes to his head so that the character is instantly recognisable as the Sonic Boom character even from his silhouette.
