I'm looking for a good book about the internet, something that doesn't go into too much technical detail but is akin to popular science books.Josefin HolmstromIt's a long time since we had general introductions to the internet, but Preston Gralla's How the Internet Works is a well-illustrated guide to the underlying technologies and protocols. Perhaps it is a bit too technical, but you can see anextended preview of pages at Google Book Search. Much smaller and more down-to-earth isThe Rough Guide to the Internetby Peter Buckley and Duncan Clark.
I need to cut off the "white space" around an image in a jpg. Is there a  free tool that can do so automatically?Dan DreamingbearYou need to remove the background and make it transparent, so that whatever is behind the background shows through. Unfortunately, the JPEG file format doesn't support transparency, so you will need to convert the final image to Gif or PNG. Otherwise there are lots of ways to remove backgrounds, and the About.com articlesRemoving Backgrounds and Maintaining Transparency in Graphics SoftwareandKnock it Out! Removing Backgrounds with Photoshopwill give you a good idea of the options. Also have a look atTransparency From Here to Therefor help with using transparent images.If you can't get hold of a copy of Photoshop, you can try to do them inGimpshop. This is a version of Gimp, the free Gnu Image Manipulation Program, deweirdified to work like Photoshop.
On the road againAll very good, Victor, but did you enjoy The Road? (A new chapter in mobile reading, 9 April).Patrick DoddsRichmondTo be honest, I don't like to read online – it is annoying, hurts my eyes, and I can never get comfortable when looking at a computer screen. But to hold a book in my hand is one of the most relaxing things I could ever do.pdorn.wordpress.comGoogle's right on rightsIn regards toyour article about Street View(Google Street View does not breach privacy laws, 12 April (), which says: "It also dismissed Privacy International's argument that Street View should seek people's consent. If consent were required by the law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera." Well, Match of the Day does, by proxy. The terms and conditions of buying a ticket, in this case at Manchester United's site, are:"18. The Club may from time to time create images and/or audio-visual video footage of Ticket Holders attending the Stadium. The Club owns all rights in such images and footage and shall be entitled to use the same for the purpose of promoting the Club and its commercial partners." This appears to break down that if you purchase a ticket you agree to being filmed and rights belong to the club and its partners (ie, TV ­programmes).Ben JordanVia email50 years and countingYour picture of a computer operator sitting at the console of an IBM 360 machine (Cobol hits 50 and keeps counting, 9 April) brought back happy memories – 40-plus years ago, that was me. I know what he's doing twiddling those knobs and what buttons he needs to press next! Sad, really, I know. But it was encouraging to know if I went back into computer programming after a gap of 30 years I could earn up to £60,000 as a Cobol programmer!Eric BaldwinBrentwoodYou're looking more beautiful (and useful) than ever, Cobol. Happy birthday!mainframe.typepad.comHead in the cloud?Andrew Brown thinks Facebook, Google and cloud-ish based information applications like Evernote are posing major threats to our privacy (Read me first, 9 April). While I quite understand people worrying, we're not living in (George Orwell's) 1984 just yet. Facebook keeps information about its users to direct advertising at them, but I can't see why that's so bad.en.onsoftware.comInternet on the tellyThe UK has been slow in the take-up when it comes to IPTV services. Tiscali TV has only managed to get 100K customers, and BT Vision – which takes its mainstream channels from a Freeview decoder and the rest via IPTV – hasn't been that much more successful. The question for me is whether the usability of such services has been the barrier rather than, as Guy Clapperton suggests (Cathode ray YouTube, 9 April), whether customers "get" the service – which I really don't think is that much of an issue as the Facebook generation that are used to services via the TV, the web and mobile phones that overlap.thehermesproject.comDatabase stateMichael Cross says that under a Conservative government, "the legally compromised national DNA database would also be scrapped". Not so. Instead, the Conservatives are proposing that the English DNA database be run on the same lines as the Scottish one – retain crime scene samples and the DNA of those convicted of crimes.no2id.net/newsblogiPhone appsI read the article headlined iPhone apps are changing the world of software and the way we work and play (12 April) with great interest.I wanted to suggest that the Guardian profile the best/worst apps in a blog/monthly article. Not only does the paper do this kind of thing very well, there is obviously great interest in the apps from the public. Indeed, I am sure many readers (such as myself) would welcome an independent forum to discuss/rate the apps.Anthony MyersVia emailThe end of privacy?The excellent piece by Pete Warren (The end of privacy?, 2 April) really should have been promoted to the main section of the paper. This is not just a matter for the geeks. Warren rightly notes that the emergence into the mass consumer market of internet based location based services represents a step change in the way information about  ourselves and our physical whereabouts might be used, or abused. Until recently only the mobile phone networks were in a position to  provide information about a person's location. Back in 2004 they devised a self-regulatory code of practice which specified very precisely how people had to sign up to and consent to being tracked. It was done individual by individual. One by one. In the case of tracking services for children the procedures were even stricter. And since these services were only provided  in return for, typically, a monthly payment there was an additional check on who was tracking whom.The new breed of tracking services are being provided by internet  companies  such as Google. They still derive their information from your mobile phone handset but the companies have cleverly worked out a way of  bypassing the mobile phone networks. They do not regard themselves as being bound by the  same code that the mobile phone companies have worked to, and whilst there are differences between the two types of services it is their similarities which matter more.These services are being paid for by advertising so it appears to be free  to the end user. However, this also means that the element of  control is  much weaker. Moreover precisely because it is free can there be any doubt that legal minors will start using them, with who knows what  consequences?If I have 5,000 "friends" on my social networking profile and I fix it so that my physical whereabouts are constantly updated on the site,  have I not, in fact, relinquished all control over who knows where I am at any time of the day or night that my phone is working? Burying away information in the small print really is not good enough when it comes to  sensitive  issues such as a person's physical whereabouts.John CarrSecretary Children's Charities' Coalition on Internet Safety, London.www.chis.org.uk• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
There are certainly plenty of people who think so. Both real-world and digital piracy have gathered plenty of headlines recently – a timely coincidence that has served to bring the differences between the two into sharp contrast.People are pointing out that the activities of digital rebels such as The Pirate Bay couldn't be further from the raw violence of Somali pirates who are locked in a string of bloody battles off the east African coast.The latest to question the use of "piracy" to describe digital copying is Stephen Dubner, one of the authors of the bestselling book Freakonomics."It was a clever name, at least in the beginning. Hijacked movies, music, games, even books – yeah, it's the outlaws taking from the establishment, creating some wealth for the common man," he said onhis blog. "But in recent weeks, as real-life pirate attacks have gained in intensity, violence, and geopolitical meaning, talking about digital thieves as pirates has come to seem clever to a fault, and inaccurate too."Some people have highlighted this tension between different uses of the word for a long time. Richard ­Stallman, the founder of the Free Software Foundation and a notorious linguistic stickler, hasa long list of words he finds troubling(including "free", "creator" and "ecosystem"). He believes that piracy has always been a propaganda term when used by publishers."They imply that it is ethically equivalent to attacking ships on the high seas, kidnapping and murdering the people on them," he says. That may seem extreme – after all, most people are likely to picture swashbucklers such as Captain Jack Sparrow or Long John Silver – but even this week theBusiness Software Alliance was among the groups making direct comparisons to events off the Horn of Africain their campaign against copyright infringement.So what could we use instead? Stallman puts forward "unauthorised copying", "prohibited copying" – and even "sharing information with your neighbour". Dubner, meanwhile, scrabbled for the term "dobbery" (as in digital robbery) which is not only uncomfortable but has the potential to be just as controversial as its predecessor.John Gruber, the author of the ­Daring Fireball blog, suggests that we don't need new words or phrases: "Bootlegging is already apt," he wrote. That may be loaded with its own problems, but it does at least have a long history in the music world that predates digital piracy and has different associations.Still, whatever the campaigners unite behind they could be in for a long-term battle. Somalian pirates may be in the news today, but previous stories of theft, kidnap and murder (often in the South China Sea) have failed to jolt a ­linguistic shift. Perhaps it's time to admit that the ship has already sailed.
"What if salesforce.com were switched off," asks a concerned customer. The question is addressed to Marc Benioff, the company's charismatic 44-year-old chief executive, during the Cloudforce conference at the ExCel Centre in London last week.It's a big question, as salesforce.com is a prime example of cloud ­computing, asking customers to entrust business- critical software and data to servers running on the net. Benioff doesn't answer directly, but speaks with passion. "This is the future," he says. "If it isn't, I don't know what is. We're in it. You're going to see this model dominate our industry."Benioff co-founded salesforce.com in 1999, creating a company that specialises in enabling sales teams to manage contacts and leads online. Growth has been rapid, and revenue passed $1bn in the last financial year, despite the downturn. "For the fiscal 2009 (which ended in January), our revenue increased 44%," he says.Although the company's core product remains customer relationship management (CRM), its scope has expanded. "There are three core areas for us: the sales cloud, the service cloud, and your cloud," says Benioff. When he says "your cloud" he means custom applications, developed by customers or third parties but running on the salesforce.com servers.A different type of supportThe service cloud is new. The idea is that customer support now belongs on the internet, not in call centres. "How many people here have gone to Google when you had a problem with a product or service?" asks Benioff at Cloudforce. "You didn't make a call, did you? It's changed." The service cloud, already used by Orange, lets companies create a web portal with links to online chat, web search, and social ­networking services such as Twitter.Salesforce.com is not alone in its cloud ambitions. Google will run your email, host your documents, and now provides a platform for custom applications called App Engine. Amazon has fast-growing web services that let you set up virtual servers in the cloud and Microsoft has a new cloud initiative called Windows Azure.Talking to the salesforce.com executives, it is clear who is regarded with warmth and who is not. "Azure is moving that old software from your data centre ­to their data centre," says Benioff. "It seems as though they are moving all the complexity of the traditional development stack to the cloud, which misses the point." Google and Amazon, on the other hand, ­are partners. "We have been working closely with the Amazon Web Services team so customers can connect our clouds seamlessly," he says. "Over time, we expect that there will be even more specialised clouds, but they will all be connected ­via data and metadata APIs."Maintenance costsOrganisations that build web applications may run them from the cloud, but still have the burden of maintaining and developing them. "Our technology is different, there is only one application," Benioff explains. This is called multi-tenancy, where many customers share the same software.What about theOpen Cloud Manifesto, a document put together by IBM and others to promote interoperability? "Cloud providers must not use their market position to lock customers into their particular platforms and limit their choice of providers," trumpets the manifesto. Its credibility is undermined by vagueness and the absence of many big names, including Google and Amazon. "We did not sign it," says Bruce Francis, vice-president for corporate strategy at salesforce.com. "We say, look at our actions," referring to integration efforts with Google, Amazon and Facebook.Still, customer concerns are less about integration, more about lock-in. Once committed to salesforce.com's platform, can you ever get out? Maybe not. Benioff is open about what he calls strategic ­relationships with customers. "It's an aspect of our industry. You are making a platform decision, and our job is to make sure you choose our platform and not another platform, because once you have chosen another platform, getting you off it is usually impossible," he said last year in San Francisco.Moving to salesforce.com is no magic bullet. Kishore Sharma is CRM manager at Amtico International, a flooring company with around 400 employees. Four years ago, Amtico spent about £500,000 migrating to Salesforce CRM, but initially it failed. "We suffered with about 33% adoption. We didn't understand the application or how it should be married to our business." Amtico addressed the problems, fine-tuning the application and training users. Now adoption is over 90% and Sharma says Salesforce is valued for its flexibility and on-demand availability.Another benefit is the ability to scale down as well as up. "We've had redundancies because we're in the manufacturing industry," says Sharma. "We've reduced the number of licences, we've negotiated a better price."What then of that uncomfortable question – is data really safe in the cloud? "All complex systems have planned and unplanned downtime. The reality is we are able to provide higher levels of reliability and availability than most companies could provide on their own," says Benioff, who claims 99.9% uptime last year. There are now around 55,000 customers, forming 1.5 million subscribers, who are hoping earnestly that he is right.
Sometimes, a business project that is predicted as likely to fail, both by experts in the field and ­successful entrepreneurs, is not a misunderstood vision but truly flawed. There is a quote by Carl Sagan: "But the fact that some geniuses were laughed at does not imply that all who are laughed at are geniuses. They laughed at Columbus … But they also laughed at Bozo the Clown."The shutdown of Wikia Search, an attempt to apply Wikipedia-style ideas (ie, free work) to create an open source, ­commercial search engine, came as no surprise to informed ­observers. Reportedly very unsuccessful, receiving "only 10,000 unique users a month over the past six months", it could not be ­sustained undercurrent ­economic conditions. Numerous technical problems remained unsolved, and with&nbsp;regard to for-profit undertaking, itregularly faced questions(bit.ly/seth54) from professionals wanting to know: "Why should [we] provide the search expertise? Or, to put it less diplomatically, why should we make you rich?"Wikia Inc is a venture-capital-funded startup company, created by a few high-level people involved in Wikipedia, notablyWikipedia's co-founder Jimmy Wales, to commercialise similar concepts. While it has no major financial connection to the non-profit Wikimedia ­Foundation, which owns Wikipedia, Wikia still derives benefits due to a halo effect from Wikipedia's name recognition.Though the media widely hyped a storyline of Wikia Search as a "Google killer", the underlying reality wasalways more complex. To simplify, Google's dominance was an evil that would motivate contributors to labour without pay and donate resources for an assumed public-spirited (but not public sector) enterprise, thus supposedly battling the Great Search Satan. From a business standpoint, if Wikia could socialise costs and privatise benefits, then digital sharecroppers might ultimately produce a nice profit for Wikia even if Google remained utterly unchallenged.This strategy ofmining user-generated discontentfoundered in trying to monetise those sentiments. As anyone in politics can attest, it's easy to have a crowd rant about dangers and to generate press coverage, but harder to turn those feelings into something vaguely useful.And, contrary to many pundits who have sought to find some way that Wikia Search could be said to have affected Google, there is no evidence it had any effect whatsoever. While Google's "SearchWiki" interfacehas an obviously similar name, beyond that possible bit of marketing the underlying system is much more about personalisation than presenting results to others.Too many have a simplistic view of Google's ranking algorithm. While the famous PageRank calculation (roughly, a web page's popularity) is a key aspect, there are others (age of a page, age of links to it, links to the domain). While Google does not perform human-edited minor adjustments of a page's search position, it does change how it mixes factors to arrive at an answer.Those changes can incorporate information derived from human testing, though Google does not use data from SearchWiki. But Google has long taken human feedback into account (an apparently leaked copy of their "General Guidelines on Random-Query Evaluation" has been discussed on search expert sites).A prominent Google software ­engineer pointed out earlier versions, and stated: "Google was ­experimenting with this particular interface for user feedback well before Wikia launched, and months before Wikia introduced its [social] tools ... "When examining the implications of search algorithms, the idea of an open, public, search engine is often brought up. So far, nobody has found a way to fund such a platform. In what is ­perhaps a representative trajectory of web evangelism, stirring but empty rhetoric about collaboration and community has proved no solution to real-world issues. It would be polite to praise Wales for having made an effort. Regrettably, it's possible he's made the problem worse, by giving such projects a taint of half-baked dilettantism and corporate exploitation.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Sun Microsystems is now in limbo, having tried to sell itself to IBM and then balked at the reduced price – $7bn is a harsh reality for a company that used to be worth more than $200bn. Customers will now be evaluating Sun's future and deciding if it really has one. If they suspect not, they could start planning to switch to ­something else.This type of evaluation was everyday life in the industry before Microsoft Windows and Linux took over. Once you'd bought Windows, you didn't care if your hardware supplier went bust – there were plenty more just like it.The history of computing is therefore mainly the story of suppliers of less- or non-standard systems being taken over or going out of business. In minis, that meant Wang, Prime, DEC, Data General, SGI, ICL, etc. In personal computing, the roll call included Acorn, Apricot, Atari, Commodore, Dragon, Sinclair, Tandy and dozens more.Sun is one of the few survivors that still has a vertically integrated business model, meaning it takes responsibility for almost everything customers need. It has its own processor (Sparc), operating system (Solaris) and other software, and it supplies both servers and desktop hardware. Another obvious example is IBM, which used to own the computer industry and still pulls in more than $100bn a year. IBM was too big to go bust, which led to the saying that "Nobody ever got fired for buying IBM." That may not be true for Sun.Sun has tried to resolve that problem by making most of its stuff open source, including its chip architecture and its Solaris version of Unix. In theory, Sun's technologies could sail on even if the company went under. In reality, I think many would sink. It doesn't matter if Sparc is better than Intel, or Solaris is better than Linux. What matters is compatibility with market-driven standards.It's not even clear that OpenOffice (AKA Sun's Star Office) would make much progress if Sun's programmers disappeared. It doesn't have much of a community.Selling out to IBM is the obvious solution, because IBM is also still a vertical supplier, doing everything from chip manufacturing to high-end consultancy. But that means many of Sun's technologies would duplicate something that IBM already has, and I can't see IBM pitching Sparc against its own Power chips, or Solaris against its AIX version of Unix. IBM would mainly be buying customers that it could slowly migrate to IBM kit. Which is why Sun's not worth very much to IBM.Indeed, because it has converted to open source, Sun is now worth even less. IBM makes most of its money from proprietary hardware and software, so why should it pay for open source technologies it can already use for nothing? If IBM doesn't buy Sun, the main alternatives are to break up the company, or to bring in new management to turn it around.Sun could certainly split itself up and sell the bits to different companies such as Fujitsu (Sparc), IBM (Java, Netbeans, storage), Oracle (MySQL) and Cisco (switches). The parts might even be worth more than the whole. However, Sun is unlikely to get back the money it has spent on acquisitions – $4bn on StorageTek and $1bn on MySQL, to name but two – and there would be parts left over.A turnaround effort would probably involve the return of the Sun co-founder and former chief executive Scott McNealy, riding on a donkey, with dusky maidens strewing palm leaves in his path. Whether this would lead to a Steve Jobs-like resurrection, a Jerry Yang-like debacle, or a middling Michael Dell-style result is anybody's guess. Still, he could hardly do much worse than the incumbent, the open source enthusiast Jonathan Schwartz, AKA My Little Pony.If McNealy focused on his customers, instead of trying to play Luke Skywalker to Microsoft's Darth Vader, he might even succeed. But it's a long shot.
Copyright violationsAre sites such as freebookspot.ws – which provide links to thousands of books to download – actually in breach of copyright?Paul FoyJS:Freebookspot.ws, like many other websites and bulletin boards, carries links to files that users have uploaded to storage sites such as Rapidshare. It's a safe bet that, where copyright restrictions apply, these have been uploaded without the express permission of the copyright owner. The Freebookspot site says: "No files are hosted on our server, they are only indexed much like how Google works." I am not a lawyer, but I would expect it to remove links if the copyright owner complained.The situation persists because there are too many files in too many places for the copyright owners to get them all removed. In the UK, internet service providers are now obliged to keep logs of what users do, and there is also the idea of having a Rights Agency to tackle copyright infringement. Whether persistent infringers will end up in court or have their internet connections blocked remains to be seen: last week, France's attempt to bring in a law to cut off repeat offenders was rejected 21-15, perhaps because it was unpopular with voters.There are lots of reputable sites where users can download ebooks legally, such asProject Gutenberg, theUniversal Libraryand theUniversity of Virginia's ebook library.Buying abroadI'm thinking about getting a netbook, and I'm just about to take a trip to Tokyo. Should I wait and buy there?Gerry G OdonovanJS:Japan is generally expensive and was late into netbooks, so they mostly have the same models as us at similar prices. An Asus Eee 1000H, for example, goes for about ¥39,000 (£260), and you'd also be charged VAT to bring it into the UK. You can check prices at Google.co.jp even if you can't read the Japanese text.There are other problems with buying a computer abroad. First, it's unlikely to have a UK keyboard, operating system or manual, and it won't have a UK mains plug. (These are less of a problem when buying in the US.) Second, you may have trouble getting repairs or support, unless the machine has an international guarantee card. And you won't be able to take it back to the shop.Internet bookI'm looking for a good book about the internet, something that doesn't go into too much technical detail but is akin to popular science books.Josefin HolmstromJS:It's a long time since we had general introductions to the internet, but Preston Gralla's How the Internet Works is a well-illustrated guide to the underlying technologies and protocols. Perhaps it is a bit too technical, but you can seean extended preview of pages at Google Book Search. Much smaller and more down-to-earth isThe Rough Guide to the Internet by Peter Buckley and Duncan Clark.Out-of-copyright musicHow can I find out if I can legitimately distribute commercial music on the net? I have a collection of 78s issued before the first world war. I'd like to share them on the web, but do not want to infringe copyright rules.John LoaderJS:TheUK Copyright Service has a helpful pageanda fact sheet, Seeking Permission. Recordings have both music copyrights, for the score and lyrics etc, and a performance copyright in the recording. The latter lasts for 50 years, so you're ok.Cutting out backgroundsI need to cut off the "white space"around an image in a jpg. Is there afreetool that can doso automatically?Dan DreamingbearJS:You need to remove the background and make it transparent, so that whatever is behind the background shows through. Unfortunately, the JPEG file format doesn't support transparency, so you will need to convert the final image to Gif or PNG. Otherwise there are lots of ways to remove backgrounds, and the About.com articlesRemoving Backgrounds and Maintaining Transparency in Graphics SoftwareandKnock it Out! Removing Backgrounds with Photoshopwill give you a good idea of the options. Also have a look atTransparency From Here to Therefor help with using transparent images.If you can't get hold of a copy of Photoshop, you cantry to do them in Gimpshop. This is a version of Gimp, the free Gnu Image Manipulation Program, deweirdified to work like Photoshop.Backchat• Julian Taylor was looking for a personal finance program. Douglas Ritherdon says he has tried most of them: "In the endI settled for Moneydance, and after three months' use, I rate it as far better than Microsoft Money. It doesn't quite cover all Money's abilities but it is easy to use, well presented on screen and is well supported." On the Ask Jack blog, ­MarjorieMc recommendsAce Money. Both programs are available in trial versions.
Only this weekend I was thinking how much more time I would have spent with Fallout 3 if the world had just been a bit, well, prettier. Fun game and all that but Fallout 3 never gripped me in the same way developer Bethesda's previous title Oblivion did. And the main reason was the look of the respective worlds. Oblivion was lush and green, inviting and tempting to explore. I often climbed mountains just to admire the view (and wish the draw distance was just a little better). Fallout 3 by contrast is brown and grey. Yes, I appreciate the post-apocalyptic setting but climbing the next mound of dirt to see yet another dispiritingly desolate view really killed my desire to explore – a crucial part of free-roaming RPGs. It looks like I wasn't theonly who thought this, with a new-ishPC modadding trees and grass to Fallout 3's dusty environment.Sadly this is PC only so Xbox owners are stuck with the brown, but I'm almost tempted to play Fallout 3 on the PC for the first time just to try it out.What do you think then? Love exploring Fallout 3's desolate world or rather it had a bit more greenery?
There are two perennial questions about Twitter: why bother using it, andhow is it going to make money? The second one, at least, may now have an answer thanks to James Cox, the London-based web developer who started the site's most popular account,@CNNbrk.Cox has just signed a deal to hand ownership of the account back to CNN itself, although neither he nor the company are making the financial details public. Although he's been working with CNN for some time on operating the account, from now on it will be officials at the organisation's Atlanta HQ who will take ownership and responsibility for it.I just got off the phone with Cox, who was on his way back from Atlanta, and said that "the outcome has been very good, and it's been fun doing it".It's the final twist in a strange little story, which began when Cox wanted to get breaking news sent directly to his phone. Making money was never the goal, he says: "It's been nice to end the loop, but it wasn't the reason for starting it," he told me. "It was to get access to breaking news without having to resort to crazy steps."He wasn't the only one who thought that it would be good to follow the news on his phone, and soon the number of followers built up (current total at time of publication: 947,233).Although Cox had effectively infringed on CNN's trademark, the company didn't litigate against him, but decided to work with him to maintain and boost the account. A spokeswoman from CNN told me that the company started working with Cox two years ago and that "he's been a fantastic partner". Apparently, however, the recent flood of followers means that both sides preferred to agree to move ownership officially back to the mothership.What's next? Cox is currently travelling, but he says there could be similar projects on the way."It's fun to do mashups and stuff," he said. "Sometimes they work and sometimes they don't. There's a lot ot be gained by taking additional sources of information... finding ways to take mainstream media sources and mashing it up with new media like Flickr and Youtube and so on. It's all undecided and subject to change, but I hope to be able to do more good things."We can't be sure how much money is involved here, but it's actually against Twitter's terms of service to sell usernames. However, given that this is officially being described as a "transfer of ownership", they might just get away with it.
Google, the world's favourite search engine, just gets more and more powerful. The question is what to do about it. Even though it remains largely a one-product company - search - there is nothing on the horizon to dislodge it. A year or two ago, as web activity started migrating to mobiles, Google's dominance was at risk - not least because Yahoo was ahead in making mobile search usable. But recent statistics fromnetmarketshare.com, which have provoked remarkably little discussion, suggest Google now has an astonishing 97.5% share of mobile search, even before its own Android operating system has been fully rolled out.Even if that figure is 10 percentage points out, it is very worrying. It may only be a temporary consequence of Google's success on the iPhone/iPod Touch - which, because of great design and an all-you-can eat data tariff, is responsible for a large proportion of the comparatively few people using mobiles for search. Microsoft's launch of its Live Search on mobiles will provide fresh competition. But the fact is that most of the things Google does well, and some it doesn't, are made in heaven for mobiles, especially now that operators are switching to "unlimited" data packages or adopting the "sender pays" approach.If you look at search, watching videos, location-based services, reading books or newspapers, social networking, barcode reading, television and email, they will be increasingly experienced on mobiles. Even Google's failures - such as Google Talk, a free internet telephone service - could have a new lease of life once embedded on mobile devices. Small wonder Google has been so keen to fill one of its few gaps by buying or linking with Twitter, whose 140 character tweets appear on search engines only 20 seconds after posting. As Google moves more into corporations, offering its package of Gmail, documents and spreadsheets as an alternative to Microsoft, its tentacles will extend into the subterranean internet outside the reach of most search engines.If Google already has a near-monopolistic grip on the gateway to knowledge when it is but 10 years old, what will happen 10 years hence? Think of your reaction if it were the government, not Google, that knew so much about you: your websites, your photos, your videos, your location, your emails plus potentially most of what you write. Google claims it resists government pressure to hand over such data when required by law, but no one knows how often it has actually done so. At present this isn't a grave issue because we trust those nice guys at Google - whose startup motto was Don't Be Evil - more than we do governments. But the motto has slid a bit into the background as Google does unGoogle-ish things such as bowing to Chinese censorship, withdrawing videos in the throes of negotiations with the music industry and prompting criticism as a result of its admirable scheme toscan practically every book. Google is in pole position to control the gateway to knowledge in the mobile future, only in 10 or 20 years it won't necessarily be the same guys running it or those same guys may have been corroded by the power they yield.There are safeguards: if Google misbehaves then social networks may agree on an overnight flit to another search engine, or someone may produce a better one. But what is really needed - short of Google's ruling trio turning the company into an independent trust - is international monitoring to preserve competition. It may be hilarious to hear Microsoft complaining about lack of competition in search, but it has a point. There is no case for Google to extend its monopoly by buying or controlling Twitter. Why can't it use some of the billions in the bank to nurture an effective rival? It is vital to preserve competition, but all the dotcom megaliths can think of is smothering it at birth.victorkeegan.com
Facebook fans get lower gradesResearch based on 219 students at Ohio State University suggests that Facebook users study less and also obtain lower grades.IE8 on the wayMicrosoft has started to offer Internet Explorer 8 via AutoUpdate, but users must still opt in to install it.Social networking ChatterChatter is a new social networking site with more than 100 "social niches" for different hobbies and interests.Your identity, 50pSymantec's annual Internet Security Threat Report (ISTR) says criminals can now buy personal identity details for about 50p.Hits for guitar heroesActivision is inviting fans of its Guitar Hero games to vote for their Greatest Hits set list.New angles for NikonOn May Day, Nikon will release the 12-megapixel D5000 digital SLR (&pound;800), which also features a 2.7-inch Vari-angle LCD screen.Webmail brainstormGMX has introduced GMX Brainstorm so users can suggest new features for its free webmail system.Loving the listReevo's scrolling online shopping list collects user reviews from people who have bought products.
Last week's announcement that the Beatles' back catalogue will be made available on remastered CD failed to satisfy all Fab Four fans. Fifteen remastered albums will be released on 9 September, as will The Beatles: Rock Band videogame. But there is still no news on when the band's catalogue will be made available online.Frustratingly for digital music fans, the Beatles and a handful of other high-profile acts continue to occupy a small but significant gap in the online catalogues of the likes of iTunes and Spotify, preventing listeners from downloading and streaming some of the world's biggest artists.This "Beatles Gap" has been a bone of contention ever since iTunes launched five years ago. Initially, a whole host of big-name acts avoided iTunes and its rivals, but the likes of Led Zeppelin, Metallica, Madonna and Radiohead have all since joined the digital music revolution. But the Beatles - alongside bands such as AC/DC - have yet to sign up.The battle of the Apples"There is a demand from both long-standing and newer fans for the Beatles' catalogue to be made available digitally," says Ernie Sutton from the British Beatles Fan Club. "There are a lot of young people who have heard of the Beatles but might not have heard their music."So why is the Beatles' catalogue not available on iTunes? Initially, the long-running naming rights battle between Apple Inc and Apple Corps got in the way, but that was settled in 2006. Paul McCartney said in November at the media launch for his latest solo album (which is available digitally) that Apple Corps and EMI were struggling to agree terms for a Beatles digital release. "We're up for it," he said. "They [EMI] want something we're not prepared to give them. Hey, sounds like the music business."As regards when an agreement may be reached, when contacted for this article Apple Corps offered no comment, while a spokesperson for EMI said that discussions regarding the digital distribution of the catalogue are continuing.If an agreement is reached, the release of the remastered albums would seem an ideal opportunity to go digital, and it's possible that the Beatles could bypass the likes of iTunes and go it alone. Having successfully pitched the Rock Band game idea to Apple Corps, Dhani Harrison, son of George, has subsequently proposed a Beatles-only download store.If you want to listen to the Beatles digitally you'll need to rip the tracks from a CD or pursue illegal downloads. Last.fm tracks digital listening habits in order to custom-build playlists, and ranks the Beatles third in its most-listened-to artists chart (behind Radiohead and Coldplay). So are the Beatles losing money by failing to meet this digital demand?"You could argue they are losing money, and you could argue they are ringfencing CD sales," says Eamonn Forde, contributing editor for all things digital at Music Week. Forde points out that, while digital sales dominate the singles market, the album market is still dominated by the CD. Nielsen Soundscan figures show that digital accounted for 15% of total album sales in 2008, having risen from 10% in 2007 and 5.5% in 2006.According to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), the biggest-selling album of 2008 was Coldplay's Viva La Vida, which sold more downloads than any other album in digital history. But the second biggest-selling album of 2008 was AC/DC's Black Ice, though it had zero downloads because of the rockers' refusal to release their music online.AC/DC's stance against digital is designed to prevent fans from cherrypicking single tracks, its guitarist Angus Young has explained, and has less to do with protecting the integrity of the album format than with the band's long-standing belief that they make more money from album sales than from singles.As for their ability to achieve huge sales without going digital, Forde says AC/DC are a special case, with an established audience that can be relied upon to buy the band's albums, iTunes or not. "Certain artists don't need digital," he says.A recent experiment by Warner Music in the US involving the British R&amp;B singer Estelle suggested new artists without established audiences can't ignore digital. Last summer, Estelle had a US hit with her single American Boy, from the album Shine. Warner realised fans were downloading the single but not the full album, and pulled Shine from the US iTunes store. Did fans rush out to buy Shine on CD? No. Estelle's sales plummeted and Warner was forced to relist her music on iTunes.Warner did have better luck with Kid Rock's Rock'n'Roll Jesus album, which was a US No 1 despite the singer's boycott of US iTunes because of grumbles over pay. Like AC/DC, Kid Rock was an established artist before the arrival of iTunes, and had a fanbase awaiting his album's release. Even so, Rock has estimated he loses around 20% of his album sales income by avoiding iTunes.Revolution in the headBut for the digital music consumer, financial issues are less important than availability. As revolutionary as iTunes and Spotify might be, without the Beatles the world of online music seems flawed.Jim Butcher, from Spotify, says he hopes to see the Beatles' catalogue on the service in the near future. "Other artists such as Radiohead and Black Sabbath have already allowed Spotify users access to their music," he says. "Adding the Beatles would help demonstrate that the move into the digital realm is one that, if done correctly and for the benefit of fans, artists and the industry in general, can only be positive."The Brighton singer/songwriter Kate Walsh is one artist who has benefited from releasing music digitally. "I owe all of my success to iTunes, really," she says. Walsh was the first unsigned artist to top the iTunes album chart, with the self-released Tim's House. She says the success of the album was partly triggered by the decision to offer a single track as a free iTunes download of the week. Walsh was subsequently signed by Mercury Records, and will release a follow-up album later this year.Walsh says she doesn't download music, preferring to own physical formats. "I love to have the CD," she says. "I like to see it in the CD rack and put it in the machine. It's very fortunate for the Beatles to be able to afford not to put their music online. But you have to move with the times."You can buy me, love10 Beatles songs found on iTunesAcross the Universe, David BowieEleanor Rigby, Aretha FranklinHey Jude, Wilson PickettIn My Life, Johnny CashLucy in the Sky With Diamonds, Elton JohnSgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, The Jimi Hendrix ExperienceSomething, Frank SinatraTicket to Ride, The CarpentersWe Can Work it Out, Stevie WonderWith a Little Help from My Friends, Joe Cocker
Imagine you have a successful local business, which you'd like to expand elsewhere in the EU. How do you find the most promising places to invest?The first step may be to seek areas with similar demographics to the places where you're already successful - but you could be in for a long slog. Sixteen years after the birth of the single European market, much detailed data about member states' populations remains the jealously guarded property of governments whose taxpayers funded its collection.In the next few months, however, moves are due to begin to free the contents of some 25,000 state-owned data sets across the UK. A new initiative funded by the European Commission will create a common access policy across Europe.Hilary Beedham, a project manager at the UK Data Archive, the main national repository of social science data, told the European Geodemographics Conference in London this month that data collected with public funds should be publicly available. She said that the new funding will give teeth to an organisation called Cessda, the Council of European Social Science Data Archives, to require members to sign up to open access. "If that requires legal changes, than those will have to be addressed."By the standards of much of the rest of Europe, the UK is already relatively open with (anonymised) data from censuses and publicly funded research. However, the London conference, organised by the Market Research Society, heard that this freedom usually extends only to academic or "non commercial" reuse.The Free Our Data campaign believes that this is an unnecessary distinction in the information age, and that levying charges for commercial reuse of information can be a disincentive to innovation that is expensive to administer.The European Commission appears to agree. Its statistical information organisation, Eurostat, has agreed to make small-area data from 2011 censuses available for free reuse - from 2014.The commercial demographics expert Keith Dugmore, one of the organisers of the London conference, says that the wind of free data is blowing across Europe. "There's no doubt that in five years' time many barriers will be broken down, but it's going to be a long haul."• Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Show me the bunny, honeyWe know Easter is over, but this was simply too clever to resist - an online, interactive, Easter egg hunt. See how many you can find. And the best thing? Virtual eggs have no calories.Elan gives iPhone the eFingerTaiwan's Elan Microelectronics shows how to do a multi-touch phone, with its eFinger system running on Google Android. It's suing Apple for patent infringement, but will it win?Yes, we just really like robotsObsessed? Who says we're obsessed? Anyway, here's another ... erm ... robot video for your viewing amusement.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
It wasn't until last Sunday that Scott Henderson knew he'd been duped. The former US army intelligence officer, along with his colleague "Jumper" had been tracking an alleged Chinese hacker, nicknamed Lost33, who had promised him an interview. "Lost33 did not make contact with Jumper last night. In fact, it seems he spent the night changing his QQ number" - QQ is a popular Chinese instant messaging service - "and deleting all info from his blog. The website is now completely empty, except for a change to his personal data,"said Henderson on his blog.Henderson had been tracking Lost33 after his email address - losttemp33@hotmail.com - turned up inan investigation called GhostNet. GhostNet started whenInformation Warfare Monitor (IWF), a team of cyberwarfare researchers created by Toronto University and the Canadian security thinktank SecDev, had been asked to conduct a security audit for the Tibetan government in exile. It had found malicious software on the Dalai Lama's most sensitive computers.The investigation found links back to command and control servers located mainly in China. From there, the IWF found infected computers under the control of those servers in 103 countries. They identified roughly a third of them, and found them all to be sensitive computers in organisations important to Chinese interests, including numerous embassies, telecommunications companies, and even Vietnamese petrol firms. Just as Lost33's identity and motives are shrouded in mystery, the final link between GhostNet and the Chinese government is also lacking.Ostensibly, this looks like a state-sponsored cyber-spying ring. Especially when you read the part of the report in which a member of an online Tibetan outreach project was detained for two months and interrogated by Chinese officials. They presented her with copies of her internet chat logs. The project's machines were compromised by the same malware that filched the Dalai Lama's files, and communicated with the GhostNet control servers.For love of the countryBut there could be other motives and actors, says the IWF. GhostNet could be a for-profit initiative, operated by cyber-criminals. It could be operated from outside China, using compromised Chinese computers as proxies (one of the control servers - also the first to be shut down when GhostNet was discovered - was based in the US)."Even 'patriotic hackers' could be acting on their own volition, or with the tacit approval of their government, as operators of the GhostNet," says the IWF report. The problem is that all of these things are happening in China anyway. Henderson says that patriotic hacking has been a mainstay of the Chinese hacking underground since the mid-90s.After the internet arrived in China in 1994, people began experimenting with the technology, and in 1997, the Green Army hacker group was formed. This gave way to the Red Hacker Alliance, a loosely connected set of groups that emerged after the Jakarta riots of 1998, when Chinese nationals were accused of destabilising the country. Indonesian websites were defaced by outraged Chinese hackers, and a nationalistic movement took on force.Since then, for-profit motives have emerged. "The history has changed from being a group wanting to protect the motherland, to being specialised hacker groups that are there for the purpose of making money," Henderson says. Now, for example, hackers have broken the rule of thumb that prevented them attacking Chinese IP addresses. That wouldn't have been appropriate when cyber-attacks were motivated by nationalism. Now, in the age of commercialised cybercrime, anyone is fair game.Zhao Wei, co-founder of the Chinese Anti-Malware Alliance, has been battling against the hacker underground since 2006. He says that hackers in China are growing in number, due in part to the economic downturn - and that Chinese nationals are just as vulnerable to poor security in Chinese cyberspace."At least 20 million people in China lost their jobs, and after they spend all of their money ... then they may turn to cybercrime," says Wei. He adds that the online crimewave is spreading to smaller cities, which shot up in great numbers during the economic boom. Phishing and other cybercrime has supplanted physical crime in some of these places.After all, why risk harsh punishment for ripping off a warehouse when you can rip off people electronically with scant fear of retribution? "The policemen think it's cool. There's no one on the street. They're all going to the bar, and they're working on phishing. The policemen love the internet," Wei says.Local loopholesIn addition to phishing and hacking websites, Chinese hackers have also exploited flaws in local third-party applications, which are often badly written, Wei says. China, known for its lax view of intellectual property, is rife with pirated copies of Windows software - local companies now provide their own security update services for the company's software, he says.So what are Chinese hackers looking for on their victims' machines? Much the same as hackers outside the country, but online games accounts are also targeted, and World of Warcraft, the most popular massively multiplayer game worldwide, is a particular prize. Accumulated gold and character points from this game can be sold on the open market.Attacks from Chinese hackers can also be more sophisticated. Dennis Dwyer, a threat intelligence analyst at the Atlanta-based managed security services firm SecureWorks, says that targeted attacks are a signature technique perfected by Chinese cyber-criminals. They will conduct extensive research on an organisation to understand which individuals work there and how they're related."What we have seen is very specific malware. They'll be looking for people using a certain version of Word," says Dwyer. The GhostNet report demonstrates how hackers persuaded victims to open infectious files by attaching them to emails supposedly from people they knew.Phantom menace"We also see the use of zero-day or file format type exploits [malware applications]," confirms Dwyer. "In particular, we watch a group called Phantom. They're very public about what they do. What they typically don't do is use [the exploits] themselves. They sell them for others to use."This trend of selling exploits on the open market is now gravitating toward selling toolkits. SecureWorks has identified a new kit - Leopard in a Hole - that automates the kind of SQL injection attacks for which Chinese hackers have become famous. This time last year, Chinese hackers compromised tens of thousands of websites with malicious JavaScript. Versions of Leopard in a Hole that essentially allow non-technical attackers to do this with a just a few mouse clicks  have been found on sale for up to $500. Online crime is now big business.In all of this, one unanswered question remains. Who was responsible for GhostNet? "It's convenient to have privateers. People who are given the king's warrant to act on his behalf, but who are kept at arm's length," says Rafal Rohozinski, principal analyst at the IWF and co-author of the report. He likens cyberspace to the high seas of old, which were populated by what amounted to freelance warships sanctioned by the state. "I think these are third-party actors. Whether they're deliberately commissioned, protected or allowed to raise money from other activities that are overlooked, I don't know."In China, more than perhaps anywhere else in the world, there is a bountiful supply of such cyber-swashbucklers. Who knows how many other treasure chests people may have buried in the world's networks - or whether we will ever be able to prove the true identity of those that put them there?
Back in 1983, the world was a simpler place. The economy looked healthy, there were only four channels on the TV - and, if you believed Hollywood at least, the biggest threat to world security was a pimply teenager with a computer. Matthew Broderick's turn in the film WarGames, as a nerdy kid who accidentally blunders into a highly classified computer system that controls the US nuclear arsenal and proceeds to take the world to the brink of nuclear war, didn't win many awards. But it made its mark on millions of people around the world - and introduced us to the stereotype of the precocious young hacker.The film plugged into every paranoid star-wars fantasy from the Reagan era but now it is unlikely to elicit more than a snigger. The prospect of a cyberwar launched by someone too young to drink is, frankly, ridiculous. Isn't it?In fact, the implications of a cyberwar are, right now, being carefully considered by intelligence chiefs in Britain and around the western world. Their nightmare? A co-ordinated strike that targets businesses, public services, central government, the financial sector and communication systems.In the worst-case scenario, what might start slowly - a few propaganda messages here, a hacked website there - could quickly spread. The already hammered British economy might soon be crippled as the nation's bank accounts are drained of their funds - stripping billions out of people's hands in seconds - and major online shops including eBay and Amazon fail.Elsewhere, communications networks could come under fire, with phone, internet and mobile systems quickly collapsing. The transport network might fail, too, causing air-traffic control computers to go haywire, rail systems to break down, traffic light systems to be reprogrammed. The ensuing chaos would create panic around the country, with airports from Heathrow to Glasgow on high alert, facing the horrifying prospect of midair collisions as the aircraft above them are fed wrong information. While the emergency services struggle to cope with the confusion, they could fall victim to attacks themselves. A stream of fake messages and alerts might send fire engines to the wrong locations, and ambulances to hospitals already filled with patients.And the coup de grace? Hidden programs inside the country's electricity grid might then jump to life, shutting down power supplies, creating targeted blackouts, even sending nuclear reactors into freefall.Such a doomsday scenario might sound drastic - more of a cyber-apocalypse than a cyber-attack - but it is one that has been outlined many times by the Metropolitan Police, MI5 and the Joint Intelligence Committee. The US Navy investigator and cybercrime specialist Kenneth Geers characterises the typical response of powerful individuals as they hear this doomsday scenario outlined as a sort of unbridled terror inspired by technology. "More than one senior official said they've had so many cyber-briefings now that they don't want to turn their computers on any more," he says.Geers identifies a number of potential weak spots in the system, including websites of "pure economic value" (such as banks and online shops) as well as telecommunications systems and the electricity grid."In the worst case? [Someone] invading your own infrastructure and using your own tools against you," he says. "Tell your troops to move in the wrong direction, or your missiles to fire on your own cities ... anything in your imagination."Hidden in the shadow of crumbling Soviet tower blocks on the outskirts of the Estonian capital Tallinn sits a compact military post that looks pretty much like any other. The base carries the official name of Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence, but is usually referred to by the code name K5. Soldiers march across the small parade ground, passing a selection of camouflaged vehicles as they troop to and fro. Heavy weaponry is dotted around the buildings, while on one side of the plot a discreet armoury holds a stock of emergency weapons.Behind the security gates and razor wire, however, this is a different kind of military operation - the unlikely frontline in Nato's attempt to prevent a global cyberwar. K5 is where the alliance's top computer experts - high-ranking researchers, academics and security specialists - work in teams to analyse potential cyberthreats, and predict exactly how Nato will fight virtual wars in the future.Since the centre opened last year, few people have been granted a glimpse inside - but I am being given the chance to see exactly what takes place here. And so I find myself standing opposite Rain Ottis, a stout, serious-looking Estonian computer scientist who speaks flawless English, in the corner of K5's mess room. It would be easy to forget that this is a military station were it not for the fact he is wearing fatigues. I'm holding a cup of weak coffee in a Nato mug, and watching as a light rain starts falling on the barracks next door.Ottis speaks with a calm voice, but is forceful about how we might need to respond to a future cyber-strike. His solution? Overwhelming response: a single, gigantic counter-strike that cripples the target and warns anyone else off launching a future cyberwar. He isn't sure what it would look like, but the show of force he envisages is so severe that the only thing he can compare it to is a nuclear attack - meaning, of course, that K5 could be the virtual equivalent of the Manhattan Project, the US-led secret programme to develop the atomic bomb."Obviously nuclear weapons do a lot more damage than a cyber-weapon would do in a physical sense - but a single cyber-weapon could have global consequences," he says. It feels as if we have come full circle from the contrived Hollywood paranoia of WarGames.Fears over computerised warfare stretch back many years, but it was only in the early 1990s - when the internet started to become a more widely accepted technology - that researchers at Rand, the Pentagon thinktank, first coined the term "cyberwar". In a prescient 1993 paper, "Cyberwar is coming!", the analysts John Arquilla and David Ronfeldt argued that an online battle waged between two nations was almost inevitable - but that at least it would be less destructive than full-blown conflict.Many of the cyber-attacks that have been identified in recent years have been linked back to China, which now has more internet users than anywhere in the world, and Russia. The growing animosity surrounding these reported strikes is developing into a new sort of cold war, played out by teams of cyber-spies sitting at computers in opposite corners of the globe.Recent examples that have raised the tension include a hi-tech spy group known as Titan Rain, which successfully infected government computers in Britain, America and Germany, and GhostNet, a cyber-espionage network which targeted supporters of a free Tibet. Both were said to come from China, and possibly be directly linked to the People's Liberation Army - although researchers couldn't agree on the evidence. University of Cambridge researchers claim it was definitely the product of "agents of the Chinese government", while their colleagues at the University of Toronto say that it is too easy to presume guilt."Certainly Chinese cyber-espionage is a major global concern," the Canadian experts wrote in a report on GhostNet. "But attributing all Chinese malware to deliberate or targeted intelligence-gathering operations by the Chinese state is wrong and misleading."Then, last week, it was widely reported that the US's power grid had succumbed to hackers. Given that America's security services are scrabbling for the attention of their new president, there's plenty of reason to be sceptical about these unsubstantiated and largely anonymous reports (American security whizz Kevin Poulsen says the timing of this uncheckable story is "unusually opportune"). Regardless, such stories are enough to convince the powers-that-be to take action: last week it emerged that the US Congress is considering legislation to massively increase the country's cyber-defences - including, potentially, a single official who is in charge of keeping civil systems, military networks and public utilities safe.Inside Nato's own cyber-defence HQ in Estonia, the day-to-day business at K5 largely involves people staring at computer screens. Those expecting a vast, hi-tech control centre worthy of Nasa would probably be disappointed by the austere surroundings, which look more like they were lifted from a university hall than MI5 headquarters. Essentially, the centre is a hybrid of a global listening post and a thinktank. The 30 experts stationed here are tasked with gathering and processing intelligence and information, then giving scientists the information to simulate possible responses to cyber-attack.The group is drawn from a range of Nato countries, and they spend their days analysing data that streams in from around the internet. One of those stationed at K5 is Geers, the author of a book called Cyber Jihad and the Globalisation of Warfare. Tall, slim, dark-haired and wearing civilian clothes, he tells me that we are paying the price for a headlong rush into using technologies without thinking through the potential consequences."In certain ways, this is a golden age for attackers," he says, in a careful voice. "Over the past 15 years, the world has rushed to connect networks together because they want to use their power. But the rush to connect everything to the internet was ahead of security."With so much of the world now connected to the internet - billions of computers and mobile phones across a multitude of homes, banks, schools, shops and elsewhere - it is ripe for attackers to exploit the gaps in security. "It's a very big challenge for us to be able to leverage networks and the power of computers, while at the same time securing them."In a side room, Geers' colleague Ottis tells me: "Espionage is something that countries and governments accept - it's always been there, and always will. But if we see attacks that target the citizen? That's different."There is a particular reason for Ottis and his fellow Estonians to be concerned about the threat of cyberwar: in 2007, Estonia itself was the target of a massive internet assault, allegedly sparked by a political disagreement with Russia. Over the course of several weeks, Estonia's government, banking and commercial sectors endured a sustained barrage of online attacks that brought parts of the system - one of the most advanced and internet-friendly in the world - grinding to a halt.Although the Estonians imply that the campaign was sponsored by the Kremlin, K5 officials admit they can offer no proof. But whoever was ultimately responsible, the strikes highlighted fears that technology is the weapon at the forefront of a new sort of cold war."This is definitely not science fiction any more," says Ottis. "We have plenty of examples where nation states have actually been involved - both on the offensive and the defensive side. Cyber-attacks are very efficient. You don't have to fly to the country you're attacking, you don't need a cell somewhere. All you need is a connection. What happens if your country gets targeted by 25,000 well-equipped, well-trained people who work to achieve the same goal? No country is ready for that."The first step towards a proper cyber-defence is understanding who the actors behind a potential attack might be. But doing that requires information which, for the most part, is impossible to find. "Defence against cyberwarfare is extremely difficult," explains Peter Sommer, a computer security specialist and visiting professor at the London School of Economics. "Only the very unskilled leave pointers to their identities and locations."Skilled hackers can implant targeted viruses inside their victim's computers and leave them to gestate for weeks, months or even years before activating them at a later date. There are numerous examples of such vast, destructive virus strikes - most notably the Conficker worm, which has infected more than 9m PCs worldwide in recent months. Right now nobody knows who created Conficker, or what its target might be. It has yet to fully activate, leaving security groups and antivirus companies on high alert. Some have suggested it is part of a criminal plan to steal identities by the million, or a dangerous cyber-weapon, or that it could simply be a gigantic prank. But even if the worm does prove the spark that ignites a full-blown cyber-conflict, its author would remain almost untraceable.Just as any hard evidence to suggest the Russian military approved the Estonian cyberattack in 2007 is largely missing, so proving that China or Russia are directly responsible for other attacks is almost impossible. And, experts admit, it would be politically smart for a truly destructive organisation to mask their attacks and make them seem like they originated from a country already under scrutiny.In truth, it could be almost anybody, almost anywhere. Rudimentary hackers' toolkits are available to buy cheaply online, while an illicit black-market trade in more complex tools takes would-be attackers out of the reach of the authorities on the so-called "darknet". And while a highly intelligent virus such as Conficker may have required some skill to program, other hackers may succeed simply by having the time to experiment rather than any great raw ability. (Gary McKinnon, the Briton accused of hacking into Pentagon computers, bumbled his way into supposedly secure networks by guessing that the password had not been changed from the default "password").There is also an increasingly blurred line between what action the state sponsors (which would qualify as full-blown international conflict) and what is being done in the name of the state - a sort of guerrilla warfare played out on virtual battlefields. With China's growing power leading to widespread suspicion and criticism in the western media, these groups - a mixture of roguish hackers, disaffected teens and intellectuals frustrated by stereotypes about their culture - see part of their job as defending the homeland, even while they reserve the right to criticise it from the inside.Rebecca MacKinnon, a Hong Kong-based journalist and academic, has identified this burgeoning ideology as "cyber-tarianism" - where highly connected citizens are critical of government repression but fiercely nationalistic at the same time."A lot of people don't want a western-style democracy," she told a conference in California last month. "Before the Olympics last year, Chinese students protested all over the world at what they saw as biased western media accounts." These protests included a series of large-scale hacking attacks - on large targets such as the news channel CNN, and small ones such as pro-Tibet websites, which temporarily disabled them.In China and Russia, this cyberforce is reckoned to be becoming more powerful - and more destructive. Dissident Russian nationalists have also been blamed for the Estonia attacks, while similar groups are appearing in other countries around the globe as internet connectivity spreads. Armed with technical know-how and a passionate cause, these ad hoc groups of individuals would seem increasingly important in the way these conflicts are playing out.But it's still difficult to imagine what would actually happen if a full-blown cyberwar ever did take place. After all, movies like WarGames - stuffed with Hollywood exaggerations - surely stretch the limits of what can happen. Don't they?
Amazon has opted out of Phorm's controversial targeted advertising technology, delivering a serious blow to the UK-listed company which has already prompted a European commission legal action against the British government. Phorm's technology, which is yet to be launched in the UK, allows ISPs to track their customers' activity on the internet in order to target adverts on pages they subsequently visit.Amazon's absence from Phorm's Webwise system deprives the company of the second most visited destination, aftereBay.co.uk, among shopping and classified websites in the UK, according to data from Hitwise. It means Phorm will not have access to crucial information about what Amazon users are interested in.Last month the Open Rights Group, privacy campaigners, sent a letter to nine of the internet's biggest names, including Amazon, Google, Bebo, Facebook and Yahoo, asking them to opt out of Phorm's technology "to protect your users' privacy".Google and Bebo are actively considering whether to opt out and a spokesman for Amazon said the company has now removed all its domain names - includingAmazon.com- from Webwise. A spokesman for Phorm said the company does not comment on individual cases but the it is understood to be planning a meeting with Amazon's management to explain the benefits of the Webwise system.But it is the latest blow to a company whose online tracking technology has infuriated privacy campaigners and is now worrying EU lawmakers.  On Tuesday, the EC launched legal proceedings against the government for breaching data protection and ePrivacy rules as a result of secret testing of Phorm's technology by BT in 2006 and 2007. The commission wants the rules covering interception of online traffic to be tightened. Viviane Reding, the EU telecoms commissioner, made it plain that she is becoming increasingly concerned about advertising that is based on the collection of details of a user's online behaviour."Do you want to turn the internet into a jungle? This could happen if we cannot control the use of our information online," she said. "There is an undeniable risk that privacy is being lost to the brave new world of intrusive technologies."The sheer amount of negative press surrounding Phorm's technology has left its creators with a challenge. It needs users to sign up for the service in order for it to work, but a survey of 1,000 British internet users by research specialist TNS showed that there is resistance to targeted advertising among surfers. Although 47% of people liked the idea of having ads tailored to their tastes, 41% still saw targeted advertising as an abuse of their privacy.To persuade people to sign up Phorm is looking at the possibility of incentives for users. They could be offered cheaper deals, faster speeds or charitable donations made by their internet service provider (ISP) to encourage them to sign up.
It is inevitable that at this stage in my PhD - the dreaded writing-up phase - I can see the blasted thing everywhere. I can't eat, sleep or play without some tenuous and convoluted association with social networks, social psychology and online community interrupting the few moments I'm trying to clear my head of it. This ranges from creating mini-networks out of peas and spaghetti on my dinner plate to dreaming of correlations in my sleep. The worst is when it creeps into my fun time and turns every game I play into an exercise in theory.Take, for example, the multi-award-winning World of Goo. On the surface, it's a fun little puzzler. The aim is to create a structure out of creatures with different properties: green nodes can be reused many times, so you pluck them from one part of the network and use them to branch off in another direction. Red nodes burn, so if you want to spread fire from one end of the network to the other, you've got to generate a path made up of only red guys. Everyone is linked, and how they connect to one another means progression or destruction. But boiling under the feats of engineering and the gravity-defying structures are the loathsome nodes and relationships I'm painstakingly piecing together in my empirical analyses.Or, what about the Flash freeware game The Space Game. I was recently turned on to this real-time strategy by a friend who thought I'd like it because of the clever way in which the system distributes assets: there are hubs and there are links. You've got to manage them. Obviously, given my currently limited library of discussion topics, this is exactly up my street.You play against a fearsome influx while maintaining your resources, building them up and distributing them around your mighty army. Hubs that aren't as well integrated into the system as others die out, and if you want something pronto, it's best if the node that's creating it has a direct line to the target.It's an excellent game as a plaything and as a tool to reinforce everything you ever needed to know about how to create optimum networks. You can also see the best pathways of diffusion, as assets pulse electrically around the system. And that is exactly what I'm looking at in my Study 3. So this week I have officially relinquished my membership of the "I should be doing my thesis, but am on Facebook instead" group and have instead signed up as a card-carrying member of Space Game Devotees. It's kind of like learning. At least that's what I tell myself.There are countless other examples, but I don't want to ruin your fun. Go: play unfettered. But remember, as you enjoy yourself, that your games are so much deeper than you ever imagined.
You can always find bargains on eBay: shoes, memorabilia, football shirts ... but multibillion dollar software companies?According to reports, Skype's Scandinavian creators are considering buying back the internet telephony company they sold to eBay four years ago for $3.1bn. The serial entrepreneurs Niklas Zennstr&ouml;m and Janus Friis are apparently gathering a war chest as part of a consortium of four private equity groups. They may be encouraged by the fact that eBay has just sold StumbleUpon back to its founders, two years after buying it.It is no secret that eBay has been thinking about offloading Skype - eBay's sales are starting to slump, and last year it announced plans to cut around 1,000 staff. It also hasn't been able to integrate Skype as deeply as it planned (boosting sales by letting buyers call sellers directly).On the other hand, there are plenty of reasons to hold on. Skype now boasts more than 400 million users, and had revenues of $550m last year - largely a result of its 8% share of the world's international calls. It is also starting to make progress in the mobile world after years of stuttering.But the real question is: why would Zennstr&ouml;m and Friis want Skype back?The romantics are focusing on the pair's entrepreneurial egos, their need to see their creation fulfil its potential. But there is another, far less emotional reason, something that could turn into one of the most cold-blooded pieces of dealmaking that the web has seen.When the duo sold Skype, they kept control of a crucial technology that underpinned it - a piece of peer-to-peer software that they licensed back to Skype through another company, Joltid.Now Skype and Joltid are suing each other. While the specifics are shrouded in confidential contracts, it appears that Zennstr&ouml;m and Friis have manoeuvred themselves into a commanding position.Without Joltid's technology, Skype's value is greatly reduced, so eBay is under pressure to settle the case (presumably with better terms for Joltid), or sell Skype. If so, the best price is likely to come from the founders' consortium - which could, of course, guarantee a deal with Joltid.It's a classic catch-22, as eBay recently recognised. "If the matter is not resolved through negotiation," it said, the "continued operation of Skype's business as currently conducted would likely not be possible". That could be an understatement.
Nintendo has dominated the handheld market for decades, but now the company is being challenged by Apple's iPhone and iPod Touch. Can its engineers come up with something special in response? Maybe they can, but the new DSi doesn't look like it.Basically, it's just a slimmed-down DS Lite with a few tweaks. These include slightly bigger screens, a faster processor, 256MB of flash memory, two 0.3 megapixel cameras (one inside, one outside), a microphone and MP3 player, and an SD-card slot. But battery life has taken a hit -  down to three hours from the DS Lite's five - and the DSi has lost the Game Boy Advance cartridge slot. This trims down the games library.Another thing that hasn't been improved is the DS's wonky internet connection. In my two weeks of testing, I found getting online a hit-and-miss affair. The DSi's Browser - a free download from the DSi Shop - is based on Opera, and I can't remember the last time I had such a slow internet experience. It took more than a minute to load the Guardian's front page, and clicking on a story took another minute, until a message appeared saying: "Out of memory. The page may not display correctly." It also doesn't support Flash.What about the cameras and the music player? Sadly, the cameras, with a resolution of 256 x 192 pixels, are not going to challenge even the most basic cameraphone. You can do some basic image editing - silly stuff such as warping, mirroring or scribbling on someone's face - and share your photos wirelessly with other DSi owners. The sound software lets you record voices or sounds and manipulate them: you can make a friend sound like a budgie, a robot or a trumpet, for example. It's fun for about 10 minutes. You can also manipulate music loaded on an SD card.What is still fun on the DSi, of course, is playing games - though there were no DSi-only games released at the launch. The bigger screens definitely make things easier, especially when playing old favourites such as Mario Kart or reading a tome from the 100 Classic Book Collection.But at almost &pound;170, is it worth upgrading if you already have a DS? Probably not. The new features will entertain the kids, but don't add enough for those who just want a decent mobile gaming device. And they are unlikely to attract people who already have an iPhone or an iPod Touch. Could Nintendo finally be about to lose its handheld crown?Pros:Simple to use; lots of new features; larger screen sizeCons:Photo and sound editing are just toys; wonky Wi-Fi; no GBA slotnintendo.co.uk
As Greg seems to be quietlysauntering into my territory, I thought I'd do a quick round-up of mobile gaming news, to regain the impetus. So here goes…First up, I was extremely glad to see thatBalloon-Headed Boy, a wonderfully offbeat platformer originally released on Java phones a couple of years ago is now available for iPhone. Developed by veteran UK studioGimme5Games(previously Morpheme and then Eidos Mobile), you control the gaseous lead character who must consume flowers to make his head expand, allowing him to float to higher areas. Think Bubble Bobble re-imagined with the sort of surreal humour beloved of UK bedroom coders in the eighties. The visuals are lovely too, capturing that whole Loco Roco/Rolando look. It'shighlyrecommended, and I'm hoping it'll lead to iPhone versions of other great Morpheme mobile titles likeEverything ExplodesandKeep A Head.Also coming to iPhone soon is Silent Scope, Konami's arcade snipe-'em-up which spawned a pretty decent Dreamcast conversion back in the day. On the same format, I've just downloaded Namco'sGalaga Remix, a slick update of the original coin-op shooter, complete with boss battles, power-ups and new backdrops. The original sound effects are retained, as is the alien tractor beam feature, allowing you to play with two ships at the same time (although here, they appear as one enhanced craft). The backgrounds are okay, featuring various space scenes, but they detract a little from the purity of the experience, as do the more detailed sprites. The option to play the classic version (in vertical rather than horizontal format) is a welcome addition.In both versions, however, veterans will probably take issue with the control system, which requires you to hit two small arrow buttons at the bottom of the screen to move left and right. You can opt for an onscreen slider, or even accelerometer controls, but neither will suit dedicated high score junkies. But at £3.49, Galaga Remix offers more than enough blasting action to justify the download. Alternatively, for a more modern mobile-centric take on the genre, Gameloft's scrolling flight shoot-'em-up Siberian Strike is also on Apple's handset now, complete with nice 3D visuals and mammoth boss battles.Indeed, Gameloft has several new iPhone titles on the go at the moment, includingWild West Guns, a Virtua Cop-style shooter, with bandits, Red Indians and revolvers. You simply have to tap the screen in the right place to shoot at the various targets, though it's vital to avoid innocent bystanders and other red herrings that'll reduce your score. Each of the six levels features two challenge-based stages, which get you to do harmless stuff like shoot flying sombreros or balloons. Then you get cool fight scenes taking in saloon brawls and train kidnaps – here, the enmies fight back so speed and accuracy are even more important. It's a mightily familiar recipe, but the neat, detailed 2D visuals (crammed with Wild West scenic staples) and plenty of Easter eggs and score multipliers add to the fun.The French publisher also has a decent golf sim,Let's Golf, very much modeled on the hugely successful Everybody's Golf series. As with Camelot's PlayStation titles, you're controlling cute, super-deformed characters, but the action is authentic and involving. There are four 18-hole courses to shoot through, and you get a golf bag packed with every club you could conceivably need. Taking a shot requires you to tap the screen once when the power meter reaches the required point, then again to choose between draw and fade. The presentation is lovely, with lush fairways, cobalt skies and lots of little scenic touches to enjoy. Plus, there are both off- and online multiplayer modes to share with pals.  A great little sports title.Over to N-Gage, where you'll find thatWorms World Partyis now available. It's a classic 2D rendition of the turn-based battle game, complete with over 20 weapons, six environment themes and multiplayer action for up to four participants, via Bluetooth, hot swapping or online. Essential.Finally, as I don't get chance to play everything released in the ever-growing range of mobile platforms these days, I asked Jon Mundy ofPocket Gamerto suggest the site's top five games of the month. He went for:Fast &amp; Furious (iPhone/Java)"Super slick tie-in for the recent Vin Diesel vehicle. Both mobile and iPhone versions are high-octane racing treats."Glyder (iPhone)"An unusual and really quite lovely game where you soar over a vast fantasy land, tilting your iPhone to steer your glider. Sorry, glyder."Flip Zoo (Android)"An animal-shepherding puzzle game in the classic Lemmings mould, Flip Zoo successfully ties its fiendish spatial conundrums to intuitive one-finger controls."Guitar Hero World Tour (Mobile)"Mobile version of the console smash hit, which doesn't suffer as much as you'd expect from the lack of a guitar peripheral or full quality sound."Fruit Juice Tycoon (iPhone)"A sweet concoction of quick-fire match-three puzzler and made-to-order management sim, Fruit Juice Tycoon is a refreshingly unique addition to the app store."
The world's first symphony orchestra assembled from online auditions makes its debut tonight at New York's Carnegie Hall at 7.30pm local time (12.30am GMT).TheYoutube symphony, created by the web site, was assembled from among the 3,000 people (among themthe Guardian's Ed Pilkington, a violinist) who downloaded sheet music by Academy Award winning Chinese composer Tan Dun, shot an audition video and uploaded it to the website. The roughly 80 players were chosen on the strength of their online audition clips by judges from theLondon Symphony Orchestraand other organisations, andSan Francisco Symphonymusic director Michael Tilson Thomas, who conducts the ensemble tonight.To promote the concert, which also features world-renowned violinist Gil Shaham, Youtube today posted a "mash-up" of the grainy audition videos which, when knit together, seem to approximate an orchestral performance of Dun's Internet Symphony No 1, "Eroica". The work is on the programme tonight along with selections from Bach, Villa-Lobos, Mozart, Brahms, John Cage, and other composers.Youtube has billed the ensemble as the "world's first collaborative orchestra", perhaps setting aside the fact that an orchestra is by definition a group of classical musicians playing together. The company touted the ensemble as a mixture of established professional musicians and emerging amateurs."It could be described as something between a summit conference, scout jamboree or musical get-together," Thomas told National Public Radio. "It'll be the first time that people from so many different countries will have had a chance to discover one another online and then actually meet up and make music together."
In a couple of weeks, Greg, Keith and I and the powers that be at Guardian Towers are going to have an editorial meeting to discuss the direction of the gamesblog. Don't worry - it's not going away, but we thought we'd take this opportunity to ask you, our faithful readers, what you think works - and cruciallydoesn'twork - on the gamesblog.We have really appreciated the feedback we've received from you on the other occasions we've reached out, and hope it's obvious that we've taken into consideration your thoughts.So,we've set up a brief (3 question) survey on SurveyMonkeythat asks the following questions:1) what three things are we doing right?2) what three things could we do better?3) What do you want more of?Go on, it's like a democracy. We shall endeavour to implement your choices.Take the survey!
"We shook hands. My inability to recall that particular moment more precisely is disappointing: the handshake is the threshold act, the beginning of politics. I've seen him do it two million times now, but I couldn't tell you how he does it, the right-handed part of it – the strength, quality, duration of it, the rudiments of pressing the flesh."— Joe Klein, Primary ColorsThere's a wonderful sequence right at the start of Primary Colors where an aide to Governor Jack Stanton explains the genius of the governor's handshake.  There's no doubt that Stanton was a master of the art - "The threshold act, the beginning of politics" - as of course was Bill Clinton on whom the character was modelled. But let me tell you something I found out last night: when it comes to the art of the handshake,Mary Coughlan, the deputy prime minister of Irelandknocks both Stanton and Clinton into a cocked hat.All of us remarked on it - me, the developers, even the chap from Enterprise Ireland who had come to supervise the Tánaiste's visit to the offices of mobile video streaming serviceQikto mark theirpartnershipwith Ireland'sMaxroam. For a start, it was firm - hella firm - so much so that, at the risk of sounding sexist, if I closed my eyes I'd swear I was shaking hands with a giant of a man. Or a polar bear. More importantly it was long; seconds passed, the actual shaking ended and yet still she was still holding on, long enough to make it clear who was in charge. There's no doubt about it, when it comes to personal contact, the Deputy Prime Minister is a pro - and like most pros, she surrounds herself with other pros.Once the handshake was finally over, a photographer swooped over to get a photo of us for the Irish press. In a flash, one of Couglan's aides materialised from nowhere, like the shopkeeper in Mr Benn. "Let me hold your drink for you," he said, yanking the bottle of Guinness out of my hand, and out of the photograph. It was a smart move - national drink or not, we can't have the folks back home thinking she's flown half way around the world for a piss-up. "Nicely handled," I said as the photographer snapped away. "Thanks," replied the aide. A job well done. Meanwhile, two feet away, three people filmed the scene - drink and all - on their mobile phones and broadcast it live on the internet, using Qik.Thanks to the internet, handling your personal image - or someone else's - has got a lot tougher. In the last seven days we've seen notonebuttwopolicemen suspended from duty after being caught on camera phone being a bit too ASP-happy with protesters. We've seen a pair of Dominos Pizza employeesbeing firedafter they - like true dumbasses - posted a YouTube video of themselves doing all manner of unsanitary things with your food. And, of course, Damian McBride has been forced to resign after blogger Paul Staines (not so much a name as a warning label)published an email exchangein which McBride plotted with Derek Draper to smear the Conservative Party. That last scandal is my favourite, and not just because smearing the Conservative party by saying they have affairs is like smearing Fred West by saying he's crap at tennis. No, it's my favourite because it tells us everything - and nothing - about the internet and its effect on human behaviour.The Sun's Whitehall editor, David Wooding, was one of the first old school hacks to weigh in on the scandal, churning outan op-edabout how, thanks to the web, ministers could now start a rumour "while sitting in the Commons or the back of a ministerial car". Wooding couldn't be more sure: the internet (which he noted was full of "nerds" and "geeks" - seriously) is changing how things are done in Westminster and dragging politics further into the gutter.There's just one problem with this theory: like most technology stories in the Sun, it's total bullshit. For a start, I'm pretty sure that politicians have been able to start rumours from the back of cars for about - oh - 20 years. The invention of the carphone, or the telephone in general, has apparently passed David Wooding by. More seriously, though, every time a scandal emerges involving the technology - be it McBride's email or American teenagers 'sexting' naked photos to each other, we hear the same crap from journalists - that  the web, and email and mobile phones are making everyone behave in scandalous ways they never did before.If that's true then I have some amazing YouTube footage of a bear shitting in the woods, which I found next to a damning video of the Pope taking communion. I mean, seriously. Politicians have been spreading rumours about each other since the days of Aristotle, children have been blowing each other behind the bikesheds for as long as there have been bikes (and sheds) and, my God, if a fast food chain was to fire every kid who has ever put a pickle up their nose, obesity - and the catering industry - would be wiped out at a stroke. The only difference between the way humans have been behaving badly for years, and how they behave badly in the internet age is the fact that now there's always someone else watching.After the Qik event last night, a group of us - American, British and Irish - went for dinner and drinks, during which we found ourselves discussing the McBride story, and the weird cast of characters it's sucked in. After debating the rights and wrongs of stealing private emails, I went on to posit that - whatever the merits of the story - Paul Staines is a whiny little bitch, as was clearly evidenced by hispathetic Newsnight appearancewhen Michael White pwned him to hell and back without breaking a sweat.What I didn't realise until I'd finished ranting was that someone in the group was Qikking the whole conversation, meaning that anyone who cared to - including Staines himself, thousands of miles away - could listen in. What in previous times would have been a private conversation was now, without my being aware of it, a very public diatribe. Fortunately, I wasn't phased in the slightest. For various embarrasing reasons outlined in my, ahem,book- about a year ago I decided it would be wise to meld my public and private personas into one brutally honest whole. To never again say something in private that I wouldn't say to someone's face in public. Or as the New York Times' Paul Boutinput it, as he watched me meet Valleywag's Owen Thomas for the first time and accuse him of being a bad gynaecological word who writes representable crap, "Paul Carr never stabs you in the back, always right in the face" - a quote that I'm going to try to get on the cover of my next book. (In return, by the way, Thomas called me a lazy drunk who only did one piece of work a week. And then later we all went for a Chinese.) The point is, I will quite happily call Staines a whiny little bitch in a private conversation, or in a public Guardian column. And if I ever meet him, I'll say it to his face. "Paul Staines," I'll say, "you are a whiny little bitch."My approach may be extreme - and will undoubtedly one day get me punched in the face - but pretty soon you'll have to adopt it too, if you haven't already. What we have seen in these past few days is another rattle in the slow, but eventually complete, death of privacy. In the developed world, whenever there are at least two people in a room, it's a statistical near-certainty that one of them will have a camera, and the means to instantly upload photos to the web. Increasingly, it's becoming likely that they'll also be able to upload sound and video too. With those odds, plus the fact that many of us share ridiculous amounts of personal information online ourselves, the idea that you can say or do something and be confident it will never be reported is simply ridiculous. This is something we're all still getting used to, hence Fleet Street's near-constant outrage when perfectly common behaviour - teenagers having sex with each other, Beavis and Butthead dicking around in Dominos, policemen being wankers - is exposed online. But as a generation grows up that has never known true privacy, things will start to change. And they'll change for the better.For a start, the end of privacy means that everyone is publicly accountable for what they do. If you break hygiene laws at work, you'll be fired; if you send dumb emails from Downing Street you'll be forced to resign; if you hit a woman's knees with a metal stick then, inshallah, you'll be hung from a lamppost by your testicles. And with the exception of sociopaths like me who make a living from being obnoxious - a performing monkey of unpopularity, where every public attack I receive is another half-dozen books sold - we'll all become just that little more careful how we behave. The really bad stuff - police brutality and the like - will be exposed and punished, while most of the low-level nonsense - pizza vandalism and pernicious gossip - will dry up. To defame won't be worth the candle.Perhaps more interestingly, the death of privacy will also surely lead to the end of mass hypocrisy. How many of the politicians complaining about "smeargate" (Jesus) have never sent an email, or made a phone call, bad-mouthing a rival to a friend? How many newspaper editors? How many "concerned parents" who are worried about sexting never, 30 years earlier, put a finger inside a classmate and bragged to their friends about it? With the death of privacy, we'll know the answers to those questions soon enough and we'll be forced to actually engage with how we as a species behave rather than pretending to be shocked at everything. Added bonus: that's the Daily Mail fucked.Of course, there'll be those who disagree. Those who think that, if they're careful, they can keep acting one way in public and one way in private without being caught out. And perhaps they're right - but to have a hope in hell of succeeding, they're going to need to go pro. Not only are they going to have to watch their own back, but they're going to need help - someone to follow them around, constantly on the alert for cameraphones, Flipcams, Qik videoers, bloggers, Tweeters and just about everyone else who might trip them up with the truth. In fact, if he's looking for a change of scenery, perhaps the Tánaiste's aide could start an agency of professional image minders. He certainly knows the qualities needed for the job: he's forceful, presentable and will guarantee that you're never photographed with a Guinness-swigging Guardian columnist. But you don't take my word for it; you can find the videos of his work on Qik.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Regular readers of this blog will know that Keith is the mobile gaming expert around these parts. But informative as his blog posts have been I never really "got" mobile gaming. Fiddly controls and arcane delivery systems were no match for my DS or PSP. But, and you've probably guessed this, since the iPhone launched I've finally started to believe the mobile gaming hype. The app store has made it easy to get new games and I've been diving in. Titles likeFieldrunners,Orions, iDracula andFrotzare all currently on my phone and all getting regular usage. But what are the most popular games on the service?Apple's recently released figures throw up a few surprises. Crash Bandicoot – remember him? – Nitro Kart 3D is the most propular paid for app. Surprised? Bear in mind that this was one of the first games on the app store. Other big sellers include mobile gaming stalwarts Tetris and Bejeweled 2. What does this mean? Are mobile gamers just playing it safe? Or are these titles uniquely suited to phones?The free stuff is a little more interesting, withTap Tap Revengetopping a list that also included Touch Hockey and iBowl.So what do you think then? Are you downloading loads of games for your iPhone/iPod Touch? And if so what are your favourites? Or are you sticking with your DS/PSP?
The news thateBay plans to spin off internet phone company Skype next yearhave been greeted warmly by many Silicon Valley observers, who have long criticised the auction website for spending $3.1bn on a company that it didn't know what to do with.&bull; Web 2.0 blogTechcrunchwelcomed the move, saying that "it's obvious that eBay is doing what it's supposed to do in a recession (and arguably, should have done long before): return to its roots as a pure online marketplace."&bull; "It all depends on what kind of valuation they put on the IPO,"Hudson Squareanalyst Todd Retheimer told Reuters. He said that Skype had a better chance than some of its rivals, like the US voice-over-internet provider Vonage."It's a much more international business... They have a more differentiated business than Vonage had... Vonage is trying to replace home phones in the US."&bull; How much will Skype sell for? A note fromJP Morgan's Imran Khan suggests that Skype's revenue in 2010 is likely to be in the range of $740m, and earnings would place its value between $1.6bn and $3.1bn.&bull; Gregory Lundberg, an analyst withCommresearch, suggested that Skype's financials - while healthy - were not necessarily enough to buck the recent trends in the stock market."The very first thing that I have to say is market conditions currently would not support an IPO of Skype in our opinion," he said. "Something would have to change dramatically with Blackberry and iPhone for Skype to be able to come public... the issue is the iPhone itself won't change that user base because AT&amp;T won't let it run on its network, only when it has connection to a Wi-Fi hotspot. That same sort of control is being exercised in Europe by some carriers and that's a major barrier to uptake."
&bull; The news that eBay isplanning to spin off Skypemight not be music to the ears of thecompany's founders- but it's got Silicon Valley excited. Henry Blodget (yes, him)could hardly contain his exclamation marks, while the Wall Street Journal points out that Skype was headed for an IPOonce before. My thoughts on why this is happening, meanwhile,are a little more political.&bull; It seems the last 722 reshuffles at Yahoo! weren't quite enough; according to reports, the company is preparing for another round of changes - and the New York Timessuggests"several hundred employees" could be laid off.&bull; And now for something completely different: you may be familiar with the preponderance of similar-looking, but slightly different fried chicken shops up and down the country (documented on sites likeBad Gas). Now, thanks to Creative Review, you can hear from the man responsible for their distinctive style, in an interview titledMeet Mr Chicken.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@jemimakiss,@charlesarthur,@jackschofieldand@bobbiejohnson) or by watching ourDelicious feed, under the usernameguardianista.
Three years ago Larry Brilliant joined Google to head up its philanthropic arm: today he announced that he's parting ways with the internet giant.In an announcement, the 64-year-old said he was leaving Google.org to join a new organisation set up by former eBay president Jeff Skoll."Looking back over the past three years, I'm incredibly proud of the work done by the team at Google.org to support wonderful projects and people," said Brilliant in astatement on Google's blog."These two organizations are neither competitors nor strangers, but rather friends and colleagues… in the coming months and years we can expand that relationship even more."Dr Brilliant – a former World Health Organisation executive who has worked on a number of public health initiatives – will head the Skoll Urgent Threats Fund, a group supporting initiatives to solve problems such as climate change, water scarcity and pandemics.The fund is the brainchild of Skoll, the billionaire founding president of eBay who now runs his own philanthropic organisation, the Skoll Foundation, as well as Participant Media – the behind campaigning films such as An Inconvenient Truth, Syriana and Good Night and Good Luck."This new organisation is designed to make serious headway on these issues by identifying and supporting the most innovative initiatives and solutions out there," said Skoll in a statement. "I can't think of anyone better prepared to shape and lead this effort than Larry Brilliant."Dr Brilliant said he would remain an advisor to Google, where he has been overseeing its philanthropic efforts since being persuaded to take up the role of executive director in 2007.In that time, the group has announced major projects focused onrenewable energyandpandemic prediction, as well as hundreds of millions of dollars of investments in awide range of other schemes.However, earlier this year hestepped aside into an advisory role– handing to Google executive Megan Smith as the organisation started to rein in its focus a little (one insider explained it to me as trying to make better use of the skills and technologies that Google could offer up… others described it as making Google.org "more Googley").WhenI interviewed him last year, Brilliant explained how he'd needed some persuasion to overcome his worries about joining .org in the first place."I'd be dishonest if I said I didn't have concerns," he admits. "I was particularly concerned at the impatience of engineers - especially because I've run internet companies."I used to teach my students that their schemes wouldn't be successful until two things happened: that they would be able to run without you, and that you knew the names of the grandchildren of the people you started the project with: that's because it takes a generation."There's no suggestion that any sense of impatience from Google has precipitated this change, but it's also clear that some of the subjects that really motivated Brilliant – the sort of big, global health challenges that he's taken on in the past – were not quite as a priority for Google.org as they were in the past.
Internet users have long known that spam emails - offering everything from cheap medicines and sex aids to get-rich-quick schemes - are an unwanted annoyance, but new research suggests that they are also hugely damaging to the environment.More than 80% of the world's email traffic is now spam and the transmission and receipt of unwanted email gobbles up 33bn kilowatt-hours of electricity a year, according to anti-virus software specialist McAfee. That is the equivalent of the electricity used by 2.1m US homes.The report follows research published yesterday by rival online security firm Symantec showing that cyber criminals are now trading stolen credit card details for as little as 4p, while a person's full identity can change hands between gangs for 50p.Symantec's Internet Security Threat Report recorded a 192% increase in spam detected across the internet, from 119.6bn messages in 2007 to 349.6bn in 2008, with 90% of those messages generated by "bot networks".Bot networks are collections of computers that have been hijacked - often without their owners realising - by malicious software found on websites or within spam. They can then be controlled by gangs to relay spam messages. Many internet security analysts fear that the Conficker internet worm, which has infected millions of PCs worldwide, could ultimately be intended to create a massive bot network.McAfee estimates 62tn spam messages were sent globally last year. The greenhouse gases involved in providing enough electricity to generate, send and then delete this unwanted traffic was the same as the emissions from 3.1m cars, according to McAfee's Carbon Footprint of Spam report, published today."As the world faces the growing problem of climate change, this study highlights that spam has an immense financial, personal and environmental impact," said Jeff Green, a senior vice-president at McAfee.
The European commission yesterday called for the UK's privacy laws to be tightened to protect internet surfers as it launched legal proceedings against the government for breaching data protection and so-called ePrivacy rules.In her weekly internet address, EU telecoms commissioner Viviane Reding warned: "Do you want to turn the internet into a jungle? This could happen if we cannot control the use of our information online. There is an undeniable risk that privacy is being lost to the brave new world of intrusive technologies."The commission's legal action, which could result in the government being dragged before the European court of justice, centres on the handling of controversial online advertising technology developed by UK-based Phorm which has been tested by BT in the UK and cleared by the authorities.That technology enables internet service providers (ISPs) to track what a user does on the internet to create a list of their interests which can be used to show them more relevant adverts on websites they subsequently visit. While heralded by ISPs and media companies as a way of making more money from internet advertising, a market dominated in the UK by Google, it has been widely criticised by privacy campaigners and the web's creator, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, as unjustifiable online snooping.The commission said yesterday that the UK needed to tighten its laws to ensure that consumers were required to consent before their online activity was monitored for so-called behavioural-targeted advertising services. The current UK law allows traffic to be intercepted if the company doing the intercepting has "reasonable grounds for believing" that it has consent.A spokeswoman for the Home Office said it had received notice of the infringement proceedings and would respond "in due course". The government has two months to put forward its defence.The commission is also calling for an independent regulator to oversee the interception of online traffic. Under the current Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, that role is filled by the police, who lack the technological resources for proper investigations, while the Information Commissioner's Office, which covers all other aspects of data protection, has no enforcement powers over interception of online traffic. Last year the City of London police were called in to examine Phorm after a series of complaints but decided not to launch a formal investigation.Reding, whose tenure comes to an end this year, said serious privacy issues were being raised by experiments in behavioural-targeted advertising. She warned that the commission was closely watching the industry and that she would not hesitate to act if EU law was breached. Alongside technology firms such as Phorm, many existing online advertising companies such as Google and Yahoo as well as media companies are collecting data about online users to offer targeted advertising."European privacy rules are crystal-clear, a person's information can only be used with their prior consent and we cannot keep up this principle and have all our exchanges monitored, surveyed, stored in exchange for a promise of more relevant advertisements," she warned.Her comments and the commission's legal action will not derail the government's interception modernisation programme, or IMP, which aims to create a huge database of email, web, telephony and potentially even social networking traffic, but are further evidence that the UK's online privacy rules have failed to keep pace with EU law."It's a bad sign if citizens are having to rely on the commission and courts to defend their rights against the government they elected," said Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, yesterday.Reding also warned newspapers and other media organisations over their use of photos and other personal information posted on social networking sites. "Do we not cross the borders of the acceptable when for example the pictures of the Winnenden school shooting victims in Germany are used by commercial publications just to increase sales?" she asked.The commission has worked with social networking sites such as Facebook and Bebo to put together a voluntary code of conduct which improves the protection of under-18s on such sites. But Reding made it plain that the EU could introduce new laws if users' privacy was not protected.
Amid speculation about the future of Skype – including a scheme from itsfounders to buy the company back- eBay today announced a surprise move: it plans to spin off the internet telephony service into a separate company.In a reversal of its previous position (that it could develop ways for Skype to support its main auction business) eBay's president and chief executive, John Donahoe,said it was time for a change– and that he plans to launch Skype on the stock exchange as its own company."It's clear that Skype has limited synergies with eBay and PayPal," he said. "We believe operating Skype as a stand-alone publicly traded company is the best path for maximizing its potential."All good business speak, of course, but really this is part of thegreat eBay firesale of 2010, as the company seeks to divest itself of the distracting Web 2.0 companies it bought under Meg Whitman and focus on its basic business. (Note, Whitman saidlittle more than a year agothat "the next year or so will prove out if we were right" about buying Skype for a total of $3.1bn... looks like that time is up)It'll be interesting to see what happens to Skype now, but isn't announcing the intention to take a company to IPO an absolutely crazy thing to do right now? The stock market, hammered by the financial crisis, is unstable at best. And even if Donahoe says Skype doesn't plan to float until 2010, it's a mighty strange time to be announcing your plans.If you're wondering what on earth is going on here, you're not alone. I've been asking around and finding out more about Skype's business dealings recently and have developed a bit of a theory as to what's happening - one that shows a level of Machiavellian deviousness on the part of both Skype's founders, and now eBay itself.Here's how it goes:You might not know that Skype's founders, Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, are currently in alegal disputewith Skype over a technology they license fromanothercompany they own,Joltid. This technology (called Global Index) is a core part of Skype's peer-to-peer system, but Joltid says it does not want to license it to Skype any more. That's left eBay with only a few options: either ditch Global Index entirely - and rewrite Skype to run some other way - or convince Joltid to relicense its system (probably for more money). There's another option, too: accept a buyout offer from somebody. Except, given the Joltid?It's as if you bought a car - a nice car, that's new and shiny and makes you look cool - but the dealer says he won'tsellyou the engine, he'llrentit to you instead. This is all great for a while... until one day the dealer says he doesn't want to rent you the engine any more.What do you do? You could offer the dealer more money to keep renting you the engine, or you could sell the car to somebody else... except nobody is going to buy a car that doesn't have an engine.It's then that the dealer steps in: "Hey, listen," he says, coddled inside his sheepskin coat. "I'll buy the car back from you if you like. Except - since I know nobody else is going to buy it - I'll only offer you a third of what you paid me for it in the first place."What do you do? You're left with the prospect of owning a car that doesn't work, or losing money by selling it back to the guy who got you in this bind in the first place.Talk about a cunning piece of business logic.Given this potential situation, and the pressures on the rest of its business, I think eBay's decision to spin Skype off is the equivalent of a nuclear response. This way, if Skype's successful, it can revel in the benefits - and if it's not? Well, at least the company hasn't been bullied into giving it away too cheaply.Donahoe isn't well-loved at eBay, and this is clearly a high risk strategy that has taken everybody by surprise. But given the way the game is playing out right now, it might be the only option eBay has left.
The internet auctioneer eBay is to spin off its global online telephone business, Skype, through a stockmarket flotation which will end an unhappy four-year relat­ionship between the two companies.EBay announced tonight that it intends to separate Skype through a public offering of shares by the first half of 2010. Based in Luxembourg, Skype has 405m users and its low-cost service accounts for 8% of the world's international phone calls.The move follows a year-long review which concluded that Skype has little in common with eBay's core auction business or with its payment operation, PayPal. The decision to opt for a flotation is a surprise, coming after reports that Skype's Scandinavian founders were keen to buy the business back."Skype is a great standalone business with strong fundamentals and accelerating momentum," said eBay's chief executive, John Donahoe. "But it's clear that Skype has limited synergies with eBay and PayPal."Established in 2003 by entrepreneurs Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, Skype has become hugely popular among expat­riates and cost-conscious businesses around the world by offering cheap online voice communications. Calls between users are free while those to non-users are charged at a few pence per minute.California-based eBay bought Skype in 2005 for $3.1bn, envisaging that it would smooth internet auctions by allowing buyers and sellers to communicate more easily. But eBay struggled to make money out of Skype and has since admitted that it vastly overpaid, writing down the value of the business by $1.4bn in 2007.Skype's popularity has rocketed – its database of users has grown sevenfold since eBay bought it and its revenue rose by 44% to $551m last year. At peak times, 14&nbsp;million people use Skype simultaneously and a Skype application has become one of the most popular add-ons for Apple's iPhone.EBay embarked on an evaluation of Skype following the retirement in March last year of the auction company's veteran boss Meg Whitman, who is now pondering a run for governor of California.Among experts, there was swift scepticism at the prospects for a successful public offering. Gregory Lundberg, founder of Commresearch, said: "The very first thing I have to say is market conditions currently would not support an IPO of Skype."He said 2010 was "equally questionable" unless Skype's iPhone and Blackberry applications radically improved the business's financial prospects.The technology industry has suffered from a downturn in spending on consumer electronics and business computing as customers get squeezed by the downturn. But there was a sign of improvement last night as the chip maker Intel put a gloss on first-quarter profits that slumped from $1.44bn a year ago to $647m."We believe PC sales bottomed out during the first quarter and that the industry is returning to normal seasonal patterns," said Intel's chief executive, Paul Otellini. The figures did beat Wall Street's expectations of an even more dire performance.
Another announcement you may have already caught today: Nintendo has revealed the release date for its MotionPlus add-on, which attaches to the Wii Remote, significantly increasing its movement sensitivity and accuracy. UK gamers will get their hands on it on June 12, four days after US owners.The device was originally expected to be launched alongside Wii Sports Resort, the beach-themed successor to the console's key title. However, the release date for that is now July 26 (at which point each copy of the game will bundle with a single MotionPlus device). Luckily, though, EA's Tiger Woods 2010 and Grand Slam Tennis titles are compatible with the peripheral and they're out in late-June, so you'll only have a week or so of staring at your new purchase imagining all the fun you'll have when games respond in pinpoint accuracy to your slightest wrist tweaks.But is thisreallya good idea?Well, obviously it is for Nintendo, allowing the company to further broaden its range of Wii add-ons, thereby maximising hardware revenue without the bother of introducing a new iteration of the console itself.As for Wii owners, the idea of exerting more intricate control over onscreen action is seductive in principal, but I'm still not convinced it's what the machine's core audience actually wants. As I wrote a while back, the indefinite, arbitrary nature of the control mechanism provides a nice filter for inexperienced players; peopleenjoythe fact that they can blame the interface when their third bowling ball in succession careers into the gutter within seconds of being lobbed.As gamers we're trained to perceive pinpoint accuracy as a desirable trait, but in the outside world people don't always want it - they want parameters of possibility into which they can slot expectations of both themselves and of the experience in question. Horoscopes, weather forecasts, satellite TV listings - these are all systems in which inaccuracy and uncertainty are part of the fun.Wii gaming is an artificially level playing field; this is a whole machine based around the phenomenon exhibited on the last lap in Mario Kart or the final round in Buzz, where the worst player can suddenly storm back into contention in a final lucky flurry. Inaccuracy is democratic.
Just in case you missed the announcement today, Konami has revealed a new XBLA and PSN title due for release this summer, and it's based around something that regular Gamesblog readers have been expecting - and even planning for - for ages. Zombie Apocalypse is an overhead viewed shooter in which you and three friends must destroy wave-upon-blood-curdling-wave of undead invaders. From the press release:Using an array of up to eleven lethal weapons that includes assault rifles, flame throwers and a teddy bear filled with C4 explosives, players can play together on one console or online as they work together to stop the zombie attacks and rescue survivors. Players can also use a chainsaw to melee zombies and can also use environmental hazards to crush, burn, slice, or cause other types of destruction on the masses of zombies.The chaps on industry siteGamespressrefer to it as a cross between arcade classic, Smash TV, and Left4Dead, which appears to be an accurate summation. Apparently, you must surivive for 55 days (I'm assuming those are in-game days) and wade through seven different environments - your achievement is then beamed onto an international highscore table.One section of the release says, "failure results in players becoming one of the undead." I'm just checking this with Konami, but I wondered if it meant that you could actually attack your ex-teammates once you've been killed. This would be an interesting feature if you're all chasing your own high scores.Apart from that, it's zombie-smacking business as usual.
This week,Jemima Kissposes your funding questions to venture capitalist Mike Reid of Frog Capital.  He covers everything from the differences between the US and EU, to where the next interesting areas of investment are.There's another startup keen to make it's way to the top floor in the Elevator Pitch with Jemima -Picli.comis a photo website which highlights a constantly changing gallery of popular photos.Plus this week's news onAmazonfail,the EU launching legal procedings against the UK government over Phorm, andthe original owners of StumbleUpon who are trying to buy back the site from eBay.And finally, a little request from us - the Guardian, and the Guardian's podcasts are seperately nominated in thePeople's Choice awardsat the Webbys - the internet equivalent of the Oscars...  if yougo and give us a vote, we promise we'll come back and do it all again next week for you.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Last month's annualGame Developers Conference in San Francisco seemed like a recession-free zone, thronged with convention-goers who'd paid admission fees starting at $200 and ranging up to over $1,000. Both the jobs hall and the exhibits hall were densely packed with expensive booths purchased by companies seeking employees or partners/customers.But there was still plenty of economic discussion: dotted throughout the programme were a series of talks and roundtables on the applied economics of games – that is to say, making money from the buying and selling of objects in games. These discussions were a curious mix of retail psychology, games theory, ethics and legal speculation.For example, there was much excitement at the news thatMindArk, creators of the virtual world Entropia Universe, has been chartered as a bank by the Swedish financial regulator (a much soberer entity, we were assured, than its Icelandic counterpart). Game developers were extremely interested in creating exchange markets for their fiat currencies that had a gateway to the real world via a dollar exchange at MindArk's bank counters.But the excitement wasn't over the right to print moneyper se–rather, the game developers were interested in the role that money plays in, well,play. What happens to your honest, fun game when real lucre is injected into it.I heard several developers remark that, "real money trades" (of in-game items) were inevitable. Many games are structured to reward time spent playing with virtual gold stars that act as decoration and play aid, and confer virtual bragging rights. So it's a sign of a game's success when one player values a virtual item so much that she's willing to pay another player for the object, even though it is nothing more than a record in a database. Indeed, if no one is willing to pay for access to your little virtual treasures, then you've failed at the fundamental task of convincing players to buy into the illusion that their virtual worldmatters.Official, game-sponsored exchanges for real-money trades (RMTs) are more than places where players can swap goods for money. Fundamentally, these exchanges act as an honest broker between two extremely different types of player: cash-rich/time-poor players (people with jobs, for the most part) and time-rich/cash-poor players (retirees and young people). Seen through this lens, a "game" is just a bunch of applied psychology that makes kids work long hours to earn virtual gewgaws that adults are trained to desire. In this "Free to play, pay for stuff" world, kids are alienated from the product of their leisure by a marketplace where the game-company skims a piece off of every transaction.The psychology of this is fascinating, since it all only works to the extent that the game remains "fun". One key element is that skilled players (eg, kids) must not feel like the rich players are able to buy their way into positions of power. Game devs are advised to sell defensive items – shields, armour, dodging spells, but not offensive ones. A skilled player will still be able to clobber a heavily armoured rich player, given enough time (and skilled players have nothing but time, by definition), but may quit in disgust at the thought that some rich wanker is able to equip himself with a mega-powerful sword or blaster that gives him ultimate killing power. No one wants to play in a game where one player has an "I win" button.For me, the most fascinating thing about this is how it can be seen as the application of the business model that downloaders have been advocating sinceNapster: "Don't sue the kids who download your music or movies, rather, see them as the marketing that sells the same media to cash-rich adults who lack the time to use P2P software."With my ownCreative Commonslicensed downloadable novels – which are also sold in print form by HarperCollins UK and Tor Books in the US – I've pursued much the same strategy: give cheapskates the tools to spend their time promoting my books, and stand by with a commercial item to sell to the rich, busy people in their lives.Whether attained by coercion, social engineering, generosity or guilt, this arbitrage of the cash-rich and the time-rich is at the centre of many of the new business models emerging on the net. It's damned close to the GNU/Linux business model – get the OS for free, pay us (or some other group of geeks) if you can't be arsed to figure out how to make it work.This business model has a certain attractive stability to it, in that it relies on technology being in a constant, perpetual state of semi-brokenness, which is a fundamental characteristic of the information age, where constant change ensures constant chaos.
EA's first Godfather game was preceded by grandiose claims of setting new technological standards, but proved to be just another poorly executed GTA clone. Clearly, lessons have been learned, as the second instalment is infinitely sup­erior.It's still reminiscent of GTA: you play Dominic, newly made a Don in New York by Michael Corleone. The early action mirrors the film, as you escape from Cuba and, after taking over New York, expand to Miami (later, you return to Cuba). At first, this involves taking over rival mafiosi's businesses by eliminating the guards and intimidating the owner. But a decent Don-simulation engine elevates it from the ranks of GTA rip-offs, as you build and promote a team of "made" men, each with specific skills (like medicine, safecracking or arson) and promote and upgrade them.Graphically, Godfather II is decent, and the same applies to the shooting engine and driving mechanics. Side-missions, which often yield the necessary info to eliminate rival Goodfellas, add an element of variety – although you do spend a lot of time doing the same thing but against more enemies. However, it has enough of the film's flavour to become compelling and addictive.
Hip hop meets manga meets button mashing in the gleefully sweary, very bloody, Samuel L Jackson-narrated Afro Samurai.The "plot" is standard "avenge father's death" but with added headgear: Afro – wearer of the sacred Number 2 Headband – wants the Number 1 Headband from his father's killer. He does this in conventional fashion – kicks, jumps, sword slashes, etc – coupled with some platforming that borrows from the likes of Prince of Persia, only with worse camera angles. The game's edge comes from the "Focus" feature, a ­slowing down of the action so you can adjust your blade's trajectory and remove heads or fingers or neatly dissect your foe in blood-spewing, cartoony style.It's a much-needed inspirational touch in a game that's ultimately repetitive. Still, it's fun enough for an hour or two, looks great and, with a tweak here and there (and the addition of an online facility), this could yet turn into a decent franchise.
How does the foremost videogame quiz franchise follow its sports, music and film editions? Yes, it's time for country-specific questions. As the title suggests, this latest edition in the Buzz series is loaded with questions relating to Blighty.So think culture, celebrity, geography and the rest. 4,000 questions are included but they do lack the consistency of the more focused, older Buzz games. The PS3 version has some interesting online options – including the ability to access user-created questions – and the PSP iteration has a nifty "pass around" mode that would work well on long car journeys. But despite these additions, this feels very much business as usual for Buzz. And this is no bad thing.Buzz is all about sitting in front of the big screen, finger hovering over the buzzer, and nothing has changed with Brain of the UK. Excellently presented, as always, and entertaining when played with a group, Buzz remains the best gaming quiz show on a console.
The online book seller Amazon issued a forthright apology this morning for the "embarrassing and hamfisted" error that caused more than 57,000 books to disappear from its online charts.Authors and readers bombarded the Seattle-based firm with complaints over the weekend after books – many dealing with gay and lesbian themes, and including novels by EM Forster, Jeanette Winterson and Gore Vidal – disappeared from its ranking system in what appeared to be a botched attempt to make its bestseller lists more family friendly.Patty Smith, director of corporate communications for Amazon, today issued a statement, writing: "This is an embarrassing and hamfisted cataloguing error for a company that prides itself on offering complete selection. It has been misreported that the issue was limited to gay and lesbian themed titles."In fact, it impacted 57,310 books in a number of broad categories such as health, mind and body, reproductive and sexual medicine, and erotica. This problem impacted books not just in the United States but globally. It affected not just sales rank but also had the effect of removing the books from Amazon's main product search."Many books have now been fixed and we're in the process of fixing the remainder as quickly as possible, and we intend to implement new measures to make this kind of accident less likely to occur in the future."After being bombarded with angry emails over the weekend, Amazon blamed a "glitch" in its system, which it said last night was being fixed. But just a few days ago, the company told complainants books classed as containing "adult material" had been prevented from appearing in some searches and bestseller lists "in consideration of our entire customer base".Books without rankings over the weekend included Gore Vidal's The City and The Pillar and Jeanette Winterson's Oranges are not the Only Fruit.Maurice, Forster's coming-of-age tale about a young man's first gay love, had also disappeared, along with the 2004 Booker-winning novel The Line of Beauty, by Alan Hollinghurst.Rankings for autobiographies by Stephen Fry and the US comic Ellen Degeneres went missing, as did that for the memoir of the Dr Who and Torchwood star John Barrowman.Rankings matter to authors because they affect how their books come up in a search: the higher the ranking, the more likely the book is to come up when a customer is looking for it.
Tuesday's back to work edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The furore over Amazon'sde-ranking of thousands of bookscontinues: One hackerclaimed responsibility without offering actual evidence, while an Amazon insider has said it was thefault of a French employee. Meanwhile a company spokesman hasdescribed the affair as 'embarrassing and ham-fisted'.&bull; With so much about real-life piracy in the news, Freakonomics askswhether we should rename digital piracy. Daring Fireball blogger John Gruber suggestswe already have a replacement- bootlegging - while free software advocate Richard Stallman (a notorious stickler over the use of words)includes piracy on his list of confusing words.&bull; If that's all a bit heavy, URLesque could have the perfect tonic: a list ofthe 100 most iconic internet videos. Just don't let your boss see you watching them.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@jemimakiss,@charlesarthur,@jackschofieldand@bobbiejohnson) or by watching ourDelicious feed, under the usernameguardianista.
When is a startup not a startup? When it's got something to do with eBay, as far as I can tell.The question isn't some kind of Zen riddle, but my immediate reaction to the news that StumbleUpon and eBay were parting ways - just two years after the auction giantsloshed $75mon buying the web discovery service. The deal initially resulted in plenty of head-scratching action, but since the buyout the service appeared to plod on well enough.But today the companies have announced that co-founders Garrett Camp and Geoff Smith - along with a team of investors - have bought SU back. Meaning, I suppose, that it's a startup again. Anofficial entry on the StumbleUpon blogsuggests eBay had a lack of ambition, saying that "our goal is to make StumbleUpon the web's largest recommendation engine and we think this is the best way to get us there".It still leaves a big question about where StumbleUpon goes in the future - after all, if venture-backed startups have two ways to rake in cash (the stock market and acquisition) then who's going to take on eBay's sloppy seconds?The news comes as an addendum toreports last weekendthat Skype's founders are looking to prise the company out of eBay's hands and take it back. It seems eBay -under pressure after poor financial results- is prepared to jettison the string of odd purchases it made in the last few years. Fairly good news for eBay fans, but not for Meg Whitman, the former CEO and architect of those deals - who is now preparing torun for electionas governor of California.
The internet retailer Amazon has found itself at the centre of a censorship row after it decided to remove a number of so-called adult books from its online charts.Over the weekend, thousands of books have lost their sales rank – the number that Amazon uses to show how well one title sells compared with another – as the company apparently seeks to make its bestseller lists more family friendly.But thousands of users have voiced concern after the seemingly random application of the new rules not only affected a number of high-profile authors, including Annie Proulx, EM Forster and Jeanette Winterson, but also led to thousands of gay and lesbian titles being stripped of their sales rank, regardless of their sexual content.After being bombarded with angry emails from authors and readers, Amazon blamed a "glitch" in its system, which it said last night was being fixed.But just a few days ago, the companytold complainantsbooks classed as containing "adult material" had been prevented from appearing in some searches and bestseller lists "in consideration of our entire customer base". Yesterday a spokeswoman denied there was ever any such "policy".Rankings matter to authors because they affect how their books come up in a search. The higher the ranking, the more likely the book is to come up when a customer is looking for it.As of this morning, books without rankings included Gore Vidal's The City and the Pillar and Jeanette Winterson's Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit.Maurice, Forster's coming-of-age tale about a young man's first gay love, had also disappeared, along with the 2004 Booker-winning novel The Line of Beauty, by Alan Hollinghurst.The ranking removal seemed to depend on how Amazon filed each book. The 2003 paperback edition of Fry's autobiography Moab Is My Washpot, which Amazon tags as "gay", is unranked, whereas theoriginal hardback, filed under "memoir", has a ranking.Amazon's customers are able to tag books themselves, and a number of contributors have flagged up hundreds of books affected by the "glitch" using the tagamazonfail.The affected books all seem to have  hetero- and/or homosexual content. The New Joy of Sex, an updated version of the 70s classic, which is filed under the subject "sex/sexuality", has lost its ranking, while the original edition (subject "love/sex/marriage"), from 1974, is ranked. DH Lawrence'sLady Chatterley's Lover, meanwhile, is now unranked.The removals prompted furious remarks on Facebook, Twitter and elsewhere online.OneTwitter usernoted: "THE ANARCHIST COOKBOOK is ranked; THE JOY OF SEX is unranked. In other words, Amazon would rather you make napalm than get laid."Zoe Margolis, the blogger and author of Girl With A One-Track Mind, complained on herTwitter feedthat the US edition of her book, which Amazon had filed under "sexuality" or "erotica", had lost its ranking, while the UK version, filed under "memoir", was ranked."It's as if Amazon said 'An idea! Let's get rid of all the queers and perverts!!!' and then reset all their search algorithms," she wrote.She told the Guardian that if the policy was really to safeguard users from "adult" content, it was inconsistent, as many titles had slipped through the net."Horribly ironically, the stuff that does seem to be widely available are books like thePlayboy Centrefold collection, which Amazon classes as 'photography'," she said.Jeanette Winterson told the Guardian: "I hate categories anyway, I think they are unhelpful, but if Amazon are making a value judgment here, then that's much more serious and obviously that needs to be addressed."Craig Seymour, author of the gay memoir All I Could Bare: My Life in the Strip Clubs of Gay Washington, D.C,wrote on his blogyesterday that his sales rank was dropped in February, then restored nearly four weeks later, after he was told by Amazon that his book had been "classified as an adult product".When one author, Mark R Probst, wrote to Amazon last week to ask whether the firm has "some sort of campaign to suppress the visibility of gay books", he receiveda similar reply."In consideration of our entire customer base, we exclude 'adult' material from appearing in some searches and bestseller lists. Since these lists are generated using sales ranks, adult materials must also be excluded from that feature," explained "Ashlyn D" from Amazon's member services department.When contacted by the Guardian, an Amazon spokeswoman said that there was "a glitch in our systems and it's being fixed". However, the company refused to elaborate on why that move was made, or how the filter to choose which books were excluded was applied.Anonline petition, which already has almost 10,000 signatures, is lobbying Amazon to answer questions about the seeming double standard, and other complainants have sent objections to the Seattle-based company.Although the move does not mean the affected books are no longer on sale, it does block them from being able to access some of the site's most powerful areas – potentially affecting sales as a result. Without sales ranks, books cannot appear on many of the site's popular charts or suggestion pages, for example.The move has left authors, publishers and readers angry, but also highlights the extent to which Amazon has become one of the most powerful forces in the publishing industry – with the power to make or break a book.
Smashing Magazine's slogan says: "We smash you with information that will make your life easier. Really." If that sounds a little aggressive in English, the site was founded in Germany by Sven Lennartz and Vitaly Friedman. Lennartz runsDr Web Magazine, while Friedman createdThe Web Developer's Handbook. Not surprisingly, Smashing is also aimed at website designers and developers, but it has much broader appeal, and attracts about 4 million visitors per month.A brief scan of Smashing's most popular articles will give you the idea. These include 50 Beautiful Blog Designs, 50 Graffiti Artworks, 50 Beautiful Movie Posters, 50 Brilliant Photos, 70 Best Photoshop Tutorials, and 35 Beautiful Icon Sets.All these articles are "linkbait". Anybody who writes about, say, blog design will be strongly tempted to link to a collection of50 beautiful blog designs, as long as it's done well. And Smashing does linkbait really well.In an interview withFadtastic, Friedman said the idea behind Smashing was "simpler than you probably think. We never offer average content."It takes a lot of work to create features that stand out, and attract the links and diggs that generate traffic. However, they are also relatively ageless. Posts such asSmoke Photography and Smoke Art, andExcellent Book Covers and Paperbacks, will retain their appeal for years rather than days.As Friedman says: "Each and every one of our 115 articles is published only because we ourselves might look back on them in the future. Quality is more important than quantity - whatever you do."Features about blog, book, newspaper and magazine design are also easy to consume: you don't even need to read the captions. But Smashing Magazine does go deeper, and covers topics such as grid-based page layouts, shopping carts, search engine tools, CSS style sheets, Ajax coding, Flash, Wordpress, Dreamweaver and Drupal. There arefreebiesto download, too. Of course, things you don't fancy are easily skipped.Smashing was based on the idea that "content is the key to success" and Friedman told Fadtastic that "we didn't really care about design" when they started. It still uses a somewhat minimalist Wordpress blog theme, but it works very well. Its typography is clean, and the simple layouts with lots of white space show off the illustrations that visitors have come to see.As well as the blog, Smashing host forums on topics of interest to serious web developers, such as coding, scripting, and web site design and administration. There's also a general forum for feedback and suggestions, and for The Smashing Book, which is being produced as a community project. Topics were put to a vote.Finally, although it was only founded in 2006, Smashing has a worldwide following. About a third of visitors are from the US (34.2%), followed by the UK (6.8 %) and Germany (5.3%), according toGetclicky.com. We're used to the English language web being dominated by the Americans, but perhaps Smashing Magazine shows that a more global approach can work as well.
&bull; You might know thatTaiwanese chip designer Elan is suing Appleamid claims of patent infringement for multitouch technology. Engadget has pointed out video ofElan's system running on Android- interesting, sinceGoogle has shied awayfrom Android multitouch support.&bull; Talking of Apple, seen the Wall Street Journal's report thatSteve Jobs is still running things from homemight have passed you by over Easter. Feels a bit like a bit of a planted story, but it'll be interesting to see what happens in June, when Jobs is due back at work.&bull; And it could be time to break out the jet packs, robot butlers and voice controlled houses... because flying cars could be ready after years of failure,according to the New York Times.
I have become obsessed with the names of wifi networks that spring on to my iPhone screen as I move about London. Who, I wonder, is the mysterious "Panty-thief" near Dalston Junction?A few years ago, a study by British psychologist Helen Petrie found that our email passwords fall into four genres: "family-oriented"; "fans" who use a famous person's name; "fantasists" who choose a word with sexual connotations; and "cryptics" who select a random string of letters and numbers.Wifi network naming appears to follow a similar pattern, so I took a stroll around Hackney, east London, to see what it might say about my neighbours. Beginning on Albion Drive, I found a fair number of "cryptics" but also pantsnet and The Return of Jizz, before turning on to Malvern Road where there was The Freaky Jason, batflaps and Cunning Stunt. Malvern meets Middleton Road, which yielded disappointingly little of note besides Daddyworld.On Queensbridge Road, a main thoroughfare, it was all rather straitlaced: Raru, evah, 244, before the more inspiring Baked Bread and the intriguing oo vudge welcome. Lavender Grove had lavender_love, hillybilly2 and luckydog. Around the corner on Mapledene Road it was pretty factual: paul, Amanda, barcelona. And on Lenthall Road, I found not only cracknet and Jones Family, but also thegirls and batchelors.Just what does it say about my neighbours? Well, while Lavender Grove is apparently a hub of family values, and God only knows what goes on on Malvern, I appear to live on a street of cryptics and fantasists. I'm not sure conversations over the garden fence will ever be the same again.
Easter brought not eggs but worms to Twitter, the "microblogging"-messaging service. And not for the first time, the attack was mounted using cross-site scripting (XSS).The first attack caused users to unwittingly tweet puffs for another site, Stalk Daily. The second was about mikeyy. It turned out the two were related.BNO Newsreports:Mikeyy Mooney, the 17-year-old creator of StalkDaily.com from Brooklyn, has admitted responsibility for the Twitter worm that rapidly spread through Twitter on Saturday, stating in an email to BNO News, "I am aware of the attack and yes I am behind this attack."He added:"I am the person who coded the XSS which then acted as a worm when it auto updated a users profile and status, which then infected other users who viewed their profile. I did this out of boredom, to be honest. I usually like to find vulnerabilities within websites and try not to cause too much damage, but start a worm or something to give the developers an insight on the problem and while doing so, promoting myself or my website."The second attack used the same script with a different server, and different messages, such as "Twitter please fix this, regards Mikeyy" and "Mikeyy is done".Both attacks worked by adding obfuscated scripts to the Name and More info URL entries in a Twitter user's settings.In a brief statement,Twitter said:We've taken steps to remove the offending updates, and to close the holes that allowed this "worm" to spread. No passwords, phone numbers, or other sensitive information were compromised as part of this attack.On Sunday, Twitter published a longer blog post,Wily Weekend Worms.As Graham Cluley of Sophos observed, it was "a bad 24 hours for Web 2.0 security":Twitter is being put through the mangle at the moment - clearly a long hard look needs to be taken of how well it secures its users if it is going to survive its growing popularity amongst cybercriminals as well as the general public.Mikeyy was basically harmless, but the next attackers might have nastier ideas.@jackschofield
