Staff and agenciesOne-fifth of staff at the internet retailer Letsbuyit.com are to be shed in an effort to streamline costs, despite an 82% surge in sales this quarter.The UK-based retailer today announced 80 job losses from its 400-strong staff, mainly from the ranks of temporary staff and advisers.Letsbuyit, which pools together customers to bargain for lower prices from manufacturers of consumer goods, will remain heavily loss-making until 2003, according to analysts.The e-commerce company's second-quarter sales have jumped to £4.4m, with its gross margin rising to 9.8% from 2.9%.The reorganisation will centralise Letsbuyit's European procurement, logistics and marketing activities and lead to one-off costs totalling £920,000 in the third quarter.Traders are cautious about the second-quarter sales rise. "It's basically a base effect - in general an investment in Letsbuyit remains a high-risk one because they've said they'll break even relatively far in the future," said Edward Martens, a trader at MM Warburg in Hamburg.Letsbuyit stock has tumbled 40% from its peak in July as technology investors worldwide preferred software and internet infrastructure companies over loss-making e-commerce enterprises.
French computer services group Atos yesterday announced it would merge with Origin, a unit of Philips Electronics, in a &euro;2.6bn (&#163;1.6bn) deal, to create a leading European IT services player.The newly formed group will provide services ranging from consulting and systems integration to online services and outsourcing.The new company will be the third biggest in Europe, behind Cap Gemini and Getronics - companies that have already made acquisitions to expand market share and push into consulting.Under the agreement Philips will receive roughly 21.5m   newly issued Atos Origin shares, representing 48.9% of the combined group.Philips will also have the right to buy Atos Origin shares on two subsequent occasions. Each tranche will represent about 2.4m Atos shares, linked to share price performance, which would boost the value of the deal to &euro;3.2bn.However, as part of the agreement Philips will reduce its stake in the combined group to below 35% within two years of the completion of the transaction and will not vote more than that percentage of Atos shares.Bernard Bourigeaud, the chief executive of Atos, said the transaction would be earnings enhancing in 2001.
British Telecom's new high-speed internet service provider, Open World, goes live today, offering connections at 10 times the speed of standard online services.The venture is a crucial element in BT's internet strategy - the group's embattled chief executive, Sir Peter Bonfield, has been criticised for losing ground in cyberspace to other telecoms operators.More than 100,000 people have pre-registered for Open World, which costs a flat rate of &#163;39.99 a month and is targeted at businesses and home users.The service is intended to overcome the problem of web pages taking several minutes to download, particularly when they include complicated pictures and detailed graphics.The launch of Open World is earlier than expected, although only a few customers will be connected immediately. BT engineers have to visit each subscriber to establish a high-speed connection and the extent of the demand has created a long backlog.An Open World spokesman said: "Like any kind of new technology, there has to be a waiting list. There is such demand that if you sign up tomorrow it may take until October to get a connection."Furthermore, only a third of   the country's telephone exchanges are capable of coping with the service, which could mean Open World is largely restricted to the south-east of England until modernisation takes place elsewhere.Open World downloads data at a rate of 512 kilobytes a second - almost 10 times as fast as most existing service providers. BT hopes to have services soon at 1 megabyte or 2 megabytes a second.The service will be a fresh test of the practicality of unmetered internet access - Open World subscribers will have a constant connection and will pay the same amount irrespective of how often they use the service.This business model has failed to take off elsewhere - Alta Vista last week pulled the plug on an unmetered standard-speed service at &#163;60 a year, saying it was uneconomical. It blamed BT, saying it it could not risk subsidising a free, unmetered package for customers while BT charged it by the minute for access to the telecoms network.Sir Peter Bonfield will be looking for some good news - he is under pressure due to the company's plunging share price. Concerns about BT's expansion plans - and the impact on the company's gearing - caused the ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor's to downgrade the company's grading this month.
Ah, computers - you can't live without them and you can't break them open with a chain saw and throw them out of your window, while screaming, "Logical, my arse - you bloody things make less sense than my granny after her fifth Vimto and stout." Well, you can, but the neighbours complain.I am not a happy e-camper. I have just suffered a month of computer-induced lunacy which would not bear comparison with a life-threatening illness, but certainly did leave me with the strong desire to threaten a number of lives.First the historical background - 10 years ago, I worked as a writer-in-residence for a social work department and was given charge of a large Amstrad and its manual. With a lot of trial and error, we came to know each other rather well and I even gave very basic computing tutorials, now and then. Meanwhile, at home I had a baby Amstrad with a defective paper hopper which meant that printing out a novel involved crouching beside the thrashing daisy wheel for a day, wearing industrial ear defenders and feeding in paper by hand until my wrists went numb. But this was character-forming and only happened every year or so.Then planned obsolescence meant that I was sucked into the modern world of ludicrously large memories, ludicrously large programs and laptops. Even so, hell crept in surreptitiously and my first episode of computing dementia only appeared after a number of carefree years when my trusty laptop lapsed into a kind of lunatic haze. I won't bore you with the symptoms, suffice it to say that it seemed to have a memory problem. I mentioned as much to the 10-year-old an emergency repair company sent out. One hour and (if I remember) &#163;115 later, said 10-year-old pattered through to confirm that my problem did indeed seem to be one of the memory variety.Meanwhile, an entire novel was quite possibly ineffectively saved on a variety of increasingly paranoid disks, while it apparently fluctuated in size for no reason and threatened to disappear entirely. Later a friend who happened by, without fee, dug about a bit and discovered that the machine had decided to fill its hard disk with pointless chains of information, to mark them irremovable and then sit there with the computing capacity of a small goldfish. Why did it do that? I have no idea. Nor did the other repairman I tried who directed his answers to each of my inquiries to the man standing next to me - men know about these things, you see.What all computer owners know and all computer manufacturers ensure, is that after five years pretty much anything to with information technology will do its best to   self-destruct. And so it was that my most recent laptop started heading for its happy hunting grounds. It forgot how to type (and I only ever really used it as a grotesquely expensive typewriter), it rejected new software, it made odd noises and, when all else failed, intermittently played dead. This yanked me back immediately into the land of help lines. The two words help and line have, in this case, been fitted together by someone with a truly Satanic understanding of irony.Help lines don't. But they do come in a myriad of increasingly ghastly manifestations. They are discontinued numbers; they are numbers charged at &#163;1 per minute and staffed by inveterate chatterboxes with limited attention spans; they are more moderately priced numbers staffed by individuals who have never met a computer, but know how to turn one off and on again; they are labyrinthine holding patterns of muzak and "Please continue waiting, your call is important to us"; they are exorbitant replacements for free information websites; they are based in   foreign countries and haunted by alarming pronunciation mutations; they demand your credit card details before an engineer will even cough in your direction; they are, in short, not helpful.But if you should weaken and buy another, newer, cuddlier computer which happens to arrive in less than working order, then you have the joys of arranging the emergency removal of your invalid between a delivery coordinator in France, a delivery service in Britain and a subcontractor in his van with a mobile. You have the pleasure of awaiting repairs which - depending on which person you speak to - are finished, almost finished and encountering mysterious and long-term delays. And then you have the unparalleled delight of receiving an even more dysfunctional device which the vendor is set on refusing to replace.Take my advice, in any computer-related transaction, take everyone's name, take everyone's superior's name, have a large man standing next to you and speak loudly of the 1978 Sale of Goods Act, because only coffin retailers can equal most computer suppliers' levels of chillingly absent after-sales consumer support. Spend the money, watch it rot - it's a natural law.&#149;  AL Kennedy's On Bullfighting was published in paperback by Vintage this July
Tony Garnett, the godfather of British television drama, has a knack for producing work that taps into the spirit of the times. From the ground-breaking 1960s social realism of Cathy Come Home to This Life, with its cast of mid-1990s twentysomethings more into partying than politics, Garnett has been closely associated with era-defining drama.Now, just as viewers are coming to terms with how traditional TV can be enhanced by the internet, Garnett's company, World Productions, is putting the finishing touches to a new BBC2 drama with a website designed to play an integral part in an interactive viewing experience. Attachments, which is due to debut on BBC 2 next month, is - appropriately enough - set in a fictional dot.com start-up. The accompanying website will carry content that changes and develops to mirror events in the 10-part TV series.The controller of BBC2, Jane Root, says that when she and Garnett began discussing a follow-up to his previous series, The Cops, he had in mind from the outset a TV drama about people working in an internet-related environment, with a significant interactive element. (Garnett maintained his customary reticence and was not available to discuss the new show.)"To have Tony, one of the major TV   drama figures of our generation, working on this is quite a coming-of-age moment," Root declares. "There's something in common with what happened when the first lightweight 16mm cameras came out and location filming became easier. It provides the chance to create a different visual language."Attachments centres on the efforts of Mike and his wife Luce to transform his new music website, seethru.co.uk, from a bedroom hobby into a viable internet content business offering news, reviews and gossip. Frazzled dot.com executives will recognise the couple's struggle to secure venture capital funding without having to give away too much control of their fledgling company.Those lower down the new economy food chain will be able to identify with an internet start-up office divided along content writer versus techie versus programmer versus designer social faultlines. They will also recognise the long periods idled away playing computer games and emailing mates, punctuated by short bursts of frenzied, work-through-the-night activity as deadlines loom.Root is keen to emphasise that the programme has a universal focus on people and relationships in the modern workplace and is not an obscure tale about webheads. She quotes recent research suggesting that the office is now the place where most people meet their life partner. There   is also a sense of Attachments being the older sibling of This Life, with central characters moving beyond the mad-for-it hedonism of their early 20s and making serious decisions about their lives and careers.Fans of Garnett's recent BBC2 work, such as This Life and The Cops, will spot plenty of familiar touches. The young and largely unknown cast, for starters. Attachments dispenses with the handheld documentary style of The Cops, but is fast-paced and has similarly been shot using a single camera. There is also an attention-grabbing opening scene, with sex and full-frontal male nudity. On a skateboard.However, providing an interactive element is a completely new departure for Garnett. He has brought together an in-house web production team, led by technical advisers Paul Lakin and David McCandless, which is working closely with the Attachments TV programme-makers at World. Root says that the idea is for the website to feel as though it has   been created by the fictional characters from the drama.Seethru.co.uk is being built to operate as a stand-alone content website, with all the features anyone who comes across it while surfing the net and has never seen the TV show would expect. But Attachments fans will be able to visit the site and look at articles that feature in the unfolding TV drama, in many cases getting to read something that is only mentioned or seen in passing. They can email characters from the drama and listen to the music of real unsigned artists through seethru.co.uk.The fictional seethru office is also fitted with webcams, allowing viewers to have another look at footage from the show as well as extra material not seen on TV. Net users will be able to check out footage relating to the cliffhanger ending to the first episode, for instance, which takes place in the office toilet.The seethru site will go live when the first episode goes out, with the standards waxing and waning after that according to the fortunes of the fictional web business. So at the outset users will log on to the amateurish site that Mike has been running from his bedroom. The internet offering will get a more professional feel when funding is secured in the drama, but the quality will also deteriorate again at times of crisis during the series.Root stresses that Attachments is   intended to work as a stand-alone TV show, with the viewing audience still the primary focus. But it has also been created to appeal to "v-users" - people who experience the drama through their PC screens. Anything that provokes rows or controversy in the drama will disappear from the seethru site at the exact same moment as it is fictionally deleted, according to Root."There will be lots of people watching and arguing about things - stuff that's on the webcams, that people have written - who can go and see it on the internet after the show," she says. "I hope people who contact the site will be able to have a role on it."Attachments was commissioned last year, before the internet start-up boom - and the headline-grabbing trend for making people overnight dot.com millionaires - reached its surreal, get-rich-quick peak and turned into a crash.But Root is still confident that Garnett has not for once missed the boat. She has already commissioned a second 10-part run of Attachments."I rather like the fact that it all started to go wrong. It's more dramatic," she says. "If people were still effortlessly becoming internet millionaires, there would be less dramatic potential. There is now more awareness of the pressures and the possibility of failure - that's more potent."Recognise anybody from your new media office?Mike (Justin Pierre):seethru.co.uk founder. One-time musician and DJ turned net evangelist. Always looks on the bright side.Luce (Claudia Harrison):Married to Mike. Gives up publishing career to become seethru's management fixer. Forever worrying over money and unsigned contracts.Jake (David Walliams):Site designer. Perfectionist and prima donna, constantly at war with techie and programmer.Sophie (Amanda Ryan):Lesbian content-manager with a very well developed sense of her writing ability. Nobody messes with her words.Will (William Gaminara):Smooth MBA appointed by venture capitalists to babysit their investment.Yvonne (Sally Rogers):Pregnant thirtysomething sales manager. Practical and manipulative.Reece (William Beck):Programmer. Incorrigible shagger with a small son, who spends his time plotting ways to wind up Jake and Sophie.Brandon (Iddo Goldberg):Brilliant techie &uuml;ber-nerd. Shy and sexually frustrated. Skateboards naked round the office after the others have left.Zoe (Romola Garai):Enthusiastic home counties ing&eacute;nue who joins seethru on work experience.
The current phase of American capitalism began on November 9 1989, with the formal collapse of socialism. Since then, a lot of new technology has arrived to enhance market forces. The internet is one such technology. In a few short years, it has pretty much gutted the principles of corporate socialism - jobs for life; employee and customer loyalty; all for one and one for all - and replaced them with Lord knows what.Any time line that describes this phase of American capitalism would also have to include April 4 1994 (birth of Netscape), November 10 1994 (birth of Amazon.com), May 5 1996 (birth of eBay) - and August 4   1997. August 4 1997 was the beginning of the end of another socialistic force in American life: the mass market. Forty years from now, when your grandson asks you, "Grandma, how did 50m Americans ever let themselves be talked into buying the same mouthwash?" you will say, "Well, you have to know how things were before August 4 1997."This was the day a pair of Silicon Valley engineers named Jim Barton and Mike Ramsay started their own technology company with several million dollars from a pair of venture capital firms. Barton and Ramsay's first idea was to turn the American home into a network, but, after a few months, they went back to their venture capitalists and told them that   home networking was a bad idea because they couldn't explain it to anyone but other geeks. They had another idea, though. Instead of transforming the entire American home, they decided to focus on the television.Barton had become obsessed with the television a few years earlier, when working at Silicon Graphics. He helped to build the only interactive television that actually worked, installed in late 1994 by Time Warner in 4,000 homes in Orlando, Florida, and then watched in dismay as his beloved project was overrun by the internet. The internet did a fraction of what the new TVs promised, but at a fraction of the price.Like many smart engineers, Bar ton is a man used to figuring things out. The TV gnawed at him because he didn't have the answer. The box worked. And yet no one cared. There were several lessons in this:No 1Brilliant gadgets for a mass market do not go anywhere if the masses cannot afford them.No 2A big company is not necessarily the best place to create a revolutionary technology.No 3The whims of the American consumer are the eighth wonder of the world. They can wreak havoc with the most powerful establishments.When Barton and Ramsay returned to the television, they devised another black box, one with a memory. Far simpler to programme than a VCR, it was also considerably   more versatile. The viewer could record programming. Or he could simply tell the box to go out and find him the kind of programmes he liked. If he liked indiscreet women, he could record and store every episode of Sex and the City. If he liked intelligent blood and guts, he didn't need to wait until TNT's Clint Eastwood week - he could just instruct his box to fetch Clint Eastwood movies as they played. The viewer's only constraint on choice was that the programme had to be broadcast by someone, sometime.The black box also enabled the viewer to treat all television - even live television - as television he had recorded for his own private use. All he would need to do is start watching a programme a few minutes after it began. Then, by pressing a button, he could skip the credits, the time-outs, the weather and all the other boring stretches of television designed by producers to lull viewers into watching ads. He could also skip the ads.Over time, the viewer would create his own private TV channel, stored on a hard drive in the black box, tailored with great precision to his interests. When someone asked Barton or Ramsay, "Tell me again what this gadget does?" they now had a simple answer: "It lets you watch anything you want to watch when you want to watch it."There was one other cool thing the box could do. While the viewer watched the television, the box would watch the viewer. The viewer's every decision would be stored in a kind of private museum of whims. Over time, the box would come to know what the viewer liked - maybe even better than the viewer himself. All by itself, it would record shows it calculated the viewer might like. The box was more than a box, it was a butler, and the more it learned about its master's whims, the more it would be able to fetch what its master wanted.Calling their company TiVo, Ramsay, 50, the chief executive officer, and Barton, 42, the chief technology officer, knew the box was not where the money was - the box was, in fact, a big money loser. To kick-start the market they would need to pay an electronics company to make the boxes and sell them below cost. The trick was to get as many into American homes as possible. TiVo's programming software would arrive in millions of homes either with existing cable boxes or, in the future, embedded in new TV sets, cable boxes or satellite receivers. The long-term goal was to become unnecessary. "We'll know we've succeeded when the TiVo box vanishes," Barton says.The ambition of the enterprise was breathtaking. The company intended to plop itself down between the 102m TV homes and the $50bn TV industry. Once the box was in place, TiVo would be the hub of the TV industry. The company would know the subtle preferences of every viewer. It could then charge a fee to anyone who wanted to locate groups of viewers: networks, cable companies, advertisers. The trick was to get the box into those 102m homes - and that would cost money. Lots of money. Ramsay told the venture capitalists they needed to lose $300-400m before they became profitable. Prior to the internet boom, capitalists were chary about sinking one-tenth of that sum into a small, risky venture; now, says Ramsey,"instead of saying, 'No,' they said, 'Great.' "What made this enthusiasm even more astonishing was that a rival company had already sprung up. Anthony Wood, a young computer game entrepreneur, stumbled on the same idea at roughly the same time. Wood had been frustrated by his VCR's failure to record episodes of his favourite show, Star Trek. In early 1998, not long after Barton and Ramsay got their first financing, Wood generously agreed to accept $8m from venture capitalists. He called his new company Replay Networks (later Replay TV).By March 1999, the first TiVo and Replay boxes had already been shipped. By June this year, the companies had sold about 100,000 boxes between them, largely without advertising. Several market analysts estimate that they will have sold 5-7m boxes by the end of 2002 - and that, within a decade, they will be in 90m homes. There's room for them to coexist happily. They're seizing control of a $50bn industry from its creators; there's more than enough booty to go around. Netscape co-founder Marc Andreessen, who invested his own money in Replay, calls it "the Trojan horse for the computer industry", offering it the opportunity "to gain control of the entertainment industry."The new companies threaten to do politely to the TV industry what Napster did to the music industry: help consumers to help themselves to entertainment without "paying" the networks and advertisers. Naturally, this disturbs the networks and advertisers."The one question our investors did ask us," Ramsay says, "is, 'How long will it take for the TV networks to hate you so much that they shut you down?' " Talk to people at TiVo and Replay, and in the networks and ad firms, and you realise there is an   official story and a true story. The official story, believed by practically no one, is that these boxes won't destroy the TV industry as we know it; they'll merely enable its current rulers to make it an even better place.To persuade the networks of this pleasant notion, TiVo had to play down a lot of what made their box desirable to a consumer. Instead of a button for skipping commercials, for instance, Barton designed a fast-forward button with three speeds, enabling the TiVo user to speed through the ads but not skip them entirely. Replay TV at first viewed the networks' interests as irrelevant: its remote control has a "QuickSkip" button, which lets the viewer leap ahead in increments of 30 seconds, the length of a typical TV commercial.But when Kim LeMasters, formerly of CBS, replaced Wood as Replay's CEO, he struck a much more conciliatory note. Though he wasn't able to scrap QuickSkip, he said he would not promote the feature. So both the companies now argue to the networks that a device that steals their power and hands it to consumers is actually good for them.They make two points. The first is that several new accessories that promised a revolution have already appeared - the VCR, the remote control, cable TV - only to be assimilated without greatly disrupting the existing social order. The other point is that the box encourages people to watch even more television. This prospect may cast doubt on the future of intelligent life, but it should, in theory, be good for TV networks. Replay now has data proving that its new customers watch, on average, three hours more television each week.That's the official story. But it becomes less plausible every day, thanks to the information piling up inside TiVo and Replay about how ordinary people use their boxes. They use them to undermine, with ruthless precision, the interests of TV networks and mass-market advertisers. They have two distinctly unsettling new habits. The first is that they don't watch scheduled TV any more. According to Josh Bernoff, a TV industry analyst with Forrester Research, viewers "get into the habit of not paying attention to when the programmes are on and just watch what they've recorded".Well. If it doesn't matter when programmes run, then the whole   concept of prime time - and its special market value - vanishes. Ditto the idea of pitting one show against another by virtue of its time slot. In the age of black boxes, every show ever broadcast competes against every other show for the viewer's attention; for this reason, whatever advantage a network has in the development of new TV shows disappears.But that isn't the worst news that TiVo and Replay have for the networks. The worst news is that no one watches commercials anymore. Eighty-eight per cent - 88%! - of the ads in the programmes seen by viewers on their black boxes went unwatched. If no one watches commercials, then there is no commercial television.And yet - and here is the punch line - the networks have done nothing but encourage the new technology. By the end of 1999, all three major US television networks, along with most major Hollywood studios, the two biggest Hollywood talent agencies (ICM and CAA) and all the major cable and satellite TV companies, had either made investments in or formed partnerships with both Replay and TiVo."A lot of these guys had their bell rung four years ago by the internet," says Steve Shannon of Replay, "and they don't want to be humiliated a second time." The internet gave birth to a new corporate religion to replace the one it killed. The religion says: change is inevitable. The question now being posed by the TV establishment - and it emerges from the belly of the beast as a weak burp rather than a loud blast - is no longer "Will this gadget eventually change how Americans watch TV?" but "When this gadget changes how Americans watch television, what else will it change?"A lot.The black box means the end of commercial television as we know it. It poses two questions that demand a response from the TV industry. The first is: how do you get people to watch ads when, with a button, they can eliminate them? The sad truth about ads is that people really didn't ask to see them; people are just too lazy to avoid them. The box puts an end to that racket. Either the ads will need to become as entertaining as the programmes or the programmes will need to contain the ads, so that they cannot be stripped out. If Jennifer Aniston wants to remain a Friend, she may need to don a T-shirt that says "Diet Coke".Television advertising is currently based on data measuring how many households tune in to a programme, not how many watch the ads. But the TiVo and Replay boxes accumulate, in atomic detail, a record of who watched what and when they watched it. Put the box in all 102m homes, and you get a pointillist portrait of the entire US TV audience. And that raises the second and more disturbing question for the TV industry: what do you do when you actually know who is watching and why?Already, TiVo and Replay know what each of their users does every second. And they will know, in great detail, the viewer's interests. An audience of 200,000 people you know intimately might be as valuable as an amorphous mass of 20m. After all, a person with a deep interest in a subject is more likely to watch an ad about that subject. "You and I may not care to watch a commercial for Preparation H," Josh   Bernoff says. "But for someone with haemorrhoids, it might be the thing he is most eager to hear about. And he's the one the makers of Preparation H want to talk to.""This technology will encourage all sorts of niche brands," says Barton, "as well as whole new markets." His favourite example is the hockey channel. Everyone interested in it can punch "hockey" into their box, and it will find and record any hockey programme. At the moment, there isn't much hockey on the tube; that will change. The maker of the new hockey shows will rent cheap time - at, say, 4am - to broadcast. Hockey enthusiasts will simply record the shows. And,  voil&agrave;, a new business is born. "The business is two guys," Barton says. "One acquires hockey content. The other calls people who make hockey equipment."The same slice-'em-and-dice-'em logic applies even to such seemingly mass market events as the Super Bowl. Once the box is ubiquitous, an advertiser need not buy the whole audience; he can buy a piece of the audience. General Motors may still buy time during the Super Bowl, but the company will probably use the time differently. GM might use its 30 seconds to distribute 50 different commercials to 50 different clusters of consumers. Soccer moms will see ads for people movers, middle-aged people will see ads for sports cars, and so on.But even that is a retrograde example. The operative unit in TV ratings will no longer be the programme but   the moment. Advertisers and networks will know with weird accuracy who and what within each programme best holds viewers' attention. The box can determine which joke in Letterman's monologue prompted viewers to switch to Leno or which medical emergency inspired viewers to exit ER. (If you thought the pressure on entertainers to be perpetually entertaining couldn't increase, think again.)Many things will change when television is able to whisper finely tuned messages to like-minded consumers rather than hollering crude messages at millions. The hollerers - such as GM and Procter &amp; Gamble (P&amp;G), the two largest buyers of US airtime - are in trouble, for a start. The TV is the mass market. Without the TV, there never would have been Daz or Rice Krispies, but a thousand versions of Daz and Rice Krispies. For the big brands, life without TV is no life at all.Giant corporations whose sole purpose is to mass-market consumer goods exist in their current form because television shaped the mass market. If television ceases to be a mass market, the mass market largely ceases to exist. The question isn't just, "How does P&amp;G sell soap powder now?" but "How does it survive?" It must transform itself from a maker of mass-market goods into the world's largest boutique. After all, the consumer would obviously prefer that not only the message be precisely tailored but the products as well. In this new market, there will either be hundreds of versions of Daz or no Daz at all.But why stop there? It isn't just the mass market that is crude and inefficient and therefore ripe for re-evaluation; it is Market Man himself. Instead of grouping the consumer by observable traits over which he has little or no control - age, race, gender - the new market will know him by his decisions about how to spend his time, every moment of which is recorded by his box. Getting inside a consumer's mind so as to get inside his wallet, TiVo or Replay will be able to present some mass-market company trying desperately to stay alive with 40,000 consumers classified as People Who Live for Onions.Nick Donatiello of market-research company Odyssey says that the box - along with the internet - makes it likely that ads will be tailored not to outward characteristics but to consumers' more fundamental attitudes. GM will run one commercial, perhaps, for people with a tragic view of life and another for people with a comic view of life. "In the 50s, you could tell a lot of things about a person if you knew where he lived,"   says Donatiello. "You can't do that any more. We've become too fragmented and autonomous a society."The mass market put a price not on individual states of mind but on the average state of mind of commercially very different people. It did this because it made no economic sense to parse in microscopic detail what every one of us did with our attention and why we did it. And so the market just lumped us together and assumed we all paid more or less the same attention.Now, suddenly, the technology has appeared that can unravel the collective. Maybe the best way to see what is about to happen is to observe what has happened already. To some extent, ads have become more like entertainment, and TV programming has moved in the direction in which it is about to be shoved much, much further.The few events that really benefit from being watched live - sports and awards and sensational unfolding news - have a greater gravitational pull, and a greater market value, than ever. Synthetic events like Who   Wants to Be a Millionaire?, Big Brother and Survivor are prescient, for they involve the viewer as a quasi-participant and require the actual participants to deploy many vendable goods, thereby offering sparkling opportunities for product placement. In a "real" world, real goods are more naturally introduced than in a purely fictional one.The new black box is really just a fantastically powerful accelerator of the fragmentation of markets caused by non-terrestrial TV and the internet. Already there's some rumbling in the netherworld of advertising and marketing that suggests it is preparing itself for the coming earthquake. Starcom now classifies TV audiences not by demographics but by something it calls "passion groups"; P&amp;G's website Reflect.com enables shoppers to create their own beauty products - a harbinger of an age in which every consumer will demand products tailored to him alone. The theme of all this is that groups are narrower and defined by interests and that the ultimate interest is... Me! The main thing about Me! is that he always gets what he wants, or at any rate what he thinks he wants.Nick Donatiello argues that the box is ideally suited for American life as it is currently configured, when consumer choice has been exalted to a fetish. "If you had offered Americans this box 30 years ago," he says, "they wouldn't have had the same reaction. One reason for watching TV in the 1950s and 60s was the shared experience. The metaphor for the country was the melting pot: people wanted to be the same. People read Time and Newsweek then mainly because other people read Time and Newsweek. Now the metaphor is the quilt."&#149; Michael Lewis is the author of Liar's Poker and The New New Thing: A Silicon Valley Story. A longer version of this article appeared in the New York TimesMeanwhile . . . in BritainIt is just two months before the UK gets its first taste of a personal TV service, writes Amy Vickers. Making the first move in this market is TiVo, which has the first-mover advantage and effectively guaranteed its success by signing a two-year exclusive 50/50 deal with Sky. Competitor Replay TV is remaining tight-lipped about any plans to come to Europe, although it has been rumoured to be in discussions with all the terrestrial broadcasters. Unless it enters the market within the next six months, however, it is widely believed that it will have lost too much ground to TiVo to be able to make any headway in the UK.It is hard to see how Sky can lose,   because the biggest threat to TiVo is software company NDS - the News Corp company which developed Sky Sports Active and is widely tipped to be the supplier of personal video recorder (PVR) software to Sky's next-generation set-top box. The deal would mean that NDS's digital PVR software, XTV, would be incorporated into set-top boxes early next year and offered to all Sky subscribers for an additional monthly subscription.The Sky-TiVo boxes (minus the Sky branding) are to go on sale in October and will be distributed both through Sky call centres and high-street outlets such as Dixons stores and Granada's Box Clever. It is thought that the TiVo boxes will initially cost   around &#163;399 to buy, with a &#163;10 monthly subscription.Sky is currently signing up broadcasting partners to rent space on the "showcases" section of the electronic programme guide (EPG), where they can promote programmes or new channels. This additional service is initially being offered free of charge to all UK channels, with the condition that as the subscriber base grows this will be changed to a subscription/rental model. The BBC was the first broadcaster, apart from Sky, to sign a two-year deal for this service, although other channels are expected to be signed up before launch.
James Murdoch, the youngest son of the media magnet Rupert Murdoch, warned yesterday that English will not become the language of the internet by default, and international businesses had to take account of the decline in its status.Speaking at the Guardian Edinburgh international television festival, Mr Murdoch, an executive vice president of his father's News Corp who also runs the Asian pay-television business Star TV, said that while English remains a key language employed by internet users, others are on the increase, such as Mandarin, Hindi and Spanish.If media companies want to compete in the global market place, he said, they must focus on all four language groups.   "These four audiences, each boasting generally global distribution, are and will continue to be utterly dominant in terms of total market size."He pointed to research carried out in the US which predicted that although half current internet users are American, that figure would drop to one third by 2004.He said that Goldman Sachs, the investment bankers, estimated that there would be 96.6m internet users in China   by 2002. Internet growth in China is outstripping the forecasted increase by 25%.Mandarin, he pointed out, is the most commonly spoken language with 835m speakers, followed by English with 470m, Spanish at 330m and Hindi with 300m.In the US and Britain he said, "the notion of cultural imperialism marches onward, unaware of surging non-English markets, or worse, quite aware of them but still believing that the lingua franca of the modern age is and will continue to be English."It is true that English has been the predominant language of the internet so far, and it is true that it will always be a major force but as connectivity penetrates deeper into the massive market outside Europe and the US ... English will decline in use through this medium." English would not become the "default language" of the digital world.He pointed to the success of the hit game show Who Wants to be a Millionaire? around the world, in particular in India. "Never mind about the idea of Who Wants to be Millionaire? originating in Britain. Never mind that the American version is wildly popular and could easily have been exported in English. To the Indian audience, this is a purely local product."The success of the show, he said, demonstrated that international media groups must tailor their products to different markets. "We should avoid thinking that the global media powerhouses of today can survive as monoliths: single, production centres, broadcasting to the world outside. Rather each must be a series of local businesses, each carefully focused on the key language groups and local cultures that make-up their respective audiences."In that context, Mr Murdoch attacked the BBC's director general Greg Dyke for describing the BBC in his speech to the festival last Friday as "Britain's leading global media player". He added: "No one working in media outside Britain regards the BBC as a competitor."He also questioned the BBC's role in the commercial market place, saying that its vision was "muddled". He said of the corporations' commercial website, beeb.com: "It's not British, it's not broadcasting, and it has nothing to do with public service, but it is today's BBC."
Age?30.Who is she?European marketing director at MediaRing.com, an internet voice services company. Former web marketing consultant.What's the clever idea?"VoizLetter. Individuals can enrich their e-mail and electronic greetings by recording a spoken message that recipients can listen to without the need for special software. The user records the message directly across the web to MediaRing's voice server, which is then accessed and streamed in real time at the other end. VoizLetter also enables email marketers to enrich their email campaigns and electronic newsletters. A recent case study showed an 50% higher response rate than traditional email."What's the thinking behind it?"Email use is the single biggest driver of internet user growth globally. Most people subscribe to many newsletters. We asked ourselves why should this be silent and applied our technology. VoizMail allows individuals to record their own special message and VoizLetter allows companies to differentiate their email newsletters."How does it work?"To send a VoizMail the user goes towww.getvoizmail.com, plugs in a microphone and records a voice message for free using the web-based recorder. The sender puts in the email address of their friends or family. Once received, the recipient clicks on a URL link which takes them to a web page where they will be able to hear the voice message the sender has recorded.For companies that want to create a VoizLetter, a voice message is recorded which is then integrated into the newsletter and transmitted as a normal email campaign would be. There is no attachment. For those that open the newsletter the voice is automatically streamed from the MediaRing Server.It's very easy to set up and deploy. You could sit at your PC and record your message and add that to the newsletter. Or you could go a lot further and get a voice artist in to record a message."Possible shortcomings?"If the users have high security settings on their browsers they will have to positively accept the voice stream. You also need a microphone and speakers."What's next?"MediaRing has a several applications that enable voice interaction on the internet. Nameplanet.com, the world's largest provider of personal email addresses, will soon be using VoizMail. This should prove to be addictive, particularly to younger users."
* Scarlet pimpernel Andy Mitchell, UK boss of AltaVista, came back tanned and relaxed from his holiday last Monday only to find various factions of the press baying for his blood. Taking it all in his stride, he blamed everything on BT, expecting the lynch mob to join in. Only things didn't work out as expected, and instead the hacks called for his head. AltaVistagate ensued and Mitchell took on the enemy number one mantle from last week's public hate figure, Nasty Nick. Not that he seemed at all bothered by this. Cynics would say this was all part of the greater plan - to get AltaVista all over the news and Mitchell's mugshot plastered everywhere.* Staying with AltaVista, it seems the portal is fast becoming a dirty word over at the FT. Having completely missed the story back in March when even the tabloids managed to splash with it, this time around it took the FT until Wednesday to get something in the paper, a whole two days after the news of the phantom unmetered service broke. Is the business bible slipping or has its erudite e-business correspondent taken his finger off the pulse?* Champagne corks were popping over at beeb.com last week - no, not for boss Drew Kaza's sixth child (although that has to be applauded), but for the &#163;32.5m deal that BBC Worldwide managed to pull off. Cries of amazement were heard   throughout the industry, with many people staggered that an unknown company from the US could waltz in and accept a 13.5% stake of what is now Beeb Ventures for such a princely sum. TH Lee Global Internet Managers was clearly shopping for a trophy wife, but perhaps didn't realise she was mutton dressed as lamb. While the investment should set beeb.com back on track, it's worth noting that the site has already had a reputed &#163;17m spent on it by ICL - its original funding partner, which somehow managed to negotiate a contract three years ago that didn't even give it a stake in the venture. At least THL had the foresight to demand a stake.* After more than a year-and-a-half of planning and heaven knows how many millions spent, BT has canned Uprush, its attempt to talk to the youth market. In hindsight, the writing was on the wall three weeks ago when invites were sent out for a glamorous Uprush party - only for the party to be cancelled, forcing the organisers to ring 500 people to let them know. Playing down the closure, BT said Uprush was always going to be a "pilot" and that it now conflicted with its new broadband and mobile strategies - which BT has in fact been planning for years. Not surprisingly, staff are hacked off, blaming BT bosses for taking 16 months to get Uprush off the ground.
America's old media establishment has lately faced a barrage of assaults from new media whippersnappers seeking to     undermine everything it stands for. So far it has managed to hold the upstarts at bay, if only temporarily.After the music     industry's brush with Napster, Hollywood, too, breathed a little easier this month when a US district judge barred Eric     Corley, publisher of underground hackers' magazine and website 2600, from posting software code that unlocks     scrambling on DVD players, enabling movies to be copied and swapped over the internet.But now it is the turn of the US news fraternity to face the nimbler, techno-savvy start-ups, and the battleground has     shifted to mobile phones.Grandees of the news establishment including the New York Times, the Washington Post,     USA Today and CNN have filed a federal suit against a Tel Aviv-based start-up called GoSMS.com, alleging copyright     infringement, false advertising and unfairly competing against the publishers' own internet sites.They are suing GoSMS.com for an undisclosed sum, for taking news from their websites, then reformatting and     transmitting it to Pacific Bell mobile phone users in California, from its San Diego-based website. The content has been     made available to GSM (Global System for Mobiles) enabled phones.According to the suit, filed in New York, GoSMS.com engaged in "the wholesale, unauthorised copying" of original,     copyrighted articles created by the plaintiffs and originally published at their respective websites.      Bruce Keller, attorney for the old media fraternity at Debevoise and Plimpton, believes this is the first copyright     infringement case to be brought in the mobile internet arena."You cannot copy the content of other people's websites.     They are guilty as the day is long under US law," he says.      In an extraordinary show of brazenness, GoSMS.com claims it is "justified to take information for limited-display devices,     considering the limitations."Efraim Rennert, chairman of GoSMS, says he wants the case dismissed on the grounds that     the company does not provide a service, but a technology that enables users to read internet content in any form they     choose, "be it on PCs, PDAs, pagers or mobile phones."      Rennert likens GoSMS.com to an ISP, supplying web access to alternative platforms."We are retrieving it without     copying anything. The content is always dynamic, and we are essentially providing a browser and the ability to     personalise and customise information from a website. We are not using the content."The company's aim is to license     and sell its reformatting technology to cellular phone operators and ISPs, having successfully sold it just last week to     Mobile Solutions AG, a Swiss mobile phone operator. It does not see any need to seek permission from the owners of     any content. The implication is that the need for permission lies elsewhere. No doubt this will also have to be tested in     court in the near future.The case, to be heard in November, highlights tensions both between old and new media players, and between the US     and Europe. With this in mind, GoSMS.com has sites in Dusseldorf and Tel Aviv, and intends to make the same service     available in Europe and the far east, as well as across the US.The outcome is important to content owners, start-ups, venture capitalists and players in the intellectual property     business on both sides of the Atlantic, as it could determine two things: whether content will continue to be provided     free on the internet by the old media players, and how the intrinsic value of new media start-ups will be worked out in     future.As part of its defence, GoSMS.com insists it has "fair use" of the content, as it is not making a profit from it. "Fair use"     refers to the doctrine in international law that permits limited copying for non-profit reasons and personal use if it does     not devalue the original works. As Paul Stevens, intellectual property partner at internet law firm Olswang, points out     "This case will make people more wary and could be a pointer to what might happen over here." He thinks the question     of devaluing the original work is central to the case."The media companies' main grievance will be that GoSMS.com is     piggybacking on their existing service and utilising their goodwill. There is also the implication of some agreement     between the two parties and authorisation to use their content, where there is none."Kim Nicholson, head of the e-commerce team at Olswang, suggests that such an implied alliance could affect the level of     venture capitalists' interest in new media companies."If they lose this case, it goes to the heart of the valuation of their     business. Some VCs make assessments of assets that include strategic agreements. If these strategic relationships are     only implied, leaving the start-up open to trademark infringement, then they will lose interest in such companies."As it stands now, GoSMS.com elicits little sympathy from the industry - old or new. "Some internet businesses seem to     have based their model around exploiting material created and paid for by other people," says Dominic Young,     intellectual property director at News International."As a general principle, I don't think that is defensible or desirable.     The owners of content and brands should be able to control the way in which these assets are used: the law has     acknowledged this principle for years - which is why we have copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws."Caroline Sawyer, business development director at online content aggregator moreover.com, says: "There is a way of     doing this and a way of not doing it. All the WAP/SMS issues are very much up in the air at the moment - that's why you     have got to show sensitivity and be as open as possible."Whatever the outcome, there has been evidence that technology will continue to collide with established media practice     and the laws that protect it. With every facet of media now under assault - the video games industry is being shaken up     as right now by a month-old start-up called Swapoo, doing to Sega and Nintendo what Napster did to Sony Music and     BMG - technology companies will continually chip away until the industry either bends to their will or meets them     halfway, accepting that things have to change.GoSMS.com is providing the ability for users to consume web content in the way they want to, whether old media     companies are ready or not. Of the plaintiffs, only CNN has a mobile phone news service at present. "In cases like this, it     is usually in the interests of both parties not to bring it court," suggests Stevens at Olswang."If the content providers     lose, they will have problems preventing widespread dissemination. If the start-up loses, then its whole business model     fails."
August 28: Americans were given a chance to take part in an online exit poll for a vote that made front-page news last week. Al and George W, the presidential contenders, did not even make the list. Instead, SpeakOut.com offered surfers the chance to vote on whether Richard, Rudy, Kelly or Susan would be the final Survivor of a reality-based TV programme that attracted 51m viewers last Wednesday night.The online vote was a departure for SpeakOut, which was launched in February "to enhance the democratic process by enabling citizens to have a direct impact on the decisions that affect their lives". So much for that. Many will argue that it is too early to judge the impact of new political websites with the elections three months away. Yet indications from the start of the campaign proper are less than exciting.Just a few days after the last Democrat had left the party convention in Los Angeles, some had already decided that the world of entertainment offered far more promise. Who could blame them? Two studies from the Republican convention earlier in the month suggested that voters were not bothering to read much political news online in spite of an estimated 1,000 online journalists filing for about 100 dedicated sites.A report by PC Data Online for Harvard's Joan Shorenstein Centre found that visitor numbers to the top four news websites - MSNBC.com, CNN.com, NYTimes.com and WashingtonPost.com - actually fell 14% during the first convention week.But at least these sites attracted significantly more than 1m visitors during that week. SpeakOut.com and Voter.com, another much-anticipated political website, attracted 146,000 and 120,000 visitors respectively. These figures were roughly confirmed by Media Metrix, the research group which uses a wider database.There was one high-profile exception to this lacklustre turnout. Some 490,000 unique visitors logged on to Vote.com, the website headed by former White House staffer, Dick Morris, during the Republican convention and almost as many did so again while the Democrats were in LA. Michael Cornfield, a research director of the democracy online   project at George Washington University, says that sites which offered a mix of news enjoyed the best traffic during the conventions. He could not tell whether last week's interest came from Al kissing Tipper or the Russian submarine tragedy. "People love news, but not just public affairs news."The problem for most dedicated websites was that political news has not been that interesting for the public. The main TV channels all cut their convention coverage this year and the only complaints so far have come from politicians and other journalists. If Joe Shmoe doesn't care to watch a speech on TV, why would he make the effort to click on a news site to read about it?Jay Stanley, internet policy analyst at Forrester Research, says it is overly optimistic to expect online news sites to bring about instant social change. "It is characteristic of American technological idealism to hope that greater technology is going to solve the declining interest in politics in general," he says. Technical breakdowns and a dearth of differentiated material such as hyper links to source material or high-quality images have provided some internet-specific disappointments, however.On top of this, there was no online story that came close to the Drudge report on that dress. One of the most talked-about side stories of last week's convention was an LA Times report that a member of Rage Against the Machine, the protest rock group, once worked for a politician. Vote.com was the only site which seemed to break out of this rut with a column by Dick Morris on Bill and Hillary that was widely reported, not least for the writer's own feelings towards the First Lady.There have been some real bonuses from the increased online coverage. Search and access facilities improved and many sites attempted real audience participation. Unfortunately, these services were also subject to glitches. C-SPAN.org's search tool, designed to find specific words in key speeches, crashed during the Republican convention, for example. Online political coverage appears to be at the third innings of a nine-innings baseball game, as they say here. The question is: will the game be over in November?The signs so far suggest not. During this time of peace and prosperity, the only party people are really interested in are those being held by Barbra Streisand or attended by Billy Joel. The excess of supply provided by the raft of new sites is unlikely to be met by demand until people are worried about their own jobs or security. Rather than those of strangers on a desert island.jane.martinson@guardian.co.uk
Times are certainly changing. Was it really only a few years back that the internet was primarily the domain of low-end tech-savvy users and the only celebrity endorsements we were privy to were the likes of Nanette Newman touting Fairy liquid? Nowadays, it seems that wherever you look on the web you can't avoid stumbling across famous names endorsing a new website or throwing their weight behind their own new internet venture.The reasons are obvious: most celebrities hanker after any kind of media promotion and if getting involved in an internet venture also manages to give them additional kudos, then that has to be a good thing. The glut of coverage at the start of this year about the fame and   fortune that the internet brings only served to encourage the feelings of dot.com envy, and even though this has been replaced recently by feelings of dot.com disenchantment, the internet is still seen as a future-proof investment strategy.The latest entrant into this territory is Clive James, antipodean journalist-cum-TV presenter. James is not ready to shy away from what, in his words, represents his next big challenge. At a press lunch in London two weeks ago, James touted the wares of Welcome Stranger, an internet start-up aimed at people who travel.Having managed to pull off a fine performance selling his involvement in Welcomestranger.com at the lunch, James then set about telling us that the company needed &#163;500,000 to move the business on to the next stage. Nothing like pulling a   fast one by looking for coverage before the funding is settled, he admitted, upsetting some of the more cynical journalists present.James's involvement with Welcome Stranger, a planned network of sites for travellers in different cities and countries, may be as little more than a figurehead non-exec chairman. But it is a canny move on behalf of the company's founder, Simon Larcey, who is banking on James' name to generate both media and investor interest. In return, James gets a share in the company and the chance to promote his books and himself through the network of sites. Larcey's plan seems to be working. Immediately after announcing James's appointment, several investors got in touch and he is currently pursuing talks with them."It's great working with someone   like Clive," he says, "because it automatically gives Welcome Stranger a profile. However, we still have to prove that we have an attractive business model to potential investors to raise the funding and that's my job."For the past year, Larcey has painstakingly been building the infrastructure for his websites, convincing IT and advertising friends to work for him in exchange for equity stakes. He projects that the business will be in the black within three years via a combination of advertising revenue (beer, job and airline advertisers are proving particularly enthusiastic) and e-commerce revenues.In convincing James to get involved, Larcey has inadvertedly catapulted him into an area increasingly over-populated with famous names: Joanna Lumley (ClickMango.com), Hugh Scully (QXL), Boris Becker (Sportgate), Bob Geldof (Deckchair.com and WapWorld), Jonathan Ross (toyzone.co.uk) and Alex Ferguson (Toptable.co.uk) have also taken stakes in ventures in return for providing publicity.Narda Shirley, managing director of Gnash, a new media PR and marketing consultancy that handles PR work for ClickMango, says: "Celebrity endorsement can be the best or the worst thing to happen to a website depending on your personal perspective. How many 30-plus cyber-savvy new mums can relate to Melinda Messenger? But there's no   doubt that the right celebrity involvement conveys credibility to consumers and helps a company stand out from its competition. What's interesting is how some companies have gone beyond pure personal appearances and endorsements to make the celebrity an integral part of the user experience."For a reputed 2% share of the company, Lumley was not just its figurehead but also worked tirelessly on "road-testing" new health and beauty products. Her efforts were then converted into a weekly newsletter called "Joanna tries out..."Unfortunately for Joanna, being a figurehead for a start-up meant that once cracks began to show, she had to take some of the blame. Most media outlets had a field day, waxing lyrically about how Lumley was dropping out of the net, and how even someone as high-profile and well-liked as her could not sell products. At the time of announcing its impending closure, ClickMango had a reported turnover of just &#163;2,000 a week.Perhaps the overriding image of Lumley as a chain-smoking, alcohol- and drug-abusing wreck in Absolutely Fabulous was too much for people to bear. Or perhaps it was just down to market conditions.But while the company is still holding out for a last-minute reprieve, it is reassuring to know that Lumley is not deserting the sinking ship. She is said to be doing wonders   for staff morale over at ClickMango, but not even someone as famous as Lumley can convince investors to stand by an ailing start-up.Hugh Scully's involvement in QXL is as a little more than a figurehead: he runs the World of Antiques section of the site, which plugs into 22 antiques experts. The site (www.antiques.qxl.com), launched at the start of April, offers QXL members the chance to get their valuables valued at &#163;12 a time.Scully was paid &#163;3m in shares when he signed the deal in October last year, although the bulk could be sold only once the site was launched - and by then QXL's share price had plummeted to less than half its October value. The idea behind Scully's involvement was twofold: to give QXL more credibility in the auctions world and to attract a different, older audience to the website. Whether this will work remains to be seen.James's involvement in Welcome Stranger is slightly less promotional and more at board level, getting involved in quests for funding, attending strategy meetings and piggy-backing its traffic to promote his books.The company, which has already launched aussieinlondon.com, is looking to expand its operations to include kiwiinlondon.com and bokinlondon.com, similar sites for New Zealanders and South Africans - and to offer generic features such as job and accommodation ads and advice on travel and visas.Admitting to taking a stake of less than 10%, James says one of the main attractions was the way in which the web allows him to reach the public directly "without having to fight with the TV networks".Part of the reason dot.com start-ups have been quick to sign up celebrities is that they want to stand out from the crowd. The more crowded the sector you operate in, the more important a well-defined brand becomes, and although Welcome Stranger has an unusual business model, the publicity a famous name gives a new venture is not to be sniffed at.But choosing a celebrity is always a gamble - in the worst-case scenario, your figurehead could do irreparable damage to the brand. "Celebrities can beef up your brand appeal enormously but the challenge is to find one whose public persona and attributes are really firmly entrenched," warns Narda Shirley. With more and more famous names using new media as a promotional vehicle, it's surely just a matter of time before a celebrity's antics kill a dot.com business.James accepts that getting involved in a new media venture is a bit of a gamble, especially in the current climate and having seen Lumley become the scapegoat for the problems over at ClickMango. But, having learnt from his experience in the cutthroat world of TV production, he reckons this one will work: "Celebrities are staking their prestige on these internet ventures. It's too late to play dumb. I wouldn't be in this if I didn't think it would work."On your head be it then, Mr James.
A host of internet news services, including Bloomberg and Marketwatch.com, have become embroiled in an investigation by America's financial watchdog, the securities and exchange commission, after a fake news release caused a collapse in the shares of Californian networking company Emulex on Friday.Investigators have also demanded information from Internet Wire, a public relations news service that inadvertently sent out the release, which claimed that Emulex was about to issue a profits warning and was itself under investigation by the SEC. It also said its chief executive, Paul Folino, had resigned.The hoax was picked up by news organisations and replicated around the web, causing shares in the networking company to fall 60% - wiping &#163;1.5bn off its market value - before trading was halted on Friday morning. Emulex issued its own statement that the release was fictitious and its shares recovered much of their fall once trading resumed after a three-hour delay.Mr Folino described the affair as fraud and said the SEC and the Nasdaq stock exchange would be launching investigations. Weekend reports indicated that the hoaxer had used a password to get through Internet Wire's internal security and convinced the firm's night editors that the release was authorised.Meanwhile, the Chicago Board Options Exchange said it had noticed unusual trading in options over Emulex stock late last week, indicating that speculators were betting on a sharp drop in Emulex's price. It has also opened an investigation.In June an engineer pleaded guilty to posting a false article on an internet site that sent shares in US technology group PairGain sharply higher. Network group Lucent Technologies plunged in March after a fake profits forecast and investigators charged a man after collecting evidence from Yahoo! and America Online.
The BBC is examining plans to build an internet portal to stream its films and programmes down telecom lines on a pay-per-view basis.The move would represent one of the most ambitious attempts by the corporation to develop its commercial operations since the Government charged it with finding   new sources of income at the start of this year.Last weekbeeb.com, the corporation's e-commerce portal, received a &#163;32.5 million cash injection from US venture capital firm TH Lee Global Internet Managers. The deal values beeb.com and its free internet service provider, beeb.net, at &#163;240m. In the coming months the    BBC is to embark on a &#163;7m publicity drive to attract visitors to the two sites. But the corporation also wants to start distributing its vast content via the internet.The BBC has been trying out online video-on-demand services in conjunction with internet firm Yes Television since the start of this year. The deal allows Yes to deliver 600   hours of BBC archive programming over the internet over the next two years. But the corporation is now looking to create its own separate content delivery portal.In an interview in today's  Observer, Rupert Gavin, chief executive of BBC Worldwide, the corporation's commercial arm, said the plans could play an important part in helping   develop future earnings streams. The two portals would cross-promote.Critics charge that the BBC is in danger of becoming too commercial, but Gavin said the extra revenues generated online would be ploughed back into public-sector broadcasting commitments.
If you  thought the internet was just another big boy's toy, offering endless hours of pleasure to nerds in anoraks, think again. The web in Britain is soon to be dominated by women. New research forecasts that the number of female users will exceed the number of male surfers next summer.And there will be millions of them. By the middle of 2001, half of the population will regularly have some internet access, says the Future Foundation think tank.Only five years ago, three times as many men as women were regular surfers, and the total number of users of both genders together represented less than 10 per cent of this country's male population. Women's new internet enthusiasm has shocked analysts.However, the explosion in female internet use has brought disappointment for tens of thousands who thought the net promised a 'cyber-feminist' revolution, linking women across the world to discuss politics and access the  zeitgeist. Instead, the battle for internet equality appears to have been fought almost solely to visit shopping and horoscope sites.Britain's three most high profile websites for women are entirely lifestyle-based.beme.comis typical. This weekend it enables you to catch up on 'gadget gossip', or engage in its latest discussion: 'Bi-curious - any suggestions on how?'.Charlottestreet.comis another big hitter, offering one woman's pregnancy diary or the chance to 'win six months of chocolate'.Onhandbag.comyou can plan how to cook tomorrow's bank holiday lunch, and find   an answer to the tortured dilemma of how to wax your boyfriend's back.'It's gone back to the time when Nike thought marketing to women meant making shoes in pink,' said the foundation's Melanie Howard. 'A lot of internet content providers did exactly that.'Yet only three years ago a cult British book predicted that women's networking and social skills, ideally suited to computer use, would transform their horizons. Sadie Plant, author of the best-selling  Zeros and Ones, said Ada Lovelace, the daughter of Lord Byron, had worked on the 'first computer', basing it on the design of a weaving machine.In the United States, still the promised land of the cyber-friendly, women internet users already outnumber male surfers. But there, too, the content they access is not what people once hoped for from a 'womenweb world'.The most visited US 'women's sites' are pampers.com, avon.com and oilofolay.com. Those established with a commitment to women's issues fail to attract subscribers or advertisers.Women.com, launched in 1993, is typical of the survivors. It promised frank, intelligent information and   discussion to 'sassy' female surfers. But its staff acknowledge that most of its daily hits are now from people wanting sex tips and horoscopes.Editor Judy Coyne said: 'I don't think that necessarily there's been some big change of feminist philosophy over how to put the site together, but as it grows it encompasses a lot more things. A lot of women from different backgrounds and education levels are interested in certain kinds of content.'A string of American businesswomen have left sites they founded with high ideals. Atoxygen.com, started two years ago, women were promised a 'media revolution' on a cable television channel and a host of websites with a hip sensibility. The sites on offer are now largely bought in from TV shows. Last month oxygen editor-in-chief Sarah Bartlett resigned, followed shortly after by five colleagues.'The reason the early days of the web seemed so promising of a feminist publishing revolution was that the choir was singing to itself,' says American internet writer Janelle Brown. 'These days the web is a mass medium. Finding fluff on women's websites is like shooting fish in a barrel. The best way to please shareholders is to pander to the lowest common denominators of celebrities and beauty tips.'The foundation's Howard, however, insists: 'It's still very early days in Britain. There's simply been an over-expectation of what people can achieve.'There's been revulsion that the internet is being trivialised for women. Providers still don't properly understand what women want. In the long term they'll become much more sophisticated.'
Laboured effort of e-governmentShouldn't  the party that would have us communicating with government via the internet be setting an example?  The Observer 's thoughts precisely. Imagine our correspondent's disappointment then, when his request to get accreditation for the party's annual conference electronically was rebuffed. 'We haven't the facilities,' snapped a Millbank clerk. 'You'll have to fax back an application form.' Filled in with a quill dipped in old-fashioned Quink, naturally. E-government? RIP.One for the books&lt;@large is delighted to hear that embattled electronic bookseller,Amazon.comis to salvage itself by becoming the Arthur Daley of the internet. Quite clearly if the similarly troubled Waterstone's bookshop announced that it was about to flog off unsold Rovers, we'd all see the business sense. But dotcoms are different, aren't they? No doubt Amazon will be making use of its famed distribution network to next-day deliver the latest Star Cruiser to America's overworked soccer moms. We look forward to 'people who bought this book, also bought a Ferrari from us' when you try to buy the latest  Harry Potter tome.Pippa on a dippaSo whatever  happened to Pippa Scholes, the cleaning lady turned web music guru whose rags-to-riches story was splashed across front pages back in February? Readers with an interest in tabloid tales might remember that Pippa was offered an astonishing &#163;500,000 cash deal by internet developer Phase 8. In return, Pippa became the creative director of pipstars.com, a 'unique women-only talent centre'. Rumour reaches us that the site would be better described as a 'unique woman-only centre' given the rather underwhelming response to the site.
Computer security is a hot topic. Ask Barclays. Or Halifax. Or Egg. Or any other financial institution which has recently discovered the hazards of online banking.Most such institutions probably suffer more from electronic intruders than they let on, but because they are wary of bad publicity it is only when customers' credit card details are plastered all over the site that the rest of us get to hear about it.By definition, e-businesses have security problems. These arise from a logical connection between two simple propositions: to be in e- business, they have to be on the net; and if they are on the net they are vulnerable to online attack.Some web companies have been almost criminally negligent about security, but most are now very concerned about it. They operate behind 'firewalls' - special servers which stand between their internal networks and the internet - and use strong encryption for confidential   data. These prevent company employees from accessing a computer without a password.Which is all very well but often useless because it ignores another simple fact, that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. A chief executive who feels secure because his company operates behind a firewall and uses strong encryption is like a householder who fits unpickable locks on his front door and then declares that the house is safe from burglars, while at the same time failing to notice that all the windows are wide open.I once ran a workshop for a group of software engineers employed on a big programming project at a nuclear installation. They told me of a competition they had run to   see who could get into the site with the daftest imitation of a security pass. The guy who won flashed a box of John West sardines at a gatekeeper and was nodded past.The weakest links in most companies' security chains are their employees. This is not because they are venal, but because busy humans find it irksome to adhere to the procedures required for maintaining security. Ideally, employees should change their passwords every two weeks or so. Most, however, cannot be bothered - and even when prompted usually choose another banal, easy-to-guess variation on the usual themes (name of spouse or child, car registration, telephone number, etc.)Similarly, tight security dictates that users should keep their passwords secret. Yet I have lost count of the number of times I have passed someone's computer and noticed a Post-It note containing its user's password stuck to the side. And there was an interesting story recently about how discarded   office computers are regularly disposed of without having their hard disks wiped of gigabytes of confidential and commercially sensitive data.I was brooding about this when someone sent me a new book by Bruce Schneier,a leading expert on security. Years ago he wrote a book on applied cryptography. In it he described a 'mathematical utopia: algorithms that would keep your deepest secrets safe for millennia, protocols that could perform the most fantastical electronic interactions - unregulated gambling, undetectable authentication, anonymous cash - safely and securely'.In a famous comment, he went on to say: 'It is insufficient to protect ourselves with laws; we need to protect ourselves with mathematics.'Schneier's book had a tremendous impact in its day, persuading its readers 'that cryptography was a kind of magic security dust that they could sprinkle over their software and make it secure'.No longer. 'The error of  Applied Cryptography ,' says a rueful Schneier in the preface to his new book, 'is that I didn't talk at all about the context. I talked about cryptography as if it were The Answer. I was pretty na&iuml;ve.'Well, at least he's honest.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
There  is a rumour doing the rounds that any company receiving a ringing endorsement from Tony Blair will soon be forced to make a declaration to the Stock Exchange.Blair's desire to be associated with anything of a technological bent is starting to have a profoundly negative effect upon those companies on which he confers his blessing.First, the rather unloved software company Dialog - recipient of a much-paraded (parodied) supportive missive from dotTony - suffered such ignominy in the market that it had to change its name to Bright Station. Now Alta Vista is the pariah of the internet sector.The Prime Minister rightly acknowledged the significance of the US firm's decision to become the first internet service provider to offer UK users an unmetered surfing package. The joy of unmetered access, the argument runs, is that users feel free to spend far longer online than when paying by the minute. Bingo, an e-business explosion.Now, of course, it is a question of hasta la vista Alta Vista. The company was unable to deliver on its promises and last week was humiliatingly forced to pull the service. The damage to its credibility is profound. Whether users will ever take   it seriously again is open to question.Not surprisingly, BT's director of regulatory affairs, Ian Morfett, was quick to plunge the knife, describing AltaVista as a victim of its 'ill-considered marketing hype'.This is certainly true. AltaVista had learnt the lesson of Freeserve, the first ISP to drop upfront charges and which, subsequently, through 'first mover' advantage, came to dominate the UK consumer internet sector. Blimey, AltaVista thought, it's obvious that getting in first is the way ahead by offering unmetered access.The omens for offering an unlimited package were good. Earlier this year AltaVista had got wind of an Oftel ruling that would force BT to offer wholesale unmetered packages to ISPs.AltaVista figured it could start to offer unmetered access, take a hit to build market share, and wait for the cavalry to arrive in the form of the Oftel ruling. AltaVista figured wrong.Flat rate internet access call origination (the whizzily acronymed friaco, copyright: a lawyer at AOL) was not the great solution the UK's telecoms and internet companies had been hoping for at all. It was not even unmetered. Instead it was a hybrid - and a very ugly one to boot.Yes, BT offered unmetered packages which covered the   bit of copper wire linking your home to the local exchange.But, um, crucially, friaco didn't compel BT to offer an unmetered package between the local and regional exchanges. Somewhere in the Oftel ruling there was a vague suggestion that it would be a nice idea if BT was 'so minded' to offer a full unmetered package. BT, it turned out, was not so minded in any way, shape or form to share its toys with the other children.Maybe BT asked: why should it make things easy for the competition? It could offer its own unmetered package and steal a lead. And, lets face it, with the former monopoly on the ropes and serious doubts hanging over the future of its chief executive, Sir Peter Bonfield, BT needs to be as obstinate as possible at the moment.But it has meant that all the ISPs salivating at offering unmetered packages soon realised they couldn't sustain the business model and had to pull them. Now the industry is in turmoil.This wouldn't have happened in France and it wouldn't have happened in Germany. The UK internet sector is now in serious danger of losing the e-business race, thanks to BT's intransigence and Oftel's woolly ruling. BT has quietly started offering a proper friaco package to US telecom giant Worldcom, although the suggestion in the industry is that, bizarrely, Worldcom still doesn't know how much this is going to cost.So much for business at internet speed.
If content is king of the internet, Auntie BBC might be forgiven for thinking she is its queen by divine right. Look at the way online behemoths are hopping into bed with the biggest content providers, eagerly anticipating the fruits of broadband technology transforming the potential of the world wide web. AOL-Time Warner, Time Warner-EMI, Seagram- Vivendi... it's time to take your partners.There will be more such partnerships as internet firms realise that if they fail to persuade users to tune in regularly they have no unique selling point. And amid all this, the BBC stands out as a content giant.A survey by the promotion group British Trade International claimed the BBC was Britain's most successful export - ahead of the Beatles, Shakespeare and the royal family. So the potential for using the net as a new delivery system for the corporation's wealth of content, allowing it tap into new audiences prepared to pay to watch  The Good Life on demand, to whom it can then sell things and build advertising revenues, is huge .The stress on content could end the reign of telecom firms as wonder stocks, and put media companies on top. This is a transformation not lost on Rupert Gavin, ex-head of BT and now chief executive of   BBC Worldwide, the corporation's commercial arm, which is charged with earning Auntie &#163;200 million a year by 2006.'In the mid-Nineties, the revenue driver was the communication connection. That was where the money was, and everyone was giving away their content for free. But the communication cost is being marginalised and the differentiation is going to be content,' says Gavin.'It is a concept of people paying in some way, be it subscription or pay-per-use or micro payment. That's where value will be added.Only, of course, it's not as simple as that for the corporation. Its funding through the licence fee means Auntie needs to be careful about how she uses the net to make money. She can't simply build a few websites and start charging everyone for access.But she can divide up her internet activities so that the BBC keeps to its public service commitment by offering content to all, with a separate division dreaming up e-commerce wheezes.Three years ago, even before setting up its BBC Online portal, the corporation started experimenting with how the internet could help swell the coffers of BBC Worldwide which would use the cash to generate new programming for all. The result was beeb.com, originally set up with computer firm ICL.This year Auntie started lavishing more attention on beeb.com, bringing in new staff to overhaul the site. It became a fully fledged e-commerce portal drawing on the strengths of some of Auntie's best programme and magazine brands - including  Top of the  Pops, Top Gear, Gardeners' World and  Holiday .Already one of the top 10 e-commerce sites in the UK, according to research by analysts at consultancy MMXI Europe, beeb.com's success lies in the quality of its content which draws in punters in their thousands and then offers them the chance buy BBC-licensed products ( Walking With Dinosaurs chocolate   egg, anyone?) and the ability to click through to partner e-commerce sites. For this beeb.com takes a cut.Last week, in a sign of how seriously Auntie is committed to developing its e-commerce potential, the corporation did what would recently have been unthinkable. It announced a deal with a venture-capital firm, and an American one to boot.TH Lee Global Internet Managers is to plough &#163;32.5m into beeb.com and its free internet service provider cousin, beeb.net. This gives the US firm a 13 per cent stake in a business now valued at &#163;240m. This might not seem too high considering some dotcom valuations but, given the fact that beeb.com generated revenues of only about &#163;2m last year, Gavin admits it still puts the business on a 'pretty stratospheric rating'.He says UK venture-capital firms were interested in coming in on the deal, but Lee got the nod because of its experience in investing in content-rich internet firms.The aim is for the two businesses to become 'nicely profitable' in between three and four years. Lee is committed for 'up to five years', and has 'not yet specified which exit   strategy' it favours for eventually recouping its investment. A partial flotation is the most obvious solution, but how this would work has yet to be thrashed out.What is clear, though, is that Lee's investment will help the BBC do more than turn beeb.com into a sort of Amazon.com for fans of Tinky Winky and Jeremy Clarkson.The really interesting thing   is how the cash will be used to help fund the distribution of BBC content over the net. The BBC has been trialling delivery of video on demand (VOD) in this way since last spring. Now it is looking at developing a separately branded site from beeb.com, from which users will be able to download films and programmes, allowing them to watch TV when and how they want, if they pay.'We haven't yet made the decision as to whether we   construct our own VOD portal. But it would almost certainly be a different portal to beeb.com, which is all about e-commerce. That said the two portals would relate to each other,' Gavin said.However, he argues that what he describes as 'fuzzy media' is the real key to the BBC's online future. By this he means that the way the net, once broadband is rolled out, will allow for true user   interaction via both video and text.So a typical scenario would see a user clicking on a language portal, watching a programme on how to speak French and then being able to pay to download a special course. Quizzes are another obvious area to be explored in this way. Soon we could all be  Mastermind .And as for soaps, well if some of the trials now going on are successful we could be downloading all the week's    episodes of  EastEnders  in one go on any day we choose. But only, of course, if we were the prepared to pay.'The fact that one individual chooses the time and methodology to access our content is not something the great mass of licence fee payers should be forced to subsidise,' Gavin said. And the beauty is that such highly rated content, not to mention e-commerce applications, has a global reach. Think of all those dollars.But it is clear in all of this that delineation is of fundamental importance. If UK online users are not aware which part of BBC cyberspace they are in - the commercial or the public service arenas - the damage to the corporation's brand will be tremendous. Managing this sensitively will be Auntie's key to success.She knows, however, that she can't hide from her online commitments, chiefly because they offer it one of the strongest revenue streams for the future - money to help pay for its public-service programmes.As Gavin said: 'The BBC is a content company. It's not for us to lecture consumers on how they should want to consume their media.'
Ford Motor Company yesterday joined some 4,200 American car dealers to launchFordDirect.com, an online car sales company which will compete against independent websites in the US.The joint venture with the Ford Dealer Council, a trade body for dealers in the world's second largest car manufacturer, will allow buyers to order a customised car or truck and arrange delivery. The buyer will be referred to a local dealer for final delivery and customer service.Wall Street analysts said the move reflected the difficulties facing websites as laws in most   US states insist final referrals on car sales go to local dealers.One US analyst, who refused to be named, said FordDirect.com was a way for dealers themselves to "keep up with the times" after initially seeing online sales as a threat."It would be much more efficient to just bypass the middleman but it can't be done in this country," he said.The new company, with an independent board of directors, will be jointly owned by the dealers and Ford, although the dealers will retain control.Jerry Reynolds, chairman of the national Ford Dealer Council, called the deal "unprecedented" as it represented "the first instance of a Fortune   500 company and its distribution channel joining forces to create an independent internet company".GM, the world's largest car manufacturer, has expressed an interest in setting up a similar company.It was unclear whether the website, which will start selling cars in California next month, will offer price comparisons with other manufacturers.One attraction of independent sites, such as Carpoint and Authobytel, is their claim to feature a wide range of goods. Amazon.com announced earlier this week that it plans to offer cars and trucks on its website.
The home secretary, Jack Straw, has agreed to delay new rules governing the right of employers to monitor their employees' personal emails in the face of widespread criticism of the legislation by business leaders.Ministers had previously insisted that the controversial Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which will govern all email and telephone surveillance, must be in place before the Human Rights Act comes into force on October 2.The proposed regulations require all public authorities and private companies to get the consent of both the sender and the receiver of emails, voice mails and other messages before they conduct any monitoring, with only a handful of specific exceptions.However, business groups have warned that these constraints on business monitoring of emails could leave firms vulnerable to legal action by employees claiming their right to privacy had been breached. This in turn could force firms to avoid such risks by banning their staff from sending any personal emails.The existing rules for in-house company surveillance have already been successfully challenged in the European Court of Human Rights.Ministers hope the new law will avoid a spate of similar challenges against government departments and other public sector employers under the new human rights legislation.Although the business surveillance law has already received royal assent, the Department of Trade and Industry has agreed to extend the consultation period on the proposed surveillance rules, which had been due to end yesterday, by a further three weeks following criticism from businesss organisations.The rules will now come into force on October 24, when an EU directive concerning email privacy also comes into force.Yesterday the Alliance for Electronic Business (AEB), which includes the Confederation of British Industry, issued a response to the DTI's consultation paper condemning the rules as "totally impractical and indeed impossible" to comply with.The AEB called on the government to introduce entirely new rules which would allow companies the right to blanket monitor all employees without consent, except in "specifically excluded" cases.This proposal was condemned by the Trade Unions Congress and civil liberty campaigners as "completely unacceptable".A spokesman for the Home Office said public sector employers, who have a direct duty to abide by the Human Rights Act, had already been advised of the risk of a human rights challenge.
Goldman Sachs, the US investment bank, has slipped to sixth place in the tables for advising US technology companies on takeovers this year.Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First Boston, which have both invested heavily in their technology banking teams, hold the leading positions for deals in the technology and internet sectors announced since the beginning of this year, according to figures compiled by Thomson Financial Securities Data.Goldman, top in the technology sector last year, has been overtaken in the first seven months of this year after failing to cash in on recent big deals.These include the $41bn merger of JDS Uniphase and SDL as well as the multi-billion dollar mergers of Verisign with Network Solutions and Lycos with Terra Networks.Goldman, which listed on the US stock market last year, has two reasons to take heart   from this year's figures, however. One is that the total value of deals in the technology sector - at more than $262bn so far this year - is lower than at the same time last year - a bumper one. Goldman has also held its top ranking overall for mergers and acquisitions advice, largely because of a strong performance in advising telecommunications companies.If telecoms deals such as the Deutsche Telekom's $50bn bid for Voicesteam or France Telecom's takeover of Global One   are included in the technology group, Goldman has advised on deals worth $140bn in the year to date, benefiting from its involvement in America Online's takeover of Time Warner and Vivendi's takeover of Seagram this year.However, Thomson Financial's figures confirm Morgan Stanley and CSFB as the banks of choice for software and internet companies. Morgan Stanley advised on 45 mergers worth more than $73bn in the technology sector, excluding   telecoms. Goldman advised 32 deals worth $47bn in the same year-to-date period.CSFB, which lured Frank Quattrone from Deutsche Bank two years ago in an effort to win technology deals, came second to Morgan Stanley for all technology mergers but advised on more pure internet deals. The bank's technology team advised on 24 internet-based deals worth $62bn.Chase, the commercial banking group, has seen last year's acquisition of Hambrecht and   Quist, the investment banking boutique pay off by jumping from 12th place to third in the internet investment banking tables compiled by the research group.The number of announced transactions slipped about 12%, to just over 5,000, from more than 5,660 deals in the year-earlier period. However, the AOL/Time Warner deal pushed the value up 5% to more than $894bn. Without this blockbuster deal, M&amp;A volume fell 23%.
With just a week or so left before schools go back, a family outing to the British Museum may be a little impractical. Not to worry; let the museum come to you in the guise of its all-new Compass website, an online introduction and archive of 1,500 objects stored within the hallowed vaults, anterooms and alcoves. Take the ancient Egyptian tour or browse its Family Toys and Games section, where you can discover just how and where those household pastimes such as playing cards or outdoor pursuits such as kite flying hail from (both originated in imperial China). The site doubles as an excellent research tool, with information on each item compiled by the museum's able curators. Take the tour atwww.thebritishmuseum.ac.uk/compass.Not so much for the armchair scholar but the armchair party animal, thewww.nottinghillcarnival.net.uksite allows those unable to get to   London this bank holiday weekend   a virtual tour of Britain's biggest street festival. Simply sit back, pull open a can of Red Stripe and chill: check out the events and negotiate the online map, visit the vibrant sound systems and colourful floats all courtesy of the festival's network of webcams   and broadcasts.If you are buying something more than a can of beer, then check outhttp://dooyoo.co.uk, a library of opinions on 10,000 products and   services from the consumers themselves, or rather registered dooyoo members who receive "dooyoo miles" for every opinion written and read.   For 1,000 miles (or four opinions)   you earn £1.
The government has dropped its attempt to rush through email snooping laws ahead of the European court's introduction of the Human Rights Act, amid strong industry criticism.The Home Office had wanted the rules affecting email and phone surveillance by employers, under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, to come into force before October 2, when the European court's law comes into effect.The existing surveillance regime has already been successfully challenged in the European court of human rights and Jack Straw, the home secretary, is keen to avoid similar embarrassments under the court's landmark new rights act.But industry has strongly criticised the proposed rules on business monitoring of emails. The Alliance for Electronic Business, which includes the Confederation of British Industry has condemned the government's approach as "totally impractical and indeed impossible" to comply with. The alliance said the rules would "deny businessmen day-to-day access to their own correspondence when conducted electronically by means of email or voice mail".Under pressure from industry, the government has agreed to a three-week extension to the consultation period on the proposed rules, due to end today. "Industry asked for more time to consult and we have been at pains to involve industry in the process," a Home Office official said.The proposed rules require companies to obtain the consent of both the sender and receiver of emails, voice mails and other messages for any monitoring. Industry wants the government to reverse the whole thrust of the proposals to allow the blanket monitoring of employees without consent. Civil liberty campaigners and unions consider that approach to be unacceptable.Useful linksThe alliance for electronic business
Football pools operator Zetters yesterday entered the burgeoning spread betting market by agreeing a &#163;20.4m reverse takeover of a US firm that specialises in making markets on financial products.Zetters said it was buying US-based IFX for cash and shares and planned to target largely untapped spread-betting markets in Italy, France, Germany and Turkey.Spread betting is one of the fastest growing forms of 
 gambling and allows punters to bet a range of subjects including share price movements, football scores and political election results. British firms City Index, Financial Spreads and IG Index have all grown to meet demand in recent years, with the latter valued at around &#163;145m when it floated on the stock market last month.IFX was set up five years ago by Graham Wellesley, a descendent of the Duke of Wellington, and specialises in 
 contracts for difference and spread bets on equity prices.Zetters chairman Tony Wollenberg, one of the original founders of City Index, says IFX will hasten Zetters move away from its traditional and declining business of football pools and into a growth area of online betting."IFX has technology that we will be able to adapt to a number of different types of gambling, a proven profits record and strong management," he said.
&#149; Alliance Music promoter Vince Power's website,Meanfiddler.comsaid yesterday it would link up with Amazon.co.uk to sell its CDs and other related music products online. Meanfiddler said the deal would further consolidate its presence on the web and would help drive revenues in the first year of trading.&#149; New chip Bill Gates'Microsofthas designed a powerful new chip to run its WebTV interactive television service as it races for a head start in the sector, a source said yesterday. The chip, called Solo2, is the latest in a string of special processors designed by the WebTV team to combine internet browsing, interactive TV and video recording on a television.
A couple yesterday shared their London register office wedding ceremony with relatives and friends around the world, by means of the internet.In a first for the registry at Brent town hall in north London, Ravi Ram, 38, and Mamta Patel, 24, paid &#163;37.50 for a 15-minute ceremony that was viewed via the internet by Mr Ram's sister, Doorga, a student in Mauritius. And Miss Patel said friends in the US were also watching online. "It was nice for people who could not get here," she said.The couple, who had 30 conventional guests, will also have a Hindu wedding in Wembley at the weekend. They are both from Harrow, and met while working at a private residential home.Brent's chief registrar, Mark Rimmer, who conducted the ceremony, said: "I expect this will be extremely popular, particularly as it will be at no cost to the couple."Whenever a couple ask, the register office's webcam will be switched on; anyone can log on to future weddings atThe brent council websiteStaff and agencies
Nintendo yesterday became the last of Japan's big game machine makers to enter the competitive market for next-generation consoles by revealing it would start selling Gamecube in Japan next July.The company also announced its new 32-bit hand-held Gameboy Advance, which analysts said would maintain Nintendo's dominance in that market but which will hit the shops later than they and software makers had expected.Both machines will be internet capable and Nintendo said it would sell an adapter to link the original Gameboy and Gameboy Advance with mobile phones, enabling users to exchange email and play games online.In the first month, Nintendo aims to ship 1m units of Gameboy Advance, which is a similar size to the original eight-bit version but with a 50% bigger screen, and will release 10 games when it launches.
English football fans are to be offered a customised online browser under an agreement to be announced today between planetfootball.com and US technology group EMT.Leeds and Southampton will be the first clubs to offer the new product, which will be distributed online or via a CD-Rom given away at matches and rolled out later this year.Using technology provided by EMT, fans will be able to surf the web on a screen surrounded by their club's logo and related information. EMT, planetfootball.com and the teams will share the revenues.Manchester City and Sunderland have also signed tentative agreements to offer the browser.
The first wedding in England and Wales to be broadcast on the internet from a council register office was held this morning at Brent Town Hall, north-west London.Brent Council installed a web cam in its register office, allowing a potential global audience of millions to log on as Ravi Ram and his girlfriend Mamta Patel take their vows.From now on, the council plans to allow all weddings in the borough's register office to be broadcast online at no extra cost."The idea is that if your family are abroad or cannot get to the ceremony they can see the wedding take place," said Pascoe Sawyers.Mr Sawyers said the cost to council taxpayers will be minimal. "We have all the facilities set up - it is just the cost of a camera," he said.About 30 non-virtual guests will attend the wedding of Ravi Ram, a psychiatric nurse from Harrow, north west London, and his girlfriend of three years Mamta Patel, 24, assistant manager at a residential home.However, dozens more friends and family will be logging on to watch the event from Mr Ram's homeland of Mauritius. His sister, Doorga, a social work student, will watch the wedding in cyberspace from the University of   Mauritius.Mr Ram said: "Doorga is still studying, so she couldn't make it to the wedding - the web cam is the perfect way for her to be part of the  ceremony.Miss Patel however said her family in Gujarat, India, would not be able to take advantage of the on-line ceremony.She said: "I've got a lot of uncles, aunts and cousins in Gujarat but they are all in tiny little villages."But I've got friends abroad, especially in the US, who will be watching the wedding on the net."The couple's wedding ceremony comes before a full traditional Hindu wedding in Wembley at the weekend with more than 300 guestsThe Chief Registrar for Brent Council, Mark Rimmer, said the idea had come from a New Zealand couple: "This couple wanted to let their families back home in New Zealand  watch their ceremony and share their special day."At the time we didn't have web cam facilities and instead they ended up ringing home on three or four mobile phones which let the people back home listen to the marriage ceremony."For the time being the images are still pictures, updated every 15 seconds, which are immediately transferred to theBrent Council website.Mr Rimmer said: "At the moment it broadcasts still pictures which are refreshed about every 15 seconds, but we are looking to set it up so it will be broadcast live as it happens - with sound and everything.
The battle for control of internet incubator Enterprise Asia turned nasty yesterday when the directors of the company circulated a note to shareholders which painted a damning picture of their predator's track record.Construction entrepreneur Stephen Dean, a 21% shareholder in Enterprise through his building firm Artisan, is   demanding a shake-up at the company and wants to join the board. However, he is described in the report by Enterprise as having "a history of disregard for independent shareholders' rights".Enterprise said allegations that it had used private investigators to compile the report were "rubbish" but admitted it had hired a business analyst to trawl over Mr Dean's career.Mr Dean was refusing to   comment last night. However a spokesman said that he will be issuing a statement shortly. He believes Enterprise should use its cash pile to invest in established UK net ventures rather than firms in the Far East.Enterprise's directors allege that Mr Dean has been a director of a company that bore his name and went into receivership, and that Mr Dean was "obliged in June 1997 to   admit to a number of breaches of law" while a director of Dean Corporation. They document other instances where they allege he did not have the interest of independent shareholders at heart.An extraordinary general meeting will be held on September 20 when shareholders will be asked to vote against Mr Dean's proposal to oust two members of the board and replace them with three representatives (including himself) from Artisan. A statement from the board yesterday said: "The effect of these resolutions would be to give control of your company to a minority shareholder, Artisan, which is not prepared to make any offer for your shares."Earlier in the year Mr Dean had suggested to the board of Enterprise Asia that it merge with VoyagerIT.com, a company of which he is chairman   and a shareholder. The board rejected the plan as unnecessary to the company's future but invited him to put "serious" business suggestions.Phill Brown, a director of Enterprise Asia, said last night: "The only conclusion we can draw from Mr Dean's refusal to take up any of our offers to demonstrate a genuine interest in the strategic direction of the company is that he wants to grab the cash and run."
The Chinese government should not have felt threatened by the New Culture Forum website - shut down earlier this month by State Security for its "reactionary content."New Culture, based in Shandong province, argued mildly that Chinese political debate should move towards a new "win-win" consensus. It is inspired by an old-style radical from the early 1980s, who believes in "dialogue not confrontation".In four months it registered just over 2,200 hits - hardly the stuff of revolution. But from Beijing's perspective, even one independent website may sow dragon's teeth of discontent across the country unless scotched promptly.New Culture was launched in April on the China-based news magazine atwww.163.net. When the censors moved in on 163.net, it re-registered on web hostMillion Internet Company. The Shandong group managed the site from commercial internet cafes across China to avoid detection.They used the false name of Xin Wenming, identical in sound to the Chinese characters for New Culture. In a statement after it was closed down, "Mr Xin" apologised "for using dishonest means", but said it was justified because of the Chinese government's repression.The site has now been moved from the mainland to the US-basedHuman Rights In China (HRIC) website.Huang Qi, the author of another offending site, was less fortunate than the anonymous Mr Xin. He was arrested in June after his bul letin board for missing people in China began to carry discussion on democracy and human rights. It, too, can now be found (in Chinese) on the HRIC site.Beijing may have taken time to wake up to the internet revolution, but it is not underestimating it now. A few days after New Culture was shut down, the Communist Party deployed its most powerful propaganda voice, the People's Daily newspaper, to warn 60 million members to take the web seriously.This strong language reveals the extent of Beijing's concern - which seems to stem from the personal interest of Chinese president and party boss Jiang Zemin himself.The People's Daily commentary described the world-wide internet revolution as "great, rapid and extensive" (da-kuai-guang) - adjectives once used to hail China's Great Leap Forward (1958-60). The opportunity it offered for media management and propaganda, it continued, was a "new phenomenon" (xin shiwu) - the term once used to described the alleged achievements of the Cultural Revolution (1966-76).The thrust of the argument was almost military in style. The internet, said the People's Daily, has become a new arena for struggle between the "correct propaganda" of the government and the   "reactionary, superstitious and pornographic" content of China's enemies.Party authorities all over China should form crack units of web fighters who understand politics and news management, and have a good command of foreign languages, to wage battle with the enemy "at home and abroad".No one can accuse the inheritors of the Chinese revolution of underestimating the power of the internet revolution. They share Bill Clinton's fervent belief, openly expressed on his summit in Beijing two years ago, that the web will be the harbinger of Chinese democracy. The only difference is that they want to stop it happening.Is the internet really such a potent force in China, and if so, can it be exploited, by either side, for a political purpose? The argument is still open. The latest estimate by the official China internet Network Information Center shows the number of users at 16.9 million in June his year - about the same number as in South Korea with a population one-twentieth of China's size.The real figure to watch is the rate of growth, which the Center calculates at just under 90% in the first six months of this year. This may not continue at the same rate: the high cost of access may be as important a limitation as the ability to purchase the hardware. Yet it would be unwise - and contrary to experience elsewhere in the world - to make projections too low for the future. With the Chinese media now devoting significant space to internet news, access to the web is already a major status   symbol for China's fast- growing urban middle class.The latest government regulations are as much directed against pornography and false advertising (especially in the medical field) as against political non-conformity. But they also seek to limit - indeed to outlaw - the dissemination of unauthorised news, whether from home or abroad. All providers must now obtain a certificate from the Ministry of Information Industry before "releasing information" on a website. Beijing has also boosted the promotion of nine official news websites operated by national news organisations such as the People's Daily.The latest government move will accentuate a trend already noticeable among Chinese commercial sites away from news towards entertainment and lifestyle, consumer affairs and e-commerce.Some of the lifestyle sites tackle gender and sex issues with a frankness which would finish off the last remaining Party veterans if they knew how to click on a icon. Gaogenxie.com, one of several new sites which says it targets the "modern Chinese woman", has a Q &amp; A folder on sexual problems which leaves nothing unsaid.The star letter on the current site, which needs special software to be accessed, is from a newly married woman whose husband is so shy about the size of his penis that he gets undressed in the dark. Gaogenxie (the site name means "high heel shoes") offers advice on how to make him feel better in bed.The Shanghai-based Etang.com, also a newcomer, has chosen as its target the Yellow Generation - defined as China's young and emerging middle-class aged 18-35. The term, registered as a trade mark, is intended to contrast with the rather older Red Generation, who grew up in the Maoist 1960s and 1970s. Etang offers advice on house buying, male fashion and job hunting.E-commerce is the vogue word for many of these new sites but, in a country with virtually no mechanism for credit card payment, it is unlikely to be their salvation. China now has 9,000 commercial websites, of which 2,000 are pure dot.coms: a severe shake-out is expected as the dot.com bubble bursts.Because of official hesitation, Chinese hi-tech companies only made their debut on Nasdaq earlier this year and it has been a dismal one. Of the four leading   companies which launched their shares -http://Sina.com,http://China.com,http://Netease.comandhttp://Sohu.com- only Sina.com is still ahead of the game.Is China's current enthusiasm for the internet just another "fever" - the latest in a succession over the   past 20 years since the Chinese lost faith in socialism?It has some of the lavish and short-sighted characteristics of the "market fever" of recent years. Many Chinese dot.com companies have formed large employee teams, rented office space in prestigious sites, and spent freely on salaries and perks.The shake-out has already started as dot.com sites run out of cash: China's own venture capitalists have only invested a minute sum - about 100 million renminbi (&#163;8 million) - in online firms."A cloud of religion has been hanging over China's internet development," says an article in the Beijing-based China Daily. "Yahoo and Amazon are the totems, and the Nasdaq is the Mecca."The China Daily criticises the illusion that China can "catch up" with the West via rapid expansion of the internet, comparing it with the disastrous campaign in the late 1950s to "catch up" with the US and Britain by boosting China's iron and steel production to unrealistic heights.There is indeed an air of illusion about the official campaign to encourage every Chinese province - particularly the poorer ones in the   west - to invest in web infrastructure as if it were a passport to development.Provincial Party bosses now boast about their ability to offer instant internet access for foreign business visitors and entrepreneurs. It has almost become another target to over-achieve. Yet even if there is a dot.com slump the internet revolution is not going to come to a halt.Much more substantial investment is taking place in less volatile hi-tech industries producing hardware and software. Beijing's own Silicon Valley at the Zhongguancun Science and Technology Park continues to expand, and Shanghai has begun to take off.A significant reverse brain drain of Chinese ex-students returning home is helping to supply the industries with new talent. "The future lies with you," Chairman Mao once told the revolutionary youth of China.Today the revolution may be on-screen rather than on the streets and it will have - as Mao also said - its "twists and turns". But in spite of the web-police the Communist Party will find it harder year by year to contain.&#149;  Download Chinese fonts fromhttp://chinese.yahoo.com/docs/info/setup.html
Take AIMAimster is a new Napster-like program that exploits America Online's instant messaging protocol to enable users to carry on swapping    MP3 music files in defiance of the wishes of major music publishers. It attaches itself to AIM and enables users to swap files - music, videos, images and so on - with people who are on the host's 'buddy list'. IfGnutellais installed, it can also connect to computers on the Gnutella network. Seewww.aimster.com.Peer groupMany people believe that peer-to-peer (P2P) systems are going to be very important to the future of the internet: see, for example,    Clay Shirky's excellent piece on Freedom, One Song At A Time ATwww.nytimes.com/00/07/15/oped/15shir.html.    Programmer Dan Bricklin, co-inventor of the spreadsheet, has also commented atwww.bricklin.com/p2p.htm.Brainy BritneyBritney Spears has, perhaps unexpectedly, turned out to be a master of semiconductor physics - or so it appears from one of her many fan sites. Britney's Guide to Semiconductor Physics can be found athttp://britneyspears.ac/lasers.htmwith thanks toNeed To Knowfor publicising this link. This is much more interesting than whether the pop songstress has had breast implantswww.bsrumor.8m.com.Write stuffTrace, the online writing group, is holding a second competition for new media writing with a prize of &#163;1,000. The deadline is September 30, and entries will be judged by Shelley Jacksonwww.ineradicablestain.com, the author of Patchwork Girl, a feminist reworking of Frankenstein. Last year's competition was won jointly byJenny Weight's RiceandThe Unknown, by William Gillespie, Scott Rettberg and Dirk Stratton.Going for goldThe Olympics are less than a month away, and theOfficial Sydney 2000 websiteis being joined by huge media sites run by TV networks.BBC Sporthas just launched its offering, to compete with US giantsCNN SI,CBS,NBCandFox Sports.Infopleaseis providing a less frenetic independent offering. IBM is again running aFanmail websitethat enables visitors to send email to athletes, and provides space where athletes can build their own home pages.Short circuitA three-minute movie has shot to the top of the chart atiFilmand more than 1.5 million people have now watched it. It is called 405 and it is a home-made production, although it has been produced by two professionals, Bruce Branit and Jeremy Hunt. The full story is on the iFilm site, which offers 405 in a variety of formats plus a special article on the background to the film atwww.ifilm.com/ifilm/skeletons/film_detail/0,1263,204155,00.html. However, UK users are better off downloading the film from the405 siteand watch it in Windows Media format with the DivX ;-) codec.Breen thereEddie Breen is the brushname of an artist who buys paintings at charity shops and overpaints them with more vibrant content, then sells them on the eBay auction site. But Eddie could soon attract many more fans. His weblog atwww.eddiebreen.comshows how anybody can now produce a weblog withBlogger, Manilawww.editthispage.com, and GrokSoupwww.groksoup.com.Dot to dotQuickdot is a sort of ad-hoc online conferencing system that works like instant messaging. In other words, you send messages to a Quickdot page or dotboard where your dotbuddies can read them. One advantage is that you do not all need to be online at the same time. The Quickdot site navigation is not obvious, so start atwww.quickdot.com/help.New and notedThe name and shame idea can also be applied to companies that don't pay their bills: or that's what Solpre reckons. It plans to post names atwww.solpre.comin exchange for a small fee of &#163;4.50 to &#163;11, depending on volume. The Department for Education is offering minimal financial help to students via itsHigher Education Student Support Home Page. If you need a fishing licence, you will soon be able to get one online atwww.fishinglicence.co.uk.Six of the bestWeb logsDave Winerwww.scripting.comStating The Obviouswww.theobvious.comRobot Wisdomwww.robotwisdom.comTomalak's Realmwww.tomalak.orgDan Bricklinhttp://danbricklin.com/logMore like thiswww.eatonweb.com/portal
On a warm Irish evening, flat-screened computer monitors glow bluely and strange electronic noises blend with the bark of conversation on the top floor of an old brick warehouse, once part of the Guinness brewery. The remodelled building, now all-glass skylights, exposed brick and freshly sanded wood, is the new home of Media Lab Europe, the Dublin-based independent arm of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's famously eclectic Media Lab.The Irish digerati sipped wine - no Guinness was served - as Irish prime minister Bertie Ahern drifted by, Media Lab and MLE director Nicholas Negroponte at his elbow. MIT artificial intelligence pioneer Marvin Minsky chatted to clusters of the Irish research students who, unlike many of the industry invitees, knew his name and significance. In various corners, Media Lab students demonstrated the kind of intelligent, off-the-wall projects that should make MLE one of the funkier places in Europe to work and study. Rumours   circled that rock star Bono, an MLE fan, would show up. So far, so Media Lab.But MLE is not intended to be a clone of the Massachusetts facility. Already, a quiet revolution is underway by its initial faculty to make MLE what MIT's Media Lab has never really been - a cutting-edge arts institute as well as research center, where the strong arts element often present in Media Lab work will not be subordinate to the technology used to create it.The Media Lab has always stressed art and artists. "One of the reasons we have such a focus on the arts is that Nicholas had the intuition that we had come up with a completely different response &#91;to questions about technology&#93; because of that," says Tod Machover, the MIT associate professor of music and media who will also be one of MLE's first faculty members."The arts, which started out at MIT as the farthest, wackiest fringe, has become a central part and touches nearly everyone at the Media Lab," Machover says. Students come to Media Lab for that reason. "You can't say this person is an artist or a   technologist," says Machover. "Many of these students think of these issues together." But he and other researchers speaking at a two-day launch symposium say the Media Lab still tends to forefront the technology that delivers the work of art, rather than the work itself, while the wider art community has been wary of computer-derived work."We have had to work very hard to make sure that we got recognition from both sides of the fence," said Barry Vercoe, professor of music and media arts and science. "I think MLE is able to leapfrog over that hard work and have a new beginning."MLE, a 150 million punt collaboration between MIT Media Lab and the Irish government, will operate from September as an independent European, university-level research and educational   centre. Still embryonic in structure, the facility will grow to a faculty of 55, drawn from Europe and the Media Lab in Massachusetts, and host 200 students. While education and e-commerce are also intended to be a focus of MLE - the Irish government pushed for and will help fund the development of an affiliated digital village of e-commerce companies - the digital arts are clearly at the heart of the institute."MLE is new. It's a new space, a new context, a new set of people," says Glorianna Davenport, head of the interactive cinema group at Media Lab. Davenport has been MIT's key person on the ground in the Republic since the Irish government announced the initiative last December. She will join Machover as one of the first researchers in Dublin, and the broad interests of the two will undoubtedly shape MLE's future. Davenport has been pushing at the edge of narrative, considering new ways of telling stories that can be fractured and united using a network of computers.Machover is the much-feted inventor of a massive    interactive music experience called Brain Operahttp://brainop.media.mit.edu, which has found a permanent home at Vienna's new House of Music, an interactive museum. Brain Opera has a score composed partly in advance by Machover, and partly by visitors to the installation, who can "play" a roomful of colourful, otherworldly instruments. "It's an opera about what happens when we listen to music," he says, noting that he based the opera on Marvin Minsky's seminal work, the Society of Mind.Machover has other projects in the works as well, for example, Toy Symphony, a collaboration between music experts and children that will utilise a range of music toys. "I think children have to be brought into the arts and music world as collaborators, not as students," he says. "I'm acutely aware of how little music training there is for children."Like Machover, Davenport is particularly interested in breaking through the existing boundaries between art forms and move to something entirely new - although no one seems sure what that   format might be. "We have gotten to the point with the technology that it gives us enormous opportunity to reinvent or newly invent form," she says. "We need to figure out what comes after theatre, what comes after cinema," says Machover. Senior research scientist Walter Bender agrees. "There's a totally new, major scale art form that we haven't built yet."They hope MLE will host its creation. The Republic is "about the right size" for a very big undertaking, and does not have the strict, constraining administrative and artistic hierarchies that he has experienced elsewhere in Europe, Machover says. He adds that MLE has acquired a neighbouring building and plans to convert into a large performance space. "One of our ideas is that it is an ideal space to have performances, interactivity on a large scale. Our hope is that there will be a lot of performances here.""We're at the threshold of the way we look at arts and digital technology, and how we use them is about to change," says Bender. "We have a digital golden age before us."
Are you one of those nauseating people who love every second they spend at work? Do you see a slack Thursday afternoon as a wonderful opportunity to do some advance planning for the next few weeks? If so, this article is not for you. To the rest of you: welcome, my brothers and sisters.Being bored at work is one of the most depressing activities you can endure. Yes, flicking rubber bands out of the window at doddery octogenarians can be diverting, but only at a high cost to your karma and the NHS's hip replacement units. Thankfully, the internet has started to come up with some high-quality diversions for the office idler.Two of the best sites for quick interactive games arewww.funplanet.co.ukandwww.jamba.co.uk. They both offer a huge variety of stuff, from gameshows and card games, to driving challenges and other arcade-style videogames. Good as they are,www.9to5cafe.comjust beats them to the title of best site for office layabouts. The games are much the same, but each one has an emergency "boss button" that you   can press if the boss comes within sight of your screen, replacing the game with a mock office report, written by the famous Dr Itza Lottabul.Trivia fans should pay a visit towww.trivia365.com, which offers timed trivia challenges against other contestants on almost every subject under the sun. There are plenty of other traditional games. If your household is anything like mine, getting to the Guardian crossword before someone else has scrawled in half a dozen ill-thought answers can be more than a little tricky. The online version can be found atwww.guardianunlimited.co.uk(the link is buried in the Quick Reference section on the left).One crossword a day not enough for you? Try outwww.freepuzzles.co.ukfor a range of cryptics and quickies, along with codebreakers, anagrams and wordsearch puzzles. These can be completed while online, or printed out for a much more satisfying pen-on-paper experience. If you're a real hardcore crossword freak, run along towww.wordcross.net, which manages a cryptic crossword league (strange but true) with weekly prizes.Compared to discussing last night's Animal Hospital   in the office kitchen, doing a puzzle or two can actually boost morale and freshen your mind, giving you more creativity and energy when you do tackle some work. (Feel free to cut out and keep this sentence for the next time the boss catches you wasting company time on the internet.)If you don't have the energy to interact with your computer, there are sites where you can sit back, relax and let the internet take the strain.The Onionhas the best spoof news around, despite hailing from the irony-desert that is the United States. Updated weekly, it is just about the most hilarious 10 minutes you can spend on the web.Alternatively, amuse your colleagues with the Encheferizer atwww.cs.utexas.edu/users/jbc/home/chef.html. The long web address hides a translator that will take your written English and make it sound like Jive or the Swedish Chef from the Muppets. Ali G fans can find an equivalent site for the Staines gangsta atwww.mackers.com/alig. Why not send your company emails in Swedish Chef mode and see how long it is until you're sacked?Another career-threatening site can be found atwww.aqua.dircon.co.uk/jokes/office.htm. Ideal for playing with like-minded co-workers, the site has a list of activities, rated by the number of points you get for performing them. If you are ever in a lift where someone gasps dramatically every time the door opens, you know where they've been surfing.A word of advice: if you go ahead with this game, why not play the free lottery atwww.bananalotto.co.uk, as well? The chances of winning are slim but probably better than your career prospects if you keep shooting your boss with double-barrelled fingers and drawling, "I like your style."Finally, if you sit next to someone who is far too happy and contented for their own good, why not pay a visit to the inspiredwww.demotivate.com, where you can quash their morale with rousing aphorisms such as "If at first you don't succeed, quit". If you're feeling particularly unenthusiastic, you can take the Demotivational Quiz, to find out exactly how unmotivated you are, or buy a depressing T-shirt that is guaranteed to "induce demotivation and despair wherever you go".Yes, we've certainly come a long way since the days of hangman and battleships, played covertly with the person on the desk opposite. The modern-day idler needs three simple things: a fast internet connection, a monitor that faces the wall and superhuman "boss button" reaction times. Be careful out there.
There are few people around nowadays who can genuinely enjoy the experience of visiting a car showroom. With British cars branded as the most expensive in Europe, potential buyers are continually worried about being ripped off and are frequently driven away by the hard sell techniques of aggressive sales people.Against this background, it is hardly surprising that increasing numbers of people are turning to the web to help them buy a car. Quick and easier access to cheaper prices, more transparent information and the ability to browse anonymously are the chief reasons why the internet is starting to put pressure on the traditional practices of the UK car industry.Most big car manufacturers and dealers have a presence online but with a few exceptions - including Vauxhall and Peugeot - many of them are not selling cars on the web. Instead they are still   opting to channel sales through their physical dealerships.But now that relationship is being challenged. In a move designed to exploit consumer dissatisfaction with the industry's practices, new web-based car retailers are selling cheap cars imported from Europe, and slashing the prices on UK-sourced cars. The new sites can generate savings because they are not saddled with the overheads of large dealer networks.Richard Branson's latest venture, Virgin Cars, imports and sources cars from select UK dealers. The company promises headline-grabbing savings of between 10% and 30% on normal retail prices and, since the end of May, has sold about 1,000 cars online. Cranking up the hype in the usual way, the company is offering test drives, financing and servicing arrangements. There are also plans to promote the service through Virgin's chain of Megastores.Ian Lancaster, the chief executive of Virgin Cars, says,   "Traditional dealers tend to muddy the transactions."If you buy a car from us and your neighbour buys the same one, when you're talking in the pub you'll always discover the price is the same."He adds that consumers appreciate the fact the business is not tied to one particular car manufacturer.But Virgin faces competition from the likes of Direct Line, which has recently launched a car retail service called Jamjar.com. The company sells imports and has gone into partnership with Dixon Motors to source UK vehicles. It is claiming savings of up to 30%, benefits from Direct Line's established call centre and can also spread word of its new service among Direct Line's millions of motor insurance customers.What is most impressive about the new car websites is their ability to provide tailored information far more effectively and efficiently than a traditional on-the-floor salesperson. When you    search online for a car on Jamjar's site you can specify your maximum price, number of seats and size of engine, or select a gimmicky lifestyle option. Then you can choose cars on the basis of how you   want to look; swanky and fashionable or more modest and sensible.When you have bought your car, Jamjar emails out a digital photo of the vehicle; and if you are doing a part exchange the company will value your car online based on your appraisal. But be warned: if your description does not match the car accurately when Jamjar collects it, the deal will be off.In a bid to build long-term relationships with its car customers, Jamjar also offers an   online shop where you can buy anything from spark plugs and clutches to audio books to keep the kids happy on a long journey.Other high-profile entrants to this emerging online market include Inchcape-owned Autobytel UK and Oneswoop. Autobytel UK was launched in April and, rather than selling cars direct to the customer, supplies information and then refers web-based customers to its accredited "real world" dealers. The company says it has sold more   than 6,000 vehicles since its launch.So is this how we will all buy our cars in the future? Forrester Research predicts that in the UK the web will be primarily used for browsing and gathering purchasing information, rather than for actual transactions. That means, although the number of online car purchases will be small, the web will be influencing about 500,000 car purchase decisions a year by 2003. That is a market worth about &#163;5.7 billion.In the US, where the car market is governed by different practices, the internet is tipped to have a much bigger direct impact. Jupiter Communications forecasts that online-direct and online-  influenced car sales will be worth $128 billion by 2004.Peter McCullough, managing director of Autotrader Interactive, acknowledges that UK consumers still have strong reservations about buying cars online. Cars, he observes, are a different proposition to CDs and books."Consumers are confused about what is going on," he says. " They are afraid to buy from dealers and they do not fully understand the online services."Nevertheless interest in what the web has to offer is growing. Autotrader, like other car magazines, runs private and dealer ads on its web pages and sees more than three million vehicle searches a month on its site.With more of the car buying population going online, there have been reports of major portals planning to join the race to capture the emerging market. Amazon.co.uk has reportedly approached dealers including Dagenham Motors about the possibility    of retailing cars. Meanwhile, earlier this year, the company bought car-related domain names including newcars amazon.com and usedcars amazon.com , although a spokesman for Amazon will only say: "We are not ruling anything out, but there are no plans at the moment."The arrival of new online car retailers has not been without controversy. Some UK manufacturers have accused new car websites of quoting indicative prices rather than firm ones. Many also question whether the internet can genuinely revolutionise car buying and argue that only quality car products will shake up the market.There are also lingering doubts about the ability of a distribution channel like the internet to handle transactions for complex cars. In those cases, industry insiders believe face-to-face consultations are essential.Forrester analyst Caroline Sceats believes websites which depend on imported car sales will not survive in the long run."I think the models with the longevity are the models which source cars from dealers or manufacturers. The reason for that is because the opportunity for the import model is based around price disparity and we are seeing the prices of cars in the UK coming down."Car manufacturers, used to handing bulk sales, may struggle to adjust to direct one-to-one sales over the web. However, many are beginning to realise that the net presents a unique opportunity to reach out to consumers.In a new move to develop further opportunities to publicise its brand, General Motors, known in this country as Vauxhall, has announced it is investing in a new UK teenage site called Curve.com.And on the fashionable business-to-business front, Daimler-Chrysler, Ford and General Motors have formed a business-to-business market called Covisintwww.covisint.comwhich could improve the speed of their component supply networks, generate savings, and make them more responsive to customer requests.Legislation is also likely to have a decisive influence on the future shape of the market. In 2002, it is expected that European legislation called the block exemption will be repealed, and this could allow dealers who are currently tied to one manufacturer to sell a greater choice of brands.That means they may promote themselves more aggressively, and raises the possibility of car retailers being able to buy directly from manufacturers.But at the end of the day, the real winners, whether offline or online, are likely to be those car retailers who can successfully cement relationships with their customers which last for the entire lifecycle of a car, from buying right through to all the after sales services. They will be the ones to beat.Cars onlineVirgin Carswww.virgincars.comJam Jarwww.jamjar.comOne Swoopwww.oneswoop.co.ukAuto Traderwww.autotrader.co.ukWhat Carwww.whatcar.co.uk
Those of you who have followed this column for any length of time know that I resent the way business has taken over the internet. Since 1994, when the international research communications infrastructure was officially opened to business, I've critiqued what has appeared to me to be a degradation of the content, spirit, and mission of the interactive space.Well, I'm done complaining. Do not worry - I'm still as anti-corporate as the next guy. If anything, I have become so anti-corporate that I do not mind exploiting them as much as they think they are exploiting us. They mean to take as much as they can get from us, so what is so terrible   about our taking whatever we can get from them? In other words: why not let big business build our internet?They will not make any money from it, in the long run. In fact, no one has yet developed a truly profitable business plan for the internet. Not the online magazines of the mid-90s (no revenue), the e-commerce companies of the late-90s (no margins), or the streaming media sites of the early "broadband" 2000s (no one cares).The only people who have taken home any profits are the speculators who buy stock in these schemes - and then sell it to less crafty speculators before the schemes crash. The other folks who make money, of course, are the legions of   advisors, brokers and consultants, who are busy leading everyone else to their doom. And a couple of monopolies.In the meantime, at least some portion of the countless investment dollars pouring into the internet is going towards building the infrastructure itself. Telephone companies are developing faster, cheaper ways of increasing data rates, while cable TV companies work to expand bandwidth. Others are laying fibre-optic, launching satellites, miniaturising cell phones, and integrating databases.For the past five years or so, those of us who were aware of how little money could actually be made on truly interactive experiences have   attempted to pop the stock market bubble that has formed around it. We know that internet investing is essentially a pyramid scheme, and that there are not enough eyeball-hours in a day to justify even today's, slightly deflated, dot.com valuations.So we whine on about how big business does not belong online, will not really make any money, and should leave us all alone to play and inter act in our publicly owned, civil-minded datasphere. What are we, crazy?I remember a time, not so long ago, when we were begging for big business to come onboard. In the early 90s, before the world wide web even existed, internet enthusiasts would get laughed out of conference rooms for suggesting that any real companies might want to get involved in the interactive age. My first book on the internet was cancelled before it hit the press in 1993, because the publisher feared the "fad" would be over before the ink had dried. (The book came out a year later.)Once big business came online, most of us early proselytisers changed our tune to   gloom and doom. True enough, the internet was pillaged. It became a strip mall of epic proportions, and many people logging on today get no sense of the opportunity a communications infrastructure might offer for the formation of a global society.But maybe we should keep our eyes on that prize. Thanks to the shortsighted, profit-driven motives of mindless corporations, the internet is cheaper to use, more widely available, and spreading faster than ever before. "Developing" regions and former Soviet-bloc nations are the next target market, and we can only imagine the sorts of incentives being formulated to turn folks who have never even made a   phone call into internet users.Our tragic error has been to resent the people who have made money from the internet so far. Who cares if they get extremely wealthy? So what if the real estate prices in New York, San Francisco and London go up? This is a decentralised society we are building, anyway.The dot.com investors' belief in the false scarcity of urban real estate is no different than their allegiance to the finite dot.com naming scheme. It's competition that dominates their thinking, which is why they will never really understand their Holy Grail of "online community".We want to crash the market and pop the bubble because we hate the poor   fools who have seemingly taken over the digital landscape and gotten rich off a set of technologies they only mean to misuse. The recent correction in stock values is a clear indication that our message has been heard. Well, aren't we the kind ones?I propose we chart a different course. Let's encourage business to invest in the internet, and to build an open infrastructure that will someday allow the whole world to play a glorious networked game with itself or, better, find ways to interact other than through money or munitions. Let's milk every last drop from the corporate cows before they figure out they've been nourishing an infant who means to swallow them whole.
Show offsNintendo will unveil the Game Boy Advance handheld console today at a special conference before the opening of its Spaceworld exhibition in Tokyo, Japan. Seewww.nintendo.co.jp/n10/sw2000. It will not be shown in the UK until September 2, just before theEuropean Computer Trade Showin London, when retailers may learn when Nintendo will have shipments to sell, and at what price. Nintendo is expected to show its next-generation Dolphin games console at the same events, but says it won't be showing any playable games.Brain boxNasa has developed a technology that it claims will enable video gamers to enjoy better health. Nasa   researchers say that, using biofeedback, people can be trained to change their brainwave activity or other physiological functions while playing popular off-the-shelf video games.The system involves attaching sensors to the player's head and body and feeding the output through a signal-processing unit to a joystick or other controller."As the player's brainwaves come closer to an optimal, stress-free pattern, the joystick becomes easier to control. This encourages the player to produce these patterns or signals to succeed at the game."The idea was developed using flight simulators and has been tested at the Eastern Virginia Medical School (EVMS) in Norfolk. Nasa says, "several companies have applied for a licence to produce training systems for the general public."Bear facedGreenpeace is using a game to promote the health of the planet. Arctic Action, on the web atwww.greenpeace.org.uk, pits snowball-throwing polar bears against advancing BP oil rigs. The game is free but requires Macromedia Shockwave 7.Quake eightEngland beat an unlucky Scotland to make it into the last eight in the Quake III European Championship, and the finals will be held this weekend at The Playing Fields games cafe in central London. Silent (capt), Blokey, Mist, Vorv and Q50 are expected to represent England. However, Sweden is tipped to win the competition and carry off the &euro; 10,000 prize. The championship has been organised byBarrys World, which hosts a wide range of online games. Results and brief    reports will be published online atQuakeNation.Kick offSports Interactive, the company that produces the Championship Manager football management simulation, reckons it will have a new season disk for 00/01 ready by November 10. Not only will this have up-to-date teams for 26 leagues, it will also offer several new features and "a complete alternative database of randomised fictional players, for the ultimate challenge".
Voice portals, reputedly the next boom industry in the world of the web, are the technophobe's dream come true. Imagine: you can get up-to-the-minute information from the internet just by picking up your phone anywhere, any time. No more fiddling with a temperamental mouse. No more twiddling your thumbs as your server cranks into gear. You would not even have to know how to use a computer.Several companies have launched voice portals in the US in the past two months, including, BeVocal, Quack, TellMe and Audiopoint, and the trend is due to hit Britain in about a year. They use speech recognition technology to get information from the web and "speak" it to you down your phone line. All you do is dial a freephone number and ask for what you want.You cannot just surf the web, but you can find out cinema times, check your stock portfolio or listen to the latest headline news. You can call up travel information before you leave the office, or get driving directions when you are lost. You can choose and book a restaurant table, and hear film or book reviews, or your horoscope. All straight off the web. All without touching a computer.Experts are predicting massive growth: the Kelsey Group, a market analyst firm, estimates that in five years,   18 million consumers will be using some kind of speech recognition portal.Voice portals have been possible because of advances in two crucial technologies: speech recognition software (from companies such as Lucent, Nuance and Speechworks) can now understand natural speech in a wide range of accents and diction without having to be trained to a specific voice. And new standards such as VoiceXML are beginning to make it as easy to write voice services as HTML did to write web pages.With VoiceXML, your voice takes the place of a mouse and your spoken command is like a click. You cannot call up conventional web pages, but you can access information that has been specially composed for the phone: sound clips, music or text spoken by the computer (in a Stephen Hawking voice).The bad news is that the big bucks will come from advertising. The Kelsey Group predicts that advertising revenues on voice portals will reach $17 billion in 2005. So does this mean that when   you ring to check whether there's a traffic jam on your route home, you will have to endure 10 minutes of Pamper's ads? I am based in the US, so decided to get a taste of what Britain will be in for.I started with Tellme, the most hyped 'V-commerce' firm and reputedly the best. Using the service is so simple, even the most tech-terrified could do it. Instructions - in a real human voice, rather than anything scary and automated - are clear and repeated often frequently. It understood my British accent without a glitch and in less than two minutes I had narrowed my restaurant search to 10 Vietnamese eateries in the area I wanted. I heard a couple of reviews, with gradings for service, decor and food, and when I had picked one, Tellme connected me directly to it, so I could book there and then. The ads were unobtrusive (though this could change as the service expands) and it only asked me, grovelling apologetically, to repeat myself once.Others - I tried four more - were also generally easy, though, as you would expect during a roll-out period, the information available varied. Audiopoint, which allows you to customise its service, gave quick, and surprisingly comprehensive, information on current travel problems in my area. BeVocal was the exception: after it had asked me four times at the start for my phone number ("I did not understand   you"), I hung up in irritation.Simplicity is, in fact, the selling point of voice portals, perhaps because people have less patience on the phone than at their terminals: "I wanted to build something that my mom would use," says Michael McCue, Tellme's chief executive. The everyday consumer who is fed up with technology angst and the complexity that has come about from the rise of the internet can still use the net."With 1.7 billion telephones in the world, McCue's potential   market is certainly capacious. This is why most companies are trying to give themselves a particular spin: Tellme's speciality is dining suggestions. With TelSurf you can read and send email over the phone. And BeVocal claims to be the last word in road directions.But it is not clear whether the technology will work as well with millions of users as it does with a few thousand. Also, it won't be free if you're on a mobile phone - probably when you will need a voice   portal the most. It is no wonder that British mobile operators like Orange, Vodafone and One2One are rumoured to be developing voice portals of their own.But the race for British custom is on. Tellme expects to launch in Britain by the end of 2001 and Audiopoint, which launched in the US last week, is "talking to people in Europe". So next time you're grappling with the yellow pages, watching your PC crash, take comfort: voice portals are on their way.
Four scoreIntel was scheduled to announce a top-of-the-range Pentium 4 processor at its Developer Forum Conference in San Jose, California, this week. The new chip, codenamed Willamette, has a new architecture, called NetBurst, which is supposed to provide better performance with applications such as audio and video streaming over the internet. It also has a 400MHz system bus, which compares with 200MHz on current AMD Athlon processors and 133MHz on the Pentium III. A 1.4GHz Pentium 4 is expected to appear towards the end of this year, initially in   high-priced workstations.Intel is also expected to announce two new versions of its StrongArm chip, based on an Acorn design. StrongArm processors are intended for use in handheld organisers, mobile phones and similar non-PC devices.Internet for dummiesIn the US, Compaq has finally launched its iPaq Home    Internet Appliance, complete with 10in LCD screen, which was promised at the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas last November. Like Microsoft's venerable WebTV, the HIA is designed to get novice users on to the internet without them having to cope with the complexities of a personal computer. However, Compaq's device only works with the MSN (Microsoft Network) connection, and sales outside the US will depend on signing deals with internet service providers. ISPs will supply    the $599 machine either free or at a hefty discount as part of an online package. For example, the price falls to $199 if you buy a three-year subscription to the MSN internet servicehttp://athome.compaq.com/showroom/static/ipaq/intappliance.asp.There are already several "internet appliances" on the US market, including Netpliance's i-Opener. Several other companies are also planning to produce "MSN companions" similar to Compaq's, including Acer, eMachines, Philips, Thomson Multimedia and Vestal USA. America Online (AOL) is also working with Gateway to develop a similar appliance for AOL users, and Compaq is expected to produce another version of its iPaq device running Be Inc's BeOS operating system instead of Microsoft's Windows CE.Palm springsAgenda Computing, based in California, plans to ship a palmtop computer that runs the Linux VR operating system in October. However, it is not designed just for geeks: it has a friendly graphical front-end like the Palm's, to shield users from the complex Unix-like operating system underneath. The Agenda VR3 has a 2.25in by 3.25in monochrome screen and weighs four ounces. It is powered by a 66MHz Mips 32-bit processor. Agenda plans to ship the VR3 model, with 8MB of memory and 2MB of Flash storage for $145. VR3+ and VR3s models will offer more Flash memory for storage, and a VR5 is expected by the end of the year. Optional accessories include a keyboard and a 33.6kbps modem. Agenda is taking orders on its website atwww.agendacomputing.com/products/pre_reg.jsp. (JS)Mission possible if you make it snappyFor five years digital camera manufacturers have been trying every trick in the book to persuade us to buy their models.This year they called in their secret weapon - Tom Cruise. Apparently, the sight of the diminutive action hero touting a Kodak model and getting hot under the collar about the whereabouts of a CompactFlash card in Mission: Impossible 2 has caused sales of digital cameras to rocket in the US. Sales are also up in the UK.Cruise's all-action intervention is actually very nicely timed. At the high-end, models have reached the point where they deliver very detailed pictures indeed, while in the budget sector brightly coloured simple-to-use cameras are on the verge of bringing digital photography to the masses.Prices have also dropped and the &#163;100 barrier has been breached by one of the best-known companies in photography - Kodak.The big talk in digital camera circles at the moment is about the number of pixels each camera's CCD is capable of capturing - the greater the number of pixels in an image, the more detailed it is.Earlier this year, a host of makers rolled out three megapixel cameras. These models will be usurped by a range of four megapixel models that will be in the stores between now and Christmas.Improving creative and manual controls is also a priority, as is upping the gadget factor (video clips, built-in MP3 players and so on). The zooms on high-end models are also becoming more powerful.With the pivotal Photokina exhibition in Cologne, Germany, less than a month away, the big names have started to unveil their new product for this and next year.First off the blocks was Olympus, who this week announced the November launch of the &#163;1,500 Camedia E-10, which it claims is the World's first ever four megapixel camera. In addition to its high resolution, it boasts a 4x zoom, one of the brightest lenses on the market, storage slots for both SmartMedia and CompactFlash cards and a host of manual and creative controls.Also due in November is   the &#163;1,299 Olympus E-100RS. This 1.5 megapixel camera's unique feature is the ability to capture up to 15 images per second - great news for those perfecting their golf swing. It also sports a 10x power zoom and 2x7 digital zoom, an image stabilisation system, and can capture up to four seconds of video with sound.Fuji is also targeting the enthusiast end of the market with its new camera, the Finepix 4900 Zoom. Due out next month, the model sports a 2.3 mega pixel CCD and a powerful 6x zoom.At the opposite end of the market, Samsung has high hopes for its just launched &#163;250 SDC-80. This 850 pixel model comes in four fruity translucent finishes, including orange, apple green, blueberry blue and white. Other facilities include a 1.8inch mini LCD screen, a pop-up flash and a 4MB SmartMedia card to store the images on.Samsung has also become the second manufacturer to deliver a digital camera with a built-in MP3 player (Fuji got there first). The tiny &#163;230 Digimax 35 Plus comes with a 32MB CompactFlash card which can archive around half an hour's worth of music.Kodak is expected to announce three new cameras in the next week that will go on sale in autumn. Top billing goes to a budget model that features a video clip facility and a USB port, yet sells for less than &#163;100.Out in the US, and expected here very shortly, is the &#163;400 Kodak DC3400. Pitched at the slightly more ambitious novice, the camera uses a two-million pixel CCD and features a 2x zoom.Other manufacturers, including Nikon, Pentax and Sony, will announce new models in the next few weeks.  (AN)
Pole vault champion trips upSergei Bubka's Millennium GamesPC CD-Rom		&#163;24.99 Dinamic/Midas	 ** InteractiveThe box lid of Millennium Games lists Sergei Bubka's selling points: "Unrivalled world champion. An amazing career that spans two decades. Six-time consecutive Pole Vaulting World Champion. Holder of 35 World Records (17 outdoor, 18 indoor)." Just in case the message hasn't quite got through, the instructions begin with a section eulogising the althlete's (admittedly impressive) achievements all over again. By now, I'm convinced I want to buy Sergei Bubka. But what about his game?Actually, "his" game is   overstating the case. Apart from the deification in the literature and a mugshot on the menu, the Ukrainian high flyer does not feature at all.True, the pole vault is one of the 19 events in this athletics sim (albeit one for which there is no tutorial). The other 18 are standard track-and-field stuff: hurdles,   throws, jumps, sprints and long-distance running.Where this differs from its competitors is its MDP (mouse-driven power) system. This involves a rotating ring below the athlete with a fixed marker on its inner circumference. The object is to keep to the mouse button depressed while the green   section of the disc passes beneath the marker, and to release it when it gets to red. This seems simple enough, and makes a half-decent stab at modelling athletic action.In practice, though, it is a strain to have to focus on a spinning disc, especially in the longer events. And when you are concentrating on a   space just below the athlete's feet, you tend to miss out on other things - like where the no-throw line is, or what your athlete looks like. Fortunately for those with fewer than six eyes, a button-bashing mode is also available.On the subject of looks, the graphics are smooth enough, but far from detailed, and   with a slightly washed-out feel. The crowd sounds, meanwhile, seem to have been lifted from a cockfight instead of an athletics stadium.If the events themselves are less than thrilling, the campaign modes are a fun addition. You can, if you choose, attempt to train an entire national team, with the aim of bringing home as many medals as possible.The more rewarding option is the decathlete trainer mode, in which you guide a young sports star through training, injuries and successively bigger competitions towards the ultimate goal of Olympic gold.Enjoyable as this is, it still entails mastering the individual events. Which, given the annoyingly vague tutorials and the blink-and-you'll-muff-it control system, is a tall order. If you do ever win a medal, you deserve one.  (AB)Shameless cash-in lacks punchX-MenSony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Activision	**Back in the good old days, when games came on tapes and keyboards dressed in rubber, all manner of movie licences were hastily ported on to the dominant genres of the day.Robocop was a side   scrolling platform game, while Indiana Jones offered similar thrills. Batman? Well, rest assured, there were plenty of ledges to reach.In short, movie licences quickly became known as a shortcut to an unimaginative, lazy and pointless game.Unfortunately, in the 21st century things have got little better. With the exception of Goldeneye, film-licensed games are still struggling to reach mediocrity. Remember Phantom Menace?However, the just released X-Men movie, with its freakish set of characters, seemed to offer the basis for   a cracking game. So, what do we get? Certainly not a stylish adventure epic.X-Men is, in fact, a fighting game - and a bog standard one at that. Graphics? Fine. Sound? Adequate. Originality? Snore, er pardon?X-Men shamelessly filches Street Fighter's feel and ridiculous special moves before adding some Tekken character design.And, if you have always suspected that beat-'em-up games are hollow exercises in button-bashing, then look here for confirmation. Extensive blindfold testing has revealed that random finger   gymnastics are often as successful as a more studied approach.Anyhow, with rewards including movie clips and comic photos, you would have to be a real fan to want to practise this one.Despite the inclusion of 10 X-Men characters, comically pummelling each other in front of some authentic movie backdrops, this is uninspiring fare. Shamelessly derivative, and with a pungent whiff of cash-in, X-Men is yet another film-licensed disappointment.  (GH)Wham, BAM - the bubble burstsBust-A-Move 4Sega Dreamcast	 &#163;24.99 Taito/Acclaim	***Bust-A-Move is a classic puzzle game that stands comparison with Tetris and Columns, and while it's not as compulsive as those in single-player mode, it is a much better   multi-player game. Bust-A-Move's forte is head-to-head battles, either player v computer or player v player.But like the later, fancier versions of Tetris, Bust-A-Move 4 has lost much of the simplicity that was one of its attractions. Adding more puzzles, and bubbles with different behaviours, has made it a bit more challenging and a lot more confusing.In the graphics department more turns out to be less. This is one of the few games that does not seem to benefit from   the Dreamcast's superior graphics and sound. In fact, BAM4 takes the saccharine Japanese graphics style to a peak of excess. It is so cute it makes Super Mario Brothers look like gritty realism.The aim of the game is the same. You shoot coloured bubbles at a descending network of existing coloured bubbles, and they stick together. When three or more bubbles of the same colour are stuck to one another, they burst, and fall down the screen. But not   only can you remove three or more bubbles this way, you can also remove any bubbles that depended on them for support. This is the tricky bit, and the way to score huge bonuses, in what is always a race against time.BAM4 is a very playable game, and a welcome addition to the Dreamcast line-up, especially at the price. But the original PlayStation version was simpler and just as satisfying.  (JS)
What does OpenTV do?OpenTV is the worldwide leader in interactive television, introducing viewers to a new TV experience through their remote control.Why do you think viewers want to interact with their TV? Isn't one of the attractions of the TV that it is a passive experience?TV is all about leisure, information, ease of use, impulse reaction and emotion. Interactivity builds on this by giving people the opportunity to respond to the programmes they watch, get information when they want it or buy products when they see them.We hear a lot about convergence - where various entertainment and computer functions are going to come together in a single box. So is the TV turning into a personal computer, or is it the other way around?TV is for entertainment, whereas the PC is focused on work and processing, so your expectations and use of the TV and PC are different. You may see email on interactive TV but you won't see an Excel spreadsheet. Interactive TV needs to be easier to use, graphics rich and more reliable - people don't want to have to re-boot their televisions! Also, the TV is a true mass market product, so it needs to be kept at a low price.OpenTV operates across the world - what differences are there between countries, other than language, which you have to take account of?There are major differences in viewing habits and the level of complexity that TV viewers want. We have to make sure that our applications can be customised. Nonetheless they will work in all environments, whether they are delivered by satellite, cable or terrestrial networks.Are you trying to sell interactive TV as a replacement for the web and internet, or as a supplement?These are two co-existing marketplaces. Many people will have internet access and interactive TV but will use them for different things. Interactive TV will also reach people who don't have computers. This is why many companies are looking to have a presence on interactive TV and the internet, adapting the range of products they sell, services and information accordingly.How do you use technology in your work?At work I use computers, email, the internet and my mobile phone to make sure I am available no matter where I am. At home I use interactive TV to do things like checking my bank account and getting a weather forecast.What are your favourite websites?My internet browser is defaulted toAFP - Agence France Presse news agency, which keeps me up to date with business news. I'm also a fan offt.comand the Paris transportation authority's pages atwww.ratp.fr.&#149; OpenTV's website is atwww.opentv.com
No changeComplaining about BT and the local loop is all very well. I subscribed to cable telephone five years ago hoping for better, faster internet access. Despite my phone company having been taken over twice - each time by international corporations promising better service - I am still waiting.Martin Rathfelderweasel@cwcom.netService freeI was interested to read a letter about 4unet's failings regarding non-delivery and no refund. My problem is similar but in respect of Callnet0800's failings. I had my &#163;20 for a dialler taken four months ago. I never received the dialler or the service. I have written three times for a refund and have not even had an acknowledgment. To compound my anger, I now read that requests for 4unet refunds are being handled by Callnet! What is going on?Peter McSorleypeter.mcsorley@lineone.netNot so smartI wish that your report about Mondex in Hong Kong were true. The reality is (as usual) more complicated.The Octopus smartcard system can at present only be used for public transport and in a few other ways. Frustratingly, you can only transfer money on to this smartcard by putting banknotes into a machine at the station - in theory you can use your bank card, but this rarely works.One of the smaller banks offers the facility to automatically transfer money to the card when the balance falls below zero, but customers of HSBC, Bank of China and Standard Chartered cannot do this. Meanwhile, Mondex is not widely used. Bring the facilities of the two systems together and you would have a winning solution, but I guess we'll have to wait.Chris Tringhamctringham@hotmail.comYour recent piece on internet payments says the ideal system would be "good for small as well as large transactions". But there's a world of difference between secure online payment for say, booking a round-the-world cruise or a modest fee for visiting a commercially viable site.I make frequent use of free online language translations, for which I'd happily pay a nominal amount. Perhaps this is where a widely available prepayment card would score? Mobile phones only took off when an alternative to the red tape of contracts, credit checks etc came along.So when will "the average punter" be able to buy a &#163;10 card in a local shop, allowing them to go to a popular entertainment site like Eastenders for 10p a visit?This would generate tremendous income for all concerned and is hardly likely to be resented by the various fans who seem happy to shell out vast sums on all kinds of spin-off merchandising.Obviously, there should not be a charge for information services such as rail time- tables, but lifestyle, sport, entertainment and general leisure sites would welcome this as much as the rest of us would appreciate the absence of banner ads, which would become redundant.Grey Taylorsnazz.media@virgin.netHigh costJack Schofield says in his Ask Jack column (August 17) that CD-RW disks will cost about &#163;2 each - not on the High Street they won't! I recently needed to transfer a fair bit of data from one PC to another and thought that CD-RW would be the easiest way of doing it, but had left my disks in the office. I popped out to my local shopping centre and found them priced at &#163;9.99 in Stationery Box, &#163;14.99 at Dixons and Currys, and &#163;17.99 at a stationers.I have bought them at computer fairs for &#163;1.25, so I don't know how the shops can justify such prices.Chris Quinnchris@cquinn.freeserve.co.ukBit partThe BBC is not exactly a shining example when it comes to compressed digital video, as Matt Pyne suggests. On digital satellite the BBC originally opted for a reasonable transfer rate (around 5Mbps, I believe). Recently, however,   they have clearly been experimenting with much lower bit rates and higher compression is leading to poorer pictures. On BBC News 24 for example, the picture is regularly prone to pixelation and breaks up every time there is rapid movement (or a picture dissolve). It seems that digital TV may give us worse, not better pictures than analogue TV. Amazingly the BBC, of all organisations, is leading the way downmarket.Nigel Cursonnige@mayvilla.demon.co.ukHow to roamThere is an alternative to Global Roaming for friends visiting the UK from abroad. It is to adapt your software so they can send mail through your UK ISP and receive mail directly from their foreign ISP, assuming they want to use their regular email address and don't want to open a free ISP account. Without going into detail the principles are (using Eudora 3.1 on the Mac): Make a duplicate Settings file and rename it as you like, eg with your friends name. Double click the duplicate, and under Special Menu, Settings, change Real Name to the friend's name, enter their own foreign POP account and their own foreign Return Address. Leave the SMTP Server as your own UK SMTP server.Your friend then logs on using your normal dial-up software, eg Remote Access or FreePPP Setup, dialing in to your regular ISP, and starts Eudora by double-clicking on their own Settings file.Their mail will appear to come from their regular email address, but anyone opting to see full headers on their mail will see that its actually originating from the UK ISP.Pete Lennardpeter@hands.free-online.co.ukCD editingIt might be worth pointing out in your column (Ask Jack, August 17) that it is possible to edit files on a rewriteable CD using Adaptec's Direct CD software, which allows you, in most respects, to treat the CD as if it's another hard disk drive.Windows 98's Microsoft Backup, however, doesn't recognise the drive, so you can't use it for backing up without additional software.Donald Gunndonald@culloden4.freeserve.co.uk
Internet bank Egg worked with police to develop software that helped trace a gang behind what is thought to be Britain's first alleged attemped online bank robbery, it emerged yesterday.Three people arrested following a six-month investigation into internet banking fraud involving the Prudential banking subsidiary have been released on bail pending further inquiries, the national crime squad said yesterday.It also confirmed that other online banks may have been targeted by the alleged fraudsters. The arrests prompted experts to claim it was only a matter of time before criminals successfully carry out a "virtual bank raid".Egg said its security systems were not breached and that there had been "absolutely no risk to customers' money whatsoever". But it confirmed   that the alleged fraudsters "may have got away with a minimal amount". The fraud is said to have involved multiple bogus applications for loans and savings accounts.Three people were detained after officers swooped on addresses in Buckinghamshire, Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire. Officers seized computer equipment as well as a quantity of cash and drugs in the raids on Tuesday.Staff at the bank have worked with police over the past six months to help with the investigation. Tony Williams, Egg communications director, said: "This is not about hacking but multiple applications."During the investigation Egg developed software that "rings an alarm bell" when a number of applications are made from the same address or PC.The national crime squad said the possibility of attacks on other online banks came to light after studying the alleged fraudsters' computers.Anthony Riem, partner at the "cyber law" specialist Philippsohn Crawfords Berwald, predicted that many more crime syndicates will attack internet banks, putting them at risk of losing millions of pounds.
Internet sites are attracting customers under false pretences by advertising unavailable cut-price holidays, the Institute of Trading Standards warned today.Low prices are advertised to lure potential customers - who are then told that the lower price is no longer available and offered the same holiday at a higher cost.The practice was spreading on the internet, where it was known as "virtual pricing", said trading standards spokesman Bruce Treloar."Internet sites offering cheap holidays have really taken off since the beginning of the year and we are trying to keep them up with the law," he said. "We are concerned about virtual pricing and we are looking particularly into last-minute holidays which are not available at the price advertised."But he stressed that no specific investigations were being conducted into either of the two big online travel agents, Lastminute.com or Bargainholidays.com. "We have had no specific complaints about these sites," he said.The institute was also very concerned that many sites offering cheap holidays were not British companies, he said. "We have no jurisdiction over many of these sites."The chief executive of Lastminute.com, Brent Hoberman, said his company's site did not use the "bait and trap" process. "That is not the way we run our business," he said. "It is in our interests only to show offers that are available."Lastminute.comBargainholidays.com
Three people who were arrested yesterday after one of the first ever police investigations into internet banking fraud have been released on bail.The suspects were held for questioning after officers from the National Crime Squad swooped on addresses in Buckinghamshire, Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire.The allegations centre on fraudulent applications made to the internet bank Egg.com. Staff at the bank have worked with police over the last six months to help with the investigation.Egg said that no money was stolen and customers were not affected. Egg's operations director, Gary Clifton-Marshall, told BBC Radio 5 Live that the alleged fraud related to criminals attempting to establish bogus accounts to access funds. "Fortunately we have robust systems in place that will prevent this taking place," Mr Clifton-Marshall said. "In no way have any of our customers suffered."Officers seized computer equipment, cash and drugs in the raids, which took place yesterday.   An NCS spokesman said the arrests came after an investigation into fraudsters who were targeting internet banks to gain "considerable sums of money". The suspects were bailed for "several weeks", he added.Egg, which has about 1.1m customers, said that earlier this year "fraudulent applications" were made to the bank in order to obtain money, but there was no breach of security and no money was obtained.Egg shares fell more than 4% in early trade today but later recovered.
The BBC yesterday opened the way to a flotation of its commercial internet business after selling a 13.5% stake in the operation to a US venture capital firm for &#163;32.5m.The deals gives the business, comprisingBeeb.comand internet service providerFreebeeb.net, a valuation of &#163;240m. That is far lower than some previous estimates and reflects the change in sentiment about internet companies.Rupert Gavin, chief executive of BBC Worldwide, the commercial arm of the corporation, said the deal would provide the business with funds to expand while allowing the BBC to retain control. The US firm, TH Lee Global Internet Managers, will have two places on the board of the subsidiary, to be renamed Beeb Ventures.Investors were invited to come forward last year but Mr Gavin shrugged off the suggestion that the BBC could have achieved a better price had it clinched a deal before the reversal of internet fortunes in March. Cable company NTL and broadcaster Flextech also held talks with the BBC."In an uncertain market this is a very good valuation," he said. "It is important that we are retaining the majority of the economic interest."Mr Gavin said all options would be considered when   TH Lee looks to recoup its investment. The typical route for a venture capital firm is a stock market flotation within three to five years of an investment, a move that would need approval from the BBC's board of governors and the government. A flotation would draw claims of creeping privatisation.Beeb.com made revenues of &#163;2m last year, largely on the back of advertising. It has been putting a series of e-commerce partners in place which will be linked to programme websites. Users are, for instance, offered a CD shopping guide by clicking through to Beeb.com from a Top of the Pops site.Mr Gavin said there would be clear markers to make users realise they were leaving a public service site and entering a commercial one.Sharon Pipe, managing director of TH Lee, which has more than $1bn under management, said: "There are few game-changing investment opportunities where you are getting involved with a company which will be the leader in its field. Beeb.com is probably one of them."The deal does not affect the corporation's public service internet operation which includes the award winning News Online and the recently launched Sport Online which are both licence fee-funded.One of the first signs of the new funding will be a &#163;7m advertising campaign for the online ventures from September.
Altavista should have looked up the meaning of the word "truth" in its internet search engine before claiming that unmetered access to the world wide web was "up and running" in a "controlled roll-out".That was in July and not a single customer has been identified since. Andy Mitchell, managing director of Altavista UK, told the BBC yesterday that the service had been put on hold a few weeks ago and that he had been "absolutely remiss" in not communicating this. He can say that again. He has also been remiss in blaming BT, because on this occasion BT probably is not guilty.Unmetered access to the internet - under which customers pay a fixed monthly fee and then get unlimited surfing time - is vital both to accelerate use of the internet and to lessen the extent of any digital divide opening between those who can afford it and those who cannot. One reason the US is so far ahead of most countries in exploitation of the internet is that Americans have had free (ie unmetered) local calls for ages. BT was wrong - and badly wrong - in exploiting its monopoly position by not offering unmetered access five or even 10 years ago. If it had done it then, use of the internet in Britain would by now be more advanced than it is. Belatedly, and only because it came under pressure from service providers and Oftel, BT has at last started to get its act together. Unmetered access should be here within weeks rather than months, once outstanding technical matters have been agreed.BT must now move equally fast to enable rival companies to have their own high capacity ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) access in the local loop - the distance between the telephone exchange and the home - where BT enjoys an almost total monopoly. ADSL will speed the use of high-speed transmission of video down the telephone line. Competition of this kind is the best way to bring prices down and to speed technological change.
AltaVista'sdecision to pull the plug on its unmetered internet access package sparked a predictable round of recriminations yesterday. AltaVista blamedBT, accusing the latter of failing to table an acceptable deal on wholesale call charges that would have allowed it to run unmetered services. Nonsense, said BT.AltaVista cannot escape blame. It promised the service and failed to deliver. Whatever the obstacles that may or may not have been put in its way it should have made sure it could walk the   walk before it talked the talk. The episode has left the company with serious amounts of egg on its face.BT, however, should not be allowed to shrug of the affair as someone else's problem. True enough its Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination offer to internet service providers does meet the guidelines laid down by the regulator Oftel. But it meets the letter rather than the spirit of the guidelines. The latest deal is a mixture of capped and open ended charges - making it impossible for ISPs to draw up solid plans for unmetered access.There is a pattern here of BT dragging its feet on making the changes needed to set the UK's internet sector free.The company has constantly delayed its launch of new broadband connections - its fourth delay has set back the roll-out of individual digital subscriber lines until next year - and this week Freeserve blamed BT for setting the   basic charge for broadband access so high. At every turn BT has sought to protect its short-term monopolies for as long as possible.One problem is that BT is a player in the ISP market as well as responsible for the local telecoms link. It was BT's Surftime package that stirred Oftel into action and made BT put together a flat rate offer to ISPs. Nothing has happened since then - a situation that helps no one except BT's own ISP.Britain needs cheap, unlimited access to the net for individuals and small businesses. The regulator and the government must take a hard look at BT's actions and consider a response if that is the only way to achieve such a goal.Rate dilemmaThe European Central Bank is in a bind over whether to raise interest rates. It is   damned if it does and damned if it doesn't. Judging by the results of yesterday's auction the betting in the financial markets is that the ECB will raise rates either at its August 31 or September 14 meetings. Others believe the bank might do better to wait a while until it has a clearer picture of what is happening in the eurozone.The latest sickener for the bank materialised yesterday in the shape of the German Ifo business confidence index. The index was down in June but expected to perk up in July but fell again. One fall might be thought unfortunate, two cause for some concern. If the index falls again this month markets will be talking of a trend.On the basis of that scenario the ECB might be thought wiser to stay its hand over interest rates. At a time when business confidence in the eurozone's biggest economy appears to be faltering even a 25 basis point rise in interest rates - let   alone the 50 basis points some analysts are suggesting - would scarcely be a booster for corporate confidence.But consider the alternative case. The ECB is thought to have been preparing the ground for an increase in rates because it is worried about inflationary pressures - generated in part by what has happened to oil prices but also by the weakness of the euro.With the pessimists already believing that the single currency will be testing its all-time low soon and the doom sayers suggesting that 85 cents could be on the cards, the consequences of ducking a rise in interest rates which the markets are now expecting could be severe.Raising rates looks an unattractive option. Unfortunately not raising looks worse. Faced with such a tricky choice the bank would be better off to increase interest rates. Its brief is price stability and as its neighbour, the Bundesbank, knows only too well - credibility is not   easily earned. But how the ECB must envy the Federal Reserve which last night left US rates on hold without raising so much as a flicker in the markets.Off the blockAnother day, another auction. This time it is UK licences to provide wireless internet links for desktop computers which are on the block. After the success, from a taxpayers viewpoint, of the sale of third-generation mobile phone licences in the UK and Germany, it is little wonder that auctions are flavour of the month with licence sellers. But are the first signs of buyer resistance beginning to develop? Yesterday Atlantic Telecom which pioneered the technology in Britain said it would not be taking part, declaring it had better uses for its cash in developing existing licences. Governments be warned.
The government's lucrative auctioning of airwaves yesterday focused on spectrum that will allow the delivery of high-speed internet access without a phone line.Prospective bidders were told a reserve of &#163;78.3m has been set for the auction of 33 licences, due to start on October 16.Analysts expect the sale to raise significantly more than the reserve after the auction of third-generation mobile   phone licences raised &#163;22.5bn.British and international telecom operators are said to be interested in licences for the 28GHz spectrum, to deliver internet and multimedia access by wireless links.Operators will be able to bypass BT and the cable networks to provide such services to the small and medium-size businesses. Colt, Energis, Cable &amp; Wireless and MCI WorldCom are understood to be among those interested.Kim Howells, minister for competition and consumer af fairs, said: "We have decided on an auction process as it provides a fast, transparent, fair and economically efficient way of allocating the scarce resource of radio spectrum. The levels bid will reflect the bidders' own valuations of the licences and the opportunities they see for broadband fixed wireless access."Atlantic Telecom has ruled itself out of the bidding for fear the auction process will inflate the price for licences.The company already owns national licences for fixed   wireless operations, but these are run on a different frequency.Atlantic Telecom is viewed as a market leader in this area and built its strategy on attracting small to medium-size businesses with the promise of high-speed internet connection.Some analysts have estimated the auction of the licences could raise at least &#163;2bn for the Treasury's coffers.The government will auction three licences in the 28GHz band in 11 regions. Those licences will last for 15 years.A spectrum offering even higher speed broadband services at 40GHz, which would enable television and video conferencing on computers, may also be auctioned this year.Britain is behind Switzerland, Finland, Portugal, Spain, Ireland and Germany, which have already auctioned their licences for broadband wireless communications.Switzerland's auction of 13 licences is understood to have raised about &#163;150m.
