Michael Hartis dead. Michael who? I guess most people have never heard of him and yet if you've ever read an ebook then your life has been touched by him. Why? Because way back in 1971 he had a great idea: that computers could make great literature freely available to anyone. He founded Project Gutenberg, the world's greatest archive of free, public-domain ebooks, and he devoted his life and most of his energies to that one great project.The idea came to him when he was a student at the University of Illinois in 1971. Computers were then huge, fabulously expensive mainframes and Michael had access to one of them. On Independence Day 1971, inspired by receiving a free printed copy of the Declaration of Independence, he typed the text of the declaration into a computer file and sent it to other users of the machine. He followed it up by typing the text of the Bill of Rights, and then, in 1973, the full text of the US&nbsp;constitution.Most people would have stopped at this point, but not Hart. If computers could store and endlessly distribute great texts, he reasoned, why stop at the constitution? Why not create the digital equivalent of the lost Library of Alexandria? Why not every book in the world – or at least every significant text that was out of copyright and in the public domain? Thus was Project Gutenberg born.It's important to remember the date: 1971. In computing terms, this was the Neolithic Age. Granted, the Arpanet was up and running, but it was confined to a magic circle of universities and research labs.The first usable personal computers wouldn't appear until 1977-8. The internet was still 12 years away and  the web lay a full two decades into  the future. IBM had just produced  the first (8-inch) floppy disks and 5.25-inch commercial floppies were five years away.Disk storage was limited and expensive, so Hart decided that texts ought to be encoded in the most compact format possible – as plain ASCII (American Standard Code for Information Interchange) characters. That meant no fancy formatting, no bold or italics – just the text. In this way, the US constitution could be packed into 281 kilobytes. And he chose the Bible as an early candidate for inclusion, not just because of its cultural importance, but because it was conveniently segmented into smaller, more manageable books.Hart personally typed the text of the first 100 books in the archive, including the complete works of Shakespeare. As the project grew, others helped in an early example of crowdsourcing. In April 2002,The Notebooks of Leonardo da Vinciwere added as the 500th book.And so it went on. I've just checked thesite. It has 36,000 ebooks currently available. The only concession to modernity is that Hart's insistence on plain ASCII has been relaxed; the texts are now available in formats for Amazon's Kindle, Android, Apple IoS and other e-readers.Those who knew him testifythat Michael Hart was an extraordinary individual – idiosyncratic, original, humane, determined and generous to a fault. He never made much money, repaired his own car, had scant faith in medicine and built most of his own electronic gear from stuff he picked up in garage sales. On Saturday mornings over breakfast in the local diner, he would work out the optimum route to cover the maximum number of garage sales that day; it was his version of the travelling salesman problem in mathematics.In his obituary of Hart, his colleague Gregory Newby described him as an "unreasonable" man, in George Bernard Shaw's celebrated use of the term. "Reasonable people," wrote Shaw, "adapt themselves to the world. Unreasonable people attempt to adapt the world to themselves. All progress, therefore, depends on unreasonable people."Shaw was right. As Brewster Kahle, founder of the Internet Archive, put it, Hart belongs in a very select group of other unreasonable men – people such as Richard Stallman, founder of the free software movement, or Ted Nelson, who campaigned for hypertext long before the web – who changed the way we think.So next time you switch on your Kindle, or read an ebook on your phone, spare a thought for Michael Hart. May he rest in peace.
The first foray on Kinect into the horror genre makes a welcome change from titles encouraging exercise or dancing. This evil scientist romp sees "Josh" trying to rescue his wife from dungeons populated by an undead horde. The Kinect controls are adequate but never quite natural: put one foot forward and lumbering forwards occurs, not unlike the zombies that surround you – slow and cumbersome. The fighting is more satisfying, allowing a combination of kicking, punching and slashing.Between these fights, the music score does a good job of building suspense and there are some eerie graphics to keep the tension going throughout, although it is never quite nightmarish. While the addition of the interactivity of Kinect adds a layer of depth that at times draws you in, the sum of its parts doesn't quite make a whole. A lesson mad scientists often learn too late.
Once past the hackneyed presentation of this co-op dungeon crawler there is a real meaty, moreish pleasure to be had. The key is solid combat – each of the three characters has basic, heavy and stun attacks, with special moves and collectible extras such as deployable turrets, which add to a contained but tactical system. As your enemies multiply it's more about crowd control than hacking and slashing, using stun and dodging furiously to make room for counterattacks. There's a pleasingly physical feedback to it all, especially when heaving exploding barrels (with sticky, satisfying results) or carelessly strewn giant buckets of poison at orc-ish foes.Characters don't level up so much as get richer, gaining access to stronger weapons, shields and armour as they do. Levels can be replayed to grind currency and sniff out treasure-packed secret areas, and the sleek inventory system avoids maze-like management chores. But the focus on gold eventually does feel a little mercenary, especially since it's tied to your real bank balance – Crimson Alliance is free to demo, but the full game with a single character costs 800 Microsoft points, with all the characters 1,200. More cynically, after every couple of levels, players are tempted with a get-rich option (40,000 gold for 80 points).
Released in the same week as the long-awaited conclusion toGears of War, Ignition Tokyo'sEl Shaddai: Ascension of the Metatronmay struggle to find the audience it deserves. Which would be a shame as within this strange title – inspired by the story of Noah's ancestor Enoch – lies one of the year's most frustrating and captivating games.Developed by a Tokyo team assembled by an Indian-owned British parent studio in 2007,El Shaddaiis a bubbling mass of conflicting cultural styles and gameplay norms. A hack'n'slash platformer based on a Jewish legend, populated by anime archetypes and set in a world styled on every major art movement from cubism, through dadaism and on to expressionism may sound like a mess. And in many ways it is but, thanks to a single-button combat system that utilises three fantastical weapons and Enoch's fists, every strange monster and plot twist can be deftly overcome on the quest to bring seven fallen angels to justice. Those monsters, and especially the near-identical ex-angel bosses, become repetitive in time, but the ever-morphing landscape and the save points manned by a mobile phone-touting Lucifer more than make up for this niggling shortfall.There are sporadic, dull 2D sections over-laced with exposition-heavy stills and the occasional unsuccessful attempt atMetal Gear-esque postmodernism, which suggests an element of style over substance, only made more glaring by the waves of meaningless and witlessly portentous dialogue that wash over the gameplay. What may divide gamers is whether they find this significantly detracting from the core experience, which remains solid.It's also strange that a game about such eternal ideas as the power of faith and the fight between good and evil can often feel so shallow. Yet it's perhaps just as odd again that this lack of depth rarely feels like an issue.El Shaddaiis, in its best moments, more of a psychedelic tour of biblical myth than a test of thumb dexterity. It is a testament to the creative freedoms of  games that such a ludicrous and entertaining concept has been realised. A mass of contradictions then, at once glorious, ghastly and compelling.
Twenty-one years ago, the world wide web was brought into this world by Tim Berners-Lee. It had a long gestation period – almost 30 years – and started out with a cache of just one page, one hyperlink and fewer than 100 potential users.Developmental psychologists study the features that characterise our lives through successive stages of life, from pre-birth to old age. Progress through these stages happens when certain requirements of the current stage have been met, from acquiring motor skills and language to developing a sense of responsibility and personal identity. To move forward, we must tackle the big questions, such as: "Who am I?" or: "Am I good or bad?"This is an oversimplified scaffolding upon which to hang a theory about an inanimate, insentient entity such as a computer network. The web has both a physiological (its technology) and social (its users) profile and it has a human psychology because we pour ourselves into it.In other words, the web was born with a personality. As Kranzberg's first law of technology says: "Technology is neither good nor bad; nor is it neutral."There were many people involved in bringing the web to life. Berners-Lee was the man who synthesised the conversations about a hypertext organisational system that were taking  place on internet boards and produced the solution that subsequently became the world wide web.During its infancy, the web found its voice. Technologically, as more people indirectly related to Berners-Lee, and the circle of hypertext developers began to develop the code, the language of computers became more refined but lost its standards. There are currently several initiatives devoted to honing the adaptations and evolutions of the core code into something which ensures that the web can continue to work as a viable and functioning entity.Socially, the few thousand academics and others who could use the web established the etiquette around how we interact with it and each other. Pre-browser and pre-search engine, there was no way to navigate other than knowing exactly where you were going. There was a cacophony of undirected babble and there were long hours of downtime.The baby web then began to grow, taking on new users increasingly quickly and gaining a new independence from its initial cabal. There was greater experimentation, but it was still only on the verge of achieving autonomy. Most of the people involved were still learning to walk. But as the web began to move into its toddler stage, it started to gain an awareness of its potential. People began to extend their social horizons and push their boundaries, turning technological fantasies such as browsers into reality. This was the era when the system was alive with flashing blue and red 18-point Comic Sans text on yellow backgrounds.The web was overrun with social scientists researching the way relationships, personal and social identity and interpersonal interaction actually worked via computer. As the developing web moved into late childhood, things began to look more interesting. Cyberspace started to feel logical. Innovative companies were laying the groundwork for the flood of e-commerce that was to come.  Search engines were making sense of the information superhighway and designers and developers were learning to create services strategically to get people online. This was when dinosaurs like AOL, Hotmail and Yahoo dominated.But then the web hit adolescence and it all went wrong. The first identity crisis: the bubble burst. The web had thought it was the best thing since sliced bread. But ultimately it was confused; it had no idea what it wanted to be. The process helped the web define its boundaries in the important but difficult period when we reconcile what we want and what society expects.We're now into the web's early adulthood, a more considered period in which there are structures in place that we can build on. There's still substantial wiggle room for developing new norms and systems, but with much already in place, this period is about how we negotiate with one another as a globally connected entity.At the moment, we're struggling with regulations for coping with social and legal systems of ownership, privacy and security. And all of it stands on the foundation of what has come before.The web will go through a midlife crisis, but it won't happen for a while. The scaffolding will only tremble when new communication technology begins to supercede the old, just as we're seeing now with older forms of media such as print and television.Each stage the web has traversed sheds light on how we negotiate our relationships with one another. It is, after all, only a technology. We shouldn't fear its progress but, rather, reflect on the conflicts it exposes, the better to recognise our own development.
Dead Island, Xbox, PS3 &amp; PCAn outbreak of zombie infection turns a drunken party isle into a terrifying animated mortuary, leaving forlorn clutches of survivors to fend for themselves in the encroaching, slavering apocalypse.Combat is predominantly at close quarters, with improvised weapons giving out midway through scraps, lending its running battles a claustrophobic, panicky edge that's only temporarily dispelled by a powerful weapon. Co-op mode is marred by minor irritants, which is a shame given its ability to help you seem slightly less alone on a mostly brain-hungry Banoi Island.Deep Silver, £37.90-£44.95El Shaddai: Ascension Of The Metatron, Xbox &amp; PS3El ShaddaiWith an indecipherable plot based on the biblical Book of Enoch and continually changing, often psychedelic graphics, El Shaddai looks like no other game, even if playing it feels a bit more familiar. If you were being curmudgeonly, you could say it boils down to wandering between button-mashing fights, trying to avoid holes and enjoying soupçons of insane dialogue. What elevates it is the constant spectacle, shifting between 2D and 3D; a moving Japanese painting one minute and a Tron-style, neon re-imagining of tribal artworks the next. It's a constant delight and stokes the impetus to discover the next staggering vista.Konami, £34.99-£44.95Bodycount, Xbox &amp; PS3BodycountYou're a nameless asset working for the Network, pitted against baddies referred to as the Target, on missions that involve finding someone by way of a slew of henchmen and killing them, thereby dismissing all pretence at plot or characterisation. That leaves the action, the majority of which takes place in the dusty confines of shanty towns, replete with shacks to blow up using convenient explosive barrels. The legions of armed militia there prove to be an excitable foe, keeping battles dynamic by trying to flush you out with volleys of grenades. Guns feel heavy and randomly destructive, adding to the sense of chaos in the hectic, often 360-degree firefights.Codemasters, £27.99-£44.95Games newsThis year'sEurogamer Expo(Earls Court, SW5, Thu to 25 Sep) promises to be the biggest by some margin. Along with tournaments, a games career fair and the retro zone, you can also have a go at forthcoming games including: space opera Mass Effect 3; Battlefield 3's spectacular multiplayer shooting action; more mildly deviant survival horror in Silent Hill: Downpour; and Dark Souls, a contender for hardest game of all time …In an unlikely literary videogame tie-in,Ragethe novel is now available, although you'll have to wait until next month to play the game itself …Rock Of AgesOther games out now includeAvatar Kinect, which lets you create real-time gesture-controlled puppet shows;Rock Of Ages, where you splatter swathes of human history under a large boulder; andWarhammer 40000: Space Marinewhich controversially turns the famous tabletop strategy game into an action-heavy  third person hack and shoot 'em-up.
What does that S&nbsp;stand for, the one after Verso in the name of this car? You might think it would stand for sport, but you'd be wrong. Unless the sport in question is crown green bowling.There is actually a button inside with "Sport" written on it. But pressing it doesn't seem to make any difference at all. Possibly it whines a&nbsp;bit louder when I put my foot down, like a sewing machine tackling a thick curtain, but I don't think it goes any faster. Maybe the&nbsp;S stands for sewing machine. Or&nbsp;sluggish. Or&nbsp;senile.The Verso-S is available only with a 1.3-litre petrol engine, but you can&nbsp;choose between a manual six-speed gearbox or automatic continuously variable transmission (CVT). I've got the latter, which allows me to switch to manual when the mood takes me and I'm feeling a bit crazy.&nbsp;It has&nbsp;flappy gear changing paddles on the steering wheel like a&nbsp;Ferrari or a&nbsp;Formula One car, which&nbsp;– along with that S, the "Sport" button, and the tinted rear windows – seem incongruous. More than incongruous, bloody ridiculous. And inappropriate. As if&nbsp;I, an out-of-shape middle-aged man, were to wear nothing but a leopard-print thong.*The Verso-S is actually more economical when it's in automatic mode, so there doesn't seem to be any point to flapping the flappy flaps. This car should stop pretending to be something it isn't.&nbsp;Because it's actually pretty good at what it is – a practical, no-frills, no-thrills, economical mini-MPV. Sensible, maybe that's what that S&nbsp;stands for.Or spacious. It may not be especially clever or versatile in the way the seats fold away. But it&nbsp;feels bigger inside than it looks on the outside, and there's plenty of leg room in the back thanks to its&nbsp;cunningly thin front seats.There is one button in this one that does make a difference – it slides back a blind to reveal a glorious panoramic glass roof. I do enjoy a panoramic glass roof in a car. Not only does it make it so much brighter inside, but it also opens up all sorts of possibilities for when you're stuck in traffic. Ornithology, plane spotting, stargazing. Stargazing – perhaps that's what that&nbsp;S stands for. Except that the glass roof comes only in the higher spec T-spirit model. And anyway, it all goes a bit wrong when I park under a tree frequented by roosting birds, during the blackberry (old meaning) season. Which means that I'm then driving around beneath a canopy of pink guano. I think we know what S stands for now.* Actually, I am.Toyota Verso-SPriceas tested £17,313Top speed103mphAcceleration0-62mph in 13.7 secondsCombined fuel economy54.3 mpgCO2emissions120g/kmGreen rating7/10In a wordSensible
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion is under intense pressure from Wall Street to change its leadership as a worse than expected profit collapse wiped £3bn off the company's value during morning trading in New York.Shares were down 18% by midday on Friday after Thursday's announcement that income before tax had halved quarter-on-quarter to $414m (£262m). Goldman Sachs estimates its global market share has fallen to 9% from 16% a year ago.The Canadian company was founded by its management, which is now being urged to step down. Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis have been joint chief executives for nearly 20 years and also chair Rim's board. Each owns more than 5% of the company.Edward Snyder at Charter Equity Research said the results were "a nail in the coffin of management. I don't think anybody believes their guidance. We're well past the point [where] these guys should be replaced".The reversal in RIim's fortunes has been swift. Its revenues nearly doubled over three years, peaking at $5.6bn in February 2011, but have been in rapid decline for three quarters now.
Google+ has launched an API that should allow developers to write third-party apps that will be able to post and read directly to the service - a move that may be sorely needed, after an independent study suggested that the number of posts to the service has fallen by over 40% in the past two months.Google+ - also known as Google Plus - waslaunched at the end of June to a limited user groupas the search engine giant's riposte to the successes of Facebook, which refuses to let it index all of its content, and Twitter, which has ended a contract whereby Google could index tweets and make them available in search results.Google+ offers a method of sharing content including text, pictures and videos with people who are sorted into "circles" which are effectively walled off from each other. Posts on the service can also be given varying levels of privacy and shareability. A video service called Hangout also lets people hold collaborative chats.The API,opened up by Google on its Google Code blog, uses REST requests, JSON output andOAuth2for user identification.Initially, only posts that are publicly available and shareable will be available through the API.However Dave Winer, a strong advocate of systems that interoperate, was dismissive about the API: "Google doesn't get it", he wrote:They need an API with one call, one that posts a tweet to their service. So people can hook up Twitter clients to Google-Plus, so the hundred million active Twitter users can post to Google-Plus from the comfort of whatever tools they depend on.Of course it isn't the hundred million that they need, it's the hundred thousand who do all the work on Twitter. The ones that can't be bothered with a service that doesn't have basic rudimentary API support.As he also pointed out, publicly available data could be made supported more simply by using RSS feeds (though clearly that would preclude Google Plus's API from supporting authenticated calls to private content shared with individuals).Falling usage?Minus slope: Google+ usage in July-September 2011, by users of 89n's ManageFlitter. Source: 89n. Used with permission.( See theoriginal graphic.)Meanwhile, the service may have wider problems if the API does not get sufficient traction. Ananalysis by 89n.com, an Australian company that writes web-based apps, says that the average number of posts per day by people using one of its systems has fallen from an average of 0.68 per day between mid-July and mid-August to 0.40 between mid-August and mid-September.That represents a 41% fall over the period, said Kevin Garber, 89n's chief executive. The posts were made using ManageFlitter, a tool which ties Twitter to Google+ so that people can crosspost to both."To date 7,280 people have linked their Google+ accounts to Twitter using our service," Garber noted. "We check these accounts for new Public posts every 10 minutes which represents a significant number of data points: 130,059 public posts have been posted in these accounts."But after an early wave of enthusiasm, postings to Google+ through the service had waned."One possible explanation for this data is that the people integrating their Google+ accounts with ManageFlitter are all early adopter sorts that get bored once their new toys are not shiny anymore," Garber suggested. "However, this seems somewhat unlikely given the spread of Twitter followers across these accounts" - which its analysis showed is around 700, having peaked at an average of 1,200 early in the sampling period."It is also often the early adopters that drive long term adoption and to see a drop off now is not a good indication for the service's future," Garber noted.Google has not released official statistics for the uptake of Google+ since its earnings results in July, when it said that it had 10m users.In August,Search Engine Journal suggested that the service had reached 25m users- but said that "while the continued growth in the number of registered users is fascinating and, for Google fans, exciting, the actual amount of traffic is less so." A study by Chitika had found that "traffic peaked on 21 July and has been declining since", a fact it said was most likely due to "the end of the initial rush of excitement".That the decline was seen during the summer, when many people may have been away on holiday, could be explanation enough. But the data from 89n suggests that the lack of interest, at least among Twitter users, has continued.Studies into usage of Google+ have given contradictory results: in mid-July Experian Hitwise said that visits had fallen in July, while comScore said people were spending more time there.Google+ has come under fire from some users for itsrequirement that they provide their "real" nameto register on the service.
Tucked away behind Sega's stand at the Tokyo Game Show, EA had a modest presence, bringing along some of its key goodies, including Fifa 12, Need for Speed: The Run, Mass Effect 3 and of course Battlefield 3.Playable on the show floor for the first ever time was Operation Guillotine, a single-player campaign mission set on the outskirts of Tehran. You play as Sgt Henry Blackburn of the 1st recon marines, waiting out amid rough scrublands while another battalion, nicknamed Misfit, edges in toward its target – an apartment block housing an enemy base. Our mission is to provide back up to the assault and when the order comes in, Blackburn has to leg it down a hill and under a bomb-blasted overpass as enemy fire rains in.It's an exciting opening with explosions going off everywhere and Blackburn simply having to dodge the flak thanks to the mortar he's carrying on his back. The sparse grassland environment reveals some of the (understandable) visual limitations of the PS3 hardware compared to high-end PCs, though – the flora looked a little pixelated and rough, contrasting with the rich foliage on show inthe 64-player Caspian Border map we saw at Gamescom.However, when we make it under the flyover and edge toward the urban area, the visuals work better. We have to set down the mortar and fire off a couple of illumination rounds so our friends in Misfit company can see what they're doing. The blinding, bluish-white explosion casts long shadows around it, while flaring shards of light send impressive streaks across your vision. Later, when we're edging cautiously down a river bank, we come under enemy fire and the soldiers are beautifully silhouetted beneath the blaring chemical light.Our first job is to take out a machine gun emplacement outside of the apartment block, where we meet some smart enemies, who retreat, fire back with accuracy and take over at the LMG when others are down. Then we're up a pathway that brings us to the graffiti-splattered entrance area. Just as we move in, Misfit company arrives and an NPC chucks an incendiary grenade through a window; seconds later a flaming soldier bursts out the door. That's the element of surprise gone.From here, it's a tense walk through fetid apartment rooms and along narrow corridors, Blackburn's footsteps echoing impressively around the bare walls. A blocked door requires fast repeated pressing of the circle button before we can get through, and the next door has an enemy right behind it, with plenty of others lurking in doorways just beyond. It's a dynamic we've become familiar through many cinematic military shooters; a varied range of breach set-pieces, some leading to quiet, empty corridors, others proceeding a major shoot-out. With this cleared, Blackburn is outside again, regrouping with another character named Brady then getting into a Humvee to drive further into the city.A reasonably generic mission then, but it shows off EA Dice's fine grasp of real-time lighting technologies, some marvellous character animation, and the excellent audio. Every gun sounds different and eerily like a war documentary, from the rackety G3A3 to the pop-pop of the KH2002 assault rifle and the relentless volume of the PK Pecheneg machine gun. This is a uniquely varied audioscape.It'll be fascinating to see some different locations – this is all set in roughly the same area as the co-op mission, Exfiltration, shown at Gamescom. I'm also hoping for some more variety in the level structure; can EA Dice bring a few new design flavours to counter the bland "corridor shooter" feel of many current FPS titles? We'll see. Right now, Operation Guillotine is a scintillating taster for the game's solid, authentic and – well – scarily noisy take on the genre.•Battlefield 3 is due out on 28 October for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
For fanatical gamers, getting their hands on the year's biggest blockbuster games, months in advance of the Christmas period in which they are released, has been more or less impossible in recent years. The UK did have a major games show, called ECTS, but that bit the dust in 2004. However, this year, two consumer shows have emerged to fill that glaring gap: GAMEfest, taking place at Birmingham's NEC between 16 and 18 September, and Eurogamer Expo, which will take over London's Earls Court venue from 22 to 25 September.The first GAMEfest got under way in impressive fashion, with an initial scrum for entry when it opened at 10am on 16 September and large queues to see the top games, although happily, it wasn't oppressively packed. Neil Ashurst, head of communications at retailer GAME, which organised it, explained the motivation behind the show: "It's two-fold: one as a thank you to our loyal reward card customers. And secondly, we do this kind of thing every year for store managers, so we thought if we've got everyone here, why don't we ask the publishers to show their wares to our customers as well? Eurogamer is clearly doing a good job with Eurogamer Expo, which is growing each year, but we thought there was a place for something like this outside of London."GAME is expecting 30,000 gamers to attend over three days. Ashurst said: "We've actually sold out Saturday 17 September and Sunday 18 September, but we're told there will be some tickets available on the door. It's open 10am until 6pm." Like Eurogamer Expo, daily tickets cost £10; you can visitwww.eurogamer.net/expofor tickets to the latter.The show floor at GAMEfest offered plenty of indicators as to which games will prove irresistible this Christmas, and suggested that keen gamers are about to be spoilt for choice. Probably the biggest hands-on queues were for Activision'sCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 3and EA'sBattlefield 3, and watching the two first-person shooters slug it out for supremacy will be fascinating. Other games attracting enthusiastic punters includedBatman: Arkham City,The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, the imminentGears of War 3, Uncharted 3 andSaints Row the Third. There were even some games due to arrive next year on show – playable in the UK for the first time – most notably EA's Mass Effect 3, and Star Wars: The Old Republic. So if you want to sample this Christmas's best games in order to inform your buying decisions, now is the time to act.
This morning, after a sweltering two-hour commute from Shinjuku to the rather remote Makuhari Messe exhibition centre, I headed straight for an old friend: Ico. The game has, of course, been given an HD update along with its follow-up Shadow of Colossus, and I was keen to sample the result.Sony was allowing a 15-minute hands-on demo of the Team Ico classic on its packed stand (within minutes of the show opening this morning, the queues to get on the Vita units were backed up past the "hour wait" marker and down through the hall). I played from the very beginning of the game where our titular hero is solemnly transported to a remote citadel and then locked inside a sarcophagus by superstitious villagers who see him as a bad omen.As his rowing boat ploughs through the misty waters and the citadel looms above, there's already a sense of greater texture detail, which becomes more apparent inside the building. The smudgy grey wall textures have been tweaked, given the castle are much finer, more defined look, although it's still a grim, sparse and shadowy place. Scaling the staircases that lead out onto the balcony, the controls feel natural on the Sixaxis pad, and the camera – controlled with the right analogue stick – is rather over-enthusiastic, often moving away from the character entirely, or not quite providing the angles you want to assess a higher platform.But it was a treat to see it again, and freeing Yorda from her cage had the emotional impact it did back on PS2. When I reviewed the 3DS version of Ocarina of Time recently, I mentioned that the subtle graphical updates had created a game that resembled our rose-tinted memories of the original without creating atotallymodern-looking game. The same is true here – though it will be interesting to see how stereoscopic 3D support enhances the visual experience. It's due out on 30 September.I also took a leisurely tour of the Konami stand, which also hosted a big HD remake – this time Metal Gear Solid. There were also long queues to play Metal Gear Solid: Snake Eater 3D on 3DS, as well as Silent Hill: Downpour, PES 2012, and another title for Nintendo's handheld – the latest version of the massively popular, typically perky, but possibly untranslatable dating sim, New Love Plus (see the video above – go on, it's fun).The trailer for third-person hack-'n'-slasherNeverDeadmade this Devil May Cry-alike look quite interesting. An accident-prone demon hunter named Bryce Boltzmann is made immortal as a punishment and has spent 500 years killing hellish monsters for cash. The player has to guide him through his latest set of targets, firing dual-wielded machine pistols at rampaging creatures and, brilliantly, tearing off his own limbs and using them as melee weapons or ranged explosives. He can even roll his head off and allow it to scout an explored areas. There's also an equally bizarre online multiplayer mode, and it's due out later this year in Japan (but possibly later in Europe) on PS3 and Xbox 360.Shamefully, I also enjoyed watchingBlades of Timein action. Yep, it's another hack-'n'-slash romp for the Xbox 360 and PS3, this time featuring a treasure hunter named Ayumi, sporting blonde pig-tails and dual sword/rifle weapons. Apparently she's stuck on a mysterious island and must battle a range of enormo-beasts, while leaping across a series of vertigo-inducing jumping challenges. But get this: she can also turn back time and create a clone of herself, allowing her to co-op with her own past-life on certain puzzles. I'm not sure I totally understand that.Developer Gaijin Entertainment also had Birds of Steel on the Konami stand. Previously a co-developer on the cult flight shooter, IL-2 Sturmovik: Birds of Prey, the team has produced a visually impressive WWII flight simulator, featuring a range 20 historic battles and 100 different planes. The aircraft models look to be extremely detailed, and they all have over 100 hit points allowing for area-specific damage. There are amazingly authentic smoke trails as the planes are peppered with machine gun fire. It's due on Xbox and PS3 early next year.The most heartwarming story of the show for me, though, was in the education section, where dozens of Japanese universities were touting their game design and programming courses (eventheyhad booth babes!). The Wiz International Information Technoogy College was there, despite the fact that that the Fukushima-based school was severely damaged during the earthquake back in March. According to staff on the stand, many pupils were left homeless by the disaster and doubts were placed on whether the year's coursework should be or could be completed.However, spurred on by international support for Japan, and by a desire to get back to normality, the students returned and finished their game design projects for the year. A notice about the disaster and the college's reaction was displayed on the wall of the stand. One paragraph read:A game gives you fun, emotion and healing. That's why we believe that a game might contribute to Fukushima's reconstruction and the Japanese future. Our hope is that, someday in the future, [our students'] games will be needed and loved by everyone.Amid the gaudiness and noise of the event, beyond the huge publisher stands and the women dressed as elves and schoolgirls, there was an evident truth: Japan is unselfconscious in its love of games; they are taken seriously here, and often, despite everything, they are worthy of that.
Elisabeth Murdoch's Shine TV production company has acquired the London-based social gaming startup, Bossa Studios, for an undisclosed fee.The acquisition is Shine Group's first foray into the nascent social gaming market, and comes just months after News Corporation bought the TV firm for $673m.Based in Shoreditch, east London, Bossa Studios creates games for social networking sites including Facebook and MySpace. Eleven-month old Bossa Studios is set to unveilits first Facebook game, dubbed Monstermind, next week.Murdoch said on Friday: "As a global content company, we are committed to producing exceptional experiences across multiple platforms and developing direct-to-consumer models."We have long identified social gaming as a critical component to this strategy, and in Bossa Studios we discovered an entrepreneurial, creative team that shared our passion for creative excellence. They have bold ideas for this space which we naturally welcome and will be a significant addition to the Shine Group."The acquisition will enable Shine to add Facebook and social gaming elements to some of its most popular programmes, including MasterChef and Merlin.Investor appetite in social gaming firms has grown in the past 12 months, driven largely by the rise of Zynga, the company behind hugely popular Facebook games FarmVille and CityVille.According to public offering documents filed at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Thursday, Zynga valued itself at $11.5bn at the end of the first quarter of 2011. The company plans to raise $1bn in one of the most hotly anticipated IPOs of the new generation of internet firms later this year.Henrique Olifiers, a co-founder of Bossa Studios, said: "We are delighted to be both launching Monstermind and joining the Shine Group."Shine has shown a great support for Bossa Studio's creative-led mission and together, in addition to launching entirely new concepts, we hope to offer hundreds of millions of TV viewers and social gamers the opportunity to experience some their most-loved programmes in an entirely fresh, immersive way."
This weekend's Lib Dem conference will feature a debate and vote on a new IT policy paper.Getting IT policy right is hard, because technology is a moving target; but getting IT policy right is vital, because today there's virtually nothing we do that doesn't touch on IT, and tomorrow there'll be practically nothing that doesn'trequireit.In other words, there's not really any such thing as "IT policy" any more – there's justpolicy.The working group responsible for the new paper – titled Preparing the Ground: Stimulating Growth in the Digital Economy – notes that this is the first overhaul of Lib Dem IT policy since 2003.The group further states that this particular document was spurred into creation by the 2010 Digital Economy Act, which was rammed through Parliament in the wash-up without any debate, though not before two Lib Dem lords had introduced an amendment in favour of a national regime of internet censorship to curb copyright infringement (this amendment was later revealed to have been written by the UK record industry's chief lobbyist).The party's involvement in advocating censorship sparked a revolt among the rank and file at the next general conference, leading to passage of a resolution to reject the censorship proposal and to fight against web censorship under any rubric.Accordingly, this paper lays out two proposals for the membership: option A would require the party's MPs to work to repeal sections 3-18 of the Digital Economy Act, which establish the national copyright censorwall and make provision for disconnecting families from the internet if someone using their connection is accused of illegal downloading.Option B is much softer, only seeking the repeal of sections 17 and 18, the web censorship stuff that the Lib Dems have already rejected, and that has also been rejected by Vince Cable, Ofcom and Professor Hargreaves, the independent expert who prepared a report on the Digital Economy Act for government,andthere's already a Lib Dem motion on the table in parliament to repeal these sections, all of which would render option B a pretty symbolic gesture at best.Though not entirely symbolic, as Jeremy Hunt is back on the internet censorship war-path this week,calling on Google and ISPs to block websitesthat the entertainment industry doesn't like.Really, option A should be a no-brainer for a party that styles itself as a bastion of personal liberty. Disconnecting families from the internet because someone who used their connection was accused of violating copyright is both disproportionate and illiberal.If the internet were merely a means of delivering entertainment, then letting the entertainment industry dictate who does and who doesn't have access to it might make sense.But the internet is the preferred vehicle for civic engagement, politics, news, education, employment, health delivery and participation in all forms of 21st century life, and exacting collective punishment on whole households of people because someone they know may or may not have downloaded a movie without paying for it is mad.Besides, it won't work. In France, where a version of this law is already in effect, surveys show that only 4% of illegal downloaders are deterred by it.It will be interesting to watch how the party goes on this issue. It's clear from the shameful introduction of the web-censorship clause by the Lib Dem lords that there are some in the party whose version of protecting personal liberty and defending liberalism checks out the minute copyright infringement is on the table.That split is in dire evidence in Preparing the Ground. I've seen the "final draft" of the paper as prepared by the party's working group, and I've seen the paper that the membership will be given this weekend, and somewhere between the "final draft" and the paper as published, someone has inserted a clause that describes copyright infringement as "a form of theft" and goes on to say that "there is no reason why digital offenders should not be prosecuted under the criminal law in the same way as those who steal tangible goods".This is pretty outre stuff. Every developed nation's legal system treats thefts of tangible goods as absolutely distinct from copyright violation. Applying criminal sanctions for copyright infringement would be unprecedented in the industrialised world.Don Foster, the Lib Dem MP with the DCMS brief, apparently lobbied to have "a statement making clear that copyright infringement is as serious as theft" included in the document, though his staff disavows any involvement in the phrasing and says: "For Don, non-commercial copyright infringement has only ever been a civil issue." Julian Huppert, the Lib Dem MP who was also involved in the drafting, says, "there is no intention to change the current system in this regard".So it's rather a mystery who is behind this bizarre statement that everyone seems to disavow. Foster says: "The principle that 'digital piracy is a form of theft' appeared to already be in the paper, but it wasn't stated explicitly. I was one of a few people who thought it could be made more explicit, and it was. I certainly didn't ask for the insertion of anything that was not in the spirit of the original document."I've read that original document, and I'm afraid I have to disagree.Luckily for the Lib Dem members, a vote for option A or B doesn't mean a vote in favour of jail time or criminal records for people who download music or TV. But if I were at the conference this weekend, I'd want some answers about how an extreme, illiberal proposal for criminalising copyright infringement made it into the party's official policy document.
A burst of 20 apps for your considerationBand Of The DayBand Of The Day is the latest music discovery app, released by startup 955 Dreams – previously behind iPad apps on jazz history and the Woodstock festival. This one's an iPhone app with a more current focus: serving up a new music artist every day of the year, with full-length streaming songs, interviews and biographies. It's all presented in a slick calendar interface.First Words: Toddler Touch and SayPenguin Books' latest iOS app is aimed at toddlers, with 48 words to learn in four categories: Animals, Home, Toys and Vehicles. Bright pictures and animation aim to hold their attention.Block Breaker 3 UnlimitedGameloft's latest Android game promises – despite the name – to be "much more than breaking blocks". It's the latest rewrite of the Breakout/Arkanoid ball+blocks format, with a host of power-ups, trigger switches and boss battles thrown in to spice up the gameplay.Hickory Dickory DockEdutainment apps publisher Mindshapes has a new release: Hickory Dickory Dock. As the name implies, this is all about learning to tell the time, teaching children how to read a clock, complete with a mouse from the nursery rhyme.Glamour Fast BeautyConde Nast has been releasing a succession of apps recently based on its magazine brands, with Glamour the latest to spawn an iPhone spin-off. Glamour Fast Beauty is a make-up guide, offering video tutorials, tips and product links. It's free, with Lancome on board as a sponsor.Book Creator for iPadBook Creator is a marvellous idea: an iPad app for creating your own digital books, using your own photos and writing the text. Released by Red Jumper Studio, one key use will be parents making stories for their children. However, the books are output in ePub format, and can support the fixed layout for Apple's iBooks store – meaning that someone could use this to make an e-book for commercial release.Street Fighter II CollectionCapcom has released its latest Street Fighter game for iPhone, which collects three separate editions of the Street Fighter II incarnation: The World Warrior, Champion Edition and Hyper Fighting. Bluetooth two-player battles are included.Acid House Kings – Music Sounds Better With YouThe Acid House Kings are the latest band to release an album as an iPad app, following in Swedish House Mafia and Bjork's footsteps. This app includes the full album, bonus remixes, artwork, biographies, videos and a karaoke feature.Tiny FarmTiny Farm is the first mobile social game from Korean publisher Com2uS, and its inspirations are fairly clear: a virtual farm where players breed animals? Yes, FarmVille looms large, but the emphasis here is more on nurturing animals rather than grinding harvests.Focus MagazineThe BBC has relaunched the iPad version of its Focus magazine, offering the monthly issue with extra interactive graphics, 360-degree photography and video/audio interviews.My HorseUK publisher NaturalMotion has followed its helmet-crunching NFL Rivals game with something more bucolic: My Horse. It's a lovingly-animated virtual horse game involving grooming, feeding and showjumping mini-games.MobliPhoto-sharing app Mobli came out on iPhone earlier this year, but has now made the leap to Android. Instagram-style filters and a focus on location tagging aim to separate it from the herd (and remember, Instagram isn't available on Android yet...)EmmysJust in time for Sunday's Emmys television awards in the US comes this official iPhone app. It includes information on the shows and celebrities who are nominated, as well as promised live video feeds and updates on winners during the night.Motorhead RemixerBounce Mobile's Motorhead Remixer has been out for a while, but it's just been relaunched on iPhone in an "Ace of Spades Edition". Costing £1.49 it includes that famous track, with other Motorhead songs available as in-app purchases. The app itself is about remixing Motorhead – not a phrase we ever imagined seeing in printed words.The Daily's Pro Football GuideFresh from launching The Daily in the UK, News Corporation has released a new spin-off from its iPad newspaper. Pro Football Guide 2011 is a guide to the new American football season with information on teams, players and betting tips. It's a free download for iPad.FC Barcelona Fantasy Manager 2012Could you do better than Barcelona manager Pep Guardiola? Or, perhaps more entertainingly, could you be so dreadful you manage to relegate the world's best club team? This iPhone game puts players in charge of Barcelona, mixing virtual management and real-life fantasy football.Bobo Explores LightGame Collage's Bobo Explores Light is a book-app for iPad aimed at children, exploring various scientific principles of light: lasers, telescopes, lightning, reflections and so on. It has more than 100 digital pages, hosted by a robot named Bobo. It looks beautifully designed, too.Dress Up! Back to SchoolSocial mobile games publisher SGN – now owned by MindJolt – has released its latest iPhone and iPad game. Dress Up! Back to School is more of a fashion app, though: adding dressing virtual schoolgirls in outfits and accessories. Schoolgirls are the target audience, in case you're wondering.Sports Illustrated Football RivalsTime Inc has launched a new spin-off app for its Sports Illustrated magazine, for iPhone and Android. Football Rivals, naturally, refers to the American sport, with a mixture of text, photos and videos explaining 10 of the most famous rivalries, including the Packers versus the Bears, Florida versus Georgia and the Cowboys versus the Redskins.Sid Meier's Pirates! PiratizerGames publisher 2K Games has released a non-game app for iPad. However, its free Piratizer download is promoting the Sid Meier's Pirates! game on Apple's tablet. Here, people can take photos of themselves and then add various virtual pirate accessories.A note on how Apps Rush is compiledWe compile this daily post by manually reading RSS feeds of all new apps on the iOS App Store, Android Market, Windows Phone Marketplace and BlackBerry App World, with press releases and emails from developers also in the mix in case we miss apps. The criteria when scanning each store is the same: we're looking for interesting and innovative apps.Some days, the vast majority are on iOS, which understandably provokes questions and comments. Rest assured, it's not due to any pro-Apple bias or lack of effort hunting for apps on other platforms. As time goes on, and more developers release their apps across several platforms simultaneously, we expect this to become less of an issue.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM Ships 200,000 PlayBooks Last Quarter &gt;&gt; Business Insider"The PlayBook numbers are really, really bad. Just 200,000 shipped versus estimates of 600,000 to 700,000."Oh. Erm.Apple IPad data was given to Fleishman, Samsung witness says &gt;&gt; Businessweek"[Suk-Joo] Hwang said that during lunch at a restaurant in Mountain View, California, with [alleged insider trade] James Fleishman and a hedge fund manager he identified as 'Greg', he gave them confidential information about Samsung's shipment of liquid crystal display screens it was supplying to Apple. The iPad made its U.S. debut in April 2010, four months after the lunch."'One particular thing I remember vividly was that I talked about the shipment numbers of Apple, it was about iPad,' he said. 'This is in December 2009, before it came out with the tablet PC, they didn't know the name then, so I talked to them about the tablet shipment estimates in that meeting.'"Apple cancelled Samsung's contract soon afterwards. Can't think why.Editorial: How RIM can improve BlackBerry right now &gt;&gt; This is my next..."As a primary device, I was shocked to find that the 9900 was almost workable."Grammatical quibbles aside (obviously he's the primary device, he's using it), this is a fairly reasonable list of the problems Rim faces. However, it's not very likely to fix them any time soon.All you trolls out there - come out and explain yourself &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukMartin Belam, who isn't a moderator and doesn't work with the moderation team (just so you know): "Sometimes technology is held up as an answer. But I'm not a fan of looking for technical solutions. Comments are left by people, read by people, moderated by people, and reacted to by people. If there is a problem with trolls on a community site, the solution has to be found with the people, not the software. By even approaching the topic of trolling on websites, I imagine this article will spark quite a feisty debate below the line. I'm interested in one thing in particular - have any of you deliberately trolled a site? If so, why? What did you get out of it? And why did you stop?"Some of the comments are enlightening. There's only 449 so far. Contributed yet?Liveblogging the Microsoft financial analyst meeting &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKara Swisher (for it is she, and also Ina Fried) livesnarks.. I'm sorry, liveblogs Microsoft's analyst meeting. Sample extract: "First up, COO Kevin Turner, whose speech is call "Operating Momentum." He comes out like a football coach and tries to make us all greet him back. I don't want to go all Larry David here, but one of the unwritten rules of society is that you don't make anyone under 12 years old or not in a cult do the crowd echo thing."Priceless.Yahoo for sale: possible bidders circling, as board pressure mounts &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"A range of major players interested in acquiring all or a large piece of Yahoo have been prepping possible bids and have been in touch with the Internet giant's board over the last several days."Will Yahoo or the euro get sorted out first? Which will leave the bigger crater? Andreessen Horowitz, of course, flipped Skype like a burger for huge reward. Could it do the same with Yahoo?Popular code recipes &gt;&gt; ifttIFTT - If This Then That - is a Yahoo Pipes-like project for sticking together web apps into ad-hoc programs. What's popular? Facebook, weather alerts and Twitter, just now.Google Docs continues kicking the butts of paid apps everywhere &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWeb"Google Docs just launched three more new features, marking their second day in a row of little but useful feature announcements. The new format painter tool lets you quickly copy style from one bit of text to another. Google has implemented its Fusion Tables as a document type, which enable dynamic and visual uses of data. Finally, Google has added drag-and-drop for images from the desktop directly into a drawing document in the browser window."For a free, or very cheap, product, it offers plenty.Nokia says no Windows Phone smartphones in Australia until 2012 &gt;&gt; TheNextWeb"Despite reports Nokia will launch its first Windows Phone handsets in both the US and Europe in the coming weeks, other regions might not be so lucky. A new report from WP7r.com suggests that Nokia Windows Phone fans in Australia will be forced to wait until the first quarter of 2012 until they can get their hands on the first Microsoft-centric Nokia smartphones."Nokia officially confirmed it, saying none until Q1 2012. Sorry, mates.Government wants open standards to be royalty-free &gt;&gt; eWEEK Europe UK"Francis Maude has confirmed that it will adopt royalty-free standards, to deliver a level playing field for open source"Maude, minister for the Cabinet Office, has clarified the government's policy on seeking open standards when procuring IT equipment, following confusion over whether "open standards" means Royalty-Free (RF) or Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory (FRAND).Technologies available under RF conditions, can be used freely, while those under FRAND terms require users to pay a "reasonable" royalty. The HTTP protocol is free, for instance, while technologies for 3G communications are FRAND."Important distinction.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Friday! Anything good out today? Why, yes, the awesome Gears of War 3, of course! Grab your Retro Lancer and start prodding them Locusts!
It's patently obvious to anyone in the world of IT that app development can be used to create serious wealth. Microsoft's re-entry into the battle for dominance over the mobile computing space signalled by its Build conference in Anaheim, California, this week makes it far easier for talented developers to advance their careers and, perhaps, even make life-changing sums of money.The Wheel of ChangeUp in the clouds, where the Gods of Computing live, there's a wheel. This wheel turns slowly, but once every 12 years or so it completes a revolution and everything changes. The changes from mainframe to mini, from mini to PC, the PC to internet, and now the internet to mobile has each taken around 12 years. Whenever there is a major shift we see a "tsunami of money" enter the market and it washes away giants, creates new land for new opportunities and generally upsets everything in its wake.This process of market consolidation is where value gets created and it's where smart, talented developers can seriously improve their lot – even if they don't make the sort of money needed to buy a helicopter specifically for blowing leaves off of the lawn. I think it's a bubble, but a good one. Let me explain why.Historically, whenever we see one of these shifts a very large number of small ventures sprout up and start producing small software applications. In the UK, a good term for this is "cottage industry": just the odd person or small team, writing some small, useful and essentially cheap pieces of software. Sometimes (although very rarely) some of these small pieces become big business – Google at one point was a university project running on two borrowed servers slung under a desk. Most of the time nothing comes of these ventures.And then there's the rest, and that's what of interest here.On the keynote on the second day of the Build conference we were treated to a surprise visit from Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's CEO. In his keynote, he addressed the crowd for half an hour, but a particularly apposite statement was this: "We want you all. Individual developers. 14-year-olds in their home. People who are cutting code who have a full-time job but cutting code on the side. Small development companies. Websites. Application custom developers. Large Websites. Large application developers. People who work for enterprises. Come one, come all. It's the day and age of the developer. It's the day and age of the Windows developer." (You can find this quote about1 hour, 47 minutes in to the speech.)It's the first part of this that's interesting, with Ballmer calling out that now is a good time for developers to get back into this "cottage industry" mode of thinking. So, now that Microsoft is back in the game (and if you don't think it's back in the game, have you not noticed what's happening with Windows 8 and "Metro"?Here's a refresher), let's have a look at how we as professional developers can take advantage of this bubble.The 90 PercentersIf, like me, you earn your living from software development, it's far more likely that the software that you build professionally is for private, internal use within business. Back in 1999 I went to seeEric S Raymond(ESR to his friends) at a Linux user group meeting in Phoenix. He was giving a talk on his "Cathedral and the Bazaar". I must admit that when I went to see him, I didn't know who he was and wasn't into open source and had never heard of his famous analogy. It struck me as odd that the place was packed – people were standing in the corridor outside on the off chance they'd hear what he had to say.But one thing he did say which changed my attitude towards my job and career was that 90% of professional software development effort goes into building private, internal use software for business.Although I'd dreamt of owning a high-profile dot-com business like Amazon, eBay and Yahoo (this was 1999, remember), it struck me then that statistically, it was far more likely that I'd be writing "boring" software forever that never had more than hundreds of users and wouldn't get millions of "eyeballs" per month, and so really I needed to get good at writing "boring" software.It's likely that you, like me, are a 90-percenter who works on this sort of private, internal use software during the day. But now you can come home and work on your private, cottage industry products that – let's face it – are a bit more exciting because they are more public.But anyway, let's you and I proceed on the assumption that we're both 90-percenters.What to do between now and next ChristmasThere's the iPhone, and there's the iPad. There's the Apple App Store that has hundreds of thousands of apps and millions of downloads a day. Everyone loves the iPhone and the iPad. So you could write software for that.The only problem with writing software for iOS (the term for the operating system that iPhone and iPad both run on) is that the development toolset and language is … how to put this? … horrendously, absolutely awful.Now, before I attract the ire of a hundred thousand iOS developers (probably too late – Ed.), let me explain. TIOBE is a software company thatperforms a regular survey of languages used by software developers worldwide. It's a good barometer of where the industry is in the terms of platforms that are being developed for. The last figures they have show the Objective-C language (essentially the only option for developing for Mac desktops and laptops) at 6.1%.The other languages typically used for building internal-use business applications come in, on aggregate, at well over 60%. What this tells us is what you probably already know – most professional software developers have no experience at using the toolset and language used for developing iPhone and iPad applications.The fact is that if your day job involves sitting in Visual Studio writing C# applications, or building Java applications in Eclipse (which will be most of you – albeit not necessarily in Eclipse), when you fire up Apple's Xcode and start building CocoaTouch applications in Objective-C you're going to come face-to-face with a toolset that has not had the sort of love put into it that the open source community has put into the Java toolset and associate platforms, or that Microsoft has put into VS and .NET over the past 10 years. Apple has been caught on the back foot by the popularity of its tools and is at least one, if not two, generations behind. For example, the iOS version of Objective-C does not havegarbage collection.Note:see correction on iOS garbage collection at end.The danger you have as a savvy, professional, 90-percenter software developer looking to build a cottage industry business in the world of app development is that if you come home after a busy day and you have a wife, three kids, a box-set of Battlestar Gallactica and/or The Wire to enjoy, you're likely to run out of puff pretty quickly trying to get up to speed with iOS. Plus you'll need a Mac, as you can only develop iOS applications on a Mac. Statistically it's unlikely you have one of these either, so you'll need some sort of disposable budget.Android?OK, so what about Android. Now, Android is a better deal for a 90-percenter. You don't need a Mac to develop for Android. You need Eclipse, the Android SDK and the Eclipse plug-in for Android development. As a professional software developer, you probably know some Java or some C#, which for the purposes of developing on Android is close enough.What you get with Android is something that's pretty hacky and slapped together – but in a good way. As a talented software developer you can probably tune into what those Google guys were doing when they build their SDK. Your learning curve will be less steep, and you can likely get momentum going sufficiently well, despite the fact that you're only on BSG S3EP4 and the kids are in a phase of not going to bed nicely.But there's a problem. Well, two. For one thing, the market is far smaller for Android. This means that you're unlikely to make life-changing sums of money on Android. (Would Rovio be the massive success it is now if it was Android only?) But you can win in terms of career opportunities. Once you're in that space it becomes far easier to find new opportunities at work, meet new people, and learn stuff outside of the day-to-day, especially in the hosting and infrastructure space.The other problem with Android is that Android is miles and miles away from building a compelling competitor to the iPad. In my opinion, it almost certainly never will in the consumer space. The iPad is, frankly, too cheap. And I don't mean "inexpensive". The iPad is actuallycheap. It's £399 for the base model. That's a cheap computer. Any Android tablet would have to be £199 for a comparable spec to draw iPad customers out of their market. For me this makes it virtually impossible for Android to build a compelling tablet offering. There just isn't the brand or the ecosystem for someone not to buy an iPad if they have £400 burning a hole in their pocket. (Although watch out for when the dust settles onAmazon's new Android-based Kindle. That could be interesting.)So if you develop for Android, you're only really going to be developing phone apps, not tablet apps. This may or may not suit your proposed business model.At this point, it looks like you're spending from now until next Christmas building Android applications and maybe doing a bit of iOS. But what, you say, about Windows Phone?'Yes, what about Windows Phone?'Windows Phone got more interesting this week. In recent months, both Gartner and IDC have come out and said thatWindows Phone will, by 2013, have a 20% market share of smartphones. At the moment, it has about … 0%. When I last read these forecasts I didn't really believe them. I suspect that I hadn't been thinking about Windows 8, but the Gartner and IDC folks had – and that's what they're paid to do.Windows Phone was a seriously radical move from Microsoft. Microsoft's DNA is imbued with an idea of preserving backwards compatibility at all cost. (Compare this with Apple, which increases its focus and reduces costs by not having this need to maintain compatibility.) Take a Windows 3.11 application and it'll probably work on Windows 7. With Windows Phone, Microsoft junked the previous platform of Windows Mobile: it wasn't able to compete with iOS and Android, and a new approach was needed.OK, so the new approach was interesting. An entirely new phone platform with an entirely new user interface paradigm. All built in Silverlight using .NET and Visual Studio 2010. The old approach of mashing Windows into a small box and a small screen was gone. Windows Phone is another way of building an iPhone, that device Microsoft wanted to compete with. Critics tend to like it as a smartphone unit, and if you consider it in isolation it makes a lot of sense. But the ultimate consumer tends not to like it because, well, the market has got iPhone and Android in it. In the channel, if you're not going to buy an iPhone the retailers will probably nudge you towards Android. Windows Phone is not on their radar.Microsoft has also very noisily done a deal with Nokia whereNokia will start building Windows Phones. Nokia hasn't been looking particularly on top of its game over the past couple of years, mainly because it's in a market with iPhone and Android in it. Microsoft and Nokia then have a joint enemy.Back to you as a jobbing software developer looking to take advantage of the mobile bubble – what does Windows Phone mean to you? I suspect it doesn't mean anything to you without the influence of Windows 8, so let's look at that.Ballmer came out last year andsaid that Apple had "sold more iPads than we would have liked". This statement isn't just about losing licensing revenue; it's more about losing control of the game. The iPad means the world now knows thatthere are whole swathes of people that actually don't need PCs. The big win with iPad is the hardware. Because it runs on ARM processors, it uses far less power which means better battery life, less heat and less noise. It can also be smaller, because it requires less battery power and less space for cooling. Windows 7 and previous incarnations only run on Intel's x86 (ignoring other enterprise-class processors Windows server-class OSes have run), so if you want a Windows 7 PC it will be noisy and have comparatively lousy battery life. Windows 8, however will run on ARM chipsandIntel x86 chips, which means that you can, in theory, run Windows on iPad-class hardware.Windows and iPad come out to playWith that happening, Windows can now play in the iPad market. Remember,there is no "tablet market" – there is an "iPad market". Windows 8 allows Microsoft's partners to build iPad clones based on Windows. To some, that may sound similar to the IBM PC and what Microsoft enabled in that market by producing MS-DOS. You may also reflect on the fact that that strategy worked all right for Microsoft, broadly speaking.More to the point, from a career development perspective the stack you'll be using to build native Windows 8 apps is bang up-to-date. It's all HTML5/Javascript driven, with modern language constructs and extensible libraries written in managed code. Knowing how to build Windows 8 apps will likely make you attractive to employers, not necessarily because of Windows 8; rather, the win will be in the fact that you'll be up there at the forefront and employers tend to like that.So as a professional software developer, if you're already working on the Microsoft stack, developing for Windows 8 is a good way of "freshening up" and making sure that you know the new stuff even if your employer is, like most employers, a generation or two behind. If you're not working on the Microsoft stack, then C# and WinRT (the framework used to build Windows 8 applications) are probably not a million miles away from what you already work with. Plus it's all HTML5/Javascript stuff and hence nicely platform-agnostic and transferable.Another compelling argument for looking at developing for Windows 8 is that it's tied in heavily with Windows Azure, Microsoft's "application execution environment in the cloud". This is less attractive to developers not working on the Microsoft stack today as it's too proprietary-feeling to those who are used to working in a more – coming back to ESR – "bazaar" environment. Windows Azure really is the "cathedral running in the cloud", to continue ESR's analogy.In the world of Windows 8, Windows Phone is something of a misfit. You can see that Windows Phone is a stepping stone in the strategy of Microsoft competing with iOS, but to me it looks 80% luck and 20% judgement. A giveaway is that you can't take a Windows Phone 7 and just run it as-is on Windows 8, despite the obvious similarity between the two platforms. Windows Phone 7's thinking inspired Windows 8 – there was no deliberate strategy there to build an iOS-like platform.My prediction is that Windows Phone 8 will be Windows 8 running on ARM. That will look just like iOS – small device running Application A also runs on large device running the identical Application A.Timesacle: 14 monthsOK, so you've got 14 months. If you've got time and patience, and a Mac,iOS development presents the largest market, and probably the best opportunity to make life-changing sums of money. From a career perspective, I'm not so sure. Apple's development platform is old-fashioned and anachronistic. You can't take skills learned in iOS and transfer them into your job, unless your job is iOS development. For those who are thinking that you can build iOS apps for your boss that expose customer data out – that's good thinking, and another opportunity.However, I would challenge that by saying that without very good reason, business apps should be Web-based and the device treated like any other browser. My view is that any business software development should look to have a life of between five and 10 years, unless specifically directed away from that by business demands. You're more likely to smooth out bumps in the mobile market by avoiding native development of apps and implementing them, as I say, as Web applications.If you've got less time and patience,Android will get your hand into mobile developmentand the sort of problems that exist in that world. You can probably make a decent amount of pin money. You'll learn things that are transferable into your day job. You could think of Android development as a self-executed training course that'll probably be free.And then Windows 8. If you learn how tobuild apps for Windows 8 you'll emerge with skillsthat are bang up-to-date and are readily transferable into your day job. But again, you might make some small amount of money shifting applications. But things get more interesting after next Christmas…What to doafternext ChristmasReality check: I don't think the consumer space is going to love Windows 8 as an alternative to the iPad. I think businesses will love it, and I can see businesses providing Windows 8 tablets to employees to do their job, if only to defray the cost of having to manage iPads that people bring into the office. I think what this gives you is a market for Windows 8 tablets that is large – probably a split like 80% iPad to 20% Windows 8 in the consumer space and a reversed split in the business space. ThusI'm suggesting a tablet market that's 50:50 iPad to Windows 8.Another interesting thing about Windows 8 being a major player in the tablet market is that it brings Windows Phone 8 out in a good light. It could be, for example, that you'll walk into Carphone Warehouse and be presented with a Nokia Windows 8 tablet and a Nokia Windows 8 phone (notice the small "p" in that usage). That is a proposition that customers are likely to buy into.So after Christmas 2012, what do you do in your spare time for your cottage industry app development business? Perhaps it makes sense to develop apps that run on Windows 8 tablets, Windows 8 phone and take those skills into the office and look like a superstar?ConclusionWe are in a bubble so far as software development on mobile platforms go. But bubbles are only a problem if you forget you're in a bubble. For us now, as a community of professional software developers, here's an opportunity we might not see again until 2023: an opportunity where at the very least we can have some fun and build our careers. Get coding.PS: You may have noticed I haven't included Rim (and the BlackBerry and PlayBook) in any of this. Interesting that, huh?Correction:A number of iOS developers have contacted me in relation to my statement that the iOS version of Objective-C does not have garbage collection. This statement does not take into account that Apple has introduced Automatic Reference Counting ("ARC") with the wave of tools associated with iOS5, the upcoming version of iOS. Whilst iOS will not for the time being support the sort of mark-and-sweep garbage collection subsystems typically found on other platforms, ARC does at least smooth over the problems of having to manage your app's own memory (which is my main bugbear with iOS development in this regard) and does so in a pragmatic way given the requirement to support legacy devices without being able to change their execution runtime.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion saw profits collapse over the summer as a lack of new models, low demand for its tablet computer and the unstoppable rise of the iPhone and Android mobiles took their toll.Income before tax fell 54% to $414m (£262m) in the quarter to 27 August, from $904m in the previous quarter. Revenues fell to $4.2bn, at the bottom end of the company's own forecasts.Shipments of BlackBerry phones disappointed Wall Street by coming in at 10.6m, below the 12m that had been expected, leading one analyst to describe the results as a "nail in the coffin" for the management team."Overall unit shipments in the quarter were slightly below our forecast due to lower than expected demand for older models," said Rim co-chief executive Jim BalsillieThe next set of results are expected to be make or break for Rim's current top team, and analysts reacted doubtfully to the company's own predictions of a return to growth in the run up to Christmas.Sales of the PlayBook tablet computer, which launched in mid-April, fell from 500,000 in the first quarter to just 200,000 this quarter. Analysts blamed the fact that RIM had rushed the launch of the PlayBook, releasing it without basic features such as embedded email, calendar and address book applications.Co-chief executive Mike Lazaridis announced a major software upgrade for the device in October. He said: "PlayBook is well below where we would like it to be. We believe it will be ultimately successful in a market which is rapidly growing."Rim launched BlackBerry 7 in its biggest lineup of new phones at the end of August, too late to make an impact on the latest financial results. But management are forecasting sales of 13.5m and 14.5m units in the coming quarter.They are hoping the sales uplift will be enough to carry Rim through its major transition to a new smartphone operating system, QNX.QNX is already used in the PlayBook,  and the first phones are expected early next year.Analysts are sceptical Rim can meet its forecasts, which predict revenues to rise from $5.3bn to $5.6bn.Edward Snyder at Charter Equity Research said: "This report is another nail in the coffin of management. I don't think anybody believes their guidance. Management's credibility is at an all-time low. We're well past the point [where] these guys should be replaced."The reversal in Rim's fortunes has been swift and sharp. The company's revenues nearly doubled in the space of three years, peaking at $5.6bn in February 2011, but have been in fast decline for three quarters now.Tavis McCorut at Morgan Keegan &amp; Co added: "It's pretty clear the BlackBerry platform is now in decline. They really need QNX to reinvigorate the business."Rim shares were down 15.78% at $27.99 in after-hours trading. They had reached highs of $70 in February.
Could you please clarify the various formats for digital books? Then I can decide which hardware to buy. I hope to avoid opting for a latter-day equivalent of Betamax.Lydia WAn ebook format should offer a good reading experience, be an open standard format (or at least openly licensed), have the support of both publishers and hardware vendors, and be guaranteed to work for the foreseeable future, if not forever. Unfortunately, there isn't one. Buying ebooks requires compromises and an act of faith. Always assume your ebooks will not last very long, so you won't be disappointed if they don't.The Wikipedia page onebook formatslists a couple of dozen, but most can be discounted. Some are effectively out of date, such as Microsoft's LIT. Some formats are supported because they are common in other areas and it's useful if an e-reader can handle them. Examples include Microsoft Office document formats (doc, docx) and web-style HTML.Some formats are proprietary and may not be widely supported where you live, such as KML (the HieBook eBook format), RB, (Rocket) and WOLF (HanLin). Another Wikipedia page,Comparison of ebook formats, has a table to show which e-readers support which formats.At the moment, the most attractive (or least unattractive) formats in the UK include AZW (Amazon's proprietary format), BbeB (Sony's proprietary format), ePub, MOBI/PRC (MobiPocket), and PDF (Adobe's Portable Document Format). However, the situation is worse than it sounds because the files can be either unprotected or protected by a DRM (digital rights wanagement) wrapper. DRM can stop you from reading an ebook even if the file format is compatible with your e-reader.DRM is particularly dangerous when the file has to be authenticated by an online server because the supplier can go bust or shut down the server or cut you off. You might think this is unlikely but both Google and Microsoft have done it, albeit not with ebooks.While DRM is often hated by users (if they know about it), book publishers may insist on it. They are understandably afraid of the widespread piracy that afflicts the music and movie industries. Most authors are not going to make up any losses by performing live.In many respects, ePub is the best choice. It was developed by the International Digital Publishing Forum (design by committee), and most popular e-readers can handle it, with the notable exception of the Amazon Kindle. It has two main drawbacks. First, ePub files are based on XHTML and CSS cascading style sheets, and like web pages, can look different on different machines. Second, ePub doesn't require DRM but it allows it, so protected books may be unreadable on the "wrong" system.Historically, MobiPocket has also been a reasonable choice. It is based on an earlier XHTML-based Open eBook standard, which was superseded by ePub, so it could be regarded as a "legacy" format. It is not supported by many leading e-readers including the Sony, Barnes &amp; Noble and Kobo models. However, MobiPocket has two things in its favour: it is supported by software for many mobile phones, and Amazon's AZW is a version of MobiPocket with a new file extension and different identification numbers. This makes it relatively simple to convert a MobiPocket file into an AZW file. There is evena fixthat enables MobiPocket vendors to enable the DRM-protected books they have sold to be redownloaded in Kindle format.Adobe's PDF is also an important format because virtually every e-reader can handle it, and it retains page numbers, but it may not provide the best reading experience on a small screen. Also, PDF files can have DRM copy protection.Finally, there's Amazon's AZW. This is an awkward one to recommend because it is proprietary to Amazon, and most files have DRM. On the other hand, it works well, it has massive support from publishers, and Amazon makes it very easy to buy and consume books on multiple platforms. Although Amazon's ebooks are associated with Kindles, you can also read them in a free Kindle application on a PC or Mac, an iPad, or an Android, BlackBerry or iPhone smartphone.Although we are used to PCs that offer a wide range of choices at every level, the Kindle is a typical vertically-integrated consumer platform. In these, a single company owns or controls everything (or as much of it as it can) from top to bottom: hardware and software design, content distribution, retailing and sometimes pricing. Apple's iPad and Nintendo's Wii are also examples. Vertically-integrated businesses can develop more integrated products with greater ease of use, while freeing consumers from all the burdens of choice. Basically, yougive up your freedomin exchange for a simpler and perhaps more satisfying life.Of course, when the vertically integrated company goes bust, gets out of the business, or changes its mind for any reason, then you may well be stuck with a dying or unsupported system. Usually, you will also be stuck with a load of content that you can no longer access conveniently, if at all.However, ebooks are bits, not atoms, so there should be no physical obsolescence, as there is with Betamax tapes or cartridge-loaded games. As long as you buy ebooks that don't have DRM – or have a breakable DRM – then you can use a program such asCalibreorMobiPocket Creatorto convert them from one format to another.I've spent a couple of decades warning people against storing data in non-standard file formats (Schofield's First Law), but the fact is that all formats change over time. In the wise words ofMark Pilgrim: "Long-term data preservation is like long-term backup: a series of short-term formats, punctuated by a series of migrations." If DRM prevents you from converting ebooks to new formats, as they appear, their chances of survival are probably fairly slim.The safest long-term options are plain ASCII text and RTF (Rich Text Format), neither of which provides a very satisfying format for reading ebooks. The next best is ePub, but I can understand why people buy Kindles.
Apple increased its market share in "media tablets" in the second quarter of the year even as new Android tablets were launched, while BlackBerry-maker Rim sold fewer than 700,000 of its PlayBook tablet, according to new figures released by analysts IDC.IDC also raised its forecast for the number of tablets that will be shipped this year by 17%, from 53.5m to 62.5m - in marked contrast to its gloomy downrating of personal computer shipments, where it has repeatedly cut growth forecasts this year, most recently this week when itsuggested that PC shipments will grow by less than 3% this year. Overall, IDC expects a total of 357m PCs to be shipped in 2011.IDC's forecast, if correct, would mean the media tablet market was 17.5%, or slightly less than a fifth, as large as the PC market in unit terms. But that indicates explosive growth compared to 2010, when 18m tablets shipped, or about 5% in unit terms compared to the 347m PC shipments. Apple had an 83% share of tablet shipments in 2010, IDC says.Theanalysis, which covers the period from April to June but has only just been released, says that 13.6m media tablets were shipped (but not necessarily sold) in the period, with Apple's iPad 2 taking 9.3m – a 68.3% share, up from 65.7% in the previous quarter.Apple's dominance means that the tablet market is beginning to look much more like the MP3 player market, where Apple was a comparatively early entrant and quickly grabbed significant market share – leaving a large number of companies which relied on one company's operating system software, widely licensed, each with small market shares. For MP3 players, the software was Microsoft's Windows Media Player; for tablets, it is Android.That is in marked contrast to the smartphone market, where Android has taken a market-leading 40% share globally, displacing Nokia's Symbian, and is winning new customers who are switching from older "feature phones".Feature phone sales dropped in western Europe in the second quarter for the first time, while smartphone sales grew substantially.Rim's entry with the PlayBook, which it officially said in July had shipped 500,000 in April and May, achieved a 4.9% shipment share over the quarter to June according to IDC. That equates to 666,000 devices, suggesting that shipments slowed down dramatically in June. (Rim's latest quarterly results, covering the period from June to August, are due on Thursday evening UK time.)Its appearance also pushed down the share of Android tablets, which fell from 34.0% in the first quarter to 26.8%.In absolute terms, IDC says the tablet market grew between the first and second quarters from 7.2m units to 13.6m. Android tablet shipments grew substantially, from 2.45m to 3.64m, an increase of nearly 50%. Apple's iPad shipments grew from 4.73m to 9.3m, a 97% growth.IDC suggests that Android tablets will actually see their share fall as low as 23% in the third quarter, which runs from July to the end of September, before growing to 25.9% in the fourth quarter, because of HP's decisions to discontinue its TouchPad tablet and sell them at knock-down price that hascost the company millionsin refunds to retailers and customers who bought it at the full price."In addition to continued demand for Apple iPads, IDC expects many consumers who were on the fence about buying a media tablet to scoop up $99 TouchPads as a result of HP's decision to end production of its tablet product," the company said in a statement. "IDC expects close to a million TouchPads to ship into the channel before the end of the year. As a result, WebOS's worldwide market share is forecast to reach 4.7% in 3Q11. However, with no clear plan to license or sell the OS to other vendors, IDC expects the WebOS market share to shrink back to zero by 1Q12.""Apple's iOS share will continue to lead by more than 40 percentage points over Google's Android for the remainder of the year, but we expect Apple's share to fall closer to 50% by the end of the forecast period as manufacturers bring new tablets to market," said Jennifer Song, IDC research analyst, Worldwide Trackers.• Amazon sold about 2.7m of its Kindle e-readers in the second quarter as it took 51.7% of the e-reader market, IDC says. The second-larger share was taken by Barnes &amp; Noble's reader, with 21.2%, in a market totalling 5.4m units in total for the quarter.Update:Amazon's expected 7in tablet based on a version will be counted as an e-reader, not a tablet, for the purpose of these figures, said IDC: "We expect major vendors to offer their current-generation black-and-white eReaders for less than $100 by the holidays," Tom Mainelli, research director, Mobile Connected Devices, said. "We're also expecting Amazon's much-rumored, color LCD-based device to ship later this year. Because we expect it to run a customized version of Android that ties its use to Amazon's content services, we expect the device to more closely resemble Barnes &amp; Noble's Color Nook than Apple's iPad 2."As a result, our current plan is to count it as an eReader, and that will also help drive shipment numbers."
News Corporation has quietly launched its iPad newspaper The Daily in the UK, seven months after the app made its debut in the US. It has beenavailable on Apple's UK App Storefor at least a week, judging by the dates of reviews posted by iOS users.The UK subscription pricing for The Daily is £0.69 per day or £27.99 for an annual subscription, versus $0.99 and $39.99 respectively in the US. It includes the News, Business, Gossip, Fashion Week, Opinion, Apps &amp; Tech and Sports sections, along with Sudoku and crossword puzzles.News Corporation has not localised The Daily's content. It includes stories on Republican party politics, a fire in Minnesota and US house repossessions, with a two-week free trial sponsored by mobile operator Verizon Wireless, which does not have a consumer-facing business in the UK. The adverts are also from the US edition, including Fox TV series Terra Nova and the Droid 4G smartphone.While British readers with tabloid-trained news sensibilities may enjoy the revelations about Sarah Palin's "sexy past" and a Scarlett Johansson "nude pix probe", some early reviewers on the UK App Store have been distinctly unimpressed with the US-focused content."I can't imagine why anyone would want to read about American gossip, American football or American politics," writes Max Wood, awarding the app one star out of five. "Obama is not our President. Don't care. Don't want this," writes Simon Powell, with the same score.Other readers are more impressed. 'Chubbylove79' hails its design and content: "The writing is strong and I've been impressed especially with the 9/11 articles." Meanwhile, 'littlechristy55' thinks "other publishers should be looking at this app as the way forward for daily, weekly, monthly and yearly subscriptions". That said, both these reviewers ask for more UK-relevant stories.When The Dailylaunched in February 2011, News Corp boss Rupert Murdoch said he had invested $30m into the venture, hiring 100 journalists with an expected burn rate of $500k a week.The company has steered clear of announcing any detailed subscriber or revenue figures since then, although in Mayanalysts were toldthat The Daily's app had been downloaded more than 800,000 times since launch, but had generated a loss of around $10m for News Corp in its last financial quarter.
The last time I attended the Tokyo Game Show was way back in 2000 when we still believed Dreamcast had a chance, mobile phone games didn't really exist and Sony was just beginning its PS2 onslaught. A decade on, the Dreamcast is gone, but Soul Calibur V and Phantasy Star Online 2 were playable on the show floor today – two franchises that began on Sega's beautiful white machine. There was also a heavy smartphone presence, and a new piece of Sony hardware: the Vita.I got a quick hands-on with the new handheld, playing Lumines, which disappointingly looked and played very similarly to the PSP version. It's still obviously about setting those falling cubes into position, attempting to create same-coloured groups of four as a multiplier line runs past, and it still assaults your ears with thumping electronica. But the control system (at least on the level I played) uses none of the accelerometer or touch pad facilities of the new system. It'll also take a while to get used to the small and ultra-sensitive anologue sticks – though the feel of the device is light and comfortable, and that large OLED screen is very impressive.Hopefully tomorrow, I'll get to play Codemasters' F1 2011, which has made it across to the device and is playable on the show floor (see a developer videohere). The portable version features all the correct teams and drivers, and lets you complete across a full season, including practise runs and qualifiers. There's also a snack-sized Challenge mode allowing gamers to complete a range of checkpoint, gate and overtaking tasks, as well as four player online and WLAN Grand Prix races, head-to-head Time Trials and two-on-two co-operative career modes. Meanwhile, new levels of Uncharted: Golden Abyss are being shown this evening on, of all things, a Sony boat trip.I got a good play with two previously unseen levels of Sonic Generations in Sega's meeting room, but I'll write more about that later. Sega also released a new trailer for Platinum Games' promising online multiplayer brawler, Anarchy Reigns (see above). Featuring multiple modes the third-person melee-'em-up has a bizarre roster of post-apocalyptic characters including a cyber-ninja and a rotund pugilist who has cannisters of a performance enhancing drug, running up his back like dinosaur spikes.Also, Sonic isn't the only character at TGS with a 20th birthday to celebrate. Sega was also showing off the newly announced 3DS version of PuyoPuyo 20th Anniversary, which is due out in Japan in December. It's the colour-matching puzzler that fans remember, but this time with a four-player competitive mode and, apparently, the ability to use your own photos as a backdrop. It's gorgeously cute and makes subtle but stylish use of the 3D screen, placing the playing board in a sort of mid-space between the background and the HUD which bursts out from the screen. Lovely.Over at Square Enix, I had a quick go on the brilliantly named 3DS RPG Bravely Default Flying Fairy. The game uses augmented reality for some of the story sections, allowing you to point your console at a card only for a game character to pop up in your living room and play out a monologue-heavy plot sequence. In my demo, a worried looking girl appeared, clearly being pursued by some demonic force; while delivering her lines (in Japanese, naturally) she ran about the room, forcing me to move the 3DS camera to follow her. It's amazingly effective, even though I had no idea what she was saying; indeed, it felt almost theatrical, reminding me of the sort of work done by pioneers of "interactive theatre" such as Punchdrunk. Not sure if we'll ever get a UK release, but a fascinating use of the ARG potential of Nintendo's handheld.Square Enix also had plenty of other RPG action, including the very odd super-deformed musical RPG Final Fantasy: Theatrhythm (see video above), which is due out on 3DS. Also coming to the same console is Kingdom Hearts 3D Dream Drop Distance, which I'm hoping to play tomorrow. I also liked the look of the Vita title Army Corps of Hell, in which you appear to control a large squad of teeny demon killers as they work their way through gigantic boss encounters on a series of furnace-like arenas. Also, you can't argue with a title like Army Corps of Hell.There was also the latest title in the long-running Itadaki Street series of virtual board games starring characters from the Dragon Quest and Super Mario series'. It's enormously colourful and frantic, and the main playing board hovers above a series of finely drawn environments that will be recognisable to fans of both brands. It'll be renamed Fortune Street when it appears on Wii in the West (the first title in the Itadaki Street series to be launched outside of Japan).At Capcom, the show floor today was dominated by Monster Hunter Tri 3G on the 3DS, though an epic looking Monster Hunter 4 (see video) was also announced during a pre-event press briefing. There was also much excitement about forthcoming open-world RPG, Dragon's Dogma (see the TGS trailerhere). Players command a hardened warrior and his squad of AI pals across vast landscapes populated by dragons and massive flying monsters. Looks like there's an emphasis on tactical battle and exploration. The third-person visuals, sprawling vistas and mammoth creatures give it the look of Skyrim, but obviously with a group combat element. It's due out in the US and Japan on Xbox and PS3 next year. I've yet to talk to Capcom about a UK release.I'll be back later with some more from today's events!
Google has begun to exploit the fruits of its $676m acquisition of the airline fare tracker ITA Software earlier this year by launching a flight-price search system for flights between US destinations.The search interface, athttp://www.google.com/flights, arrived in a low-key launch, after the takeover was bitterly opposed by rivals including Microsoft and travel services.Google will collect an affiliate fee from travel websites when people click through from the search engine's service to book flights. Flights can be sorted by travel date, time, airline and price.The service is not yet available for flights outside the US, and Google told the Guardian it could not offer any dates for its launch.However airline analyst Henry Harteveldttold the Boston Globehe was unimpressed with the early version: search results were inconsistent and incomplete, and the booking button doesn't transfer the user's travel dates and destinations onto an airline's website''As with everything Google they focus too much on the technology and not as much on the interface design," Harteveldt, cofounder of Atmosphere Research Group, told the Globe. "This is not a product that is ready for prime time."The deal faced fierce opposition, in which it was argued Google would be able to combine its dominance of internet search – with 65% US share and substantially more in many countries outside the US – with ITA Software's technology to gain an unfair advantage. ITA Software's system was used by many travel sites to find and book flights; they argued that it could favour Google or put obstacles in the way of their own systems.The US Justice Department approved the acquisition in April after a lengthy investigation, but imposed conditions including an agreement requiring Google to license ITA Software's technology to other companies until 2016.Google has promised to make it easier and quicker to find the best prices being offered by airlines. However, the version that debuted Tuesday didn't appear to have anything dramatically different from what other travel search engines have been providing.Kayak, which was among the travel search engines trying to block the ITA acquisition, says it's ready to answer the challenge."We're confident in our ability to compete, and we believe our flight search technology is superior," said Robert Birge, Kayak's chief marketing officer.
Why, Sonos! What has happened to you? You've not only got a spiffy new logo that's somehow reminiscent of a summer of love, but you've alsosold a million units, and you've introduced a new integrated player, the PLAY:3, which for its size (about the same as a farmhouse loaf) produces a fantastic sound.But most of all, Sonos, you've lowered your prices. You're becomingaffordable. This is good news for anyone who hankers after high-quality music delivered wirelessly to their room, butcouldn't really justify the previous prices.Longtime readers will recall that Sonos – which uses its own mesh Wi-Fi networks to connect its devices; only one has to be connected to your router - was notable for quality, and prices.But as it has become more popular, and as the cost of the chips has fallen, so it has brought down prices. So you can, if you want, just buy a PLAY:3 (yours for £259), plug it into your router, and control it using the free app for Windows, Mac (compatible with Lion and earlier), iOS or Android.Alternatively, you can buy the device that plugs into the router – called the BRIDGE (formerly ZoneBridge), which sets up the mesh network – for just £39 (used to be £79) and put the PLAY:3 or its bigger brother, the PLAY:5, somewhere else in the house. Control as before, or use the nifty iPod Touch-like controller, the Sonos Control (£349 – the price drop hasn't quite reached there yet).Yes, yes, you could just plug your computer into your amplifier and speakers. It's not very satisfactory, though, and what Sonos brings to the party is the simplicity of setup (literally, a couple of button presses gets you all networked up) and that you can play different songs or streams in different places, or "pair" them together, create separate playlists for the "zones", and control it all from one or more places. It's streaming music for the rest of us.Included free services are radio streaming (you can get all the BBC ones) and Last.fm streaming. You can also connect it to paid-for accounts with Spotify, Napster and Deezer.So, the PLAY:3. (Notice how Sonos is leaving gaps in its numbering: plenty of room there for a PLAY:1 and PLAY:2, as well as a PLAY:4 in the middle.) As mentioned above, it's about the size of a farmhouse loaf, and available in greyish-black or white. There's an Ethernet port and a power socket on the back, and on the top a small volume up/down button, a white LED and a mute button.For specification freaks, this is surely galling. No USB ports? No line-in? Arguably those latter two could be useful – or even essential – for those who DEMAND to be able to play anything that they have on any medium. Music stored on a USB drive? Yes, but Sonos doesn't do that. Audio from a DVD player? Yes, but the PLAY:3 doesn't do that. (There are other Sonos products – the ZonePlayer series – which offer line-in.) The Sonos system will however play music off a networked drive, so you could attach the USB stick there.Get the PLAY:3 into a system, and the sound really is impressive. The bass comes through distinctly,  as does the treble. The three-speaker system inside does a very impressive job: the sound doesn't have the "boxy" quality that so many small single-unit speakers can give. Next to the pair of Bose Companion 2 Series II speakers (my own, costing £100; they're powered speakers which together are about the same size as the PLAY:3) that I compared it against, the Sonos has a much more level reproduction – no obvious boominess in the mid-range, which is where lots of such systems fail. Yet the treble sound is clear too. And you can ramp up the sound without getting any serious distortion.Overall? A winner. And the general downward trend in prices for Sonos kit has to be welcome. It's taken since 2002 to get to the first million, but it might be rather less time to get to the second one.PLAY:3:£259 from AmazonPLAY:5(not reviewed here):£343 from AmazonZoneBridge:£39 from AmazonMore details:Sonos.com
Groupon, the online discount firm, reportedly plans to make its Wall Street debut within two months after resolving a regulatory dispute.The Chicago-based company is expected to go public in one of the biggest share offerings in the next 12 months. However, an even bigger technology flotation by Facebookis reported to have been delayed until late 2012.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has shelved plans to go public until September 2012, theFinancial Times reported, in order to keep employees focused on product development amid increased competition from Google and Twitter.The social networking giant, which has attracted a $66.5bn (£42.1bn) valuation from trading on secondary markets according to the FT, had been due to float before April 2012, when the company will disclose its first set of financial results because of US regulatory rules.Facebook is reported to have made revenues of between $1.6bn and $2bn in the first half of this year, roughly double reported figures for the first six months of 2010.The Facebook flotation delay opens the door for Groupon to become the biggest of the new generation of internet firms to go public.According tothe New York Times, the online discount firm plans to go public in late October or early November after it resolved an issue with US regulator the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).The $25bn-valued companydelayedits IPO plans last week reportedly because of recent stock market volatility.However, Groupon chief executive Andrew Mason has faced some criticism after theleaking of an internal memoin which he blasted the company's growing army of critics.The leak came during the supposed "quiet period" when companies planning to go public are restricted from talking publicly about their financial performance."While we've bitten our tongues and allowed insane accusations (like in the article above) to go unchallenged publicly, it's important to me that you have the context necessary to brush this stuff off," Mason said in the memo, before listing four reasons why he has "never been more confident and excited about the future of [the] business".Mason, who founded Groupon in November 2008, is expected to begin a roadshow to attract potential investors by mid-October. But he is likely to face tough questioning on the company's long-term prospects amid concern about its valuation and unorthodox accounting methods.Groupon previously had toamend its IPO documents to abandon an accounting methodthat eliminated its substantial marketing and subscriber-acquisition costs following intense scrutiny from regulators and analysts.By some metrics the fastest growing company of all time, Groupon had 35 million registered users last Octover. But its vast marketing spend has seen the company burn through mountains of cash even as sales soared, losing $180m last year and a further $102.7m in the second quarter of this year alone. Revenue at the online discount firm rose to $878m in the second quarter of 2011, compared with $645m in the first quarter and up from $87m in the second quarter of 2010.Many of the hottest fledgling internet firms – including the maker of popular Facebook games, Zynga – had been due to go public this year but the volatility in financial markets has stalled their plans. Tim Curry, an IPO lawyer for Jones Day based in Silicon Valley, said: "It's not so much the level of the market but this kind of volatility that makes it difficult to price [IPOs]".Of the 97 companies to have floated in the US this year, 64% of them currently trade below their share offer price, according to data from Thomson Reuters.
It's an interesting time for book publishers in the app world, to say the least. The creative potential of apps is vast, and still largely untapped. Most publishers are experimenting with apps with varying levels of budget and ambition, across genres including adult fiction, non-fiction, education and children's books.While some book-apps have done well – Alice for iPad made a packet, and Faber's The Waste Landrecouped in less than two months– there's acreeping sense elsewherethat apps aren't (yet) as lucrative as many publishers hoped.Design studio ustwo was one of the first companies to blow that issue out in the open, when its co-founder Matt Mills (known simply as Mills within the industry)told a books conferencethat ustwo's acclaimed Nursery Rhymes with StoryTime book-app had only made £24,048 in revenues versus the £60,000 spent making it, despite being an App Store Books category chart-topper.Can the company's second book-app do any better?Papercutis live on Apple's App Store, and is being billed as an "enhanced reading experience" for iPad. It includes three short stories, with animation, interactivity and sound woven around them. As readers scroll through the text using the touchscreen, it triggers the additional elements. In other words: no page-turning."We wanted to experiment with storytelling," says Mills. "If you look at most of the children's books in the App Store, they're quite basic: they have pages, some interactions and sound, but they don't really try to explore the possibilities of telling stories in a new way."Jonas Lennermo, a Swedish former-journalist who worked on Papercut from the beginning within ustwo, admits to feeling nervous about how it will be received. It was something of a labour of love, working with publisher Shortfire Press to secure the three short stories for the app, while also tapping his music contacts back home to bring in bands to provide the soundtrack."It's very flexible, and works with lots of different content," says Lennermo. "The only restriction really is how much content you can create for it. We could easily do a novel, but it would take a long time and a lot of content creation. We were surprised at how much content this platform swallowed: it's almost like creating a light film. There are plain books and then films, and this is somewhere in between. We think about it as a new genre."What's interesting about Papercut is the way it makes the storytelling process even more collaborative: an author working with sound designers, musicians and user experience designers. That's one reason Ustwo wanted authors to write stories specifically for Papercut, rather than simply whack in a collection of existing stories.Can Papercut make more money than Nursery Rhymes with StoryTime? ustwo sound hopeful, but maintain that they want it to have a creative impact first and foremost, before commercial considerations."I think people will like it, but will also be quite confused," says Mills. "We are experimenting, and showing everyone we need to push the envelope. This is a time of exploration and experimentation in apps, and we're not saying this is perfect, but we're trying really, really hard."Here's the challenge for Papercut: people who buy it will love it, but they'll soon burn through the three short stories and want more. Yet it's clearly fairly time-consuming to create each new stories using the platform, with not-insignificant costs. Ramping up to release, say, one new story a week is a big ask for a company like ustwo, whose business mainly comes from its design and branding work rather than its skunkworks apps team.That's why it describes Papercut as a platform rather than an app: a platform that's presumably licensable to book publishers for use in their own apps. But making a creative splash remains ustwo's main aim, with the company's characteristic confidence that this will ultimately pay off."A lot of people are releasing shit apps because they want to make money," says Lennermo. "Let's forget about money for a while and try to create good stuff. Then things will happen…"
In light of the way Microsoft seems to be falling over itself to produce Kinect exclusives to attract the casual gaming audience, Gears Of War 3 seems almost decidedly retro.Here is an Xbox 360 exclusive that is resolutely hardcore. It comes packed with visceral gun-battles, ear-splitting explosions, bucketloads of blood and you use a good old-fashioned control-pad to play it. Oh, and it's also one of the best games released all year.Committed gamers know what to expect from the Gears Of War franchise, and Gears Of War 3 will tick all of their boxes. Chainsaw bayonets and blood spatters: tick. Hulking space marines: tick. Chest-high walls and new and interesting ways to blast the Locust troops: tick.But there are signs here that Epic want to entice the casual gamer too. The campaign mode contains a short clip of the game's backstory to ground the uninitiated. It also offers a "casual" difficulty setting which allows players only interested in seeing how the story develops to breeze through its 10 to 12 hour-long campaign.WARNING: possible spoilers aheadThe story picks up right where the last instalment left off. Marcus Fenix and the rest of the COG soldiers of the planet Sera have been scattered after the destruction of the last human city, and now eke out a Spartan existence aboard giant sea-barges.Their situation has been made even more desperate by the emergence of a new enemy, called The Lambent, a feral strain of the Locust Horde that have been mutated by Imulsion (the glowing liquid power source of Sera). Not only do these enemies mutate on the fly in battle, they also have a nasty habit of exploding when killed.The Lambent have proven to be such a substantial threat, that they've even succeeded in driving the Locust above ground, turning some confrontations into three-way battles. The plot gets rolling after the arrival of the effete COG leader, Chairman Prescott, who provides Marcus with proof his father is alive and being held captive by the Locust. In short order, Marcus – along with his Delta Squad stalwarts, Dom, Baird and Cole – venture into the hostile terrain of Sera to rescue Fenix Snr.Epic has maintained all year that, while Gears Of War 3 may not herald the end of the franchise altogether, it will certainly end the storyline that has played out over this and the previous two games. Because of this, the developer has pulled out all the stops for Fenix and Delta Squad, providing players with the longest and most layered Gears Of War campaign to date.The action set-pieces in the game are, if anything, even more impressive than in the past two instalments; the introduction of the Lambent has given the designers increased scope to hurl all manner of mayhem at the player.The story is also a marked improvement. Epic's Design Director Cliff Bleszinski has always said that "Gears isn't Shakespeare", but it's clear he and the rest of the talented folk at Epic wanted to hit a couple of emotional notes in Gears of War 3. Between the bangs and bloodletting, the plot finds enough time to peek into the lives a couple of the COGs had before the war with the Locust tore Sera apart. The tone of these moments is also handled more consistently than in Gears Of War 2; when the emotional payoffs arrive, there's no jarring gearshift in mood.The voice acting and dialogue is also a cut above previous instalments. The way in which the COG soldiers trade quips and reflect on the apocalyptic wasteland of Sera with grim gallows humour, lightens what could have been a dour and incredibly downcast gaming experience altogether. To reveal further details of the plot would be to do a disservice to anyone waiting to play Gears Of War 3, but suffice to say Fenix and his cohorts are in for their roughest ride yet.Of course, while the Campaign's first function is to spin a decent yarn (and it does this admirably), its second function is to familiarise newcomers with its controls and veterans with the new weapons, and then point players in the direction of the Multiplayer. To that end, every kill in the Campaign the player scores results in their overall profile leveling-up, ensuring that they are placed in an appropriate skill level in the Multiplayer by the game's matchmaking system. Players who took part in the Gears of War 3 Multiplayer Beta earlier this year will find that Gears Of War 3 recognises their skill-level and any content they unlocked when they sign in.There are three main multiplayer modes: Versus, Horde and Beast. Versus is the mode that fans had a taste of in the beta earlier this year in which up to 10 players – five a side – can have it out with each other across a series of maps in a variety of match-types.All the match types from the beta are present and correct; there's Team Deathmatch (which does what it says on the tin), Capture The Leader (in which players win points for their team by capturing the opposing team's leader and hanging onto them for as long as possible) and King Of The Hill (where players have to take control of an area that sporadically moves around the map).On top of that there's Execution, (in which kills can only be scored by "Execution"-style kills — like curb stomps), Warzone (Team Deathmatch , but with no extra lives per round) and Wingman (in which teams of two try to eliminate the opposition).Then there are the co-op modes: Horde and Beast. Horde is a suitably beefed up version of the same mode that appeared in Gears Of War 2 (and which has appeared in a ton of other games under numerous monikers since then). Once again, players work together to fight their way through 50 waves of increasingly difficult foes. However in this new variant, they face a boss battle every 10th wave, which can be anything from a Lambent Beserker to a series of adolescent Corpsers, to a gigantic Brumak.To aid their survival, players earn cash for every kill they score, and (presumably to encourage teamwork) every teammate they revive. They can then spend their hard-earned cash on fortifications, gun turrets and remote canons.They can also pool resources to upgrade any of their equipment, or buy items that are slightly out of their price range – like the rather expensive Silverback battle mech. Every other wave they're also given tasks – such as accumulating a designated number of kills with their chainsaw bayonets – which, if they accomplish, will earn them ammo and weapon drops.Beast mode is similar to Horde, except players take on the role of the Locust monsters, and their objective is to kill all the human bots on the map. They begin by using low level infantry – such as the claw-wielding Wretches or the suicide bombing Tickers – but will eventually unlock and end up controlling Kantus (who can heal other troops) and Beserkers (essentially walking tanks).Players who prefer the multiplayer to campaign mode will also be delighted to hear that Epic has dedicated servers in place for Gears Of War 3's online play.Gears Of War 3 is a robust gaming package. Aside from the multiplayer and campaign modes – the latter of which can also be tackled in co-op or in arcade mode – this game is filled to bursting with unlockables; ribbons, skins, weapons – everything players need to establish their online shooter credentials.If Gears Of War 3 is indeed this franchise's swansong, Epic can rest easy knowing their world-conquering series ended on something of a high note. It really is one of this year's essential titles.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A burst of 13 apps for your considerationPapercut - Enhanced Reading ExperienceUK firm ustwo has unleashed its latest creative app on the world, with a focus on e-reading. Papercut takes short stories and adds animation, interaction and audio, triggered as you swipe your way through the scrolling text. Three stories are included via a deal with Shortfire Press.iPadPuffle LaunchDisney has launched its first iPhone and iPad game from the Club Penguin virtual world. Puffle Launch is apparently played by more than 150,000 children every day online, so Disney will be hoping the game will be popular with young iOS users.iPhone / iPadDigsterDigster is an iPhone app made by Universal Music Group, which serves up playlists of tracks to be played in Spotify or downloaded from iTunes. Playlists come from Digster's in-house editors or guest artists, and they're not only from UMG-signed acts.iPhoneLayar for BlackBerryAugmented reality browser Layar has launched a BlackBerry version to join its existing iOS, Android and Symbian editions. The idea is the same: point your phone at the world to see digital "layers" of data and content.BlackBerryFlirtMaps Secret EditionSocial location dating service FlirtMaps has launched a new version of its iPhone app which – and this can only be bad news for cuckolded partners – disguises itself as a calculator app until a secret PIN is typed in.iPhoneSoftonic MobaSoftware website Softonic is getting into the app recommendations game with its new Moba app. Out now for iPhone with an Android version on the way, it has a curated selection of interesting apps, with video demos showing them off.iPhoneMercedes-Benz Advanced TechnologiesMercedes-Benz' US division has produced a glossy iPad app showing off some of its technological innovations, from air bags to its COMAND system.iPadBeoPlayer by Bang &amp; OlufsenGot £10.99 to spare and an audiophile fetish to feed? Hi-fi firm Bang &amp; Olufsen's new app "transforms the look and experience of your iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch to match your Bang &amp; Olufsen system", providing streaming radio, access to music and playlists stored on the iPhone, and a docking feature when plugged into an actual system.iPhoneKCRW Music MineLos Angeles radio station KCRW has a new music app for iPad today, which aims to help people dig into new artists played on the station. That means up to 100 featured artists at a time with biographies, videos, blog posts and other content.iPadFaveousSocial bookmarking site Faveous has a new iPhone app which gathers saved links from Twitter, Google Reader, YouTube, Facebook and other services, tying into the existing website.iPhoneThe Daily WConde Nast's latest magazine app for iPad is The Daily W, offering celebrity video interviews, fashion features and giveaways, beauty and travel advice and e-commerce within the app itself. Judging by the App Store screenshots, Calvin Klein is on board as a sponsor.iPadPaul Frank Go Julius Go!Fashion brand Paul Frank has put its name to a new iPhone game starring Julius, its logo-monkey. It sees him collecting snacks in San Francisco, Paris and Shanghai.iPhoneTeespyTeespy is a new cross-platform app – Facebook and HTML5 for smartphones – that claims to be the "gamification of golf scoring". Isn't golf scoring already a game? Anyway... It awards badges for golfing achievements in the real world, while letting players brag to their social networks.iPhone, Android etc (HTML5)You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion will come under the spotlight on Thursday when a Commons select committee investigates whether BlackBerry Messenger played a key role in the civil unrest across England last month.Several MPs on the home affairs select committee are understood to want to put BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) under intense scrutiny following claims thatrioters used the private network to plan the disorder.Unlike Facebook and Twitter, BBM is encrypted and its messages hidden from public view.One committee member who declined to be named said: "There was suggestions from police that BBM in particular was used to facilitate organised crime during the riots. The question is, does [Research in Motion] have a responsibility to monitor its network or should the authorities have the power to do that? That is one of the issues to tackle without equating us with an authoritarian state."Stephen Bates, Rim's UK managing director, is expected to face questions from MPs on the company's view of law enforcement being given additional powers to shut down social networks in times of unrest.MPs are understood to be keen to move away from "kneejerk" responses such as banning potential rioters from websites – as proposed by David Cameron in the immediate aftermath of the disorder – but will approach the "exceedingly controversial" topic, according to the same committee member.Executives from Facebook, Twitter and Rim will all appear before the committee on Thursday afternoon, following appearances from six senior officers from Greater Manchester police, West Midlands police and Nottinghamshire police.A second committee member suggested the social networks would be asked whether they would be willing to release data – including users' messages and contact details – as they do when they are ordered to do so for phone calls and text messages."[The committee hearing] will be about disentagling the rhetoric in the immediate aftermath and how that differs from the realities of the meetings that they've had with [with government and law enforcement]," the MP said.The three social networks were summoned to a meeting with the home secretary, Theresa May, following the unrest. The governmentrowed backon a suggestion from the prime minister that it would look to restrict the sites during times of disorder.Twitter is understood to have flown in its California-based general counsel, Alexander Macgillivray, for the hearing. The Facebook director of policy, EMEA, Richard Allan, will represent that social network.
It's Thursday, the first day of the Tokyo Game Show!
Having taken on wheelbarrows, vacuum cleaners, washing machines and fans, James Dyson now aims to turn another domestic appliance into a must-have object: the fan heater.Dyson's new product, bluntly called Hot, uses technologies first developed for its Air Multiplier, released in May 2010, to generate a fast flow of air without moving parts – but adds a number of the company's special touches, such as heating delivered by special ceramic stones, a swivel base, and a thermostat that stops the heater once the ambient temperature reaches a certain level.Besides its coolly curved design, which echoes the work of Apple's British-born chief designer Jonathan Ive, it also comes with Dyson's other standard feature: a recession-busting price tag of £270. That makes it more expensive than all but one portable heater available on Amazon's site, where devices start at below £10 for a simple blow heater.But Sir James, an adviser to the Conservative party on improving engineering and exports, defended the price, saying that "in hard times, people want something that will last, rather than something cheap that they will have to throw away after a short time. We're appealing to somebody who wants to keep the product and have it provide pleasure over the years".The Dyson Hot does have a number of features that will appeal to the average householder, and especially parents: you cannot burn yourself on it (because none of the exposed parts gets hot), it will cut out if knocked over, the fan system blows hot air further through a room than conventional heaters, and it can also work to cool rooms in summer – as it can be set to heat a room to anywhere between 1 and 37C. And for those who don't want to cross the room to press its buttons, there is a remote control.It also has a feature that Dyson himself insisted on: it doesn't heat the air as other fans do, by blowing it over electrically heated coils. That, says Dyson, means "a horrible burning smell". The solution Dyson's engineers found: pass the air flowing inside the housing over 20 ceramic stones – made, the company says, of "a sintered compound". (The sintering means that the stones are compressed to a solid; barium titanate is also used in capacitors in electrical circuits, and in stone form as the heating element in hair straighteners.)But while the price might look high, Dyson has succeeded repeatedly in persuading people to buy his products: in August the company reported profits up 8% to £206m on revenues up 15% to £770m, and it leads the vacuum market in Britain, France, Switzerland, Belgium, Ireland and Spain.Dyson says that it took 22 engineers including experts in thermodynamics and fluid mechanics more than three years to develop the Air Multiplier technology for use in a heater. Air is sucked in at the bottom and sides and then forced through the "multiplier" system. That also recruits air from the surrounding room as the airflow passes through to help heat it.Dyson warned though that Chinese copies of patented technologies posed a risk to western companies' profits. At the IFA show in Berlin earlier this month the company had to obtain an injunction against a Chinese company that was demonstrating a fan system copied from the Air Multiplier design."The solution to this would be for the Chinese government to pass our patents in a timely manner," said Dyson. "Which they aren't doing. We should have recourse to the law and the courts there should uphold intellectual property rights. If they don't prevent rip-offs then that will stop product development. If it can be ripped off, then it won't be worth developing anything; the copiers haven't had the development costs or taken the risks in producing the finished product. It's very important that the courts uphold intellectual property."Dyson says that the Dyson Hot has 170 patents and more than 270 pending patent applications relating to 21 different technical aspects of the Hot product.
It's a bit late for trailer of the day, but what the heck, let's be a bit maverick – just like the rogue cop hero of Rockstar's Max Payne series. Here's the first gameplay trailer from the forthcoming third title, due out next March on PS3, PC and Xbox 360. It sees Max escaping his past in the US and working as a security consultant in São Paulo, Brazil, where the wife of the rich industrialist he is protecting is kidnapped, leading to a messy shoot-out in the city's football stadium.Take a look and let us know what you think...
The building of fibre-optic and mobile broadband networks is taking too long and the UK is in danger of trailing the rest of Europe, culture secretary Jeremy Hunt has warned.Speaking about his priorities in drawing up the next communications act, for which a green paper is due by Christmas, Hunt said: "We need to ensure we do not make the same mistake in broadband that we made in railways – building our high-speed network 45 years after the French and 62 years after the Japanese."Addressing the Royal Television Society convention in Cambridge, he warned that disputes between BT and rival companies, such as Fujitsu, over the price of renting its telegraph poles and underground ducts to lay their own fibre network were taking too long to settle."PIA [physical infrastructure access] has to be sorted out – and quickly - in a way that allows fair competition with different providers able to invest in our broadband infrastructure."BT is due to announce ducts and poles pricing this month, but rivals are likely to dispute the tariffs and while telecoms watchdog Ofcom has promised to intervene, the matter may not be settled until well into 2012.This will not leave much time to achieve the government's stated aim of connecting 90% of UK homes to broadband by 2015. This summer, Hunt announced how he would allocate some of the £530m of taxpayers' funds reserved for local councils to build their own rural fibre network.On Wednesday, he announced that Suffolk would get £11.68m and Rutland won £710,000. Both will now tender their contracts, with the winning bidders committed to matching the funding.Hunt said: "I am a strong believer that competition is the biggest driver of investment both at the retail and infrastructure level. But I do not believe the market is working as well as it should."He also pleaded with the mobile phone networks to put aside their competitive differences to ensure that the forthcoming 4G spectrum auction is not further delayed. The new spectrum is badly needed by Three and Everything Everywhere, which operates Orange and T-Mobile, in order to cope with the massive increase of internet-driven data traffic on mobile phones.The volume of mobile internet data is tripling every year, and predicted to increase 26-fold by 2015.Vodafone and O2 have spare spectrum and it is feared they may launch legal action to delay the auction, currently scheduled for the second quarter of 2012."Sweden completed their auction in 2009, Germany last year, Italy is doing theirs this week and France will finish theirs this year," said Hunt. "Mobile phone operators must put aside competitive differences and work together in their common – and our national – interest to make this happen."
For several months since thenew interface for Windows 8 was revealed by Steve Sinofsky at the All Things Digital conference, Windows developers have been kept a little in the dark about what the next version of Windows – currently called Windows 8 – will bring to their trade.Althoughsome have been quite vocal, they were told to "hang tight" until the Build conference in September. Now the conference is on, what have we learnt?Are apps important?So this is really the first question to answer. Apps – for me at least – are something of an enigma. I think apps fall into one of three classes. The first are games, such as the popular Angry Birds or Cut The Rope. Second are "gateway" apps to online services, such as Facebook, Twitter, iPlayer, Evernote and so on. The third class are apps that aren't gateway apps to online services, but really should be. I can think of a dozen notetaking or task management apps that fall into this category – but none is particularly famous for the reason that if you're managing data, as opposed to killing abduction-obsessed pigs, that data needs to be up in the cloud.As a developer you may choose not to regard apps as important, in which case the developer story doesn't change at all with the advent of Windows 8 (or in your case, Windows Server 8). ASP.NET, all the various plumbing libraries, jQuery, IIS, SQL Server, etc – all remain roughly the same. All you need as a developer if for your user to have a web browser. And, as you know, web browsers with first class support for Javascript and fast rendering are no longer hard to come by.If apps are important – now what?Windows 8 is a clear and elegant response to the challenge of the iPad. Although Apple has never described the iPad as a tablet on the record, let's for our purposes assume it is.The iPad works (and therefore sells in great numbers – 30m or more so far) because Apple decided to "re-imagine" what a tablet needed to be. One thing they did was to get rid of handwriting recognition. Not only did this not work for them on the Newton, it didn't work for Microsoft either on the tablet PC extensions available with Windows XP and up.The second thing Apple did – which is far more disruptive to Microsoft and Intel – was to change the class of hardware that tablets ran on. By scaling up the kinds of processors used in phones, it was able to build a tablet that was cool to the touch, had a battery life measured in days and was quiet.The reality is that Intel's x86 class of processors is not able to run in these super-low-power environments, and so we end up with desktop and laptop PCs that run hot, noisy and have battery lives measured in hours not days. So Microsoft decided to re-engineer Windows so that it would also run on ARM processors. This means that, in theory, OEMs can produce iPad-class hardware and run Windows on it. This is the game changer, and something that Android as a tablet OS can never get close to doing.The keynote at Build was nearly 100% x86 hardware. In this mode, Windows boots into their "Metro" shell – an interface that resembles Windows Phone 7, based on tiles and very touch-centric. Hitting the Windows key on the keyboard takes you into "legacy mode". (Although I'm not keen on the term "legacy" here – I'm not sure I'm ready to class every Win32 and .NET app in the word "legacy".) Legacy mode looks like Windows 7 and, apart from the usual improvements you'd expect to see in a major Windows upgrade, it essentiallyisWindows 7. We did see some ARM hardware in the keynote – importantly, some from Intel given the closeness of their relationship – but the impression was that this particular story is very much still under development.One word: WinRTOK, so if you want to build native apps for Windows 8 that will run on both x86 and ARM hardware, what are you supposed to do? The answer is "use WinRT".WinRT represents the taking back of the .NET Framework into the core Windows team. .NET was always a renegade project – starting out in the old, old days of ASP+, this particular subsystem grew and matured to where it is today. Back in the days of Longhorn (the giant concept that, slimmed down, became Vista), Microsoft announced WinFX, the idea being that you went Win32 to Win64 to WinFX. It abstracted away the hardware problem of the processor class, and provided first-class managed APIs into the file system, networking stack and so forth. WinFX was binned in 2006. WinRT is the new version of this.Where WinRT is fundamentally different is in who owns it within Microsoft. It is now a first-class element of Windows – in may ways, it nowisWindows. Another massively important point is that WinRT offers first-class support for C and C++ (as you would expect), C#, VB.NET and the other .NET languages (e.g. F#), again as you would expect.But probably not as you were expecting is first class support for Javascript. This means that when you're building your new Metro-style applications, you write the script to control your Document Object Model (DOM) in Javascript, but when you do this you are directly plumbing straight into Windows as if you were using C.Microsoft is pushing WinRT as, effectively, a replacement for Silverlight. This is happening because Silverlight (used for creating Windows Phone apps) is not something for creating Metro-style apps. If you look at these Metro-style apps, every one of them is like an extension of the master "Metro Shell" application. There's very little delineation of boundary. Silverlight is more like a flashy Windows Forms, an old-school way of building apps from the mid-90s. Microsoft want to move people away from that.Another odd thing about WinRT development is that to do this you'll be using the same open standards and approaches you use to build web apps today, but they'll only run on Windows and will always run locally. This is likely to be a bit of a "mind boggler" for developers – certainly my Twitter feed yesterday was full of confusion on this. To be succinct: WinRT is only for building Metro-style, locally-executing, packagable applications.Features of Metro-style appsI alluded to this idea that Metro-style apps are kind of mashed in and layers into this sort of "über-application" of what I'm calling the "Metro Shell". In the demos, you really can't see where one app ends and another begins. Personally, I'm really not convinced on this from two fronts.In the first instance, do developers really want to build "functional extensions" to a pre-existing uber-application? Developers like to build apps that are their own little world, that bring users in and add value. It's unclear to me how developers make a name for themselves if they're just adding functionality in. This works for Microsoft as everything is theirs – they own the stack and that's great for them.There are neat features of this. For example if you search on Bing for "WinRT" you can swipe in your other apps, click on the built-in Twitter app ("Tweet@rama") and the search term automatically flows across. This is convenient, and certainly not something that happens in Apple's iOS, but in all honesty I can see this sort of interaction being extremely limited.It's done by setting centrally defining contracts that apps can register as having an understanding of. WinRT then marshals the data between both. My first thought on hearing this was "this is DDE!" – the mechanism used for passing rich data between applications in the days before COM. Although DDE was hard to implement, my recollection is that this approach failed because the world doesn't really work like this. It's too hard a problem to solve if you consider the whole ecosystem, as opposed to just one vendor with lots of different departments and projects.This is the sort of flawed thinking that Microsoft has been prone to in the past – it's a very "ivory tower" approach: they have had a good idea, and why would anyone question it? But this is a potential weak point.Internet Explorer: now it goes up to 10!I'm not going to go much into IE10, as this is all obvious stuff. Microsoft appears to have got its standards story straight from a cultural perspective, so don't expect weirdness. (I would personally love to see IE10 just become a shell for WebKit, but I don't really imagine this will ever happen, but wouldn't it be good if it did!)One interesting feature is that you can run IE10 in full screen mode with no chrome (the window trimmings) at all. This means that if you're editing a document in Office 365, Microsoft's cloud version of the desktop Office offering, it'll look essential the same as it would on Windows: the tabs, address bar and caption all disappear, and you just get the rendered document. Of course, this would also be the case with Google Docs.The App StoreMost press coverage talks about the "app store". This is interesting as Microsoft has never had anything other than a Marketplace. This is probably analogous to people calling a vacuum cleaner a Hoover – Apple has just done a nice job of making the term generic.The first important thing about the Windows app store is that it will be curated. Apps will have to pass certification. A nice thing about this is that Microsoft is really good at certification, as it has been doing it for many, many years. It's also making two really fabulous moves with regards to getting apps up on the store.Firstly, the Dashboard you use to get your app on the store tells you how long each stage is likely to take – eg, three hours for this part, six hours for this and so on. Secondly, Microsoft is making public the utilities that will be used to check compliance. Thus as a developer you will know that you app is likely to pass the tests before you send it.This increased transparency makes it clear that Microsoft does not want developers to end up in the "vortex of unknowing" as they often are with Apple, and also don't want Windows 8 becoming Malware Central as is increasingly the case with the Android Market.The second point about the app store is that any app that runs on Windows can go on the app store, legacy or not. (Actually, this could be good or bad.) The example given in the keynote was Quicken. This is great in that it creates instantly a massive ecosystem and a huge app store – something monumentally larger in scale than the Mac App Store or the iOS App Store.But it's not so good in that it makes it swampy. How is anyone really going to pick out the Metro-style apps they want from the plethora of "legacy" apps?Touchscreens – you probably don't have oneHere's an interesting problem – there's quite a lot of screens out there without touch capability. As a society, I predict a decade of frustration as we all instinctively reach out and touch our desktop and laptop screens to interact with the touch-optimised Metro interface on our non touch-aware screens. Nothing happens, and you get smudges on the screen to boot.In fact,barely anyone who's been downloading Windows 8 this morningis likely to have a touchscreen. Attendees of Build got given a Samsung tablet as a freebie – so they're OK.One way around not having a Windows 8-capable tablet – recommended by my good friend Alex Trott (@alextrott_) – is to use an Apple Mac, install Windows 8 in Parallels and then use Parallels Mobile from your iPad. Your mileage may vary, but please do get in touch to tell me how you got on with this approach!Charles Arthur notes:Alex made ashort film of Windows 8 DP1 running on his iPad: it really is very, very slow, but at least it's on a touch screen.Windows Phone: home?Windows Phone (WP) remains something of an enigma in this. I was expecting, given that WP is all Silverlight and Metro already, that WP apps would Just Run on Windows 8. This isn't the case – in the keynote it was necessary to slightly tweak and cross-compile the app to make it work on Windows 8. This was disappointing, and something I hope that they fix.More to the point, if Windows 8 becomes a compelling tablet story and can challenge the iPad, Windows Phone starts to make a lot more sense going forward. Also, could Nokia make a really decent tablet running Windows 8? I suspect that if anyone has the industrial design nous to challenge Apple then Nokia is a strong contender. In a world where a Windows Phone 8 plays nicely with Windows 8 desktop, Android and its associated ecosystem starts to look a little hacky, a little dirty and not a serious contender.ConclusionAll of this sort of makes Windows "the application itself", as opposed to "applications that run on Windows". So in a Windows 8 world, perhaps we're looking at web applications (and I include Facebook, Flickr, Twitter and so on as web applications here) for building and creating content and using this Windows 8 Metro Shell "über-application" for searching stuff in the cloud as well as managing the odd bits and pieces that you happen to cache on the local device. So again, I personally come back to questioning the idea of local apps at all. Surely over time – and I suspect this will absolutely be the case for consumers – the cloud becomes the computer, and the OS you run has no relevance at all.But at least out of this we're likely to get a good competitor to iPad. And, as we know, a market with no competition is not good for consumers.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit
Apple has never hidden the fact that it has a stricter censorship policy for iOS apps than for other forms of entertainment. The debate about whether this is unfair is heating up once more this week, however, after it removed an iPhone game calledPhone Storyfrom its App Store.The game was released by Italian developer Molleindustria, whose mission statement is to "reappropriate video games as a popular form of mass communication" and "investigate the persuasive potentials of the medium by subverting mainstream video gaming cliche".In Phone Story's case, that took the form of four mini-games about the "troubling supply chain" behind smartphones – all smartphones, not specifically iPhones – including coltan extraction in Congo, outsourced labour in China, environmental waste in Pakistan, as well as the mania for gadgets in the West. One of the mini-games sees workers leaping from their factory building: a clear reference to suicides and attempted suicides by workers at Apple's manufacturing partner Foxconn.Molleindustria said that all its net revenues from sales of the iPhone game would go to charities tackling corporate abuses.A game where you have to catch plummeting factory employees, oversee underage miners and distribute smartphones outside a store with a white pear logo on the front? Apple's disapproval comes as no surprise, but in aninterview with Gamasutra, Molleindustria's Paolo Pedercini says that in itself is a comment on the iOS ecosystem."Here's the problem: the unanimous reaction from developers community has been, 'Wow, it's incredible Phone Story made through Apple's review process'. To me, this signals a full acceptance of a regime of censorship, the equivalent, for developers, of what journalists call the 'chilling effect'. I'm sure that Apple doesn't spend that much time in policing its marketplace, because the developers are already censoring themselves."Pedercini goes on to talk about Apple's wider attitude to cultural products. "Of course, Apple has the right; it is the acceptance of Apple view about the cultural status of the 'App'. For them, games and applications are not part of culture like books or music. Try to imagine what kind of reaction iTunes would provoke if they banned all the songs with 'excessive objectionable' content."On one level, Apple can't be faulted for its transparency on this score. In September 2010, it published some App Store guidelines, available to all developers (andreprinted in fullat the time on several websites). "We view Apps different than books or songs, which we do not curate," explained the document."If you want to criticize a religion, write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical app. It can get complicated, but we have decided to not allow certain kinds of content in the App Store… We will reject Apps for any content or behavior that we believe is over the line. What line, you ask? Well, as a Supreme Court Justice once said, 'I'll know it when I see it'. And we think that you will also know it when you cross it."According to Pedercini, Apple's email informing him of Phone Story's removal claimed the game had crossed four specific lines, in the form of specific guidelines for unacceptable apps. Two relating to charities and contributions appear to be wide of the mark, with the guidelines focusing on in-app donations, while Molleindustria was merely saying it would donate its download revenues to charities once it was paid.The other two flouted guidelines relate to depictions of "violence or abuse of children", and "excessively objectionable or crude content". The former appears to be crucial to the satirical intent of the game, while the latter is something of a grey area – who is most likely to object to the content here: users or Apple?Judging by his Gamasutra interview, Pedercini is fairly pessimistic about his chances of getting a resubmitted version of the game approved. In the past, these situations have been resolved – for example Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist Mark Fiorehad his NewsToons app rejected, sparking a media row over censorship, before resubmitting it unchanged and being approved. However, the subject material there was politicians and public figures, not Apple's own business.The rejection of Phone Story raises wider questions for app publishers beyond the Games category in 2011. What kind of treatment could a newspaper or magazine expect if it ran a lead feature exploring exactly the topics highlighted in Molleindustria's game, for example?It should be noted that thus far, Apple has shown no appetite for censoring editorial-based apps in this way. But the debate around how an app store owner responds when an app criticises and/or satirises its own business practices and those of its partners is not just restricted to Apple: it's one for all the platform owners, device makers and mobile operators launching their own curated stores.Apple declined to comment on the story when contacted by The Guardian.
A burst of 12 apps for your considerationTurntable.fmNo, us Brits still can't access social music service Turntable.fm, although its founders say they're working on the necessary licensing to open it out beyond the US again. In the meantime, it has an iPhone app that mirrors the site: people sign in, create avatars and then play songs to one another.iPhoneHow To Spend It MagazineThe Financial Times may have removed its main app from Apple's App Store, but it is still releasing spin-off native apps for iOS. Its luxury lifestyle mag How To Spend It now has an iPad version, which is free to download and use, with 60 searchable issues and new stories throughout the week.iPadCitrix Receiver for BlackBerry PlayBookThe Citrix Receiver enterprise virtualisation software has come to RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook, with the release of a beta app for users to test.BlackBerry PlayBookNatWest CricScoreNatWest has sponsored a new cricket-scoring app, just in time for, er, the end of the domestic season. This isn't about following professional cricket, but about scoring matches, keeping tabs on runs, wickets and the rest, before uploading them to the Play-Cricket site for analysis.iPhoneTatler Restaurant Guide 2011British magazine Tatler has launched an eating-out guide, and isn't scared of shouting about it. "Not an average app, but the absolute App. The guide to the best of the best... up-coming chefs along with the maestros, from temples of haute-cuisine to jam-hot holes-in-the-wall." It sorts them by location, cuisine and mood.iPhoneWestfield Stratford CityThe new Westfield shopping centre in Stratford has an official app already on iPhone and Android, with a location-based guide to shops, a find-your-car feature to ensure  you don't lose your motor, offers, videos and social features.iPhoneGigBeatThe excellent Songkick live music app has yet to launch on Android, but now there's an alternative: GigBeat. Like Songkick, it scans the music on your phone and then alerts you to upcoming concerts by those artists. And if there's no music on your phone? It logs into Last.fm and... Songkick, to pull down your data.AndroidBeck's When I Drink I Don't DriveAlcohol brand Beck's has published a new iPhone app that aims to put people off drinking and driving. "In order to test your driving ability, you need to keep a Beck's key in a moving keyhole," explains the App Store listing. "Fail to do so, and the app automatically dials the cab company in your area. When you drink and drive, there's no going Beck's!" Er, indeed. Although it's available in the UK App Store, the screenshots indicate this may be a non-UK app.iPhoneJust Fish – James MartinBritish TV chef James Martin has joined Jamie Oliver, Nigella and others on the App Store. His iPhone app offers 77 fish recipes, with more to come in future updates.iPhoneLumix LinkAndroid app Lumix Link is an official Panasonic product: an app to receive photos and videos over Wi-Fi from a Panasonic Lumix digital camera, and then upload them to Flickr, Facebook, YouTube and Picasa.AndroidFormspringSocial Q&amp;A service Formspring – big among The Kids with 25 million users – has launched an official iPhone app, to ensure people can get their questions answered on the go.iPhoneAudi IAA 2011Audi has released an iPhone app to tie into the IAA show, with a guided tour of its stand, maps, an audio tour and a QR code reader to scan codes on the stand and find out more about Audi's new cars.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Android phones featuring Intel chips should be available in the first half of 2012, Intel executives said on Tuesday at its annual developer conference in San Francisco.WhileMicrosoft showed off Windows running on ARM-based systems, Intel and Google on Tuesday launched a development partnership to get the Android mobile operating system to run on Intel's lower-powered Atom chips.The move is the latest effort by Intel to get into the booming smartphone market, where processors based on the ARM architecture devised by the Cambridge-based company of the same name dominate.Google and Intel say they will work together to optimise future versions of Google's Android mobile software for Intel's Atom processors, hoping to speed the development and time-to-market of future Intel-powered smartphones.The move could jump-start Intel's efforts to expand into the market for mobile phones and touchscreen tablet devices at a time whensales of PCs are slowing in mature markets such as North America and Europe.Intel is allying itself with one of the biggest players in the mobile industry. Android dominates the smartphone market, with around 40% of worldwide sales, well ahead of rival operating systems from Apple, RIM, Nokia and Microsoft.Its problem in reaching the smartphone market has been that the x86 architecture that it uses, while well-suited for heavy computation on PCs, consume too much power to be efficient on smartphones with limited battery lives. Instead, smartphones use chips made by companies including Texas Instruments and Samsung, which in turn license the architecture from ARM.But Intel's chief executive Paul Otellini, speaking at the conference, said the smartphone market is still in its early stages."The smartphone business is not established in terms of the ultimate shakeout of who's going to win and who is going to lose," Otellini said. "You saw what happened in terms of how fast Android took share from Apple. So good products on good platforms can really still make a big difference in this industry."While Android technically already could support Intel chips, the new partnership will make it much easier for a manufacturer to bring an Intel-based Android phone to market.Until now, it has been up to phone manufacturers to make their Android phones compatible with Intel chips. But future versions of the Android software will be optimised to work with Intel chips and technologies."It's really about Google saying that Intel is going to be a first-class citizen in the Android ecosystem," said David Kanter, an analyst with Real World Technologies. But he added that Intel still needs to win over handset makers if it hopes to succeed in the smartphone market.Otellini also again highlighted his confidence in the new "ultrabook" computing market during Tuesday's speech, saying the lighter, sleeker laptops should hit store shelves in time for Christmas.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWellPoint hires IBM's 'Jeopardy!'-Playing computer system Watson &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Watson, the "Jeopardy!"-playing computer system, is getting a job."WellPoint Inc. and International Business Machines Corp. are set to announce a deal on Monday for the health insurer to use the Watson technology, the first time the high-profile project will result in a commercial application."Jeopardy, if you didn't know, is the US quiz show in which players are given parts of an answer and have to offer the question (eg "To marry Elizabeth, Prince Philip had to renounce claims to this southern European country's crown." The 'answer': Greece.)So to start from a set of symptoms and work back to a diagnosis is perfect.Wonder how long it will be before it appears in an episode of House.Russian Black SEO ? Google.ru &gt;&gt; Contagio"I visited Russia and needed to help someone purchase a new computer. This post is the result of the interesting experience, which should at least partially explain the share of malware from Russia ."The two reasons I saw were the widespread use of pirated Windows that cannot be updated and poisoned Google.ru results for any commonly used software - nearly all Google Sponsored Links for searches of Adobe products, antivirus products, free players and utilities will redirect you to malware downloads. Sites.google.com is most commonly used domain for advertising these malicious 'products'."Scary tale.HTML5 and CSS3 &gt;&gt; The Expressive Web - BetaJust in case you needed another HTML5/CSS3 playground: "HTML5 and CSS3 bring loads of new features and functionality to the modern web. This site is a resource and showcase of some of the newest, and most expressive features being added to the web today."However, here's what you might not expect: it's by Adobe.DIY flying robo hacker threatens wireless networks &gt;&gt; CNET"With a name like SkyNET, it's got to be scary. This flying robo-hacker deserves its 'Terminator'-inspired moniker: Although it stops short of actually hunting humans, it's a potential nightmare for anyone with a wireless home network. Worse, it's a DIYer's dream: cheap and easy to build and fun to operate."SkyNET combines a toy helicopter and a computer configured to attack Wi-Fi networks. The result is a drone the CIA would be proud of. The nasty little device can compromise computers on wireless networks and dragoon them into botnets. Botnets are widely used for hacking, denial-of-service attacks, and spamming."Two thoughts: the batteries don't last that long; air rifles are legal in the UK, and those things would make interesting target practice.CycleStreets: now in mobile form &gt;&gt; Cyclestreets Blog"Today, we're very pleased to announce the beta mobile web version of CycleStreets - written by me, project-managed by Martin, and funded by Cycling Scotland:"It's athttp://m.cyclestreets.net/."Built in jQuery Mobile and HTML5, this extends CycleStreets' mobile support beyond our well-received Android and iPhone apps to cover other platforms, including iPad and BlackBerry."Yay for Cyclestreets!Privacy-violating, useless AVG antivirus app pulled from Windows Phone Marketplace"To the surprise of many, an antivirus application was published on the Windows Phone Marketplace earlier in the week. The publication of AVG Mobilation for Windows Phone was peculiar for two main reasons. The first is that Windows Phone simply doesn't have any viruses to scan for. Second, Windows Phone applications are sandboxed; they have no access to the system files or other applications. Even if a virus were to be developed for the platform, the virus scanner would not be able to detect or remove it."AVG was apparently undaunted by these obstacles, and developed the free, but ad-supported, Mobilation regardless."AVG didn't really cover itself in glory here.Sony's OLED VR goggles display virtual 750-inch cinema screen | DVICE"Just like the CES prototype, there will be two 0.7-inch OLED screens (one per eye) with a resolution of 1280x720 (no 1080p) positioned at 45-degree viewing angles. The goggles will also be capable of receiving 5.1 surround sound from integrated speakers and has two HDMI ports for easy connection to game consoles, HDTVS, Blu-ray players, etc."Release? November 11 in Japan. Price? About $780. 'Nuff said."Game. Set. Match. If the display works -- and we do mean, works well, then we're talking about a 750-inch display in Japanese person's teeny tiny apartments -- and then the rest of the world, for that matter."While VR and computing power have come a long way since VR flopped badly in the 1990s, this is a classic example of a technology desperately looking for a market. Also overlooked: VR makes you feel desperately ill if you use it for extended periods.Microsoft Surface revolutionizes how we read the paper &gt;&gt; PSFKPhoto shows people resting their drinking glasses on a Microsoft Surface (multi-touch-sensitive) table and each reading a "paper"."Sure it's a Surface 1.0 unit as 2.0 isn't out in the wild yet but this is one way (not the only way) I'd like to read my newspaper. At Casa Clayton, we currently have a PC in the kitchen that is used to keep in touch with news from the motherland (UK) and we often find ourselves discussing stories but this would be a much nicer way to do it - at high resolution on a big screen with lots of manipulation capability."Oh, absolutely - everyone wants to spend thousands of pounds/dollars on a fragile piece of equipment that's reliant on electricity supplies and which can't be carried around and whose height isn't adjustable to read their newspapers on. It's a marvel they aren't in every room.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Wednesday, and right now I'm in Tokyo for the Game Show! Sorry, had to mention that.
Widespread confusion over the scale and nature of cyber-criminality is undermining efforts to tackle a menace that may be costing the economy billions of pounds a year, a report has warned.The study says the government must take a firmer lead and provide people with clearer advice about what they should be doing to protect themselves from online fraud and theft.Businesses have been at fault, too, it says, with company bosses delegating responsibility to IT specialists within their firms in a deliberate effort to keep a problem they may not understand "at arm's length".The report, from the Chatham House thinktank, sets out how concern over a "vast" number of cyber-threats has led to a clamour for government and big business "to do something".But this has proved difficult because, it says, "there is, in short, no agreement on the nature and gravity of the problem" and "little sense of governmental vision or leadership" either."The issue of cyber-risks needs to be made accessible for those who are neither familiar with technology nor highly IT-literate," the study warns.It focuses on the potential vulnerability of those things deemed part of the "critical national infrastructure" (CNI). Among these are the emergency and health services and those businesses that provide energy, food transport and water.This report argues that the CNI could now include Google and Amazon because both have become integral to "the functioning of a complex modern economy".Its authors approached 100 of the UK's top businesses and banks. They found many staff believed cyber-threats were already out of control, with one bank claiming criminals were trying to "groom" members of staff to "compromise their corporate loyalty."The report says: "One financial institution reported that the volume and sophistication of threats are now outstripping the organisation's capacity to respond."An interviewee at one major high street bank was distinctly lacking in optimism, noting that there seemed to be 'no natural predator to the bad guys' and predicting gloomily that 'we have crossed the Rubicon; we are not going to keep ahead of this.'"But while there seems to be a consensus that the problem is growing, many companies appear to be taking it less than seriously, the report states."In most cases, they declared themselves to be aware of cyber-security threats. Yet these same organisations were willing … to accept an unexpectedly high level of risk. In several cases it was even decided that cyber-risk should be managed at arm's length from … the board and senior management. Paradoxically … a heightened perception of cyber- security risk is being met with diminished resources and interest."The thinktank says some executives were guilty of having "deliberately pushed [the cyber problem] below the boardroom level in order to remove a complex and baffling problem from sight". Other senior managers seemed completely unaware of the danger to their firms.The reports concludes that ministers must play "an integral role in informing wider society and raising levels of awareness" because there is no coherent picture of what is being targeted, and by whom; nor is their any clarity over which systems and services are potentially vulnerable to cyber-attack.Last year's Strategic Defence and Security Review ringfenced an additional £650m to bolster the UK's cyber-defences, describing the issue as being of "tier-one" importance – the highest priority.Earlier this year, a Cabinet Office-commissioned report put the annual cost of cyber-crime at £27bn, but some experts questioned the findings. They were concerned that the study involved Detica, a security firm that is part of the arms manufacturer BAE Systems. Detica funded the Chatham House report but the company was not involved either in researching or writing the study.
The research group IDC has followed Gartner in once morecutting its forecast for the number of PCs that will be sold this year, and predicts that the number sold in "mature markets" including North America, Europe and Japan will remain below 2010's levels until 2013.Worldwide sales grew by just 2.7% in the second quarter, compared to a 2.9% forecast; for the year IDC has cut its expectation from 4.2% growth overall to just 2.8%. It did not however give specific numbers for machines sold.For 2011 it expects 356.9m PCs to be sold, compared to 347.1m in 2010.The cut in the forecast follows acut of its forecast from 7.1% in February to 4.2% in June, and still expects worldwide PC sales to exceed 500m by 2015."An unfortunately familiar combination of cautious spending wrought by economic fears, PC saturation in mature markets, and budget cannibalization from competing devices, such as media tablets, is expected to contribute to weak growth in the second half of the year," the company said in a statement. "With poor conditions persisting, and aggravated by increased concerns relating to US and European economic growth, IDC has also slightly lowered its forecast for 2012 from 10.2% to 9.3% year-over-year growth. For 2013 through 2015, growth is still expected to be around 11%."IDC forecast for PC sales 2010-2015, broken down by mature and emerging markets, desktops and notebooks.A key part of that growth will come from sales to "emerging markets", which includes China, the Far East, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, which are expected to see robust growth: overall sales are forecast to grow at a compound rate of 14% to reach a total of nearly 342m by 2015. Sales in those markets already outstrip "mature markets", and the gap will grow by 2015 to leave the emerging markets 76% larger.Key elements of weakness were that small businesses and consumers in the mature markets held off buying PCs: sales in western Europe dropped by 20% compared to a year ago, and the US by 5%.China is now the largest market for PCs in the world and one of the fastest-growing, although Microsoft may not benefit from that immediately: chief executive Steve Ballmer has complained thatMicrosoft only gets 5% of the earnings per PC sold there in China  that it does in the US because of piracy.A key change forecast by IDC is that sales of desktop PCs in mature markets will taper off, forecast to fall 7.9% this year, grow only 0.5% next year and to fall over the following three by a cumulative 7%. Laptop sales in mature markets though are forecast to grow; they already make up nearly two-thirds of sales.Jay Chou, IDC's senior research analyst, echoed comments made by Ranjit Atwal of Gartner, saying that PC manufacturers had to some extent themselves to blame for low sales: "While consumers have pulled back in part due to economic circumstances, consumer PCs have also suffered due to a relative lack of compelling offerings. With the excitement of mini notebooks largely past, the PC industry has struggled to come up with compelling features to keep buyer interest."Chou pointed out that there is competition for consumers' budgets from smartphones and media tablets, which he said sold more than 107m and 13.5m units respectively in the same period. He added thatHP's proposed spinoff of its PC business"has also contributed to uncertainty in the market as the channel and corporate users re-evaluate their next steps."
Windows 8, the next version of Microsoft's operating system, will sport a dual interface aimed at both tablet and desktop computers, and the company will approve or reject third-party apps for the tablet version.Details of the first developer preview of Windows 8 were unveiled at the Build conference in Anaheim, California, where the week-long meeting of developers has just begun.Microsoft boasted of the success ofsuccess of Windows 7, which division chief Steve Sinofsky said has now sold 450m copies – up from 350m in April – and which has now overtaken Windows XP in consumer usage. (XP still leadsworldwide, though.)Although Windows 8 will run on both Intel and ARM chip architectures, apps will have to be recompiled for the latter; there will be no virtualisation of Intel apps to run on ARM chips, which are already used in Apple's iPad, Android tablets and HP's discontinued TouchPad.Furthermore, applications for the ARM version of Windows 8 will only be available through the "Windows Store" – and only apps compiled to use its "Metro" touch interface will appear there.Windows 8 is expected to be released to the public in about a year's time.Expectations are high. Microsoft is under pressure from Apple at the high end, and from iPads and other non-Windows mobile devices at the low end. Competitors talk of a "post-PC" world, in which the rapid growth of tablet sales in the developed world is being mirrored by a rapid slowdown in PC sales; in western Europe,PC sales fell by 20% in the second quarter of 2011, according to the research company IDC.A key part of Microsoft's long-term strategy is thus to deliver Windows 8 tablets on ARM processors (used in smartphones and existing Android and Apple tablets) for power efficiency and long battery life. Existing applications will have to be recompiled to run on ARM. In fact, Microsoft appears not to want existing applications to run on ARM unless they are redesigned for Metro – though it says there will be a version of its Office suite for ARM systems. The company told journalists that Windows 8 ARM tablets will be locked down so that apps can only be installed from the Windows Store, and that only Metro apps will appear there.Nothing has been finalised yet, but the intention is that Windows 8 on ARM will be mainly Metro-based, though it appears that the Windows Desktop will still be present.The initial briefing has left the future of Silverlight, Microsoft's Flash-like application framework which is a key development platform for the Windows Phone smartphone system, up in the air. Silverlight programs will only run in the browser on Windows 8 Metro.Hands-on: using Windows 8Windows 8 is an OS with a dual personality: for tablets, and for desktops.The tablet side, called Metro, is a new user interface built from the ground up for touch control, and borrowing from the design used for Windows Phone 7. Instead of a Start menu with small icons, Windows 8 has chunky tiles, used both for launching applications and to display information. Run a Metro app and it fills the entire screen – a style Microsoft calls the immersive user interface.Internet Explorer 10 nicely demonstrates this immersive style. Browse the web, and all you see is the web page. If you need to see the address bar or other controls, you swipe the screen at top or bottom to display the application bar. Tap the page again and the controls disappear.There is one concession to PC-style multitasking, which is the ability to have two apps side by side. In this mode, one app occupies most of the screen, but another app runs alongside it.Another feature of Metro is "Charms". Flick the screen on the right, and five icons appear, labelled Search, Share, Start, Devices and Settings. These form a common user interface for performing standard tasks: searching, sharing content on social media such as Twitter or Facebook, interacting with devices like printers, or changing application settings.This Windows 8 game, called Word Hunt, shows the typical full screen view of the Immersive User Interface of 'Metro'Users will obtain Metro apps from the Windows Store. This is not included in developers' review machines, but was demonstrated to the press in a briefing just before the conference, under way this week. Microsoft plans to offer developers a smooth approval process that it says will take less than 24 hours. The store also has a feature missing from Apple's App Store: a built-in "trial mode" so that users can sample apps before they buy.Another feature demonstrated was integration with social media and cloud services. We were shown how Microsoft's cloud brings together contacts from different sources such as Facebook and Windows Live, and how Microsoft's SkyDrive storage lets you share content.The review version of Windows 8 with Metro was clean and responsive on the developer machines, and based on a quick look, Microsoft really has created a version of Windows that works properly with touch control.Start the DesktopWindows 8 in traditional 'desktop' mode looks very like Windows 7, but with a different Start menu.Metro is new, though; so what about all the existing Windows applications?This is where the dual personality comes in. Tap the tile called Desktop, and a Windows desktop which looks a lot like Windows 7 appears. There are changes here too, like a newribbon toolbar in the Explorer file manager, but they are relatively minor. The biggest change is that if you tap the Start button, you get sent back to the Metro and its tiles. The old Start menu has gone.Switching between Metro and Desktop is a jarring experience at first, and of course Desktop apps have all the problems with touch control that Windows apps have always had, because they are designed for mouse and keyboard. It is all rather odd; yet the review machine is fun to use, provided you either stay in Metro mode most of the time, or have a keyboard and mouse or stylus for those old-style applications.The developer review sample has an Intel processor, but The likely thinking here is that Windows 8 on ARM will compete directly with tablets like the Apple iPad or Samsung Galaxy Tab, whereas Windows 8 on x86 processors will be more traditional machines.Metro is also part of Microsoft's response to an old Windows affliction, which is the tendency of PC manufacturers to bundle intrusive apps and trial apps ("crapware") which damage the user experience. "We are encouraging them to add value with Metro-style apps," said Windows chief Steven Sinofsky, explaining that Metro apps are by design more firmly under user control.Microsoft has not announced a launch date for Windows 8, but if it follows the pattern of Windows 7 there will be around a year between this first preview and its full release. Microsoft will be hoping for a full range of Metro applications by then, which makes this Build conference critical for convincing developers to target the new platform.What to Build it in?Although it is still Windows, Metro is properly described as a new platform, since it is not fully compatible with the old Windows API (Application Programming Interface). A wide range of programming languages is supported, but Microsoft is particularly promoting JavaScript, HTML and CSS – in other words, web technologies extended with Windows-specific libraries to create apps that use the internet Explorer engine as a runtime.While Metro in Windows 8 looks similar to Windows Phone 7, it is quite different under the covers, and Sinofsky says that will continue to be the case. "We've shown how code can be shared, but running the same apps on both is still a ways away, primarily because of the form factor," he said.Windows 7 needed to improve on the lacklustre Windows Vista and the ancient Windows XP in order to succeed; and it did. Windows 8 by contrast has to compete against both Windows 7 and Apple's iPad, which is a more formidable task. What we have been shown is a promising start, but the dual personality is uncomfortable and the question is whether developers and hardware partners will give Windows 8 the support it needs to succeed. This may be the week where Microsoft finds out.
On this week's programme, Guardian games correspondent Keith Stuart leads pod regulars Aleks Krotoski and Jemima Kiss through the crystal clear – and occasionally terrifying – world of 3D gaming. At the Develop confernce in Brighton this summer, Keith met Ian Bickerstaff, head of Sony's 3D research and development group, who divulged the future of interactivity with and without the 3D specs.Before she departs for a spot of maternity leave, Jemima's potty mouth punctuates the rest of the podcast, with news that mobile handset manufacturerHTC is considering a move into the operating system space, the business sense behind ousted Yahoo! CEOCarol Bartz's latest outburstsagainst the management of her former employers, the search/content/advertising company's alleged in-bedrelationship with industry stalwart AOL, andAmazon's intentions to become the world's biggest ebook library.All this and more from Tech Weekly from the Guardian.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Interested in open data, particularly public-sector open data? Indulge yourself then in a Desert Island Discs moment. Specifically, that moment at the end of the programme where the interviewee, having picked their seven "must have" songs, is asked which of all of them he or she would keep before all others - the one that they trulymusthave.The equivalent version for you is: which set of open data would you like to get from the UK government so as to have the maximum impact on the open data movement?Obviously, many people reply to this by saying "well, all of it, please". The trouble is that that's not an available answer, given how government and the civil service works. To pararaphrase William Gibson, public sector open data is here, it's just not evenly distributed. Quite possibly it won't ever be, but it is possible to focus which part of it is available by suitable prompting and lobbying. So we need to refine our thinking some more. We can't have it all right now, but we can have some of it now. So, which?A subsidiary question that people ask is "why are you bringing this up at all? Isn't the open data movement already victorious?" To which the answer is no, not at all.I recently met some people inside government who are trying to push the open data idea, of getting anonymised, publicly-collected data out there for developers to be able to build applications which will have both financial and societal benefits. It is taken seriously at the top levels of government; they aren't just paying it lip service. The problem though is that there's only so much time available to anyone to push the agenda through. Other change has to be cultural, institutional, and that's where it tends to become difficult: people don't like change if they can't see the benefits.That's what leads us back to the question at the top. If the people inside the civil service presently labouring with the question of quite why the crime data should be available were able to see its release having a positive effect, or if they could see it being welcomed by the public, perhaps they'd find the cultural change easier to bear. Of course the politicians could help too; I've not heard any anecdotes of ministers coming into their office in the morning and saying to their aides "Fantastic stuff getting that data released! Brilliant work!" Perhaps I haven't been listening hard enough.Lies, damned lies and statisticsThe release of data isn't helped by press releases which distort the truth, such as First Direct's claim in July that "Fear of crime maps hits reporting of crime". This opened with the assertion that "More than 5.2 million* people have not reported crimes for fear of deterring home buyers or renters since the online crime map was launched in February 2011". Oh, that asterisk? "* Consumer Intelligence carried out an online poll of 2,685 UK adults aged 18+ on behalf of Direct Line, 6 – 11 May (5.2 million figure calculation = 10.9 per cent of 48,081,800 UK adult population = 5.2 million)."Online poll, eh? No data about how people were chosen (or chose) to participate; only lots of up in the air suppositions. The press release is an astonishing bit of presumptions that aren't questioned, but leaves a dangerous feeling behind. It's worth reading, but make sure that when you do, you ask yourself: how do they know that these people who are claimed to not be reporting these crimes now would have reported them before crime maps? In other words, is it actually the existence of crime maps that's putting people off, or is it just some variant of thebystander effect?Fight of the fewWhich takes us to the Open Data Deathmatch. What dataset would be the best one to get released? When I asked this question on Twitter, I got a variety of answers, but they boiled down to a few:• transport data, including train timetables, prices, and live departure and arrival times. We pay billions of pounds to the rail network and operators - the least we deserve is open data about how to use them to the best effect;• health data, such as comparative GP data: you need to know about hospitals and GPs and other health provision in your area. You could also find out useful things about local mortality, morbidity and disease rates;• education data, such as how schools in local areas or places that you (parents) might be looking to move to are performing;• crime and neighbourhood data• spending data, from both central and local government, with both geotagging and timing information: we should know when and where and with who the government is spending our money;• Land Registry data: we should know who owns what parts of the country;• Companies House data, including the balance sheets and profit &amp; loss accounts for all the companies in the UK.This is also wrapped up with thePublic Data Consultation, which is connected to what will happen to more detailed data from Ordnance Survey, the Met Office, and potentially a number of other agencies. If you haven't responded yet to the public data consultation, you should do so; the deadlines for responses is 22 October 2011.But back to the Data Deathmatch. My own suspicion is that what we - as the average user - want from open data is some sort of predictive ability. So while I'm enormously impressed by the Open Visualisation blog and its demonstrator forhow they built a visualisation tool for neighbourhood indices of deprivation(and theneighbourhood deprivation index toolitself), I'm left looking at it and thinking "well, there certainly is some deprivation there. Um.. now what?"Where tools like GPS (the most powerful example of government free data generating commercial benefit) excel, and the reason why it is used so widely, is because it solves the problem of "where am I, and how do I get to where I want to get to?" It has that essential predictive quality. We can apply it directly to our lives. So let's weigh up the rivals on that basis.Predicting your future•Transport data: Transport for London has seen real excitement over itsCountdown systemto tell you when buses will arrive at any given stop: for someone who wants to catch a bus, it adds a smattering of certainty to their lives. Transport data definitely has that key predictive ability - if you want to know what time the next train leaves to Edinburgh and where from, and even better if you can find out how much it might cost you, the data is performing a useful predictive role.•Health datahas a less immediate predictive power: because many health effects can take years to show, they're more easily overlooked. And when choosing a hospital for an operation (which is not something most people do, or want to do) we're far more reliant on geography - where the facility with the best combination of proximity and equipment is - than anything else. Health data is like pension data: we tend to overlook it until it's too late. That's because humans are short-term-horizon animals, and public open data probably isn't going to roll back a few million years of evolution.•Education datais similarly useful, but generally only to parents and teachers (and some ministers). It's also quite widely available; one of the best implementations is/wasSchooloscope(which is sadlyshutting down). It does have some predictive power - it can tell you what sort of experience your child is going to have at school (or for teachers, what it will be like teaching them).Don't underestimate the importance to parents of being able to choose a "good" school, for which some will spend remarkable amounts and move house in order to get into the right catchment area. (And there are votes for MPs and councillors in doing the "right" things with schools.) But of course for parents to decide where they ought to move to, they also need to know details about the neighbourhood:  the aim is to find that magic combination of good school and cheap housing with low crime. Which leads us on to..•Crime and neighbourhood data: the big problem with the crime maps from the police is that they are so heroically vague. That's because the Information Commissioner argues that the location of a crime can be "personally identifying information" (PII) which shouldn't be made public. So crimes are "mapped" to vast spaces, rather than the location where they happened. This is understandable for cases of domestic abuse, say, but it's hard to see why something like sexual assaults that happened in a park shouldn't be closely located to the park. That would have predictive value: people would know not to go near that area of the park (and perhaps at that time). Those "location-specific" bits of information are what madechicagocrime.org(which directly mapped crime locations, using the police blotter, in Chicago) back in 2005. That'ssix years agoand it wasbetter than what we have today.On neighbourhood data, indices of deprivation or levels of council tax are helpful, but nothing is quite going to beat going to a location and walking around a bit, although indices might help to inform your thinking. (Though if everyone thought that poor performance made somewhere not worth moving to, you'd never get urban renaissances such as Hoxton's rise.)•Spending datamight be helpful in predicting how expensive it will be to live somewhere, but spending data is only really useful in examining what has already happened - by definition, that's what it's about.•Land Registry datais useful to know who owns what, but quite what it's going to tell you about how your life is going to change (compared, say, to transport data or crime or education data) is hard to see. That's not to say it doesn't have utility - it certainly does. Just not as much immediate utility.•Companies House datatoo, is retrospective, but it could be very useful for people who want to know about the health of a business, or the track record of the directors of a company. Again and again it's important to know just what sort of company you're doing business with, and it's surprising that Companies House still charges for something which could be very useful if made free. (There are companies which are paying at one end and making the data free at the other, such asDuedil, although the criticism from some is that it doesn't output open data. (This seems like an excessive criticism; the stream has to stop somewhere.) But it's also a niche, if a potentially extremely profitable one.Collating it allSo to sum up: it looks to me like transport data is the dataset that will have real resonance with people, and which offers the best chance of a win for the open data movement. We all need to travel, even if it's only trivial distances; we want to know costs, we want to know journey times, we want to know where we are. If we could get the train timetables, fares, and bus routes and fares, made available as open data I think that there would be plenty of enterprising developers who would be able to create apps that would let you take advantage of them.But let us know your thoughts. Which is the Desert Island Dataset? And what will you say in the Public Data Consultation?
The government is to put pressure on Google to block illicit filesharing websites from its search results as part of fresh attempts to combat online piracy.Google will on Wednesday face calls from the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, to "make life more difficult" for sites that infringe copyright.Hunt is expected to tell an audience of media executives that internet companies, advertisers and credit card firms should do more to clamp down on alleged rogue websites."We intend to take measures to make it more and more difficult to access sites that deliberately facilitate infringement, misleading consumers and depriving creators of a fair reward for their creativity," Hunt will tell theRoyal Television Societyconventionin Cambridgeon Wednesday evening.The government will put pressure on Google and other companies to take action against rogue sites, but could introduce new legislation in the forthcoming communications bill.Government ministers see Google as one of the key players in the fight against online piracy, chiefly because it is a portal to the web for nine out of 10 UK search engine users.Google will be pressed to downgrade unlawful websites in search listings, potentially depriving them of millions of users and advertising revenue. The US company already responds to "reliable" takedown requests when issued by rights holders.To combat the rogue sites, the culture minister wants to speed up the legal process so that websites can be ruled unlawful within weeks of being identified, rather than months or years.Hunt is believed to be in favour of an independent cross-industry body – modelled on theInternet Watch Foundation, which takes action against child abuse websites – that will identify sites used for illicit filesharing and push for them to be blocked.The use of the IWF model as a way to combat piracy was first raised as part of communications minister Ed Vaizey's industry round tables on web blocking at the end of last year."We do not allow certain products to be sold in the shops on the high street, nor do we allow shops to be set up purely to sell counterfeited products. Neither should we tolerate it online," Hunt is expected to say.The fresh measures will be announced just weeks after the government was forced to scrap plans to directly block filesharing websites, which waspart of the previous Labour government's the Digital Economy Act.Vince Cable, the business secretary, said at the time that more needs to be done to tackle the websites, but urged that any measures need to be "proportionate and based on evidence".A spokesman for Google said: "Google has industry-leading measures to fight online piracy. We work hand in hand with copyright owners to remove infringing material from search results. Without a court order, any copyright owner can already use our removals process to inform us of copyright infringing content and have it removed from Google search."We recently announced a series of measures that make this process even easier, bringing our removal time down to an average of four hours."
A burst of 14 apps for your considerationAdeleAdele has sold millions of albums this year, but can she generate millions of app downloads? We'll find out from today: her official iPhone app is live courtesy of label XL Recordings, with news, videos, tourdates and a classy-looking design.iPhoneTonaraTonara is a very clever new iPad app that displays sheet music then listens to the person playing, in order to gauge where they are in the score and turn pages automatically. It has a selection of scores available to download in-app, with social features too to share performances.iPadCinderella – Nosy Crow Animated Picture BookUK publisher Nosy Crow has released its second fairytale book-app for iOS: Cinderella. Beautiful animation, sound and interactivity make it a treat for kids: read more about the company inour interview.iPhone / iPadSongzaSeemingly only available in the US for now, playlist site Songza has an iPhone and Android app offering streaming music for free – via playlists of songs created on the site by its users.iPhone / AndroidThe Pierces - RetropixUS folk duo The Pierces have a new app, but it's not the usual mix of news, videos and music links. Instead, RetroPix – released by Universal Music Group – is a mini-Instagram, applying retro filters to fans' photos before sharing them.iPhoneAyn Rand's Atlas ShruggedUS author Ayn Rand has been an influence on many Silicon Valley thinkers, although the portrayal of her was less sympathetic in Adam Curtis' recent All Watched Over By Machines of Loving Grace TV series. Anyway, her Atlas Shrugged book is now an iPad "Amplified Edition" from Penguin, with video and audio excerpts of Rand herself, full-length audio lectures, and all manner of timelines, photo galleries and social features.iPadMini-Monsters3D4Medical.com and Science Photo Library have teamed up for this iPad collection of close-up photos of insects, bugs, spiders, beetles, worms and other creepy-crawlies. The imagery is spectacular.iPadCalendarisedCalendarised is an innovative cross-platform app that enables people to create their own calendars and synchronise them between Facebook and their iPhone, sharing them with friends.iPhoneVideoSurfVideoSurf is only available in the US for now, but it's a very interesting app indeed: performing for TV shows what Shazam does for music. People point their iPhones at their TV and capture a few seconds, with VideoSurf promising to then identify what they're watching – the episode, actors/celebrities etc – and then recommends other videos to watch. It indexes more than 75 US channels.iPhonePerfect BumBums on the App Store? Someone in Apple's approvals team is going to get sacked! But no, these bums are entirely healthy: Perfect Bum is an app presenting an exercise regime to "get you a firm bottom and toned lower tummy in only 10 weeks". Less time loafing about on a sofa using your iPad may be a good start...iPhone / iPadDolphin Browser HDDolphin is a mobile browser that has already appeared on Android and iPhone, but the new iPad version is picking up plenty of buzz. One of its key features is gesture-based controls, where people draw symbols on-screen to navigate around the browser. Easier than on-screen buttons? That remains to be seen.iPadHappy MeasureT-Mobile's parent company Deutsche Telekom has launched an augmented reality app for Android. It aims to help people capture real-world objects, turn them into 3D models, and then place them virtually in a room. Why? Think gauging whether certain pieces of furniture will fit into specific rooms in your house, as one example.AndroidReal ContactThe latest BlackBerry app to be built on RIM's BBM technology is Moobile's Real Contact, which alerts people when they're closer than 400 metres to one of their BBM contacts. The pitch: "Never lose your pal again on a concert or split up in a mall..."BlackBerrySilvrSpoonSilvrSpoon is a US-only (for now) Android app that revolves around eating out. People will check in to restaurants, order from their phone, then provide feedback on the meal and earn rewards.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
