Though faintly icky, the word "geekgasm" may be the right one to describe what's expected to occur once Samsung unveils its new smartphone this Thursday in New York. For months, fan sites (of which there are plenty) have been salivating over tantalising leaks: will you be able to make it scroll with just your eyes**? Will it be called the Galaxy S4, given that "4" is unlucky in South Korea, Samsung's home? Will it have a 4.99-inch display, rather than the 4.8in display of the Galaxy S3, its predecessor? "It's too early to tell," saysAndroid Authority, one of the many sites devoted to vacuuming the internet for the tiniest morsel of information, false or not, that might point to what it might or might not include. An Exynos or Snapdragon processor? Yes? No? To some people, this matters deeply.Once it was Apple that commanded such intensity of speculation, as they unveiled their latest iPhones, but Samsung is now the world's largest maker of mobile phones, and of smartphones (crowns it wrested, over 2011 and 2012, from Finland's Nokia and arch-rival Apple). The Galaxy S3 was its flagship last year, and by January this year had sold 40m. This time round, the smartphone market is bigger and analysts are upping their expectations for sales: some reckon it could sell 10m a month and hit 100m sales in total.For the South Korean company, it's been a long haul from making slightly downmarket mobile phones. At one point, the company president was so infuriated by their poor quality control that he assembled the staff in a yard. They were forced to watch as he made a bonfire of 150,000 of their phones, after which he barracked them for their lackadaisical approach.Meanwhile, rumours continue to swirl that Apple, which has seen its stock swoon since the launch of the iPhone 5 last September, will launch a cheaper version of the iPhone some time in the next few months. Might the "cheap iPhone" actually have a big screen, to target Asian buyers (who like visual real estate)? What would Apple leave out to make it cheaper? The rumours are that it might use plastic for the phone's body, as with the iPhone 3GS in 2009 – just as Samsung has sort-of confirmed it will continue doing with the S4.While they slug it out on retailers' shelves, Apple and Samsung also keep fighting like cat and dog in the courtroom. You may have thought that the titanic legal battle last summer in the US, where a jury awarded Apple $1bn on the grounds that Samsung had copied its designs and infringed patents on use, was the end. Not at all – the judge there two weeks ago decided that a new jury should decide how much to fine Samsung over 14 devices on which the first jury awarded $450m of damages.Meanwhile, in the UK courts last week a judge ruled that a number of Samsung patents relating to mobile networks that it was asserting against Apple weren't valid. Generally, Apple has had the better of the court battles – but it hasn't given it any particular leverage more broadly. Mostly, it seems to have hardened opinion among those looking for a reason to dislike Apple, while giving Samsung what you could call collateral advertising.Still, a few hundred million here or there won't trouble Samsung Electronics, which in the third quarter of 2012 had profits of $7.4bn - about 47% of the whole industry's profits. Apple captured 59%, for a total of 106% – because companies such as BlackBerry and Sony make losses, redressing the balance.Samsung also knows how to make the owners of billboards, newspapers, TV channels and websites happy: in 2012 it spent an estimated $12bn on "marketing and advertising", including being one of the principal Olympic sponsors (reckoned to cost north of £1bn on its own), getting its name on football team shirts, and providing encouragement – sometimes in the form of products – to a bubbling group of bloggers who sign up to its "Samsung Mobilers" scheme: they get exposure on its website in return for their huge enthusiasm, which often spills over to the rest of the web.Unfortunately last September the schemebackfired a little when two Mobilers wereflown over from India to Berlin – and discovered that instead of being VIPs on a fun tour, they were expected to staff a stand for Samsung at the IFA trade fair. When they complained (online, of course), Samsung indicated they could fly themselves home. Naturally, they complained (online); in the resulting PR storm, Nokia stepped in and paid their accommodation and plane tickets.One could always hope, as North Korea waggles its nuclear capability, that Samsung might somehow effect a form of technology-driven perestroika – that the new Galaxy S4 might quietly change the lives of people in its northern neighbour. The good news: you canget Samsung phones in North Korea. The bad news? They typically cost about US$200 (£134) – far more than the average North Korean can afford.Five things to watch out for this week1 Chris Huhne and Vicky Pryce will be sentenced at Southwark Crown Court  on Monday for perverting the course of justice on a speeding offence by Huhne.2 The Papal Conclave to elect the 266th Pope begins at the Sistine Chapel on Tuesday.3 The Cheltenham Festival, one of the biggest race meetings of the year, begins on Tuesday. The Betfred Cheltenham Gold Cup is on Friday.4 David Cameron and other EU government leaders meet for a European Council meeting in Brussels on Thursday and Friday.5 Friday is Comic Relief's Red Nose Day.
Price£35,285MPG30Top speed155mphAChevrolet Camaro. Just saying the name makes me smile – my top lip trembling with instant stubble as a&nbsp;Magnum'tache prepares to lunge for the light. With its vast shoulders, flanks rippling like a speed skater's, those famous deep-set eyes and an exhaust that grunts and grumbles like a bulldog with a pollen allergy, the Camaro is defiantly not for the shy. Timorous tarmac creepers will feel far more at home in one of the other offerings from Chevrolet – the tinySpark, maybe, or the nondescriptAveo. But the Camaro – and its older and even more brutish sister, theCorvette– is ideal for the full-blooded and for all who say "pah" to silly things like practicality, rear visibility, ride comfort or looking like a tool.So who on earth drives a muscle car – other than a superannuatedGreasefan? In America they are an integral part of the history of the open road and it's every working man's right (and it still is men who seem hellbent on flexing their muscle cars) to own one. But in Britain they are harder to place. Estate agent, banker, farmer, solicitor, teacher, doctor… it's hilarious to imagine any of these workers at the wheel of such a snorting slab of pigheaded burliness.Fans of the TV seriesHomelandmight have noticed that every time Mike – the handsome soldier having an affair with Brody's wife – prowled up the street he was driving a gun-metal grey Camaro. Perfect. It's&nbsp;the dream car for a predatory male&nbsp;with a&nbsp;conflicted heart. And we have plenty of them over here, so I don't know why we don't see more muscle cars on our street.I double-checked it was a&nbsp;Camaro that Mike was driving by visiting theInternet Movie Cars Database– the first call for anybody who likes to know which cars play starring roles in which films and TV shows. From theChevrolet Suburbanwhich appears in the opening scene of the first episode ofHomelandto theFord Explorerglimpsed in the last, every single vehicle has been logged, screen grabbed, uploaded and cross referenced. Scary? Or amaaaazing?But how would Soldier Mike afford a&nbsp;car like a Camaro? The truth is that though there is very little that isn't obvious about this muscle car – the only thing that's missing is tattoos along its wings and a ripped T-shirt – it has two surprises up its sleeve. It's unexpectedly cheap and remarkably economical. Two things T-shirted Camaro drivers won't thank me for telling you as they comb their quiffs.Economy is the last thing you might expect from a shuddering 323bhp V6, but the Camaro will churn out up to 30mpg – with a light foot on the throttle. As for price, this one comes in at £35,000. Which is a lot, but if I&nbsp;had told you it was 50 I bet you'd have believed me. In America the old idiom that if you've got a job – any job – you'll be able to afford a Camaro still holds true. Prices over there, for the entry-level model, start at £15,000. Here, we're paying for a far more sophisticated Euro-spec car which will hurl you from 0-60 in 6.4 seconds and includes four-wheel independent suspension as well as a touch-screen system and head-up display projecting information on to your windscreen. However, we are still paying over the odds and, once inside, that price seems higher still. The trim is plasticky and the finishing lacklustre.But muscle cars aren't about luxury detailing. There's no denying the laugh-out-loud thrill of firing up this valid hunk of automotive Americana.Change of paceSpeed freak: the technologically advanced Toyota GT86-R Eco Explorer runs off ammonia.  Photograph: ObserverOn 23 March the pace car for the first round of the hugely popular2013 Marangoni BMW Compact Cupwill be a race car with a difference. It is a modified Toyota which runs off ammonia. This not only makes it very cheap to run, but also means it is a high-performance car which is emission free. Named the GT86-R Eco Explorer, the car has been produced by the tyre manufacturer Marangoni. The car was previewed at this year's Geneva motorshow and if you want to get up close and personal to it, it will on show at the2013 Gadget Show Liveat the NEC in April. For more information on the car, go tofacebook.com/marangonityreGreen car of the year: Toyota's new Auris hybrid. Photograph: D.Fontenat for the ObserverAnd sticking with green cars…Toyota's domination of the hybrid sector seems to be continuing as one of its newest additions claims the accolade of Green Car of the Year 2013, fromTheGreenCarWebsite.co.uk.As voted for by the website's visitors, the Auris Hybrid beats off competition from the likes of the new Volkwagen Golf Bluemotion and BMW i3 electric supermini to claim the prize. So what makes the Auris Hybrid so appealing? Well, the Auris itself, a UK-made model, is already a top seller for Toyota in the UK. The newly launched second-generation model boasts emissions as low as at 89g/km, plus it is lighter (by some 50kg), lower and roomier than its predecessor.2013 is set to be an exciting year for new green cars across the board, with other models launching in the year including the Renault Zoe electric car, the Ford Focus Electric and Honda Civic 1.6 i-DTEC. This year will also witness the cost of a battery-powered model start to drop, with the Nissan LEAF having just dropped its price by £2,000 while the launch of the smart fortwo ED and Renault Zoe will bring the retail price for a fully electric car below £14,000 for the first time. Hybrids are also getting more affordable, with models like the Toyota Yaris Hybrid and Honda Jazz Hybrid bringing prices down below the £20,000 mark."This year is shaping up to be an exciting year for low emission vehicles, and the Toyota Auris Hybrid is a deserving winner of the Green Car of the Year title for 2013," says the website's editor, Faye Sunderland. "A good, all-round family car, the Auris Hybrid combines quality build and finish with everyday practicality, fuel efficiency and low running costs.""Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk
As a venue for America's Grammy music awards, the Radio City music hall in New York has showcased stars from Michael Jackson to Lady Gaga, but on Thursday the headline act will be the world's next blockbuster smartphone.At a ceremony to be broadcast live in Times Square, South Korean electronics giant Samsung will unwrap the Galaxy S4, its answer to Apple's latest iPhone and the latest salvo in the battle for supremacy between Seoul and Silicon Valley. Samsung already sells more smartphones than any manufacturer, but at the  high end of the market Apple has remained unchallenged – until now.Forecasters say Samsung's flagship Galaxy S franchise is catching up with the iPhone, and could begin to take its number one spot this year. While Apple has been weakened by rows with shareholders, trouble at its Foxconn factories and the maps debacle, the Samsung brand is gaining ground, backed by a $5bn-a-year electronics advertising budget that dwarfs those of all its  rivals."Apple is not the one leading the market," said Francisco Jeronimo from analysis firm IDC. "I wouldn't be surprised if the new Samsung device sells more than the new Apple device over the next two years." Samsung's lips are sealed but it is ploughing every resource into packing the latest technology into the fourth edition of its Galaxy S, whichis predicted to allow the users to scroll the screen and pause videosimply by moving their eyes.A camera tracks the gaze, which in existing Galaxy phones is already used to stop the screen going dark while pages are being read, and to adjust the picture to the viewer's line of sight. Trademarks called "eye scroll" and "eye pause" were registered by Samsung in Europe in January, suggesting two new functions.The latest model is understood to have a 5in display, 13 megapixel camera and even an eight-core processor – today's most advanced phones have four cores in their silicon chips. All of which means the S4 should have a bigger screen, take crisper pictures and process web pages faster than the iPhone 5.Samsung has "enormous" plans for the handset, according to Peter Misek at Jefferies bank, with orders for 100m in its first nine months. By comparison, Apple's bestselling phone to date, the 4S, took 15 months to ship 110m units by the end of December.The scale of Samsung's ambition could pose more than a marketing threat to Apple. Competition for raw materials and components such as screens in the soaraway smartphone industry is fierce, and demand from Samsung is leading some suppliers to say they will reallocate resources away from Apple, Misek said.In a move that could take the wind from the sails of Samsung, Apple is thought to have brought forward the launch of its latest phone. While the iPhone 5 went on sale in September, word on the street is that a 5S will appear this summer. Before that, the S4 is predicted to unseat the iPhone 5 as the world's bestselling mobile this spring, according to Neil Mawston at Strategy Analytics, who forecast supremacy would swing back and forth before a decisive blow is dealt."It's a bit like theWacky Racesat the moment, one company pulls ahead for one quarter and the other pulls ahead the next," he said.Teaser video advertisements for the forthcoming Samsung "unboxing" feature a boy whose face is lit up by a golden glow as he becomes the first to lift the lid on the S4. The ad grandly claims he is about to witness "one of the most amazing products to hit the market since TVs went colour".The pressure is particularly intense for Apple, whose latest products have been seen as lacking the wow factor that abounded when Steve Jobs was at the helm. "There is a lot of negativity around their brand at the moment," said Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi. "The next iPhone is a crucial product but I can't see them not stepping up to the plate."She predicts Apple will come back with a redesigned user interface, and extras such as more free storage for films in the cloud, a beefed-up version of its Siri voice-activated assistant and perhaps a price cut.
A few years ago,New York Timescolumnist Thomas Friedman published a bestselling book with the titleThe World is Flat. In it he used the concept of "flatness" to describe "how more people can plug, play, compete, connect and collaborate with more equal power than ever before – which is what is happening in the world".Well, up to a point. Friedman's book is a paradigmatic exposition of the dominant narrative about technology – what one might call the Californian ideology – which sees computing technology as an essentially benign force that, over time, will iron out many of the economic, cultural and ideological divides that so disfigure our contemporary world. The basic message is that the internet creates a level playing field. And the freedoms that the network brings – freedom to communicate, access knowledge, publish and consume – will in time undermine the capacity of tyrants to keep their subjects in thrall. In this at least, the Californian ideology mirrors its Marxist counterpart, in that both believe that the state will eventually wither away.Between now and that particular nirvana, however, a few niggling difficulties remain. One is that the state shows no sign of withering any time soon. A useful case study is provided by Twitter. Although the service has been a thorn in the side of nearly every western government in recent years, all the signs are that, when push comes to shove, it's rarely beyond the long arm of the law. Just ask all those naive folks whotweeted about Lord McAlpine.But at least in Britain the authorities seem to be trying to work out a plan for legal action against Twitter users that isproportionate and not unduly illiberal. Over on the other side of the globe, however, the Chinese state suffers from no such scruples. The regime is prepared to do whatever it takes to keep the net under control, even if it requires employing tens of thousands of people to do it. An interesting glimpse of this determination is provided bya recent study by some US computer scientists.  They studied censorship on Weibo, China's version of Twitter, and found that it's nearly instantaneous and on a scale that suggests a workforce of more than 4,000 censors who stop work only during the evening news (when, presumably, they need to catch up on the latest party line).Then there's the narrative that says that the internet creates a level playing field. This is plausible only to inhabitants of Silicon Valley, many of whom appear to know very little about what life is like in the rest of the world. A useful antidote might beJenna Burrell's book,Invisible Users, a study of young African internet users. The professor is an anthropologist who has spent a lot of time in Ghana and her subjects are the urban youth who frequent the internet cafes of Accra. They are decidedly not members of their country's elite and use the internet largely as a way to orchestrate encounters across distance and to acquire foreign connections – activities once limited to the wealthy, university-educated classes.For these young people, the internet, accessed on second-hand computers (cast-offs from the US and Europe), has become a means of enacting a more cosmopolitan self. In her book Burrell offers an acutely observant account of how these kids have adopted, and adapted to their own priorities, a technological system that was not designed with them in mind.What she reports is intriguing and touching. In the pre-internet age, for example, many Ghanaian children had pen-pals abroad, and they try to use the net to reproduce that kind of connection. One lad logged into Christian chatrooms because he was looking for potential business partners and figured that Christians would be trustworthy people, but was frustrated that they only wanted to talk about the Bible. And so on.But there is also a sombre overtone to this. Ghana is a cash-based economy, so Ghanaians are excluded from online commerce. Worse still, many western websites arbitrarilyassume that a communication from any African domain is a scam. Burrell herself found that: when she tried to buy stuff from Amazon, the site immediately reset her password and began sending her phishing warnings. Paypal told her that they didn't serve customers in Ghana or Nigeria, and started a set of security checks that led to phone verification to her US mobile, which didn't work in Ghana.And the moral of the story? The world that looks so agreeably flat to Mr&nbsp;Friedman looks rather different to kids in Accra. Plus ça change…
Developer Crystal Dynamics returns Lara Croft to her classic gaming roots in thisTomb Raiderreboot, but far from being the wisecracking action heroine from previous games, this is a vulnerable, relatable Lara – and that makes for a more engaging adventure.It's stillTomb Raider– an epic action platformer with treasure to hunt, locations to explore and wolves to slay. But there's a survival horror element here as well, crystallised in Lara's attempt to escape a mysterious island.It does lack originality, the supporting characters are bland, and there's an incessant overuse of context-sensitive button pressing. These minor criticisms aside, however,Tomb Raideris a slick, visually impressive, action-packed adventure with a deep multiplayer mode. Most importantly, it's Lara's best game in more than a decade.
One of the finest games of the PS2 era receives a phenomenal upgrade for Sony's powerhouse portable, boasting extra characters, enhanced visuals and a virtual museum of background content.Eschewing typical role-playing game fantasy trappings,Persona 4 Goldentakes place in the modern-day fictional Japanese town of Inaba, which is plagued by bizarre murders. Recently transplanted to the locale, you'll uncover the truth by battling through a parallel world beyond TV screens, one populated by Jungian psychological archetypes given form. It's a deep and pleasantly weird experience. While the story is captivating, gameplay hasn't aged quite as well. The turn-based battle system is better than many of its kind but still slow, and the lengthy set-up means you won't get to the meat of the game for a good three to four hours. Those with patience, however, will enjoy its complex narrative.
Evgeny Morozov is a Belarus-born technology writer who has held positions at Stanford and Georgetown universities in the US.His first book, The Net Delusion, argued that "Western do-gooders may have missed how [the internet]… entrenches dictators, threatens dissidents, and makes it harder – not easier –to promote democracy". It was described as "brilliant and courageous" by the New York Times. In his second book To Save Everything, Click Here, Morozov critiques what he calls "solutionism" – the idea that given the right code, algorithms and robots, technology can solve all of mankind's problems, effectively making life "frictionless" and trouble-free. Morozov argues that this drive to eradicate imperfection and make everything "efficient" shuts down other avenues of progress and leads ultimately to an algorithm-driven world where Silicon Valley, rather than elected governments, determines the shape of the future.Some of the technologies you describe as "solutionist" many people find useful. For instance  self-tracking gadgets that encourage people to exercise, to monitor their blood pressure or warn them about their driving habits and reduce their insurance premiums.The people who start self-tracking  are successful and have nothing to lose. If you can self-track and prove you are better than the average person – are healthier or drive more safely – you can get a better deal and claim some benefits. Yet eventually we will reach the point where people who decide not to self-track are assumed to be people who have something to hide. Then they have no choice but to start self-tracking. Very often the people of Silicon Valley who promote these technologies say we have the choice, we have complete autonomy, and I am saying this a myth.But they can still solve problems?Very often self-tracking solutions are marketed as ways to address a problem. You can monitor how many calories you consume; monitor how much electricity you are consuming. It sounds nice in theory but I fear a lot of policymakers prefer to use the self-tracking option as an alternative to regulating the food industry or engaging in more structural reforms when it comes to climate change.All solutions come with cost. Shifting a lot of the responsibility to the individual is a very conservative approach that seeks to preserve the current system instead of reforming it. With self-tracking we end up optimising our behaviour within the existing constraints rather than changing the constraints to begin with. It places us as consumers rather than citizens. My fear is policymakers will increasingly find that it is much easier, cheaper and sexier to invite the likes of Google to engage in some of this problem-solving rather than do something that is much more ambitious and radical.You talk about how "smart" devices are making us dumb…They are not bound to make us dumb, but the way they are currently implemented makes that a possibility.  We need to know what we want from such devices: Do we want them to obviate problem solving? To make our lives frictionless? Or do we want these new devices to enhance our problem solving – not to make problems disappear but assist us with solving them?A lot of these devices seek to reward or punish in social currency. For instance, people from Silicon Valley say one way to improve voter turnout is to give people points for checking in with their smartphones at the voting booths – it might even work, people will show up because you show them coupons, but it risks recasting politics in a way that would make any further appeals to ethical behaviour impossible, once you use the language of coupons you need to talk to people in that language in all walks of life, whether it be picking up litter or turning off the lights. Do you want people to turn off the lights because they will get a coupon or because they have some ethical, environmental concerns? You don't hear people in Silicon Valley talk about the ethical and moral dimension. They are not concerned with anything like citizenship at all.Are Google's Eric Schmidt and Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg scary people to have in the world?A lot of the services they build are useful services. I use Google products all the time. People who are building a service which I pay for with my privacy or money I'm quite okay with. But as time goes by they aspire to do many things that go beyond their business and their initial set of commercial concerns.We don't treat them with the level of criticism and scrutiny that they deserve, we assume they are in the business of information which is a benign business and they are part of the enlightenment project. We tend not to think they have shareholders, commercial agendas and are run by people who might not have a very deep appreciation of the human condition and the world around us.I have a lot of respect for these people as engineers but they are being asked to take on tasks that go far beyond engineering. Tasks that have to do with human and social engineering rather than technical engineering. Those are the kind of tasks I would prefer were taken on by human beings who are more well rounded, who know about philosophy and ethics, and know something about things other than efficiency, because it will not end well.We did not elect them to help us solve our problems. Once Google is selected to run the infrastructure on which we are changing the world, Google will be there for ever. Democratic accountability will not be prevalent. You cannot file a public information request about Google. We are abandoning all the checks and balances we have built to keep our public officials in check for these cleaner, neater, more efficient technological solutions. Imperfection might be the price for democracy.Nevertheless it sounds like we should all be buying shares in Google and other Silicon Valley companies.Not if my book succeeds.You are a feared reviewer of other technology pundits' books … you demolished Jeff Jarvis's bookPublic Parts, called Walter Isaacson's Steve Jobs biography "pedestrian", you regularly ridicule internet consultant Clay Shirky via Twitter – do you enjoy a fight?They don't like to fight, that's the problem. They are ripe for ridiculing because they are ridiculous in many cases, and the only reason they are advancing is because they plug in the conceptual and theoretical holes in their theories with buzzwords that have no meaning – "openness" or "the sharing economy" – what on earth is the sharing economy?What I've tried to do in my reviews is engage seriously with these bullshit concepts, as if they were serious – to see whether an idea such as "cognitive surplus", of which Clay Shirky is very fond, has any meaning at all. I do close readings of things that aren't meant to be read very closely. That is how our technology discourse works, there are lots of great bloggers, soundbites and memes, but once you start putting them together you realise that they don't add up. And making people aware that they don't add up is a useful public function.Does it bother you that Jeff Jarvis and Clay Shirky have many more Twitter followers than you?Many of the internet pundits have more followers because Twitter plugged them on the suggested users list. They also happen to agree with Twitter's position and celebrate the very same things as Twitter celebrates. It shows how far from neutrality and objectivity all of those platforms are, they are sold to us as essentially ways in which anyone can become anything but they have all sorts of ways to manipulate who gets heard and seen. In my case, I'm not worried because my followers have been gained organically, not through making me the default person to follow. My influence is hard to understand if you just look at the follower count.What does the future hold for newspapers?It depends on what the newspapers hold for the future. A lot of newspapers have embraced the digital rhetoric too eagerly, and have not articulated their own value to the public. A lot of what we hear from internet pundits is that everyone should be building their own reading lists, everyone should be on the lookout for interesting stories themselves, I think that logic is very regressive, backward, anti-democratic and stupid.I'm fine with a staff of 300 people reading 5,000 stories everyday and condensing them into 25 pages that I myself can read. That's a wonderful model. The newspaper offers something very different from Google's aggregators. It offers a value system, an idea of what matters in the world. Newspapers need to start articulating that value.How do you manage your own net use?I've become very strategic about my use of technology as life is short and I want to use it wisely. I have bought myself a type of laptop from which it was very easy to remove the Wi-Fi card – so when I go to a coffee shop or the library I have no way to get online. However, at home I have cable connection. So I bought a safe with a timed combination lock. It is basically the most useful artefact in my life. I lock my phone and my router cable in my safe so I'm completely free from any interruption and I can spend the entire day, weekend or week reading and writing.Does the timer have a workaround?To circumvent my safe I have to open a panel with a screwdriver, so I have to hide all my screwdrivers in the safe as well. So I would have to leave home to buy a screwdriver – the time and cost of doing this is what stops me. It's not that I can't say "no" to myself. I just waste too much energy having the internal conversation. I'd rather delegate the control to my safe and use my remaining willpower to get something done. I find it a very effective system.When you're online do you watch TED talks?There are many problems I have with TED. It has created this infrastructure where it very easy to be interesting without being very deep. If TED exercised their curatorial powers responsibly they would be able to separate the good interesting from the bad interesting, but my fear is they don't care as long as it drives eyeballs to the website. They don't align themselves with the thinkers, they align themselves with marketing, advertising, futurist crowd who are interested in ideas for the sake of ideas. They don't care how these ideas relate to each other and they don't much care for what those ideas actually mean. TED has come to exercise lots of power but they don't exercise it wisely.Can you code?I think the craziest idea I have heard in the last few years is that everyone should learn to code. That is the most bizarre and regressive idea. There are good reasons why we don't want everyone to learn nuclear physics, medicine or how financial markets work. Our entire modern project has been about delegating power over us to skilled people who want to do the work and be rewarded accordingly. I'm all for making us aware of how various technological infrastructures work. But the idea everyone should learn how to code is as plausible as saying that everyone should learn how to plumb. To me it just makes no sense.So you don't agree with the notion what we need to program or risk being programmed?It's just an immense shrinking of intellectual imagination to use computing metaphors. I'm just appalled. The idea that we need to take everything in our own hands as citizens, make our institutions hackable – this is just ridiculous. You don't need to do it by yourself you delegate it to someone who will argue in parliament on your behalf – that's what we've struggled so hard to accomplish. Now we want to completely undo that system because "hey, we have the tools, we have the technology to allow people to connect to each other". That philosophy doesn't make sense, there is no way you can learn how to program and be responsible for everything in your life and still have a fulfilling life.
It's hip, it's hot, but does it look any good?Wearable technologyis becoming one of the most exciting parts of the technology sector, inspiring designers to come up with new inventions and attracting investors eager to pour cash into potential money-spinning ideas.From Google Glass spectacles that let you surf the web as you walk down the street, to golf gloves that tell you how to swing better, or a smart shirt that can measure your temperature and cool you down, it is a rapidly expanding field.But amid all the hoopla about what "wearable tech" might actually do for consumers, an equally important debate has emerged over what one might call "geek aesthetics". Forget function: think fashion. Many experts now believe the fortunes in the wearable tech sector will be made as much by making people look cool as by actually performing a useful service."Why would anyone need most of these things?" said Chris Matyszczyk, a writer at tech site CNet. "So the biggest question is going to be whether or not they look good when you put them on."It is not a minor issue.Google Glassis probably the most hyped piece of wearable tech at the moment. The internet search firm has asked people to apply to wear its revolutionary device – which can let people send emails, search the internet or take pictures via voice commands and a tiny screen – as they go about their daily lives. But one wearer of a type of hi-tech glasses similar to Google's –wearable-tech pioneer Steve Mann of the University of Toronto– said recently he was assaulted in a Paris fast food restaurant because of them.Clearly, therefore, image is everything, especially in a world that can still be unkind to geeky people venturing out in public wearing their latest invention. Even Google co-founder Sergey Brin has found this out the hard way: when a picture was taken of himsitting on a New York subway train wearing his Google Glasseyepiece, it prompted a ripple of mockery among many commentators. "Sergey Brin looked terrible. He was just a nerd on the subway," said Matyszczyk. Perhaps mindful of such concerns, Google is reported to be close to striking a deal with ultra-trendy glasses-maker Warby Parker to make the frames for Google Glass. The New York firm, which sells "vintage-inspired" designs, has rapidly become one of the hottest names in eyewear. Fashion-conscious sophisticates might be nervous of wearing a Google design, but not Warby Parker specs that can do the same things.Google's Sergey Brin wearing Google Glass. Photograph: Robert Galbraith/ReutersIn fact, form has long been the equal of function in tech: the main beneficiary of that being  Apple. The company's trademark reliance on elegant design has helped it become a global behemoth, every bit as much as the actual usefulness of its smartphones. "Apple have been the best on this," said Matyszczyk. "But there is a difference between the look of something that you carry and something that you wear."For advocates of wearable tech's potential, there is a possible jackpot waiting for those who get it right. Apple itself is now developing a "smart watch" and is keen to make something beautiful that consumers feel they must have. "Any successful product in wearable tech needs to be trendy," said Nitin Bhas, an analyst with Juniper Research.Budding fashion designers will certainly have a lot of potential products to toy with, some of which are so futuristic that they seem almost unreal. There are gloves that can turn your fingers into a phone, jeans that have skin moisturisers built in, and even a wristband that monitors your nervous system and can tell you when you need to calm down.Sabine Seymour, author of the bookFashionable Technology: The Intersection of Design, Fashion, Science, and Technology, is one of the most cutting-edge thinkers and designers in the field. She is working on blending fashion aesthetics with nanoscience and chemical engineering. "It is a new wave. People are looking for something new and I am glad to be a part of it," Seymour said.Scientists are looking at making fabrics that can absorb poisonous gases or harmful bacteria, or conduct electricity, and be used to make stylish garments. "It has also got to look good. If I find something that I really think looks beautiful, I will wear it all the time," Seymour said.She thinks that wearable tech will be fairly mainstream in about five years' time. But it is already getting there in certain sectors. In health and fitness, devices that can monitor your heart rate or measure the distance you have run are already a common sight in gyms around the world, strapped to waists or wrists or fitted in shoes.Meanwhile, Google Glass is poised to launch its spectacles commercially by the end of this year. The fashion world, it seems, is now going hand-in-hand with futuristic science.
Last week in this column,I&nbsp;drove a car with a personality – the&nbsp;Citroën C3&nbsp;Picasso. I liked it, it made&nbsp;me smile, perhaps it even made me ever so slightly happier. Now it's payback time.This one is staggeringly uninteresting. Look at the picture: you can't without wanting to yawn, right? See? Aaaaooow.It's a personality void. And a&nbsp;design void.Actually, it's worse than bland. It's&nbsp;like one of those people who brings you down with them. Or a vacuum – no, a leech, leech is better – sucking your life and your spirits from you. It's not just boring&nbsp;me, it's&nbsp;making me a little bit&nbsp;depressed. This is not what I&nbsp;became a Famous Motoring Journalist for.Somewhere, somehow, though, through the tedium and the gloom, a faint bell is ringing. Not a joyous bell, or even a jolly tinkly bell, but a&nbsp;muffled, dull, distant bell, like the bell of a buoy at sea in thick fog. Strange, I know, that something so unmemorable is reminding me of something, but it is...Got it! The Skoda Rapid, another&nbsp;grey, life-sapping car, which&nbsp;I reviewed in these pageslast year. Actually, it is pretty much exactly the same car.It's even built by Skoda in the Czech Republic, under the German&nbsp;direction of parent company Volkswagen.I've written about – been  stultified by – this car before, then,&nbsp;just with a different badge. So&nbsp;how am I going to fill in the rest of this page? Well, I could tell you that the design bypass continues inside. There's something of the 1980s about it, not in a cool, retro way, more in a left-behind way.On a more positive note, the car is&nbsp;perfectly comfortable, as I'm sure&nbsp;Burton menswearis. There's plenty of legroom in the back, too. And the boot is huge – cavernous, in fact (a McLaren buggy only just needs to be folded to go in). That might be of interest.And, actually, it's sort of OK to drive: the 1.6-litre diesel engine in this one does the job without putting in any overtime, but the fuel&nbsp;consumption and emission figures are excellent. Oh, and it is good value.All of which I probably said last time round (I'm not going to  look, though. That would just depress me further). So an ideal car,&nbsp;then, if you're after value for money and low running costs, you've got grown-up kids who still live with you (or just big ones), you have a lot of luggage and you don't care about design, personality or that your car is forgettable.And if you do remember it, it will&nbsp;make you unhappy.Seat Toledo SE 1.6 TDI Ecomotive 105PSPrice as tested£17,840Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption70.7 mpgCO2emissions106g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating3/10
The announcement ofAssassin's Creed 4: Black Flagwas rendered a bit less exciting by the sort of comprehensive leaks now familiar to gamers, though many are still optimistic about its theme of Caribbean piracy, featuring real historical detail along with the usual conspiracy hokum. It's due for release this autumn. Out now areTomb Raider(Xbox, PS3, PC), Lara Croft's gritty reboot that comes with raucous action and some very elegantly designed physical puzzles in its dusty tombs;Starcraft II: Heart Of The Swarm(PC/Mac) expands Blizzard Entertainment's real–time strategy game with more single-player story and new units for multiplayer;Sim City(PC) gives would-be mayors the opportunity to connect multiple towns, sharing power and air pollution; andTotal War: Shogun 2 Gold Edition(PC) brings together all the expansions and downloadable content for this great war game.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe NeoGeo was a 90s games console famous for its staggering, arcade-style graphics and games that cost £150 a pop. NeoGeo X is a portable version of the console with 20 built-in games, a premium-feeling ridgy rubber back, a remarkably solid joystick and a pale-looking widescreen display that leaves games looking oddly stretched – though they can be returned to their original format after loading each one. It also comes with a charging dock that lets you plug it into your TV and an arcade stick that's every bit as useful as its ancient forebear. There are classics among the bundled games, including The King of Fighters '95 and Metal Slug, the quintessential run-and-gun game. You'll find yourself spending less time with the awful Cyber Lip or Nam 1975, and the previously excellent Magician Lord suffers without a save function. There are more games coming in April, while a separate joystick for two-player action further improves this gaming curate's egg.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAfter a brief introduction to the tangled lineage of the vampire-hunting Belmont family, you're launched into the undead-slaying quest of Scots-accented Simon Belmont. As ever, his most frequently used weapon is a whip, which doubles as grappling hook once you've unearthed the right power-up, with flasks of burning oil and throwing axes providing backup. There's a huge map to explore, sections of which prove inaccessible without skills and equipment acquired later in the game, and you can leave notes on the map to remind yourself to pop back later to acquire unclaimed goodies. The drip feed of upgraded skills adds a layer of interest, and also gives you another reason to lay waste to the panoply of monsters that lack the sense to simply run away from you and your holy whip.
Google is close to reaching a settlement with more than 30 US states that had accused the search giant of using its Street View cars to collect data from unsecured Wi-Fi networks. The company is to pay about $7m in total, according to sources familiar with the case.The agreement, which was first revealed bytech blog All Things D, is close to being finalised and should be announced early next week. The sum would be tiny for Google, which had $50bn in revenues last year.Connecticut attorney general Richard Blumenthal started a multi-state investigation into Google's Wi-Fi data-gathering in 2010 after it emerged that Street View cars had been collecting personal information from unsecured Wi-Fi networks. Blumenthal called the news "deeply disturbing".The company declined to comment on negotiations. A spokesman said: "We work hard to get privacy right at Google. But in this case we didn't, which is why we quickly tightened up our systems to address the issue."The Wi-Fi collection has sparked investigations around the world with at least 12 countries looking into the Street View issue, according to the Electronic Privacy Information Center. At least nine countries have concluded that Google broke their privacy laws.The UK's data protection, Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), said last year that Google was still in possession of some private data collected by Street View cars. "The fact that some of this information still exists appears to breach the undertaking to the ICO signed by Google in November 2010," the ICO said in a statement.The discovery led France's data protection and privacy regulator, the Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertes (CNIL), to ask Google to hand over data the search giant said it deleted in 2010.The search firm has countered that the data was collected in error and that nothing was ever done with the data. Eric Schmidt said the affair was: "No harm, no foul." The Federal Communications Commission conducted a 17-month investigation into the affair and concluded that Google had not broken the law but had obstructed its investigations.The data was originally collected between 2007 and 2010. Google initially denied that the cars had collected unsecured data. In 2012 the company admitted that it had found user data from around the world that had been captured by its Street View cars. The data included such personal items as banking, medical records and passwords. Google blamed a "rogue engineer" for the privacy breach.
Google's hardware arm, Motorola Mobility, is to slash 1,200 jobs in the latest round of redundancies at the struggling manufacturing business.The layoffs represent 10% of Motorola's workforce, and come on top of the 4,000 jobs lost in August as Google seeks to return the business it bought in mid-2011 to profitability."These cuts are a continuation of the reductions we announced last summer," a spokeswoman for the company said. "It's obviously very hard for the employees concerned, and we are committed to helping them through this difficult transition."The redundancies will affect workers in the United States, China and India. At the end of 2012 Motorola had 11,113 employees. In the third quarter of last year it suffered an operating loss of more than $500m, followed by a loss of more than $350m in the fourth quarter.Motorola once dominated the phone business, with models such as the Razr gaining a worldwide following, but it was left behind by the technological revolution that transformed mobiles from devices for making calls to pocket-sized personal computers.An email sent to staff this week and seen by the Wall Street Journal said "while we're very optimistic about the new products in our pipeline, we still face challenges … our costs are too high, we're operating in markets where we're not competitive and we're losing money."Google has transferred senior executives, including former Europe and Americas executive Dennis Woodside, to run the business, acquired for $12.5bn (£9.6bn). Those remaining are reported to be working on a device called the "X Phone" that could become the unit's flagship device.
In the pantheon of artistic merit, games of films occupy a position somewhere in the darkest, dankest recesses of the basement along with the likes of reality TV and misery memoirs. Invariably games released on the back of films end up as mere items of supporting merchandise, hopelessly rushed and insubstantial, that leave gamers and movie buffs equally unsatisfied. So it's refreshing to find a game which, although tied to a film, has, according to its producer, been designed to sidestep all the game-of-a-film pitfalls. The game in question is Star Trek, developed by Digital Extremes and published by Namco Bandai, which will hit the shops on 26 April, for Xbox 360, PS3 and PC.The Trekkies among you may notice that the game will arrive just before Star Trek Into Darkness – JJ Abram's second bite at the franchise after his 2009 reboot – hits the cinemas in May. Brian Miller, Paramount Pictures senior vice-president and the game's producer, says that the team avoided the first game-of-a-film trap – slavishly following the plot of the film: "Our story is a completely unique and original storyline – we worked with Marianne Krawczyk who did the God Of War series. It takes place after the events in the 2009 film, and before the new one."Miller couldn't be more conscious of the rank reputation that afflicts games-of-films: "We looked at all the movie-based games and unfortunately the majority weren't up to the level you would expect either as critics or players. We broke that down to three factors: there was never enough time given to the games; neither enough support or energy, nor the right people, were put behind them; and often, they didn't involve the people who brought the film to life. So what did we do different? We've been developing this game for over three years, which is an eternity for a movie-based game. Also, this is a game that's funded by Paramount Pictures, so I think that shows you how important it is to us as a company. We could have made one with the first movie, but we didn't. Star Trek is too important a brand for us to do that. And finally, we made sure that we were working with the right people."Storyline and gameplayStar Trek: The Video Game: more than a rescue missionStar Trek's storyline certainly sounds authentic: "Kirk and Spock get hailed to a space station that is being ripped apart. They go there to do a simple rescue operation, and realise that they're in a much bigger, more complex storyline. Namely, that the Vulcan have been trying to rebuild their planet and re-establish themselves on New Vulcan, using this piece of technology called the Helios device to help that happen faster. But unfortunately, there is a malfunction. Although we learn later in the game that maybe it wasn't a malfunction. It opens a tear in space, which allows our enemy, the Gorn, to come through. If the Gorn get their hands on this device, they could open rips in any part of the universe, and they would be virtually unstoppable. So Kirk and Spock have to track down the Gorn and take the Helios device back before they can get it operational. It's a complex, big storyline, and we're really proud of where it goes."Gameplay-wise, Star Trek is, unsurprisingly a third-person action-adventure game; you can play co-operatively with one of your mates as Kirk or Spock – during the game there are sequences where they have to perform synchronised but different tasks. Miller says: "We wanted to make sure that the gameplay was varied. It's well over 10 hours, even if you just want to run through the game. You can do amazing space-dives – like we sort of showed in the last movie. We wanted you to play as the Enterprise. We wanted you to have some missions with ledging, exploration and piloting. There are few games out there now that just play as one thing all the way through and, if they do, they soon get hit for that – you have to be able to change things up as you go."Star Trek: The Video Game: Enterprise cultureMiller cites Uncharted and Mass Effect as influences – although he's aware that Mass Effect, whose developer BioWare cited the Star Trek TV series as a major inspiration, casts a massive shadow over such games: "We're not trying to be Mass Effect – we're not making an RPG. For us it was a case of asking why would we want to do that again, and I don't want to make that comparison. Those games allow us to be here – if Mass Effect wasn't so successful, nobody would be wanting to make these sci-fi adventure games."But beyond the gameplay, Star Trek definitely has plenty of aspects that will delight fans of the franchise: "You have away missions, and you get to go down to planets and explore. You're on board the Enterprise and you can walk to the areas that you know – the bridge, the transporter room or the shuttle bay. But also the areas you've never seen before: the crew quarters, the warp core, even the turbo-lift shafts. And you also get to walk around New Vulcan, see how it's getting on and hear how they have been putting it together. You go to a Star Fleet outpost and you get to go to another planet that the Gorn have completely conquered. We want you to be able to use your Tricorder and scan some of the plants that are out there, and interact with the facilities in a way that you don't normally get to hit on, because that really is what Star Trek is about."Hands-on impressionsWe played two missions – one from early in the game, set on a Vulcan space station being ripped apart by solar radiation, and another later on, which involved fighting the lizard-like Gorn, showcasing the third-person cover-shooting engine. You could see why Miller wasn't keen on comparisons with Mass Effect – Star Trek doesn't approach its levels of polish and slickness, nor does it, of course, have its character progression element or galaxy-level free-roaming.Star Trek: The Video Game: Gorn asunderBut it does have lashings of Star Trek authenticity, and the gameplay is certainly varied. Uncharted-style ledge-clambering was much to the fore, and there were plenty of hacking-style puzzles to be solved using the Tricorder. We experienced a space-flying sequence which was quite exhilarating (although reminiscent of the one in Dead Space 3) and one clever sequence involved precise timing of scrambling between areas of cover between bursts of solar radiation. The shooting engine worked fine, without particularly inspiring with its feel, although the weaponry was more varied than you might expect, given the original TV series's employment of nothing more sophisticated than a basic phaser.But Star Trek fans will love this rare – and, for the first time credible – chance to immerse themselves in a game which properly evokes the Star Trek universe – there's loads of great banter between the characters, all recorded by the proper cast of the JJ Abrams films. The ability to switch between playing as Kirk and Spock adds replay value, too. Hardcore gamers may complain that its gameplay is a tad generic, but there's no doubt that it has achieved its aim of rising above the morass of other games-of-films.• This article has been amended to show the release date for the game in the UK is 26 April, not 23 April
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. And after a week off for Mobile World Congress, this week's selection is a bumper crop from the last fortnight.Read on for a  selection of the 30 most interesting new (as in brand new, not updates) Android apps from late February and early March. The equivalent iOS roundup waspublished earlier in the day.Real Racing 3 (Free)Its freemium timers may have proved controversial, but Real Racing 3 is still an excellent driving game, not least because the more you play and the more cars you own, the timer element stops being an issue. Anyway, the game sees you racing more than 45 cars over 900 events, upgrading as you go. The graphics are spiffing, the handling works beautifully, and unless you're philosophically opposed to in-app purchases in this kind of game – which some people are – you'll have bags of fun.Opera browser beta (Free)Opera's Mini and Mobile web browsers have been on Android for a long time, but this is an all-new version promising to be Opera's "best all-in-one app for Android". That means faster webpage loading, an "Off-Road Mode" designed for non-3G browsing, and a personal news feed, among other features.Vyclone (Free)Launched last year for iPhone, video-sharing app Vyclone's tagline is "Film together". That means you shoot video of whatever you like, then Vyclone figures out who else is filming at the same time in the same place, and stitches all your clips together into a multi-angle video. It's in beta on Android, but well worth getting in on early.Temple Run: Oz (£0.65)Oz again, but this time an official splicing of Disney's new film with the hugely popular Temple Run franchise. That means endless-running along the Yellow Brick Road, collecting coins and ducking dragons along the way. It's based on the latest Temple Run 2 game engine, so looks spiffing. Parents of Oz-loving children may be shocked by the prices of the top-tier in-app purchases though.Toy Story: Smash It! (£0.65)If Angry Birds went 3D, with the birds replaced by Buzz Lightyear and the pigs replaced by aliens, it might look like Toy Story: Smash It. A bit. Disney's new game makes for colourful knock'em down fun as you scoot around 60 levels chucking balls at the aliens' defences. The sort of game you buy for your kids, then frustrate them by hogging the device to yourself.Amazon Mobile App for Android Tablets (Free)Amazon sells its own Android tablets, of course – the Kindle Fire range – but this is an app for all larger-screened Android devices, designed to put a tablet-friendly user interface on Amazon's online store. You can browse products, read reviews, place orders and track them afterwards.Skype WiFi (Free)Skype has ported its Wi-Fi hotspot-finding app to Android, helping you identify nearby hotspots when travelling abroad, then connect to them for internet access – paying using your Skype Credit. The company charges for the time you spend connected rather than the data you use, for sessions of up to 30 minutes at a time (with the option to reconnect immediately).Humble Bundle with Android 5 (n/a)It's time for the latest Android Humble Bundle, an initiative where you're offered six games plus soundtracks, and can pay what you like for them. What's more, you can choose how your payment is divided between the individual developers and charities Child's Play and the Electronic Frontier Foundation. This time round, the four main games are Beat Hazard Ultra, Dynamite Jack, Solar 2, NightSky HD, but if you pay more than the average ($6.65 at the time of writing) you get Super Hexagon and Dungeon Defenders thrown in too. Excellent games, marvellous value.Photoshop Touch for Phone (£2.99)Adobe took its Photoshop image-editing software to tablets a while back, but now it's on smartphones too. This app includes some of the most-used Photoshop effects to help you tweak your photos and then either share them on Facebook or Twitter, or export them to Photoshop tablet or desktop software.Spelltower (£1.32)Word game Spelltower was brilliant fun when it came out for iOS in 2012, and it looks just as good on Android. It sees you swiping tiles of letters to make words as they rise from the bottom of the screen, a bit like Boggle meets reverse-Tetris (I said abit). Five modes offer depth, and the gameplay remains as addictive as ever.Slingshot Racing (£0.69)Steampunk racing? That's already sounding intriguing, and Slingshot Racing delivers on its quirky premise with engaging gameplay. You race around icy tracks using a grappling hook to slingshot your way around corners (hence the name). A long-lasting career mode adds depth, with up to four players able to compete on a single device at once.Toy Story: Andy's Room (Free)More Toy Story, but this time in live wallpaper form. Released by Disney, this features five Toy Story characters – Buzz, Woody, Rex, Hamm and the Aliens – with a mixture of animation and mini-games. All designed to provide a colourful backdrop to your Android device.Wikimedia Commons (Free)Another photo-sharing app? Don't yawn, there's an interesting twist to this one: it's from Wikimedia Foundation. It wants to get people uploading their photos to its free Wikimedia Commons image repository. "By uploading your photos, you can help further the goal of spreading free knowledge around the world," explains its Google Play listing.Gun Bros 2 (Free)Glu Mobile's Gun Bros was one of the first action games on mobile to take the freemium bit between its teeth. Now it's got a sequel, which is also free-to-play. Expect lots of guns, lots of enemies to shoot them at, and (possibly) lots of juvenile snorting at mentions of the "T.O.O.L. Wars" in the storyline.Dragon Summoner (Free)Dragon Summoner is also a free-to-play game, but from another popular genre: card-battling. It sees you putting a team of characters together to battle dragons, with more than 200 virtual cards to unlock, and the chance to fight against other players over the mobile network to test your strategies.Bladeslinger (£1.99)On iOS, Bladeslinger has been causing plenty of oohs and aahs with its graphics, as well as its swipe-based 3D battling gameplay. Now it's on (some) Android devices, with an emphasis on high-end devices – and visual tweaks for those that have Nvidia Tegra processors inside.AVP: Evolution (£3.24)Sadly not a mis-spelt tribute to the Tottenham manager, the "A" here is Alien and the "P" is Predator, as the movie villains face off yet again in an official movie game. You get to play as either, upgrading their abilities, weapons and armour as you go along, with plenty of shooting, running and more shooting to be done.Just Going to the Dentist (£0.64)No shooting or running here, just cavity-work and dentist's chairs. Oceanhouse Media's latest book-app for children is based on a famous book by Mercer Mayer featuring her Little Critter character. It's all about a visit to the dentist, with word-highlighting and voice narration telling the story.Svpply (Free)Svpply is a subsidiary of eBay, sitting somewhere between Fab and Pinterest with its "hand-selected" collection of products from online stores. Its app has just been ported to Android, enabling customers to follow their favourite retailers and browse products in a neat image-heavy interface.Rivals at War (Free)Good news if you like action-packed games with military themes: Rivals at War is exactly that. It sees you building and upgrading a troop of soldiers, then sending them off to fight on 3D battlefields, deploying tactics cards when necessary to swing the balance of power your way.City Conquest HD (Free)"It's not tower defense... and it's not real-time strategy," explains the Google Play listing for this new game. Yep, you guessed it: this is both. You'll be defending your own tower (well, Capitol Building) while attacking your opponent's – and those opponents are real people playing online. 20 single-player missions will train you up for the challenge.Glam Fever (Free)Looking for something a little less... soldiery? Glam Fever is the work of girl-focused virtual world Stardoll, and sees you kitting out an avatar in different fashion items, while making her way in the working world, and dating from a pool of "over 1 million guys". Virtual ones, presumably.Tornado - American Red Cross (Free)Understandably limited in its geographic scope, this app is from the American Red Cross to help people in the US "understand and prepare for a tornado and all that comes with it". It'll alert you if there's a tornado warning for your monitored locations, provide instructions on what to do, and offers quizzes to help you bone up on all this beforehand.King's Empire (Free)More free-to-play gaming here from Gamevil, in a strategy game that sees you playing a King in search of his crown, building an army, allying with others and developing a city to scrabble your way back to the throne. Played online against others, it's clearly going after the same gamers who liked Kingdoms of Camelot.Cars in sandbox: Construction (£1.31)Got children and an Android device? This is one of the growing number of fun apps aiming to provide education and entertainment for kids. In this case, the focus is on construction vehicles: a tractor, a crane, a dump truck and so on. Children play with them in a virtual sandpit, completing mini-missions or simply having fun.The Smiler (Free)Who predicted that British theme park Alton Towers would be releasing mobile games in 2013? Nobody, that's who. Yet here we are, with this game promoting its new rollercoaster, which is opening soon. You get to ride round a virtual version, earning points to unlock new features as you go.Zoe's Green Planet (£2.49)More fun for kids here, with this book-app from developer Square Igloo. It's all about a green girl on a green planet, surprised when a red family suddenly move in. Interactivity, voice narration and five educational mini-games based around colour, shapes and music look to provide an engaging treat.God of Blades (£0.65)Sci-fi beat 'em up God of Blades was well received on iOS, and now it's made the leap onto Android. Inspired by "pulp novel covers, classic RPG modules, and 1970s rock", it sees you fighting a succession of enemies while figuring out which weapons suit your style best.Boardtastic Skateboarding 2 (Free)It's only been out for a few days, but this game is already well past the 500k downloads mark. It's a 3D skateboarding game focused on spectacular tricks, with a global multiplayer mode taking your skills to the world.Pixplit (Free)Rounding off this week, another social photo-sharing app! Wait, come back... Design appears to be the main selling point here, with neat templates for your snaps, and the idea of "splits" where several people's photos are slotted into one overall "visual story".That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Tomb RaiderReading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe subject of nine video games and two films, Tomb Raider is a franchise you wouldn't accuse of commercial under-exploitation. During the course of this process, its heroine, Lara Croft, metamorphosed from accidental post-feminist icon to joyless, melon-chested caricature. In other words: time for a reboot.What it used to beA nubile, independent, lady Indiana Jones takes archaeology into the twin pistol-wielding era.The rebootLara's 21 years old and setting off on an adventure that immediately turns into a fight for survival with the capacity to break a lot more than fingernails. There are still tombs to raid, but your main concern is staying alive, and helping your disparate band of shipwrecked chums do the same by upgrading weapons and skills as well as slaughtering bad guys.Any good?The danger feels a bit ersatz, but the shaky-cam action is appropriately skin-of-the-teeth.SyndicateIt's either Syndicate or every other first person shooter ever.What it used to beAn unusually thoughtful game of real-time tactics set against a backdrop of ruthless corporate rivalry.The rebootTaking a much-loved series and discarding everything apart from its name and its protagonists' penchant for wearing trench coats is either very bold or a bit silly. The ensuing, lukewarm first-person shooting action suggests the latter, squandering interesting source material in favour of blandly standard gunplay with a bit of parkour shoehorned in, apparently in preference to having any new ideas.Any good?Although not completely terrible, this is not a good game.BatmanBatman: when he's not in Bradford he can generally be found duffing up goons in Arkham.What it used to beA succession of forgettable 80s and 90s side-scrolling beat-'em-ups.The rebootArkham Asylum sees a growling, muscular Batman laying just-less-than-lethal waste to armies of the Joker's henchmen and super-villainous friends, who've invaded Gotham's asylum for the criminally insane. The fights are gritty, and Batman's need to stalk gun-wielding assailants provides perfectly judged shifts in pace that get you to observe and plan rather than simply steaming in with fists windmilling.Any good?Absolutely great, and it's already spawned a similarly hearty sequel.Spyro The DragonA dragon, called Spyro, AKA Spyro The Dragon.What it used to beA set of third-rate platform games starring a slightly characterless dragon.The rebootSkylanders is Activision's answer to the awesome addictive collect-'em-all power of Pokémon. It employs all sorts of clever psychological trickery to hook its young devotees, from beautifully designed plastic figurines to a poster letting you know how many more you need to buy before you can be happy. It's easy to be cynical, but there's a decent game buried under the scary addiction-enablement.Any good?Yes, although parents should know that a complete set costs just the £300.DmC: Devil May CryDmC's Dante: a right barrel of laughs.What it used to beA fast-moving, stylish hack-and-slash game with a supernatural Japanese flavour.The rebootMade in Britain, the new DmC still moves like lightning and involves scything multitudes of demons to ribbons with a progression of outlandish weaponry. It's also managed to eke out a much-needed sense of humour, as well as having discovered mod fashion along the way. It's even a bit easier, although getting good at it still demands the total dedication series fans like to bring to bear.Any good?Very, managing to please the devotees while extending a razor-fanged welcome to newcomers.WolfensteinOne of Wolfenstein's many, many undead Nazis.What it used to beThe founding father of first-person shooters and the original game to pit you against zombie Nazis.The rebootYou're still fighting "ze Chermans", but bog-standard weapons, and the fact that everyone else has got in on the act by this point, have left Wolfenstein's updates looking run-of-the-mill. Accidentally ludicrous Teutonic accents apart, this is a game short of any real point of difference in a world that has caught up and then moved on.Any good?The limit to the number of polygon Nazis you can shoot turns out to be governed by the boredom threshold.
And here we are again, the familiar argument, repackaged and re-worked: games are not art and never could be. This time it'sa piece by Brian Moriarty, a professor in game design who once worked on titles such as Beyond Zork and the early LucasArts adventure, Loom. Unlike Jonathan Jones, whose recent polemic against games relied on notions of authorship, Moriarty takes a historical stance:A survey of the past 2,500 years of art philosophy offers no support for the classification of games as art. If games are mentioned at all, they are dismissed as a pastime, harmless at best, and an evil destroyer of youth at worst.He goes on to quote Schopenhauer who condemns games of all kinds and calls playing cards, "in the truest sense an expression of the wretched side of humanity". This of course, is from an arch misanthropist who once threw an old lady down the stairs because she was talking too loudly on the landing outside his apartment.And anyway, if we are to go to the philosophers, we should also consider Plato who freely uses draughts as a metaphor for discourse in the Republic and considered leisure and play to be vital elements of a healthy life. It was Plato who reportedly suggested, "You can discover more about a person in an hour of play than in a year of conversation". Which of course, doesn't tell us anything about games as art, but does tell us that Plato valued gaming and that philosophers, however brilliant and perceptive they are, often hold opposing views.When Ilast wrote about this, I suggested that we shouldn't worry; that games are beautiful and important, and categorisation is irrelevant. I stand by that. MoMA's controversial decision to display a handful of games in its gallery seems to have awoken in art critics and some game designers a sense of unease: on one side is intellectual snobbery on the other is anti-intellectual approbation. Games aren't art, leave us alone, stay away.MoMA, I would suggest, has been more motivated by concerns of contemporary culture than art per se – a possibility that seems to be ignored whenever this matter arises. They are exhibited in the gallery's Department of Architecture and Design and this seems to me enormously sensible and relevant. All games are works of virtual architecture; they are designed spaces assembled both for practical purpose and aesthetic appreciation. They are like buildings in this way. But they are also works of graphic design, utilising all the theories and practices of printed media. Consider this: elsewhere in the gallery, MoMa exhibitsa work named Champagneby the French artist Pierre Bonnard. It is wonderful, but it is also a poster, a work of graphic illustration. Is that art? Should it be there?You see how complicated this gets? And how dull?This is a better way of looking at things, I think, and in the end what matters: games are inarguably beautiful. From the iconic minimalism of Pac-Man and Space Invaders, with their perfect shorthand environments, to the abstract wonderlands of Super Mario and Final Fantasy. From the touch of the fingers and then the clasp of hands between Ico and Yorda; through the metallic screech of an opening door in Doom and the swish of Ecco's tail. Beyond the smash of zombie dogs through windows in Resident Evil; the visual poetry of Rez, the plaintive sorrow of The Graveyard.And on and on, through the slashing blades of Heavenly Sword and the hip Tokyo fashion of Killer 7 and Jet Set Radio; the glittering swirl of galaxies in Eve Online, the geometric mountain-scapes of Minecraft. The kiss between George and Nico at the close of Broken Sword; the desperate sense of impending loss in Uncharted 3 as Nathan leaves Elena at the air strip, refusing to help her over the fence, worried he'd lose her again, her hands slipping from the wire lattice between them; three seconds of Super Hexagon; 30 Flights of Loving. The art deco interior of Bioshock's doomed utopia. The Aperture lab, a pure construct of puzzle design and aesthetic skill, a world in which architecture is task, and every visual motif on every wall is perfect and meaningful. It's not all for science, you monster. It is for beauty too.And on and on and on; over the rolling plains of Skyrim and into the azure blue SKies of Arcadia. On and on until the whole idea of arguing over art diminishes before the spectacle and the magnificence of it all. When you look out in awe over the burning spacecraft of Mass Effect, the hazy, fecund forests of Far Cry, the undulating wireframe seas of Mercenary don't wonder, is it art? Just wonder. Just take it in. That's the value and the purpose. Exist in it.Thirty years of gaming have taught me to interrogate games, but not to classify and fret; I have little time for the aloofness of academia. I know this much, and it is silly and slightly indulgent, but it explains my standpoint, for what that's worth. When I listen to the song Video Games by Lana Del Ray, and she sings in that wavering luscious tone, "It's you, it's you, it's all for you," I imagine that it is not the boy she's singing to, but the games. It's all for you, I tell you all the time. Fuck art, let's play.
In the early days of digital entertainment, when it was first recognised that videogames and films shared an audience and common creative ground, it seemed obvious to many that the two had a bright synergistic future – if only somebody could find the knack of bringing them together. Jamie Russell's history of the relationship between the two industries,Generation Xbox, is full of easy wins that turned out not to be so easy; combining cinema and games proved more complex than stuffing arcade cabinets with laserdiscs, licensing blockbuster tie-ins, or even, as games began to look more like animated films, the inclusion of dramatic cutscenes. The road to Silliwood, the mythical convergence point of Silicon Valley's technical muscle and Hollywood's star power, was littered with big ideas, false dawns, anddusty Atari 2600 cartridges bearing E.T.'s sad, abandoned face.Ask anyone working at Santa Monica-based Naughty Dog and they would tell you that they make story-driven games. But the studio has recognised that there is no money-spinning shortcut to creating interactive movies, or to telling sophisticated stories through gameplay. There is, instead, craft, hard work, and painstaking iteration. With its matinee-fanfare action series Uncharted the studio established itself as an industry leader in performance capture, devoting resources to and developing a specialisation in integrating thrilling, touching, natural performances into gameplay.With its new game, the post-civilisation drama The Last of Us, the studio is hoping to go even further. Inthe first part of this featurewe saw how the team, led by directors Bruce Straley and Neil Druckmann, is building a torn, atmospheric world principally for the purpose of creating tension. This tension isn't an end in itself, instead it's a tool with which the team hopes to create a game in which gameplay and story, the technical and the narrative, are one and the same.Tracing the roots of this hope, Druckmann goes back to when he and Straley were working on Uncharted 2. The pair would meet for dinner after work to drink, discuss random ideas and, on at least one occasion, to mull over their mutual appreciation for wistful PlayStation 2 classic Ico, in which an outcast boy wordlessly rescues a spirit princess.The Last of Us: are things looking up for Ellie?"We were both highly inspired by Team Ico's aesthetic and storytelling, and really drawn to the way they were able to form relationships through gameplay," he says. At the time, the discussion influenced the creation of Uncharted 2's Sherpa character, Tenzin, who aids our hero Drake when he's found injured in the Himalayas. "A lot of that sequence was constructed around, 'Can we form a relationship through you guys helping each other?' You seeing Tenzin having a relationship with the other villagers – is that going to make you care for them?" The answer was a definite yes – the sequence is the highlight of an outstanding game, with Drake's explosive defence of the village against a tank attack memorable not for the carnage and gunfire, but for the desperate urge it created to race across virtual geography to save Tenzin's daughter. The experiment a success, and when Uncharted 2 was finished the idea grew. Druckmann and Straley asked themselves, "Can you construct an entire game around a relationship?"This core idea has been at the centre of The Last of Us from the beginning. Druckmann describes the very first story treatment, hand-written across three pages of a notebook. It included information about the world, but focused on Joel, Ellie and their interlinked arcs. "That part has never changed," he says. "The world has changed, the back stories of the characters have changed, the supporting cast has changed. But that part, the heart of it, has remained the same." As the script was fleshed out with locations and potential action sequences, the progression of Joel and Ellie's relationship was also marked out. "Everything would grow out of that," says Druckmann. "So if we wanted to focus on a specific emotion or a specific theme, we would construct gameplay or art around it"With these foundations laid the studio's specialist departments set to work separately, the designers building gameplay while Druckmann would write scenes and record them with the actors, before the two elements were brought back together. "Sometimes they work well on the first try, and sometimes you're like 'Oh, something is off' – either gameplay has to change because it doesn't fit what we're trying to do with the characters, or the gameplay is actually working better with the thrust of the experience [but] the story isn't working, so we might have to reshoot a custcene or rethink lines of dialogue."This is the heart of Naughty Dog's approach, the gruntwork that early synergistic idealists believed could be skipped if only games and films could somehow play nice – a constant calibration of gameplay on the one hand and story on the other in service of a coherent whole. There is no shortcut – the process requires the availability of your central actors for months at a time, far longer than a film shoot, in order to tweak and change certain scenes, lines or deliveries. Some parts of The Last of Us have been shot three or four times, says Druckmann. "You keep iterating back and forth until everything gels together. It's more expensive, it's more time-consuming, but in the end I think the player really benefits from having that consistent tone of voice throughout the game."The Last of Us: explosive actionWhat this makes obvious is that Naughty Dog takes the same approach to story as it does other, more obviously technical aspects of creating games. The team are students of story craft – Druckmann says their LA location makes it easy to attend Hollywood story seminars, and mentions a visit the entire design department took to a Pixar talk on its famously successful story processes. Druckmann himself took acting classes in preparation for his role overseeing the performance capture sessions on The Last of Us, which as something of an introvert, he describes as "totally scary and horrifying" but also worthwhile. "What I found, it's the same language of storytelling. You're talking about through-lines, you're talking about what the character wants at this point, about what's stopping them from getting it. The fuel for story is conflict, without conflict it's stagnant."This notion of conflict driving story is a familiar tenet of Hollywood screenwriting. But driving towards its goal of combining story and gameplay, Naughty Dog applies it to hands-on, in-game situations just as readily as narrative. Druckmann's gameplay-oriented counterpart Straley talks about "the gap," a term favoured by story guru Robert McKee."It's the gap between expectation and result. You expect, in a story, to walk into the bank and open up a bank account and everything's going to be fine. But then the ceiling busts open and guys rappel down and they have guns and they say "Get on the floor!" I'm like, "Oh my God" that's not expected at all. Now what do I do? If I was a trained military man I would have a very different idea than a businessman, a housewife, a surfer dude. Each one of these people avail certain opportunities to overcome that gap that has just opened up, and that opens up the opportunity to say something new about that character. In gameplay it's the exact same thing."The Last of Us: road to nowhereSpecifically Straley refers to the choices that players will make in The Last of Us when faced with the dangers of aggressive human survivors and once-human infected. If tension is a tool in service to story, here's where it's applied. The constant danger of each combat scenario is in itself a gap – "Am I going to meet a human? A band of humans? Are they going to be good, are they going to be bad?" – and the choices players are forced to make in using the game's scavenging and crafting system provide a variety of ways to bridge that gap – "Do I have two bullets, or five?" In other words, if the principal aim of The Last of Us is to create tension to force its characters make interesting decisions, it's also, in parallel, to force you to make interesting decisions while you're controlling them.This isn't the only facet of story structure that can be manifested in gameplay. Druckmann describes how the team have worked to make character arcs part of the interactive experience. "Some of it is seeing how Ellie evolves over the course of the game," he says. "That's mostly obvious through her abilities. But some of it's more subtle, it's the state of their relationship. Let's say Joel and Ellie just had a fight – I should be able to read her body language as she's moving through the space and see that we're not on good terms right now. There's something unique in that – I'm walking around her, I'm interacting with her, and I'm getting that energy that normally I'd only feel in real life. Our hope is that we can make a deeper connection between each character as players are playing through it than you can in a more passive medium."Asthe first part of this feature made clear, The Last of Us is set to be a very effective survival horror. It's visually accomplished, features a fresh, fascinating take on zombified enemies, and delivers brutal, suspenseful gameplay. But Druckmann is clear that simply being a good game won't satisfy the studio's own expectations – the real measure of success will be if that central relationship between Joel and Ellie, the rock upon which the rest of the game is built, grips players the way the team hope. "Can we use everything we've learned about story, character and progression of gameplay, so that at the beginning we have two characters who don't know each other, and [by the end] get you to really believe that they're willing to make crazy sacrifices to help one another?" he asks. "Everything hinges on that – can we pull that off?"
Mark Zuckerberg sat in weekly briefings ahead of Facebook's news feed overhaul, its most important revamp in years, according to the social network's director of design.Julie Zhou, a design director at Facebook whounveiled the new-look news feed in San Francisco  on Thursday, said Zuckerberg was "very involved" with the makeover – a process that began more than a year ago.The timing is significant: it means Facebook was underway with the plans before it went public in May 2012, when the impetus for the site to accelerate revenue growth from mobile and advertising increased overnight.Facebook's revamped news feed gives the homepage for its 1 billion users a mobile look, reducing clutter and lending more space to striking photographs, check-ins and other updates. It borrows features from Facebook's iPad, iPhone and Android apps, such as a left-hand navigation bar that will be unfamiliar to non-mobile users.The overhaul had the most user feedback for any product launched in Facebook's nine-year history, Zhou said – a sign of its importance to both users and businesses."Because it's the homepage and the news feed is the biggest thing on the site I do think it's very significant to be changing that," Zhou told the Guardian."But I hope it won't feel like too big a change. We've taken a lot of elements from mobile and think people should be familiar with the new navigation and chat."Another noticeable difference is the greater prominence given to advertising on the news feed, a feature that was welcomed by advertisers but loathed by some users when it was introduced last year.Some users saw it as an intrusion into their "social stream" when they found unsolicited updates from brands alongside posts shared by friends.The new design means that sponsored news feed updates from companies will in some cases take up a sizeable chunk of the screen, sometimes more than a third of all space on the homepage.Zuckerberg spoke about the importance of the introduction during Facebook'sfourth-quarter earnings call in January, when the company reported that advertising now accounts for 84% of its total revenue of $1.58bn."So, historically, advertisers want really rich things like big pictures or videos and we haven't provided those things historically," he said, pointing out that news feed ads attract a higher click-through rate than sponsored ads on the right-hand side of the site."One of the things that we've done in the last year is you've seen the organic news feed product that consumers use moving towards bigger pictures, richer media and I think you'll continue to see it go in that direction."Speaking after the launch event on Thursday night, Zhou denied the revamped news feed was designed mainly with advertising in mind."A lot of the reasons we are doing this stem from users and the feedback that we got – that was the primary goal – going public didn't affect that," she said."Where we thought about design, we heard that users want to see photos bigger, more streamlined, and all those different types of story types getting richer. If brands are posting then we also want to make sure it gets the same representation that another user gets."The key will be to limit the number of intrusive ads appearing in users' feeds, while keeping marketers and shareholders on side.Early user reaction to the changes has been relatively muted, with the new-look news feed only available to a small number of people before it is gradually rolled out in the coming weeks.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone and iPad. Except this time, it's Best Apps This Fortnight, since this post took a week off for Mobile World Congress.Read on, then, for a hand-picked selection of the 30 most interesting new (as in brand new, not updates) iOS apps from late February and early March. There's a separate30 best Android apps this weekroundup too.Real Racing 3 (Free)Its freemium timersmay have proved controversial, but Real Racing 3 is still an excellent driving game, not least because the more you play and the more cars you own, the timer element stops being an issue. Anyway, the game sees you racing more than 45 cars over 900 events, upgrading as you go. The graphics are spiffing, the handling works beautifully, and unless you're philosophically opposed to in-app purchases in this kind of game – which some people are – you'll have bags of fun.iPhone / iPadMarvel Unlimited (Free)Comics starring Spider-Man, The Avengers and other Marvel characters have been available digitally for some time now in several apps. Now Marvel has launched an official app for its own Marvel Unlimited subscription service, where you pay $9.99 a month (US pricing, but it's available worldwide) for unlimited access to new and archive comics.iPhone / iPadThe Wonderful Wizard of Oz for iPad (£2.49)As Disney rolls out the big marketing guns for its Oz The Great and Powerful film, book publisher Random House is taking advantage with its own interactive retelling of L. Frank Baum's original novel. Split into 24 chapters, this app includes two modes for children of different ages. Picture Book is for younger readers, with abridged text and an emphasis on animation and interactivity. Original Novel mode, meanwhile, has that plus the full text of the book.iPadToy Story: Smash It! (£0.69)If Angry Birds went 3D, with the birds replaced by Buzz Lightyear and the pigs replaced by aliens, it might look like Toy Story: Smash It. A bit. Disney's new game makes for colourful knock'em down fun as you scoot around 60 levels chucking balls at the aliens' defences. The sort of game you buy for your kids, then frustrate them by hogging the device to yourself.iPhone / iPadYear Walk (£2.49)This unaccountably slipped through my net when it came out last month, but it's such a good game, it demanded inclusion this time. It's a beautiful, eerie, quirky mix of adventuring, puzzling and jumping out of your skin, based on Swedish folklore. And if the game isn't enough, there's aseparate companion appgiving more information on those mythical sources.iPhone / iPadComics In The Classroom (Free)More comics, but this time with educational ambitions. Comics In The Classroom is the work of a UK startup of the same name, and retells famous historical events through digital comics. The twist: students fill in the speech bubbles themselves through multiple-choice suggestions, testing their knowledge. The murders of Archduke Franz Ferdinand and Thomas Becket, as well as The Dambusters are available now as £1.99 in-app purchases, with Rasputin, Pearl Harbour and The Gunpowder Plot to come.iPadTemple Run: Oz (£0.69)Oz again, but this time an official splicing of Disney's new film with the hugely popular Temple Run franchise. That means endless-running along the Yellow Brick Road, collecting coins and ducking dragons along the way. It's based on the latest Temple Run 2 game engine, so looks spiffing. Parents of Oz-loving children may be shocked by the way the in-app virtual items store goes all the way up to £69.99, though.iPhone / iPadSave the Children (Free)Charity Save the Children's new iPhone app aims to keep supporters updated on its latest campaigns with a mixture of news, video appeals and photographs from around the world, as well as case studies, staff logs and an interactive map taking people to its websites around the world.iPhoneReebok Fitness (Free)There's growing interest in the fitness apps market, with Reebok the latest big brand to show its hand (or, rather, its feet). This app aims to help people create their own customised training programmes for running, dancing, yoga and/or walking, throwing in videos and tips from fitness experts as you go.iPhoneWildwood Storymap (Free)Book publisher Canongate teamed up with creative agency Somethin' Else for this stylish "companion map" for Colin Meloy's trilogy of Wildwood books. Excerpts from the first in the series are included, but the core of the app is its map of the locations in the story, along with illustrations and an entertaining mini-game.iPhone / iPadDevil's Plantation (£2.99)As a website, The Devil's Plantation won an interactive BAFTA award. Now it's available as an iPad app, telling its tale through "66 films, two life stories and an ancient secret revealed". Set in and around Glasgow, it's the latest fascinating glimpse at how interactive storytelling isn't just a buzzphrase.iPadMakies Doll Factory (Free)Readthis interview with British startup MakieLabfor the full story on how its 3D-printed dolls may disrupt the traditional toy industry. This iPad app is part of its plan, enabling people to create their own virtual "Makie" dolls on-screen, and then order them from the company.iPadFiles App (£0.69)Apple might not fancy providing a single File Manager-style application for iOS devices, but developer Sonico has done the job for it. Files App helps you access all the PDFs, photos, videos and music stored on your device, as well as pulling files from cloud services Dropbox, Google Drive and Box.iPhone / iPadPermanent – Spreadsheet Document Editor &amp; Viewer (£6.99)Can spreadsheets really be "glamorous"? That's what one early review of iPad app Permanent has suggested. It's a slick, uncluttered way to create and edit spreadsheets on Apple's tablet, supporting formulas and Lua scripting. You can't import Excel docs and CSV files yet, but that's coming in a future update.iPadTick Tock Toys (Free)Swallowtail Games won a BAFTA Ones to Watch award in 2012 for Tick Tock Toys, which has now been commercially released for iOS. It's a wonderfully-characterful puzzle game that sees you solving toy-based puzzles in sets of three. The first 15 levels are free, then you can buy a pack of other stages for £1.99.iPhone / iPadBBC Earth Wonders (£2.49)BBC Worldwide's latest app is a showcase for the Beeb's archive of wildlife video, drawing on series including Planet Earth, Frozen Planet and Life. Navigated using a 3D globe, the app includes 50 30-second video clips and more than 500 photos to browse, with links to iTunes for full episodes.iPhone / iPadLego Friends Ultimate Stickers (£2.49)Lego's girl-focused Lego Friends range is apparently selling like the clappers, so it's probably a good time to turn it into an app. Book publisher DK is the company responsible with this digital stickering app. Children have more than 85 virtual stickers to slap onto eight scenes however they like.iPadSonic Dash (£1.49)Be wary of suggesting that Sega's latest Sonic the Hedgehog game is inspired by Temple Run: this kind of gameplay was appearing in Sonic games a long time ago. There's no doubt that Temple Run's success made the idea of a standalone Sonic endless-runner appealing, though. Sonic Dash sees you running, jumping and dodging as far as you can, with in-app purchases in the mix to speed up the unlocking of power-ups.iPhone / iPadWhat's the Phrase (Free)If you mashed up Wheel of Fortune, Words With Friends and Draw Something, you might come up with something like What's the Phrase. It's the work of Zynga – owner of the latter two brands – getting people to pick from more than 40 phrase categories then guess the words faster than friends.iPhone / iPadTate Shop (Free)The Tate Gallery in London is currently holding a retrospective exhibition of Roy Lichtenstein, and now it's got its own companion shopping app to buy related products and books. "Add some explosive style to your home with a pair of Whaam! cushions or make your outfit really pop with our 'Oh Jeff' bag," encourages its App Store listing. I'm guessing the app's more-general name means it can be updated for future exhibitions too.iPhoneAdobe Photoshop Touch for Phone (£2.99)Adobe took its Photoshop image-editing software to tablets a while back, but now it's on smartphones too. This app includes some of the most-used Photoshop effects to help you tweak your photos and then either share them on Facebook or Twitter, or export them to Photoshop iPad or desktop software.iPhoneTalking Friends Superstar (Free)Outfit7's stable of Talking Friends characters (Talking Tom Cat, Talking Ginger and the rest) have been enormously popular, with 700m downloads and 120m monthly active users. They even spawned arange of plush toysjust before Christmas. This new app is designed to work with those: on-screen buttons spark verbal responses from the toys. A fun digital/physical combo – and the first of many, judging by the traditional toy industry's interest in apps.iPhone / iPadUKF (Free)British brand UKF is all about bass music: dubstep and drum &amp; bass, having found a huge audience through its YouTube channels, whichpassed the 1bn views markback in June 2012. Now there's an app for that on iPhone, offering uploads, mixes, news and ticket/merchandise links for the burgeoning UKF community.iPhoneTango Text, Voice and Video (Free)Communications app Tango has been around and popular for a while – it justsigned up its 100 millionth user. Now its iPhone app has been turned into a universal version, meaning a native edition for iPad. The features remain the same: voice and video calls as well as messaging, games and photo-sharing.iPadDrinkCoach (£1.49)DrinkCoach looks simple, but it could be a really important app for people looking to cut down on their alcohol intake. It's a way to track the units and calories that you're drinking, set goals for yourself (and get reminders of them), and watch videos that may help you manage alcohol cravings when they come along.iPhone / iPadAA Breakdown Standby (£9.99)The Automobile Association's latest app promises "pay-as-you-go roadside assistance" – as in car breakdowns, rather than rushing you a top-up card when you run out of credit, obviously. The one-off £9.99 download fee registers you for the AA's Breakdown Standby service, enabling you to get help if your car breaks down at £80 a pop, rather than paying an annual membership. You can call for assistance within the app, which sends your exact location to help you be found.iPhoneMini Ninjas (£0.69)Square Enix says the heroes of its latest game are "the smallest heroes taking on the biggest dangers", which is as neat a summary of the central gameplay as any. It's a fun action game where you choose one of four ninjas to play as, battling enemies and creating your own magic spells. In-app purchases supplement the initial download fee.iPhone / iPadWombi Helicopter (Free)Swedish children's apps developer Wombi has released a succession of colourful, creative apps over the past year. This latest one is a freebie to introduce parents (and their children) to the Wombi world. It gets kids building a helicopter then flying it on a rescue mission, fending off a nefarious skunk along the way.iPhone / iPadRando (Free)Here's a fun skew on photo-sharing: an app that gets you to snap a pic (using a circular frame) and then send it to... Well, you don't know who it's going to: Rando handles the job of pinging it "anonymously to somebody completely random" – somebody else using the Rando app, obviously. "You will never know who received the rando, they will never know who sent it," explains the App Store listing. "You will know the location of where it landed, the receiver will know where in the world it was taken."iPhoneThe Final Hours of Tomb Raider (£1.99)No, not an app-based spoiler for the new Tomb Raider console game, which is fresh out. Instead, this is the work of journalist Geoff Keighley: longform games journalism in app form, as he interviews the team at developer Crystal Dynamics about its reboot of Lara Croft, with concept art and videos thrown in. It follows similar apps from Keighly about Portal 2 and Mass Effect 3.iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
This week Charles Arthur meets Nick Halstead, founder of the UK data filtering serviceDatasift, and Jemima Kiss talks to Adam Price about his financial adviser rating sitevouchedfor.co.uk.We also have a roundup of this week's tech news including awhopping €561m fine for Microsoft, the bizarre and funny rumour suggesting thatPirate Bay is moving to North Koreaand good news for UK broadband fibre rollout asBT announces 1,000 new jobs in this sector.The music featured in this week's podcast is a selection of tracks from Cold Tear Records in Lithuania.Click here to listen and download the tracks in full.
Friday! What are you playing this weekend. I'm hoping for Far Cry 3 but will probably get Minecraft, Lego Batman 2 and Xmen on XBLA.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFrozen Android phones give up data secrets &gt;&gt; BBC NewsFreezing an Android phone can help reveal its confidential contents, German security researchers have found.The team froze phones for an hour as a way to get around the encryption system that protects the data on a phone by scrambling it.Google introduced the data scrambling system with the version of Android known as Ice Cream Sandwich.The attack allowed the researchers to get at contact lists, browsing histories and photos.There's something delicious about using a freezer to attack Ice Cream Sandwich. (Thanks @challengingviews for the link.)Report: Microsoft pushing Windows 8 and Office to smaller devices &gt;&gt; Windows IT ProPaul Thurrott:Citing unnamed "people familiar with the situation,"The Wall Street Journal reportsays that Microsoft is jumpstarting a push to smaller PC devices, most likely including tablets with 7-inch screens or similar. The new devices would arrive in time for the 2013 holiday selling season and will ostensibly compete with Apple's iPad mini, Google's Nexus 7, Amazon's Kindle Fire HD, and other small computing devices.Amazingly, Microsoft provided a comment that seems to vaguely confirm the report.The WSJ's "people familiar" construction generally means "people inside the company". Is Microsoft late to this 7in party, or right on time? (Thanks @nazo for the link.)UK judge declines Samsung's job offer, invalidates three 3G standard-essential patents in Apple case &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsFlorian Müller:Samsung has now officially failed to prevail on 25 standard-essential patent (SEP) assertions against Apple (including eight patents it withdrew and one case that was stayed in Germany because the patent was deemed likely to be invalid). Today Justice Floyd of the Chancery Division of the High Court of England and Wales ruled on three Samsung SEP assertions against Apple and declared all three patents invalid. Last week Samsung lost its 22nd SEP assertion against Apple (in Japan). Samsung has prevailed on only three of its SEPs (two in Korea, one in the Netherlands). With a hit rate of less than one out of eight it's still less unsuccessful than Google's Motorola Mobility, which won only one of its ten SEP cases against Apple.The "declines job offer" part of the headline isn't serious (or necessary; it's a snark too far). Would love to see a revised estimated by Google of Motorola's value; it put the 17,000 issued and 7,000 patents pending at avalue of around $5.5bn on 30 June 2012. (See Note 8, "acquisitions".)Rovio's revenue crisis and the app market evolution &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:On March 6, the mobile app industry witnessed something that it had not seen since April 2010. No Rovio games in the US Top 90 chart of iPhone apps generating most revenue. According to Appshopper, Angry Birds Star Wars has dropped to #91 and Bad Piggies to #100 when it comes to making money. Both still fare well in the download charts at #8 and #13.Something fascinating has happened in the app industry over the past two years; download volume performance has decoupled from revenue performance almost entirely. A few years ago, the original Angry Birds spent 22 months in the Top 20 chart of biggest revenue generating apps in America. The latest Angry Birds game struggled to stay 2 months in the Top 20.The app industry revenue generation is now utterly dominated by free downloads that lure consumers into paying for in-game features month after month.Windows RT is a lemon. Here's how Microsoft could make lemonade &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaPeter Bright:Ever since it wasannounced, I've hadskepticismabout the purpose and value of Windows RT, Microsoft's version of Windows that runs on ARM computers. The upside of Windows RT — cheap devices and long battery life—was diluted by Intel finally managing to beat its Atom processor into shape. The downside — incompatibility with almost every Windows application ever written — seemed substantial.I'm not alone in this skepticism. Acerdecidednot to ship a Windows RT product, preferring instead to gauge the market reaction (though the company may besoftening its stanceand might ship a Windows RT tablet later in the year, if it believes that Microsoft has made the operating system sufficiently appealing to consumers). Around the time of CES, Samsungsaidthat it wasn't going to ship its Windows RT device, the Ativ Tab, in the US due to lack of retailer interest. The news has got worse: the company is nownot going to sell it in Germanyas a result of weak demand.Worse than that, actually. Samsung told the Guardian it isn't going to sell the Ativ outside Asia. Windows RT has serious problems with developers, OEMs and customers. Thank goodness Microsoft is solidly behind- oh.How guys will use Google Glass &gt;&gt; YouTubeThe future is coming, ladies. Sorry about that."Glass, take a picture." Precisely. (From @dartanion on Twitter.)Getting ultraviolent about UltraViolet™ &gt;&gt; Martin BelamUser experience (UX) designer Martin Belam:A good UX can be hard to quantify, but you sure know when you are having a bad one. And over Christmas I stumbled over a really good example of a bad one.Regular readers may have noticed that I quite like Doctor Who, and so of course Santa brought me the latest DVD box set for Christmas. It includes the new UltraViolet™ feature of making digital copies available to owners of the physical product.The instructions come in a leaflet in the box, and I was eager to try it out.Anyone had agoodexperience with Ultraviolet?New Social Media Startup Launches, Shuts Down Within 45 Minutes &gt;&gt; The OnionDuring a candid postmortem 10 minutes after the site had been removed and an hour after it had launched, Nesheim cited myriad difficulties in the site's first 15 or 20 minutes, including logistical hurdles, a stubborn market share, and administrative hassles."Within 52 seconds of the site's launch, you could tell things weren't looking good, and after 30 minutes I figured, 'All right, let's just give it 15 more minutes and if it hasn't taken off by then, fuck it,'" said Nesheim, who frantically and unsuccessfully attempted to sell the company to an outside investor within minutes of FrendTrend going live. "It had so much promise when I walked into our office for the first time this morning. People just didn't give it a chance."Bear in mind that what The Onion does as satire one day often subsequently occurs as reality.Big-Bang Disruption &gt;&gt; Harvard Business ReviewLarry Downes and Paul Nunes:the strategic model of disruptive innovation we've all become comfortable with has a blind spot. It assumes that disrupters start with a lower-priced, inferior alternative that chips away at the least profitable segments, giving an incumbent business time to start a skunkworks and develop its own next-generation products.That advice hasn't been much help to navigation-product makers like TomTom, Garmin, and Magellan. Free navigation apps, now preloaded on every smartphone, are not only cheaper but better than the stand-alone devices those companies sell. And thanks to the robust platform provided by the iOS and Android operating systems, navigation apps are constantly improving, with new versions distributed automatically through the cloud.The disruption here hasn't come from competitors in the same industry or even from companies with a remotely similar business model. Nor did the new technology enter at the bottom of a mature market and then follow a carefully planned march through larger customer segments. Users made the switch in a matter of weeks. And it wasn't just the least profitable or "underserved" customers who were lured away. Consumers in every segment defected simultaneously — and in droves.What's the next category that smartphones (or their successors) will swallow?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook has overhauled its news feed for hundreds of millions of users, devoting more space to music, games and advertising in a bid to boost revenues.Mark Zuckerberg, the 28-year-old Facebook founder and chief executive, unveiled the redesign at a press conference in San Francisco on Thursday, saying the move was intended to "reduce clutter" on the social network.Photographs, check-ins and other updates appear larger on the revamped news feed, which features a new left-hand navigation bar and separate tabs for music and games.The redesign also gives more prominence to advertising in a change likely to irk a number of Facebook's 1 billion worldwide users.Zuckerberg said the Facebook news feed aimed to create a "personalised newspaper" for the site.The new design brings a more visual look to Facebook, reflecting the fact that photographs now account for 50% of all content on news feed, up from 25% since November 2011."The design of your news feed needs to reflect this evolving face of who you're sharing with," Zuckerberg said.Experts said the overhaul is the most significant in years for Facebook, which has been under pressure to accelerate revenue growth while keeping users on side since Zuckerberg took the company public on 17 May last year.Facebook only began showing ads in users' news feeds in 2012, but it quickly proved a vitally important part of the business."The news feed advertising is where Facebook is having the success, both on mobile and on the desktop," said Ian Maude, an internet analyst at Enders Analysis."The trick is going to be managing the volume of ads people see in the news feed and getting the balance right between maximising revenue but also keeping users happy."If the best form of flattery is imitation, then Twitter will look fondly on the changes. A new "following" page on the Facebook homepage shows status updates from celebrities, newspapers and other brands in chronological order – similar to the 140-character social network.The redesign is an answer to some critics who suggested Facebook had grown to look dated, compared to up-and-coming rivals like Twitter, Snapchat and Path.Maude said the reception from users to the changes would depend on how many ads appear in their news feed."It's not surprising that Facebook is doing a refresh as ads are now an integral part of news feed whether users like it or not," he said."But I think Facebook are quite sensitive to overloading people with too many ads. The site has been overdue a shave and a haircut."The changes will allow marketers to develop more striking ads that will sit alongside videos, photographs and other updates in users' news feeds. Marketers believe the news feed is the most affective way to reach potential customers, attracting a higher click-through rate than sponsored ads on the right-hand side of the site.According to research firm eMarketer, Facebook earned more US mobile display revenue than any other publisher last year, with an 18.4% share of the entire market, thanks to ads in the news feed. The move helped overall ad revenues rise 36% year-on-year to $4.27bn in 2012, according to the company's most recent full-year results.Facebook said the revamp means the social network now looks the same on smartphones, tablet computers and on the web.The update creates a new home on the news feed for music, which builds on Facebook's partnership with Spotify and other streaming services in a bid to keep users on the site.The new design will be gradually made available over the coming weeks, with users able to sign up to a waiting list for early access.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
As a female founder of a code education and digital enlightenment business, I'm using the eve of International Women's Day to ask myself how women are faring in the tech revolution.Votes for women, the pill, the arab spring and protests in Delhi all represent milestones in the empowerment of the female population, but the technological revolution must be next. If we embrace the opportunity, this will become a bright, new frontier of unimaginable emancipation and equality.Code is shorthand for the programming languages that are the ingredients for every website, piece of software, game and digital product. It is what goes on behind the screen, powering the internet revolution.Decoded, the code education firm I co-founded, has been teaching professionals from all industries how to code for almost two years. We have seen the response of the public shift from disinterest to an enthusiastic "code – I need to learn". And to get a sense of the scale of interest in the nuts and bolts of the tech industry, look atCode.org's learning to code video featuring Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, which has racked up 9.5m views in just one week. The awareness, demand and opportunity has never been greater.The opportunity of digital businessGoogle's Big Tent debate in Brussels last month brought together policy makers and politicians from around the EU. The growth of web-based technology has meant that more than 2.5 million people created their own job by becoming entrepreneurs and helped create more than one million additional paid jobs each year, though efficiencies created by technology are eradicating the need for certain roles and the scale of people needed to grow a global business. But creating work or not, organisational structures and traditional hierarchies are shifting; a small startup like property swap siteAirbnbhas had lawyers, landlords and hoteliers in disarray, witnessing the power and disruption that an innovative business can wreak on the incumbents in a matter of months.So who are the authors/founders/creators within this revolution? Who are the coders, and the biggest names in the industry? Sadly, it appears they are male.Lady Geek, a campaigning agency making technology more accessible to women, calculates that the number of UK technology jobs held by women has dropped from 22% in 2001 to 17% by 2011 and the number of women applying for computing A-level in the UK dropped from 12% in 2004 to 8% by 2011.Code.org estimates there to be 1 million more computer programming job opportunities than graduates in the US by 2020, and estimate the opportunity cost at $500 billion.So is the digital rulebook, our digital history, being written by men? Are the guys cashing in and the girls losing out?The gender divide in computingTheo Blackwell from Next Gen Skills, the campaign championing the need for computer programming skills in the UK, has observed a national gender divide across science, technology, engineering and maths with girls accounting for as few as 7% of computing A-level students in 2011/2012. Gender aside, the poor take-up of computing in English schools is a broader trend, with student numbers dropping from 12,529 in 1998 to 3,420 in 2012. What impact will that have on the UK's tech industry?London mayor Boris Johnson pledged to learn to code last year, and a few weeks ago President Obama spoke about the need to teach code in schools. But when will the words turn into action and investment? It is irresponsible of the government to rely on small businesses and struggling not-for-profits to resolve an issue of national importance without robust support."An understanding of computer science is becoming increasingly essential in today's world," Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg has said. "Our national competitiveness depends upon our ability to educate our children – and that includes our girls - in this critical field."New roles combining tech, communication and collaborationNot everyone wants or needs to become a programmer. But the need for basic technical skills and deep digital literacy currently extends to every single role in every industry being influenced by technology.Take for example the role of the creative versus the creative technologist. It's notoriously hard to get a job as a creative in the industry and the salaries are pretty disheartening when you do. I searched this week online for a job as a creative: £28,000 per annum with around four years' experience. Alongside this was a role for a 'creative technologist', required to be able to code, liaise with clients and knit design, usability and function – salary £70,000."I wouldn't say that people with technical skills are more valuable than anyone else here," said Mel Exon of ad agency BBH. "But a deep grasp of technology is becoming more essential across our resource in every department, not less". There is a hunger and urgent need for hybrid skills, and women seem perfectly placed to command a very powerful position in these emerging roles that require tech and communication skills.I've seen professionals from more than 400 different businesses want to learn to code. They span every sector you could possibly imagine. What's more is they span every possible age, role and hierarchy too. From the 20-year-old graduate looking to make themselves as employable as possible and a woman who has missed a few years bringing up kids, to the FTSE 100 board director. There's a consensus of feeling lost, overwhelmed and confused by jargon and rapidly changing technology.Technology: evidence the field is levelling"Over the past 40 or 50 years," according to John Van Reenen, professor at the Department of Economics at the London School of Economics, "the proportion of women in the workplace has gone up, the wage gap has narrowed significantly, the educational gap has been reduced and women are outperforming men across all sectors and industries." Technology, he argues, has levelled the playing field. What, then, are the real barriers for women embracing tech skills and learning?The stereotypes of programmers are unflattering and largely unappealing, but these stereotypes also reinforce the invisibility of women coders and women in technology more widely. Of women who have recently learnt to code, most could not name a mentor in tech. Facebook's Sandberg, Yahoo chief executive Marissa Meyer, Mind Candy's chief operating officer Divinia Knowles and Tech City's chief executive Joanna Shields are all great examples, but we need more.A positive response to the lack of visibility has been the rise of women-specific tech groups: the Standford-based She++, the global un-conference Geek Girl Meetup, Girls in Tech and Tech Talk Fest in East London. Yet the need for such events prompts frustration even from the most passionate and engaged in the community. "Girl events are rare and can sometimes feel a bit forced," said one female tech founder. "I spend 95% of my time at events that are meant to be mixed but are 90% male."The barriers to learning how to code have dramatically decreased in recent years. It has become more accessible, more intuitive, more applicable, speedily grasped and more creatively applied. All Decoded trainees say they feel more confident with their new skills after the course; the only discernible difference with women – who make up 50% of trainees – is they express less confidence, and maybe more honesty about that, before they start.Step on upA handful of pioneering women created the computing revolution, from the world's first computer programmer of the 1800s, Ada Lovelace, to Austrian-American Hedy Lamarr, Hollywood star and mathematician who invented an early technique for spread spectrum communications and frequency hopping – the basis for WiFi and Bluetooth we use today.Flash-forward to today, and the cost of starting up in tech has dropped from $5m in 1997 to $50,000 in 2008, according to the Wired for Growth and Innovation report in 2012. Web Summit founder Paddy Cosgrove says the number of female attendees in the past three years has rocketed from a handful to hundreds – a cohort of highly ambitious educated women in their 20s exploiting lower barriers to tech startups.The opportunities are there. Now we need to encourage and support this new generation, and provide meaningful investment to the next generation of code heroes and rock stars. And let's make them female ones.Kathryn Parsons is co-founder ofDecoded
The US attorney general has defended the prosecution of Aaron Swartz,the internet activist who killed himselfafter being targeted for hacking into the computer system of MIT.After Swartz's suicide in January, his family and friends accused the Department of Justice of cracking down too hard on him. At the time of his death, Swartz, 26, was facing a potential prison sentence and felony charges for allegedly illegally accessing articles from a database.In a Senate judiciary committee hearing on Wednesday, Holder expressed sympathy to Swartz family and friends but said the case was a "good use of prosecutorial discretion."Swartz was arrested in January 2011on 13 felony charges, for downloading academic articles from the JSTOR database and make them freely available. He faced a potential prison sentence of up to 35 years.But Holder said that before the indictment, prosecutors had offered a plea deal to Swartz that would have resulted in a three-month sentence. Further deals were offered for increasing amounts of time up to six months, Holder said.Holder is the highest-ranking member of the Obama administration to defend the prosecution of Swartz. During questioning, Republican senator John Cornyn suggested the government had mishandled the case."Does it strike you as odd that the government would indict someone for crimes that would carry penalties of up to 35 years in prison and million-dollar fines, and then offer him a three – or four-month prison sentence?" Cornyn asked.Holder replied: "I think that's a good use of prosecutorial discretion to look at the conduct, regardless of what the statutory maximums were, and to fashion a sentence that was consistent with what the nature of the conduct was. And I think what those prosecutors did in offering three, four, zero to six [months] was consistent with, with that conduct."Speaking to the Guardian last week,Swartz's partner, Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffmann,accused the US Department of Justice of delaying its investigation into how the case was being handled."This is not the Department of Justice; it's the Department of Vengeance. If you look at the Department of Justice, they are not interested in admitting their mistakes, they are interested in covering their asses," Stinebrickner-Kaufmann said.She said that government staffers had told her that Swartz's political beliefs influenced the handling of the case. Justice Department representatives told one congressional aide that Swartz'Guerilla Open Access Manifestowas being used to establish "malicious intent" to illegally download large amounts of documents.In the July 2008 manifesto, Swartz argued that civil disobedience was justified in the campaign for an open internet.He wrote: "We need to take information, wherever it is stored, make our copies and share them with the world. We need to take stuff that's out of copyright and add it to the archive. We need to buy secret databases and put them on the Web. We need to download scientific journals and upload them to file sharing networks. We need to fight for Guerilla Open Access."Stinebrickner-Kauffman said the document did not reflect his views five years later.The Massachusetts federal prosecutor handling Swartz case, Carmen M Ortiz,defended her actions less than a week after Swartz death.In a statement, Ortiz expressed sympathy for his family and friends and acknowledged that there was little she could do to quell anger felt by people who saw her office's tactics as overreaching."I must, however, make clear that this office's conduct was appropriate in bringing and handling this case. The career prosecutors handling this matter took on the difficult task of enforcing a law they had taken an oath to uphold, and did so reasonably," Ortiz said.
I'm choosing my new laptop to run Microsoft Visual Studio, among other things. My first choice has one drawback: a Core i5 rather than a Core i7. What would I miss? Also, I gather some manufacturers throttle the CPUs to reduce heat and the need for fans, too….Steve LambShort answer: you won't see any difference in general use, but there might well be a difference if you run a demanding test, such as a long compilation in Visual Studio. Otherwise, you can regard all laptop chips as "throttled" in the sense that their performance is optimised for particular configurations, both to reduce heat and prolong battery life. The long answer is that the choice depends more on the specific processors in question than on Intel's branding, and that laptop processors are now less about performance and more about "performance per Watt".Intel has designed its Core range of PC processors to target different market segments. The Core i3 is for "value" systems, the i5 for the mainstream, and the i7 for prestige products and tech enthusiasts, especially gamers. There are also versions branded with the old Pentium and Celeron names for PCs where users are looking mainly for a low price. The Core i3 lacks the SpeedStep turbo feature of the i5 and i7 so it's at the bottom of the posh range, but it's also top of the cheap range.Part names are not just random numbers. The rule of thumb with Intel (and many other manufacturers) is that bigger numbers are better. A Core i7 is generally better than a Core i5. Similarly, a Core i7-3xxx (third generation Ivy Bridge) is better than a Core i7-2xxx (second generation Sandy Bridge), while a Core i7-3540M (3.0GHz Mobile) is better than a Core i7-3520M (2.9GHz Mobile).As an ordinary user sitting at a PC, it's unlikely you'd be able to tell the difference between any of these chips, so it's tempting to describe this as a marketing exercise. However, the chips have real technical differences that lead to different performance characteristics.Processors generally perform better if they have more cores, if each core can run more than one process (a technique Intel calls Hyperthreading), and if there is more cache memory to feed instructions to the processor. The Core i7 chips, for example, usually have more cores (up to six), Hyperthreading, bigger caches and better HD 4000 integrated graphics.However, not every i7 chip is faster than every i5. The situation is complicated by the thermal design power (TDP) in watts. This is the amount of heat the cooling system has to dissipate. If the processor gets too hot, it will have to be throttled or shut down or it will melt.Performance per WattAs mentioned above, with today's laptop chips, you're not paying for speed but for speed per watt. For example, a Core i5 with a TDP of 35W may run faster than a Core i7 with a TDP of 17W, but it will run hotter. It will therefore need a bigger battery to get the same battery life, more stuff to cool the processor, and so on. Low-power parts enable PC manufactures to build thinner laptops, but you may be happy to trade some bulk for a lower price or a faster chip.If you really want speed, buy a desktop tower (lots of cooling space) that can handle a hot processor such as the3.5GHz Intel Core i7-3970X EE. (In Intel-speak, X means extreme and EE stands for extreme edition, so it's an extreme extreme.) This has six cores, 15MB of SmartCache memory and a TDP of 150W. It also costs $1,059 for a retail version, but obviously there are much cheaper desktop processors.Intel's mobile (M) chips typically have TDPs of 25W to 45W, while the ultramobile (U, UM) versions are 17W or less. Below those there's the1.5GHz Core i7-3689Y, which has only two cores, 4MB of cache, and a TDP of 13W. It's slower than some Pentium chips, but it's probably intended for tablets rather than laptops. For this sort of use, the Core i7-3689Y has a "Scenario Design Power" (SDP) of 7W.Intel is suggesting that, in a tablet, you can run the Core i7-3689Y much more slowly to generate less heat and get more battery life. This is unusual, but all manufacturers have their own scenarios when they design laptops for different markets (workstation, desktop replacement, entertainment system, portable, ultraportable etc).Given all these complications, the best thing to do is to narrow the choice down to two or three laptops and then look up their processors on NotebookCheck'sCPU Benchmarks table. They are listed in speed order so you can see whether there are big gaps between them or whether they will actually have pretty similar performance.ThrottlingAll this assumes that each manufacturer is following Intel's TPD recommendations but they don't have to. Some manufacturers may want to fit extra cooling and "overclock" the chips to make them run faster. This appeals to gamers. Others may choose to limit the performance to fit a processor into a thinner, lighter laptop, while also ensuring that the case doesn't get too hot to the touch. It's a balancing act.Windows laptops allow users some degree of control through the power settings. There will be "high performance" options where the processor runs at more or less full speed, preferably on mains power, and "long battery life" settings where the chip's speed is reduced, the screen brightness turned down and so on. You may even get a slider control that lets you decide how fast to run the processor to achieve a certain battery life.Today's Windows machines are so powerful that the CPU spends most of its time doing nothing very much, and as I type this in Microsoft Word, I'm using less than 1% of my dual-core processor. The only people likely to notice throttling are the ones doing heavyweight tasks such as encoding videos or playing high-end games that use the full power of the processor for extended periods. In these cases, the key temperature is not the core of the chip (Tcore) but the top surface of the processor packaging (Tcase), where it meets the heat sink. For example, Intel lists the Tcase of the Core i7-3970X EE as 66.8°C. Beyond that, you can expect the CPU to be throttled or shut down.Sometimes users dispute the settings with manufacturers. In one case,Dellsaid it learned from "a small number of customers who have reported issues related to throttling" that "we could improve thermal algorithms that dictate throttling thresholds on our mainstream business-class product line", so it revised its BIOS chips.I'm not a Microsoft Visual Studio user, but it seems to be quite a heavyweight program, so more cores and more memory would help. However, a Core i5 with 4GB can certainly do the job. Microsoft's Scott Guthrie reckons the processor isn't the main bottleneck with Visual Studio: the real blocker is a slow hard drive. In 2007, inTip/Trick: Hard Drive Speed and Visual Studio Performance, he suggested getting a 7,200RPM or 10,000RPM drive rather than a slow 5,400RPM model. Today, I expect he'd recommend an SSD (solid state drive) or at least a hybrid drive such as a Seagate Momentus XT.
The UK is among nine countries lobbying Brussels to ease proposed rules on data protection – in a move that will come as a relief to US technology companies including Google and Facebook which have been increasingly concerned about potential effects on their business.The US government has also lobbied the European commission not to toughen the rules, arguing that it would specifically hinder American companies through its proposed swingeing fines for data breaches, which could have been up to 2% of global turnover.The UK's Information Commissioner's Office is suggesting that individual countries should be given more leeway to interpret the law as appropriate, using a "risk-based" approach. "If you have a butcher whose data processing only affects 20 local people, you need to be able to treat an infringement there differently from a company with private health records," said a spokesperson for the ICO. Other countries including Germany, Sweden and Belgium have made similar objections.The EC had planned to have a timetable for the new rules by June. However it could take years before the rules are finalised and implemented.The EC's aim is to create a unified set of privacy standards for all 27 countries in the EU, and iron out national variations that have led to some confusion. They would also make it easier for companies whose principal focus is processing data to operate – for example by dropping the requirement for a named data protection officer.The FTreportsthat a memo drafted by the Irish presidency, representing EU countries, admits that "several member states have voiced their disagreement with the level of prescriptiveness of a number of the proposed obligations in the draft regulation."One of the most controversial ideas being put forward is a "right to be forgotten", proposed by the EC justice commissioner, Viviane Reding. She unveiled the idea in January 2012, suggested that people should be able to demand that data about them is deleted from companies' data stores unless there were "legitimate" grounds to retain it.Google in particular has lobbied fiercely against that idea, on the basis that it would disrupt its stores of data and create holes in what is in effect a historical record. Reding's team argued that it was necessary in order to let teenagers and young adults control how they would be viewed as they matured – so that embarrassing acts that would never have been heard about before the internet would not become widely known and in effect stay with them through their lives.But the deletion requests would not have applied to medical or police records.
If you pass the key inspirations for The Last of Us through a reductive Hollywood pitch filter the delightfully unlikely formulation would be something along the lines of "David Attenborough meets the Coen brothers – at the end of the world".It sounds like the finest Roger Corman movie the world will never see, but these really are the ingredients for Naughty Dog's new tale of post-civilisation survival. The Last of Us shows a world torn apart by pandemic, and so far the headlines have been stolen by the visually arresting infection itself, a zombifying plague inspired by the fascinating (and alarmingly non-fictional) cordyceps fungus as featured in an episode of the BBC's Planet Earth. The fungus alters the behaviour of insects and ultimately transforms their bodies into statuesque spore clusters; the game's jumping-off point is "what if the fungus spread to humans?" – a question it then answers in the shape of frenzied half-men and the collapse of world government.So that's the end of the world and David Attenborough covered (hear his voice describing with soothing detachment the mechanism of our destructionhere). But where do the Coen brothers enter the picture? At the head of The Last of Us are two men, game director Bruce Straley and creative director Neil Druckmann. The two worked together on Naughty Dog's blockbusting, Indiana Jones-riffing triumph Uncharted 2, and found they had a shared taste in cinema and literature. This included the Coen brothers, whose 2007 film, the stripped southern noir No Country For Old Men, Straley remembers the pair watching together. "We walked out of the theatre kind of eyes wide open and mouth agape," he says, describing how deeply the film's ability to sustain tension impressed them. "What did we just see? What was that?" And then, most importantly, "What if you could make a game like that?"The Last of Us: Planet Earth was never like this for David AttenboroughJudging by the short section of the game that Naughty Dog has revealed so far, it seems that they can. The game's hero is Joel, a lean, stalking southerner not unlike No Country's Josh Brolin. Twenty years after the outbreak Joel is a smuggler, sharing again with Brolin's character a decency that doesn't necessarily equate to boy scout honesty. He runs supplies past check points, in and out of the quarantine zones that are the final holdouts against a world filled with desperate scavengers and the infected. The job that sets the game's story in motion, and forms the relationship that will define that story, is to smuggle not a thing but a person – a 14-year-old girl called Ellie.In the section I play Ellie and Joel move through a toppled office building on the outskirts of Boston. The environment screams unease – not just the torn concrete city, road twisted and listing, but the resounding lack of music and the enveloping sound of rainfall on the broken streets. If Straley and Druckmann want pervasive tension, they have it – each step in this environment feels like a trespass, each slowly decaying room is entered reluctantly, and each noise that echoes through the ruined building – a shunted cabinet, a tossed bottle – feels like an alarm piercing a reverent hush.In a way, that's exactly what each one is. The role of sound in The Last of Us is unusually prominent. Straley describes how environmental noise was purposefully "stripped back" to bare essentials in line with the rest of the game's mechanics, so that each noise or careful deployment of the mournful score by seasoned soundtrack melancholic Gustavo Santaolalla has the maximum impact (the Argentine guitarist has provided music for films as uplifting as 21 Grams and Babel – he fits right in). But sound is also woven into the design of the infected themselves. There are three stages to the disease, leading to three distinct classes of enemy as the fungus germinates in the brain, grows through the eyes, and eventually consumes its victim. The third and final class is called the Clicker – head erupted in aggressive fungal growth, these blind, twitching drones get their name from their use of echolocation to hunt you through the darkness. It's not just that the game's atmospherics make excessive noise feel dangerous – the AI is designed so that it really is.The Last of Us: no country for young peopleOf course engaging the infected is inevitable, but there's a great deal of flexibility in how you might do it. Joel uses items scavenged on his journey – blades, rags, bottles – to craft shivs, molotov cocktails, bandages and other items that can be used to shape combat. Materials are scarce so choices are necessary, meaning you're constantly taking stock of your supplies and playing out ever-shifting plans of attack for unseen, unknown enemies: "Take two out quietly with the shiv, burn the third, and save the precious shotgun shell for an emergency …"It's a practical sensibility that has a lot in common with the grounded, improvised gunfights of No Country for Old Men, cat-and-mouse engagements of resourcefulness and reaction punctuated by moments of easy lethality. In fact what The Last of Us takes above all from the Coens is a disposition towards violence, which it treats as unglamorously brutal and sudden, a world away from the incidental genocide of Uncharted, with a clumsiness and spontaneity that gives every movement horrendous weight. When the infected descend upon Joel it's just a second before his throat is torn out and the screen abruptly fades to black. Each of Joel's own kills – a brick swung into a temple, a shiv jammed into a gurgling neck, a thunderous gunshot in the dark – feels loud and sickeningly final.Straley explains that "simple designer tricks" are partly responsible for creating this effect. "Like – how long does it take to enter and exit my packpack? How quickly can I craft? How quickly can I fire a gun? What is the recoil rate on a revolver versus a 9mm?" But he also goes back to the game's audio. "The sound of the metal when you reload, the sound of a bullet locking in … I'm not even a gun guy, but when it reverberates inside a basement with your flashlight on when there's infected after you, and you hear that click, and you get a shot off – there's a clarity and focus to what's happening at that moment."The Last of Us: pump-action adventureThe journey through the building ends with a final fight against a group of the infected in what looks like a deserted underground station, the foundations having collapses into each other years before. The room is square with plenty of cover in the form of benches and low walls. I skulk opportunistically through the shadows, alternating between extreme stealth – Joel has a "listen mode" which highlights nearby enemy movement through walls – and desperate urgency once I see an infected singled out from the crowd. A loose toss of a molotov cocktail brings more attention than I'm ready for and I find I can run, hide, loop back and try again. The combat is designed to move from creeping to shooting to escaping smoothly, and that's how it feels, until I break a length of wood with a nail through it over a fungal head and move out into the open air.And – breathe. The Last of Us, it's safe to say, does a fine line in tension. But it also has much larger ambitions. The infected might be physically striking and darkly intriguing, but they are a means to an end. Naughty Dog, as Straley and Druckmann stress more than once, is a studio interested in storytelling and characters, and finding ways to tell the story through gameplay, rather than alongside it in cutscenes. As the screenwriter's mantra goes, 'story is conflict' and conflict is what the infected provide. Straley calls cordyceps "a plausible scientific explanation that could create a manifestation of horror that applies pressure on the characters, that gets them to make interesting decisions". Moment to moment The Last of Us is clearly effective, but a true test of its success will be whether the relationship between Joel and Ellie works over the course of the game – whether it can make the player feel the pressures of this world, an emotional closeness to a virtual companion and above all else, as Straley says, "like we felt when we walked out of No Country For Old Men."Read part two of this feature on The Last of Us on Friday, when we'll be taking a closer look at the game's storytelling, from the evolution of the script to the design philosophies behind its integration of story and gameplay
From flying cities to robotic George Washington lookalikes packing gatling guns, the forthcoming first-person adventureBioshock: Infiniteis set to be one of the most fascinating game releases of the year. A key feature of the title is set to be the character Elizabeth, who players must rescue from the floating metropolis of Columbia. Developer Irrational Games has claimed that she exhibits some of the most advanced AI ever seen in a video game.To discuss Elizabeth, Bioshock and the evolution of AI, Ken Levine will be appearing on stage at Bafta, on Monday night. The event begins at 8.30pm and after a presentation on the game, Levine will be answering questions posed by Guardian games writer, Simon Parkin. There will also be time for audience questions.It will be a remarkable chance to meet the man behind one of this year's most anticipated titles - and we have 35 tickets to give away to Guardian readers. You just need to go tothe events booking pageand enter the code 'Parkin'. You can select either one or two tickets but please only opt for two if you are certain you can use the extra place.There will be drinks and the chance to chat with Ken in the bar afterwards. Come along!• The Ken Levine event is taking place at Bafta's Princess Anne Theatre at 8.30pm on 11 March. The ticketing system is arranged and organised by Bafta.
There's little argument over the key themes emerging from this year's Bafta video game awards, held on Tuesday night in London: indie developers are now a vital part of the maturing industry. The night's biggest winners were Thatgamecompany's haunting adventureJourneyand the experimental painting gameUnfinished Swanwith one-man project New Star Soccer beating Fifa 13 in the sports category.Of course, as gaming news site CVG pointed out ina feature yesterday, the awards are judged by panels of game designers and journalists, rather than a public vote, so the winners do not necessarily reflect mainstream tastes. However, the fact that there were so many small studios in nomination positions this year hints that the independent sector is thriving and that there's an audience for experimental releases.So does this mean games are maturing as an entertainment form? Jonathan Ross is a lifelong game fan, and now has a studio, HotSauce, which released its first title,Catcha Catcha Aliens, in March. "Journey was the key winner," he said. "It was a good evening, it showed the breadth of games coming out which aren't just classic shooters or sports sims. Who knows – maybe it represents a turning point in game development. You could look at the winners and say that people are wanting more from games – the titles being rewarded are the ones that are genuinely innovative."Ross picked out Journey for particular praise. The title requires players to wander a desert landscape interacting with the remains of an apparently extinct civilisation, often in unspoken co-operation with another online player. The game won in the artistic achievement, audio achievement, game design, online multiplayer and original music categories, beating the likes of Black Ops II,Borderlands 2andFar Cry 3.Some have wondered, though, how much of a 'game' it actually is. "You know what? It's anexperience, and there's nothing wrong with that," says Ross. "Think about movies: Koyaanisqatsi was an immersive experience, it didn't have plot or characters, it was something visual that you gave yourself over to. That's what Journey is and I'm all for that. There should be games like that – just as there should be games where you wipe out an army for killing your brother. There's room for both."He stops short, however, of suggesting that games can tackle the same sort of weighty subjects as film. "I don't know if they can talk about the human condition in the way that great literature or movies do," he says. "I wouldn't agree with that at this stage. Maybe they will one day. I was doing a podcast with IGN and they asked, why aren't there games that have the same kind of emotional resonance we have from films like, for example, Schindler's List."A video game set in that kind of world would be crass. It would be offensive. But maybe there is a different kind of game experience, or an immersive experience that isn't exactly a game per se, something that you enter, that you're involved with, that does deal with great, possibly tragic, historical moments. Maybe that will happen. At the moment, I don't think the gaming world is doing that. I don't know if they're capable yet. But Journey points in that direction – toward a different kind of communal experience where you're not just trying to kill someone."When asked about his plans at HotSauce, Ross says that the team has several projects in production. "I like games that are fun and I think you should make the games you want to play. I like games with a retro and a quirky quality, so Catcha Catcha Alien was deliberately something you could pick up and play for five minutes. We're working on a bigger game idea and we're talking to some of the biggest publishers about them financing it, but who knows? It could be all talk."I have another idea I'm hoping to do this year, which is kind of two games. If you achieve something on one, not only can you interact with other players, you can also port that achievement into the second game, which gives you a different experience. My wife is working on a couple of games too. We're definitely making games, but whether anyone will point at them and say we broke the mould, I don't know. Judging by the ones I'm involved with now, I expect not!"
Here we are in Thursday. And we have a treat lined up for Naughty Dog fans today.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamReturn of the Borg: how Twitter rebuilt Google's secret weapon &gt;&gt; Wired EnterpriseBorg is a way of efficiently parceling work across Google's vast fleet of computer servers, and according to Wilkes, the system is so effective, it has probably saved Google the cost of building an extra data center. Yes, an entire data center. That may seem like something from another world — and in a way, it is — but the new-age hardware and software that Google builds to run its enormous online empire usually trickles down to the rest of the web. And Borg is no exception.At Twitter, a small team of engineers has built a similar system using a software platform originally developed by researchers at the University of California at Berkeley. Known as Mesos, this software platform is open source — meaning it's freely available to anyone — and it's gradually spreading to other operations as well.The Borg moniker is only appropriate. Google's system provides a central brain for controlling tasks across the company's data centers. Rather than building a separate cluster of servers for each software system — one for Google Search, one for Gmail, one for Google Maps, etc. — Google can erect a cluster that does several different types of work at the same time. All this work is divided into tiny tasks, and Borg sends these tasks wherever it can find free computing resources, such as processing power or computer memory or storage space.Wilkes says it's like taking a massive pile of wooden blocks — blocks of all different shapes and sizes — and finding a way to pack all those blocks into buckets. The blocks are the computer tasks. And the buckets are the servers. The trick is to make sure you never waste any of the extra space in the buckets.Fascinating article, though you can feel both writer and speakers struggling to find useful similes for what's being done. (Thanks @tehgreatgonzo for the link.)January 2013 US smartphone subscriber market share &gt;&gt; comScoreGoogle Android ranked as the top smartphone platform with 52.3% market share, while Apple's share increased 3.5 percentage points to 37.8%. BlackBerry ranked third with 5.9% share, followed by Microsoft (3.1%) and Symbian (0.5%).What that statement masks is that Apple sold 3.21m iPhones in December, while all Android phones added just 0.45m - the smallest addition since April 2012.  In that month, BlackBerry lost 0.42m users, while Windows Phone gained 0.36m. In terms of market share, Android's actually fell - from 53.4% at the start of December, to 52.3% in January. (Total users rose, of course - 67.2m to 67.7m.Antitrust: Commission fines Microsoft for non-compliance with browser choice commitments &gt;&gt; European CommissionIn today's decision, the Commission finds that Microsoft failed to roll out the browser choice screen with its Windows 7 Service Pack 1 from May 2011 until July 2012. 15 million Windows users in the EU therefore did not see the choice screen during this period. Microsoft has acknowledged that the choice screen was not displayed during that time.So the EC says 15 million...Statement of Microsoft Corporation on EU Browser Choice Screen Compliance &gt;&gt; MicrosoftJuly 2012:However, while we believed when we filed our most recent compliance report in December 2011 that we were distributing the BCS software to all relevant PCs as required, we learned recently that we've missed serving the BCS software to the roughly 28 million PCs running Windows 7 SP1.Odd how it's Microsoft that has the larger number.Apple's penchant for sophisticated simplicity &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBen Bajarin:I don't just use these products for a day or two and then form an opinion but rather I use them as my primary phones, tablets, PCs, etc., for at least a few weeks and sometimes more. However, for me, all roads lead back to iOS. I always go back to my iPhone or iPad. None of the flagship devices I use can keep me from going back to the iPhone or iPad. I think I finally understand why.Compare and contrast…ModernMix™ - Run Modern (Metro) apps in a window on your Windows 8 desktopRun Modern (Metro) apps in a window on your desktop with ModernMix™You know it makes sense. (Thanks @rquick for original pointer.)Switching Things Up &gt;&gt; Curious RatHarry Marks:Don't get me wrong - these pieces [by tech writers switching smartphone platforms] have their place and I'm glad they're being written. They fascinate me, especially iPhone-to-Product X ones, because I've toyed with the idea of switching to Windows Phone 8 now and then. The Lumia 920 is a beautiful phone, as is the HTC 8X, and I'm excited by the possibilities of Microsoft's platform. That doesn't mean I think iOS is boring. It just means Windows Phone 8 presents a feature set I didn't know I wanted before. And I learned that from using a Samsung Focus for awhile.If anyone could write a switch article for the masses, it'd be Andy [Ihnatko] and Lex [Friedman], but show me a "switch" article after year one, not month one. Show me what it's like to go without an update for your phone when other phones are getting it. Tell me if you had to battle malware or fraud because you bought a bogus app six months later. Show me the growth of that platform's app store from the time you switched up to a year from now. Is it better? Worse? The same?And don't tell me what I'm using now looks "old and stale". That's not the measure of innovation. I want to know how another product does it better. I want to see what I'm missing from an end-user's perspective.But everyone wants to read the FIRST HANDS-ON REVIEW. And in a year's time, there's been loads of new stuff. Marks has a point, but it's hard to build an audience around it. (Thanks @slimbowski for the link.)HTC sees revenues sink in February &gt;&gt; DigitimesHTC has reported revenues of NT$11.37bn (US$383.44m) for February, down 26.8% from the previous month and 44% from a year earlier. For the first two months of 2013, revenues amounted to NT$26.91bn, decreasing 27.1% from a year earlier.HTC is being squeezed between the jaws of Samsung and the cheaper Chinese handset makers. The result isn't pretty. This is its 16th straight month in which revenues have fallen year-on-year. Nice as it may be, the HTC One isn't likely to change things dramatically.An embarrassing bug in Mac App sandboxing &gt;&gt; Jonathan DeutschSandboxingis required by Apple to be on the Mac App Store.  The technology has caused us and our users grief, cost significant development time, and likely lost our business users.  This video shows one of the many bugs we hit after shippingTumult Hype1.6, which was our first update to use Sandboxing.  The bug appears erroneously as a permissions error when exporting as HTML5.  It is caused when there is simply a space (or other escapable character) in the application path. Whoops!Deutsch used to work at Apple, in its OS division. Things may have slipped since. (His Hyperedit program is fantastic for quick-and-dirty PHP/CSS/HTML development.)How I ended up with Mac &gt;&gt; Miguel de IcazaTo me, the fragmentation of Linux as a platform, the multiple incompatible distros, and the incompatibilities across versions of the same distro were my Three Mile Island/Chernobyl.Without noticing, I stopped turning on the screen for my Linux machine during 2012. By the time I moved to a new apartment in October of 2012, I did not even bother plugging the machine back and to this date, I have yet to turn it on.In case you don't know de Icaza, he's the brains behind Mono, the Linux implementation of Microsoft's .Net framework.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
US smartphone buyers shunned Android during December, buying only 0.45m more handsets while Apple added 3.21m new iPhone users, according tonew data from ComScore.The number of new Android users was the smallest added since April 2012, when only 0.3m new users were added. Android's share of the market dipped for the second successive month to 52.3%, from the peak of 53.7% in November 2012.But the figures still give Android the largest share of the smartphone market, which has now reached 129.4m users in the US - 55.3% of the 234 million people aged over 13 with phones by ComScore's figures.The data are collected from "an intelligent online survey of a nationally representative sample of mobile subscribers age 13 and older." It only counts primary mobile phones, and doesn't include second phones provided by employers.According to the data, there were 67.7m Android users in January 2013 - compared to 49.2m at the start of 2012, a gain of 18.5m. Apple's iPhone, meanwhile, grew from 29.9m to 48.9m, an increase of 19m.Together, Android and iOS have 90.1% of the US smartphone market.Winner and losers in the smartphone struggles in the US market. Click for larger version.(Larger version of the graph here.) That leaves BlackBerry and Windows Phone fighting it out for the third place spot. BlackBerry still leads with 7.6m handsets in use, against 4m for Windows Phone. But while BlackBerry has lost 7.8m users in the past year, Microsoft has not so far been able to benefit - with its total number of handsets running Windows Mobile or Windows Phone actually dropping by 0.5m in the same period, even though the total number of smartphone users has grown by 28.1m.Samsung is the second largest smartphone supplier in the US, ComScore said, with a 21.4% share, equivalent to 27.7m users. With few, if any, users of its Bada system in the US, that means that Samsung has 41% of the Android market - slightly lower than its worldwide share, which is closer to 50%.After that comes HTC, with a 9.7% share of the overall smartphone installed base. Its position in the US reflects the struggles it has been having more broadly: on Wednesday it announced that its revenues in February fell by 44% year-on-year. In the US, the ComScore data shows that HTC's user base has fallen from a peak of 15m in January 2012 to 12.6m a year later.Google-owned Motorola had an 8.6% share, down from 10.0% three months earlier. Like HTC, Motorola's installed base has been falling steadily, both in smartphones and featurephones; as recently as March 2010 it was the most-used brand in the US.LG was the fifth-ranked smartphone brand, with 7.0%, equivalent to 9.1m users. That has risen from 8.1m in October 2012. It's unclear whether the increase is reflected by sales of the LG-made Nexus 4 phone - which is branded as a Google phone rather than LG.
For many people, 3D printing is still a thing of science fiction. Less a tangible technology and more a reason to shout "They're printing 3D guns now? Endtimes! ENDTIMES!", slap on some tin-foil and run for the nearest bunker.Yet there are people building businesses out of this, which although innovative, disruptive and all those other words you have to use in these cases, are also proper, down-to-earth businesses.MakieLabis one of them. Based in London, the company raised its first seed funding in August 2011 to work on prototype 3D-printed dolls – Makies – which customers would be able to design themselves on its website.That site launched in alpha in May 2012, the companyraised $1.4m from early-stage investorsin June that year, and now in March 2013 MakieLab has released an iPad app calledMakies Doll Factoryto help people make and order Makies from their tablet."We started with the question of whether virtual goods could produce physical goods," explains co-founder and CEO Alice Taylor. "Would 3D printing mean we could make virtual crates and barrels into real crates and barrels? The short answer was yes, but nobody was going to buy a crate or a barrel…"Hence dolls, based on Taylor and her three co-founders' love of online avatars, and also the fact that dolls were the biggest category in the toys market – and a blissful lack of awareness about how difficult they'd be for a 3D-printing startup."An eminent industry figure said to me a year in 'You do realise that was the hardest choice to make, don't you?'," laughs Taylor. "YES I DO NOW, thank you very much. But we've done it!"Rooting for the underdogNot that MakieLab is a dolls company: Taylor says it's more of a software manufacturing platform that can output 3D-printed shapes, including dolls but in the future other kinds of products."The dolls are product number one, but we want to produce toys and games – or toy/game combos – that are really carefully targeted towards specific consumer groups," she says. "Makies are for girls aged 8+, but our second product may be for boys. Not that girls won't want to play with it too, or boys with Makies."When MakieLab raised its $1.4m of early-stage funding, there was a notable outpouring of warmth from fellow startups. That's partly because the four co-founders were well-connected in the London startups scene and beyond, but Taylor thinks there were other reasons."I think part of it came from people seeing a company doing something frankly quite weird, new and very experimental, with two women and two men in the four founders, at a time when people tended to picture startups as being three skinny guys from Stanford," says Taylor."So it was partly people going 'Wow! Underdog, that's amazing', and partly seeing it as encouraging anyone else who's got interesting new ideas, sees those skinny Stanford boys and thinks 'I'm never going to get into this startup scene'. And of course, you can."Makies may have initially launched as a website, but mobile was in mind from the start. MakieLab used the Unity game engine to ensure its making tools would transfer elegantly to mobile devices – something that also means porting the new iPad app to Android will happen sooner rather than later.In the two days since the iPad app was released, people have made more than 4,500 Makies with it – created them in the app, if not actually paid for real versions. Taylor says that already, iPad users are more "much more engaged" than website visitors in their usage of the creation tools.Mobile game plansMakieLab is already working on a separate Makies-themed mobile game to be released this summer, which will be selling digital goods rather than physical dolls. Taylor says that the company is thinking hard about how this will work though, to ensure parents are comfortable with whatever in-app purchase model is used."The game will be similar to the app, in that you're creating characters in a maker-space, but that space will now expand a bit, and you'll be able to make things other than just the character. You'll be making clothes and accessories, and harvesting materials to make them," says Taylor.Something that I like about MakieLab both as a geek-journalist and a parent is the way it encompasses both digital and physical play: virtual and real dolls. This blending of digital and physical play seems like an important trend, especially if you watch how children seamlessly move between the two worlds given the chance.It's a view not shared by some commenters when I've written about children's apps on this blog, who grouch that kids should be playing outside with physical toys, not using apps on touchscreens – as if this is an either/or choice."Exactly! It's not either/or: kids will do both," says Taylor. "They'll play on-screen, then go outside and play with their friends, and often the screen will be in their pocket while they're playing with their friends, or their friends will be with them when they're playing on-screen. This is all just blended now."This debate was actually the spark that created MakieLab back in 2010, when Taylor was at a digital conference in New York that was co-located with a toy fair – with some crossover in delegates between the two.As one of the digital speakers was taking questions, someone from the toy industry asked "All this screen business is all very well, but don't you want kids to go outside and play with a hoopla stick?"As this question rattled around her head, Taylor wandered the toy fair, and realised how completely separate the toy and digital entertainment industries were."It was all plastic products made far away in China, completely separate from the content creation happening there in America," she says. "It just felt so weird. How could we make it blend better?"The Makies Doll Factory app is available on iPad, with Android to followDigital loves physicalThis isn't to say people who work almost exclusively in digital entertainment don't love a good toy. In fact, something I've noticed a lot is that people I met who spend their days subsumed in digital content often have sprawling vinyl, book or toy collections at home.Taylor has noticed it too. "I think it's a symptom!" she says, noting that people who are heavily involved in digital may have  a heightened sense of how intangible it is."I started making websites in 1994, but now I basically can't see any of my work from then through to around 2003. It's been rewritten, archived or gone offline and disappeared," she says."Digital people feel that in their bones: we know that if we don't take screenshots and make photographs of them to frame and hang on the wall, we can't guarantee anyone will see this in the future. And of course, we all love toys. Toys are amazing."Well, some toys. Another interesting thing about Makies and 3D-printed toys more generally is their removal of gender barriers. Boys can make girl dolls, girls can make boys, and (with apologies to Blur) they can come up with something they really love without worrying whether the box is pink or khaki.That's not quite the case in the traditional toy industry. Taylor laughs heartily while telling me about Hasbro's plan to make Nerf appeal to girls by making a pink crossbow called theNerf Rebelle Heartbreaker, for example."It takes a brave parent to walk down the boys aisle in a shop to buy a giant gun for their daughter, or walk down the girls aisle to buy their son a doll. It basically doesn't happen. Your radical lefty Guardian reader, yes, but for the most part no," says Taylor, tongue firmly in cheek."We don't as a company believe that you should have to pinkify something to make it acceptable for girls, or khakify it for boys. We don't want to start saying 'You're a boy, you can't put a skirt on that doll'. Whoever the kid is, they should be able to make boy and girl dolls."3D-printing disruptionMakieLab isn't just trying to disrupt the traditional toy industry on gender lines, of course. 3D printing itself could be seen as a big threat to those aisles full of toys, although also a big opportunity if their manufacturers embrace it.Has the toy industry been sniffing around MakieLab? "Strangely, I don't know if they've noticed us yet," says Taylor."They haven't been in touch. The games industry has, journalists, trade shows, museums and even a makeup company has been in touch, but no toy companies yet. I don't know if it's on their radar, although of course it could be, and they might be plotting to kill us right now! We haven't heard from them."She goes on to stress that of course 3D printing is on the toy companies' radar – for their own internal prototyping processes if nothing else – and predicts that in 5-10 years most manufacturers will be using it commercially. But there are barriers."The question is whether as businesses they are prepared yet to start to look at it for production. It's expensive compared to stuff made in China, and political too if you're a giant company who's been manufacturing out there for 15 years," she says."It's where all your people, machines, systems and logistics are, and it's the world you understand. So when some upstart comes along and says you should be 3D-printing in London now… I suspect that is the barrier. There will be plenty of emerging-tech types in toy companies saying this is part of the future, but as a big company it takes a long time to change course."The local-manufacturing point is potentially important. MakieLab currently makes its dolls in London and Amsterdam, with ambitions to widen its manufacturing network as more 3D-printing facilities become available in the years ahead.That's why Makies are expensive compared to more-famous doll brands – they start at £59.99 for a basic model, with the skin colours, clothing and accessories costing extra. Explaining the difference is a political discussion, by necessity."We like our cheap goods, yet at the same time, we have these cheap goods because there are people in China who'll work for 20 dollars a week," says Taylor. "Everybody knows that is messed up, and it will change. The minimum wage went up 20% last year in China, and it will go up again."Distributed networksMakieLab's hope is that when the placement of 3D-printing facilities around the world is evenly distributed, production will be easier for the company and others like it.Taylor also makes an interesting parallel with this future manufacturing network: "It'll make a distributed network of manufacturing machines, and that's how the internet started: it was a distributed network," she says. "That's amazing, but we're not there yet with 3D printing."Hence the £59.99 starting price for a Makie doll, which Taylor says leaves "very small margins" for MakieLab, although she hopes to improve them over time as the business scales up – ultimately bringing the price including extras under £50, and ideally under £40."It's an inevitability that prices will come down, but how fast? Nobody really knows," she says. "That's very exciting, but that's also what keeps me up every night at 3am. I could do with slightly less excitement, thank you very much! But it is amazing being in this mix of industries, where every month there's a new development."Is 3D printing heading for a fall though? There's such a lot of hype and noise around it at the moment, and that whiff of science fiction – I write this as someone who loves the genre – that may be provoking an exaggerated backlash from sceptics, and inflated expectations from supporters.Taylor quotes Gartner's famoushype cycle theoryfor emerging technologies. "3D printing is right at the top of the peak of inflated expectations, before the trough of disillusionment," she says."For some people, the trough will be 'Why can't I print my own kidneys?', and it's going to be a really big trough for people who are thinking that we're going to start 3D-printing houses on the moon next week. But for us, it will be something like 'Why isn't the price coming down as fast as we thought it would?'. And then the price will come down."
Claims that specifications for Samsung's forthcoming flagship Galaxy GS 4 -  to be launched in New York on 14 March - have been leaked online have been denied by Expansys, the British company which specialises in selling unlocked phones.A series of tweets on Tuesday morning from@evleaks, an account which focusses on the smartphone market, suggested that the phone will have a super AMOLED screen, a 13-megapixel rear camera, and LED flash.Separate reports by theNew York Times on Mondaysuggested that the S4, as it is expected to be called, will include an eye-tracking technology that will scroll pages on the screen according to where the user is looking, using a new system developed by Samsung and called Eye Scroll.But the @evleaks tweets were quickly discredited after Expansys said that the diagrams that had been tweeted actually came from its own site - and that they were its artists' impressions of what a Galaxy S4 might look like, rather than actual pictures.With the launch due next week, the handset is expected to start shipping in Europe by the end of March or early April, and in the US by June.Samsung's integrated supply chain - meaning that it makes its own parts - means that few details about the phone have leaked out ahead of the launch. But it is expected to have a slightly bigger screen, at 4.9in or 5in, than the Galaxy S3 released a year ago.Some estimates suggest that Samsung expects to sell 10m of the handsets per month, and 100m during 2013. It is also expected to run Android 4.2.1, come with 2GB of RAM, between 16 and 64GB of storage - and possibly up to 128GB - Near Field Communications, LTE/4G capability. It is forecast to have an eight-core ARM processor, possibly from Qualcomm.Other rumours point to a gesture-controlled interface rather than a pen-based system. That would separate Samsung's phones even further from other Android rivals, and tie users more closely into its own ecosystem of apps and functions. Samsung is already the largest smartphone manufacturer in the world, and makes nearly half of all Android phones. It also has the second-largest profit in the smartphone business, behind Apple - with which it is one of only four companies making a profit in the smartphone business, along with Taiwan's HTC and Finland's Nokia.Samsung has been building up its portfolio of services to distinguish itself from rival Android smartphone handsets for the past years. It is also expected to unleash a huge marketing and advertising campaign to go with the new phone: Samsung Electronics' marketing spending dwarfs that of any rival company, including Apple, Microsoft, and bigger names such as Coca-Cola.However expectations that the GS4 might have a flexible display have been played down by analysts.Richard Windsor, formerly with Nomura Securities and now an independent technology analyst,commented: "We have been waiting for these for over a year and still there is no sign of [bendable screens]. Some prototypes were shown at CES, but a quick ramble through YouTube will show you that those same prototypes have actually been on display for more than two years."Windsor explains: "I think that the problem is encapsulation. The OLED substrate is very sensitive to degradation by oxygen meaning that the panel has to be perfectly sealed from the air. This has proved to be much more difficult to do in flexible plastic than rigid glass and I suspect that the yields are still so low that Samsung can not yet put it in a product."He added: "This [flexible screen] is Samsung's silver bullet against the ravages on commoditisation in Android, but fortunately Samsung does not need it to work right away. This could be another story in another 12 months."Samsung's chief product officer Kevin Packingham told the New York Times that the Galaxy S4 is "an amazing phone" overall.The Guardian will be covering the launch of the Galaxy S4 next week from New York.
If you haven't heard about the excitement around Google Glass – the head-mounted glasses that can shoot video, take pictures, and broadcast what you're seeing to the world – then here's an idea of the interest in them. Last week, someone claiming to be testing Glass for Google auctioned their $1,500 (£995) device on eBay. Bidding had reached $16,000 before eBay stopped it on the basis that the person couldn't prove they had the glasses. (They weren't due to get them until last Friday.)Google Glass is the most hotly anticipated new arrival in "wearable computing" – which experts predict will become pervasive. In the past 50 years we have moved from "mainframe" computers that needed their own rooms to ones that fit in a pocket; any smartphone nowadays has as much raw computing power as a top-of-the-line laptop from 10 years ago.The next stage is computers that fit on to your body, and Google's idea is that you need only speak to operate it. The videos that the company has put online – and the demonstrations by Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder, who has been driving these imaginative leaps – suggest you can whirl your child around by their arms, say: "OK, Glass, take video!" and capture the moment. (To activate Glass you need to tilt your head, or touch the side, and then say, "OK Glass, record a video" or "OK Glass take a picture".) The only other way to get that point of view is to strap a camera to your head. Brin has already appeared on stage at a TED conference wearing his Glass glasses (will we call them Glasses?) and looking vaguely like a space pirate. He hasdescribed ordinary smartphones as "emasculating"(invoking quite a lot of puzzlement and dictionary-checking: yup, it still means what you thought). And yet people are already beginning to fret about the social implications of Glass (as it's quickly becoming known). The first, and most obvious, is the question of privacy. The second is: how will we behave in groups when the distraction of the internet is only an eye movement away?David Yee, the chief technology officer at a company called Editorially,tweetedon this point the other day: "There's a young man wearing Google Glasses at this restaurant, which, until just now, used to be my favourite spot."Yee's worry was that the young person might be filming everything and uploading it to Google's servers (and a Google+ page). Which just feels creepy. It's not a trivial concern. Joshua Topolsky, an American technology journalist who is one of the fewto have tried out Google Glass– at Google's invitation – discovered this directly. He wore them to Starbucks, accompanied by a film crew. The film crew were asked to stop filming. "But I kept the Glass's video recorder going, all the way through."Still, you might think, where's the harm? The thing is, though: this is Google, not Fred's Amazing Spectacles Company. This is the company that has repeatedly breached the boundaries of what we think is "private". From Google Buzz (where it created a "social network" from peoples' email lists, forgetting that sometimes deadly enemies have mutual friends;it was bound over for 20 years by the US's Federal Trade Commission) and the rows over Street View pictures, to theintentional snaffling of wi-fi datawhile collecting those pictures (a$25,000 fine from the US Federal Communications Commissionfor obstructing its investigation there).And that's before you get to criticism in Europe over its attitude to data protection (information commissionersgrumbled last Octoberthat its unification of its separate privacy policies meant "uncontrolled" use of personal data without an individual's clear consent.For Google, "privacy" means "what you've agreed to", and that is slightly different from the privacy we've become used to over time. So how comfortable – or uneasy – should we feel about the possibility that what we're doing in a public or semi-public place (or even somewhere private) might get slurped up and assimilated by Google? You can guess what would happen the first time you put on Glass: there would be a huge scroll of legal boilerplate with "Agree" at the end. And, impatient and uncaring as ever, you would click on it with little regard for what you were getting yourself, and others, in to. Can a child properly consent to filming or being filmed? Is an adult, who happens to be visible in a camera's peripheral vision in a bar, consenting? And who owns – and what happens to – that data?Oliver Stokes, principal design innovator at PDD, which helps clients such as LG, Vodafone and Fujitsu design products, says Yee's restaurant scenario is "concerning". "The idea that you could inadvertently become part of  somebody else's data collection – that could be quite alarming. And Google has become the company which knows where you are and what you're looking for. Now it's going to be able to compute what it is you're looking at."That, he points out, could be hugely useful. "Supermarkets and packaging companies spend lots of money trying to work out which packages you look at first on a shelf. Potentially, through Google Glass, they would be capturing that data as standard. That would be quite powerful – to be able to say why people buy things."Of course, the benefits wouldn't accrue to the wearer. Google would sell the data (suitably anonymised, of course). And your smartphone already provides a huge amount of detail about you. Song Chaoming, a researcher at Northeastern University in Boston, has been analysing mobile phone records (including which base stations the phone connects to) and has developed an algorithm that can predict – with, he says, 93% accuracy – where its owner is at any time of the day (by triangulating from the strengths of the base station signals; that's part of how your smartphone is able to show where you are on an onscreen map). He analysed the records of 50,000 people; the accuracy was never below 80%.When you consider that Chaoming was only doing this in his spare time, and that Google has teams of people whose only task is to develop better algorithms to work out where a phone's owner is, and what they're going to do based on their past activity and searches, you realise that if you're using an Android phone, Google probably knows what you're going to do before you do.A model with Google Glass at New York fashion week. Photograph: Andrew Kelly / ReutersThe obvious objection to these concerns is that we're used to being filmed; CCTV is part of life. Yee's response: "Not 5,000 cameras a city – five million. Not 5,000 monitors – one." Where the five million are the wearers of Glass – and the one monitor is Google, aggregating, sifting, profiting.Yet we already live in a world where the boundaries of what's private and what's public are melting. The other day my Twitter timeline came alive with someone tweeting about watching a couple having a furious row in a cafe; the man had had multiple affairs, the woman had had a breakdown. Their unhappiness was being played out in public, though the cafe wasn't strictly a public space. If either used Twitter, they might have found themselves (or friends might have recognised them). And Twitter's content is retained and searchable through plenty of web services.Social media such as Twitter, and the ubiquity since 2003 of cameraphones (and now of smartphones that  not only have still and video cameras, but can also upload their content immediately) means we're more used to the snatched photo or video that tells a story. Without it, we wouldn't know the true circumstances surrounding the death at the G20 protest of the newspaper seller Ian Tomlinson.What if everyone who had been there had been wearing Google Glass (or similar) and beaming it to the web? Would the police have behaved differently?Google doesn't want to discuss these issues. "We are not making any comment," says a company spokesperson. But other sources suggest that Google's chiefs know that this is a live issue, and they're watching it develop. That's part of the plan behind the "Glass Explorer" scheme, which aims to get the devices into the hands – or rather, on to the faces – of ordinary people (and which enabled one member of the trial to putatively auction their Glass)."It may be that new social norms develop with Glass, where people develop an informal way of showing that they're not using it – say, wearing it around their neck to signal they aren't using it or being distracted by it," said one person who has spoken to Google staff on this, but who has to stay anonymous. "One of the reasons they're doing Explorers is to get feedback on these things, as well as the devices."The other big question about Glass is: how will we behave with each other?My own experience with a Glass-like system, of wearable ski goggles, suggests that distraction will happen quite easily. That system, from Recon, has a lens in the top right that shows data such as your speed, altitude, and even ski-resort maps (useful in whiteouts). It was very easy, while standing and talking to someone, to glance up and read something off the screen. Being present and not-present became almost reflexive, and that was with only one week of use. Yet at the same time, the display wasn't overwhelming. Concentrating on what was in front of me wasn't hard, when required.Carolina Milanesi, smartphones and tablets analyst at the research company Gartner, says: "Interestingly this [distraction element] is the first thing I thought of – not that Glass was giving you something that phones cannot give you, in terms of sharing or accessing content, but that they do it without letting others realise you are doing anything. In other words, with the phone, if I am taking a picture, the person I am focusing on will likely notice me; with Glass they do not."Despite her line of work, Milanesi is concerned about whether we get too deeply involved with our technology, to the exclusion of the real people around us. She has a different restaurant concern from Yee's.In June 2011, she pointed out how smartphones change us: "Look around a restaurant or coffee bar at how many people, couples even, are sitting across from each other and they're both looking down at their mobiles."Glass might change that for the better – though would you appear to be looking at each other, while really intent on your email or a video? Topolsky, who used Glass for some days, said: "It brought something new into view (both literally and figuratively) that has tremendous value and potential … the more I used Glass the more it made sense to me; the more I wanted it."He loved how text messages or phone calls would just appear as alerts, and he could deal with them without taking his phone out of his pocket to see who was calling. Walking and need directions? They're in view. "In the city, Glass makes you feel more powerful, better equipped, and definitely less diverted," he said. But, he added, "It might not be that great at a dinner party, or on a date, or watching a movie."Mark Hurst, founder of Creative Good, a New York-based company that specialises in improving customer experiences,comments, "Your one-on-one conversation with someone wearing Google Glass is likely to be annoying, because you'll suspect that you don't have their undivided attention. And you can't comfortably ask them to take off the glasses (especially when, as it inevitably will be, the device is integrated into prescription lenses). Finally – and here's where the problems really start – you don't know if they're taking a video of you."Stokes points out that we're already seeing body language change as smartphones – with their glowing screens – become more pervasive: the hunched walk that 10 years ago marked out a financial whiz with a BlackBerry is now seen on every pavement."I think there will be a pushback," Stokes says. "Maybe you'll have to have a lens cover to show you're not filming." He points out though that the present model seems to require voice control – "OK, Glass, shoot video" – and that this might discourage some users in public. "I've been watching for people using Siri [Apple's voice-driven iPhone control]. I just don't see people using it in public places. Maybe it's too gadgety.""People will have to work out what the new normal is," says Stokes. "I do wonder whether speaking and gesturing might be essentially banned in public.""At home my husband already jokes about me checking into [location service] Foursquare from the piece of carpet I am standing on," Milanesi says. "How much more will we have of this now that it is made so simple for us? And the other side of the coin: how much are we going to share with others, and at what point will we have a backlash? When will it all be too much?"
So there I am on the train from London to Frome, just about to tuck into a cheese and tomato baguette, while listening to the Wedding Present and suddenly I remember... CHATTERBOX!
Microsoft has beenfined €561m by the European commissionfor failing to give users a choice of web browser when they logged into Windows computers in Europe between May 2011 and July 2012 – breaking a binding commitment it had made in 2009.The error arose when Microsoft's own programmers forgot to include a single line of code that would have automatically triggered the "browser choice" program on versions of Windows 7 running its first major update, called Service Pack 1 (SP1).A source close to Microsoft explained: "It was a single line in the code that triggered the browser choice program. It had a list of versions of Windows to test against: if the version was found in that list, the program would run. They didn't include Service Pack 1, which is effectively a different version of Windows, in that list. And so the program didn't run."That meant that an estimated 15 million users were not presented with the alternatives such as Google's Chrome, Mozilla's Firefox, Apple's Safari, Opera and other browsers.The fine works out to about €37.40 per user affected, or more than €1.3m per day. But Microsoft could have been fined as much as 10% of its fiscal 2012 revenues - equivalent to €5.9bn. The fine on Wednesday, though large, is substantially less than that.The two sides have given varying estimates of the time and number of users affected: Microsoft suggested it was 28 million people, between February 2011 and July 2012; the European commission, in announcing the fine, put it at 15m and with a starting date of May 2011.Microsoft made a five-year commitment in 2009 to offer users a choice of different browsers, after the EC's competition commission determined that the combination of its dominance on the desktop – where Windows runs around 95% of machines – gave the pre-installed Internet Explorer browser an unfair advantage over rivals. At the time that negotiations first began, in the early 2000s, IE had a share of over 80% among browsers.The commission implemented the "browser choice" system to create a level playing field - and said that once in use, it was very effective: "The choice screen was very successful with users," Joaquín Almunia, the competition commissioner, said in a statement. "For example, until November 2010, 84 million browsers were downloaded through it."It was Microsoft itself which realised that it was not complying with the directive after the release of SP1, a major update to Windows 7 released in February 2011. On discovering the error in July 2012, it got in touch with the EC's competition arm to admit the error.The penalty is the first time that the EC has had to fine a company for failing to comply with a so-called "commitments decision". It said that the size of the fine had been calculated by considering "the gravity and duration of the infringement, the need to ensure a deterrent effect of the fine and, as a mitigating circumstance, the fact that Microsoft has cooperated with the commission and provided information which helped the commission to investigate the matter efficiently."Microsoft said it took "full responsibility" for the technical error that caused the problem and that it had apologised for it.The company added: "We provided the commission with a complete and candid assessment of the situation, and we have taken steps to strengthen our software development and other processes to help avoid this mistake – or anything similar – in the future."
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team2012 recap : the year mobile internet surpassed desktop internet in India &gt;&gt; Next Big WhatThe desktop market is shrinking, and it's a country where Nokia's S40 (aka Asha) and Symbian together make up the majority of mobile internet use - and Samsung is third. (Thanks @avro for the link.)iPhone 6: Release date, rumours, features and news &gt;&gt; T3Actually just "rumours". (Thanks @mrbeardy for the link.)Google controls too much of China's smartphone sector: ministry &gt;&gt; Yahoo! Finance"Our country's mobile operating system research and development is too dependent on Android," the paper, posted online on Friday but carried by local media on Tuesday, said."While the Android system is open source, the core technology and technology roadmap is strictly controlled by Google."The paper said Google had discriminated against some Chinese companies developing their operating systems by delaying the sharing of codes. Google had also used commercial agreements to restrain the business development of mobile devices of these companies, it added.A Google spokesman in China declined to comment.A cloud on the Android horizon the size of a man's hand. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)EC poised to unleash its wrath on Microsoft &gt;&gt; Tech News WorldIt will be déjà vu all over again for Microsoft, which apparently is about to be slapped with a stiff fine for violating the European Union's antitrust rules.The European Commission will impose a penalty by the end of March for Microsoft's violation of a 2009 pledge to allow European users of its Windows operating system to choose among competing browsers, according to a Reuters report citing three anonymous sources.The European Commission accused Microsoft of violating that promise last October, noting that between February 2011 and July 2012, Windows failed to provide a browser choice.There's an unusual background to this story, which we hope to bring to you in the next few days. (Thanks @challengingviews for the link.)HTML 5 bug allows huge data dumps on most Mac and PC Web browsers &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderA recently discovered flaw in the HTML 5 coding language could allow websites to bombard users with gigabytes of junk data, with a number of popular browsers being open to the vulnerability.According to developer Feross Aboukhadijeh, whouncovered the bugthis week, data dumps can be performed on most major Web browsers, including Apple's Safari, Google's Chrome, Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Opera, the BBC reported. The only browser to stop data dump tests was Mozilla's Firefox, which capped storage at 5MB.(Thanks @clarkeviper for the link.)PC market forecast to decline for a second consecutive year in 2013 &gt;&gt; IDCDespite intense industry efforts to overcome market inertia, 2012 nonetheless ended on a sour note with global PC shipment volume shrinking 3.7% on the year. With limited initial traction from Windows 8 in the holiday season, and continued pressure from tablets, IDC now expects 2013 PC shipments to decline by 1.3% in 2013, according to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly PC Tracker.Disappointing holiday sales, an underwhelming reception to Windows 8, and continuing economic malaise that further crimped IT budgets marked the face of the market during the second half of 2012, leading to a year-on-year decline of 8.3% in fourth quarter shipments, the most substantial decline recorded for a holiday quarter.Furthermore, emerging market growth potential is declining and coming closer to that of mature regions. 2012 marked the first year that emerging markets have seen a volume decline, and while 2013 will return to growth, it is projected at less than 1% and with modest, single-digit growth through 2017. For mature regions, 2013 will mark the third consecutive year of volume declines. IDC continues to expect limited growth in 2014 and 2015 with contracting volume in later years.Wow. The emerging markets stagnation seems unlikely to be economically driven.For 20-somethings, ambition at a cost &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comTwo years ago, as a production assistant at a Culver City, Calif., company that cuts movie trailers, Ms. Pitoun earned $10 an hour with no benefits (though an overtime bonus), with rotating weekend work. After six months she was promoted to a position "where one dropped ball could get you fired," she noted, and a raise to $12 an hour with benefits. She estimated that she worked at least 60 hours a week."There were days where I stayed until 4 a.m. just to send out one TV spot to one client in Japan and then had to come in 4 hours later for a whole new day," Ms. Pitoun said. "And days where I had to be at work at 5 a.m. to do voice-over sessions with actors in Europe to make up for the time change and still stay until 9 at night."Her investment, like Ms. Myers's, paid off: she's now the assistant to the chief executive, though she knows that the path to producing, her long-term goal, "will get worse before it gets better," she said.Ms. Pitoun's job surely would have been less demanding in the pre-Internet and smartphone age. If she ever turned off her phone for a few hours, her in-box would be flooded with e-mails or missed calls and texts.This is a key difference in the world of people entering work now: they're expected to be connected all the time. Which has its disbenefits.An iPhone fan's month with Windows Phone: Week one &gt;&gt; MacworldLex Friedman:Before the Windows Phone arrived, I wondered whether slogging through 30 days with the Lumia 920 would be a chore. That's no longer a concern.It'd be exaggerating to say that I'm actually thinking the opposite, that I might not be willing to go back to the iPhone 5 at the end of this experiment. But, to my surprise, I'm actually willing to consider that I could feel that way.Despite its perhaps lackluster adoption in the marketplace, the Windows Phone OS itself is certainly no joke, and the Lumia 920 is a great device. Far from being a chore, my time with this phone is actually fun.Shock as phones found to be largely interchangeable.An update on TweetDeck &gt;&gt; The TweetDeck BlogTweetDeck is the most powerful Twitter tool for tracking real-time conversations. Its flexibility and customizable layout let you keep up with what's happening on Twitter, across multiple topics and accounts, in real time. To continue to offer a great product that addresses your unique needs, we're going to focus our development efforts on our modern, web-based versions of TweetDeck. To that end, we are discontinuing support for our older apps: TweetDeck AIR, TweetDeck for Android and TweetDeck for iPhone. They will be removed from their respective app stores in early May and will stop functioning shortly thereafter. We'll also discontinue support for our Facebook integration.Twitter kills off another third-party app - in this case, one it owns. Does anyone believe the web-based version will be better? (Then again, it will save people from Adobe AIR.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Block 17.00pm:Kingsley Amis said that awards are just fine if you happen to win one. If that's the case then, by the end of this unseasonably warm London evening, 18 movers and shakers in the video game industry will be drunk on the BAFTA judging panel's anonymous validation, while a great many more losers will be necking warm champagne and cursing the absurdity of it all. For those of us without an Epona in the race, it's an opportunity to relax and observe the clash of artistry, ego and criticism that this sort of award event entails – the vigorous handshakes of the victors, the rictus smiles of the trounced, the woozy inebriation of just about everybody else.Held almost a month to the day after its elder and more well-to-do brother, the film BAFTAs, it's also an opportunity for the video game industry to feel as if it's earned its place as the fourth pillar of modern entertainment alongside literature, music and cinema. Sure, a 'V' is yet to swipe its way into the academy's acronym (BAFTVA? BAVTFA?) and tonight's event is held at the London Hilton hotel, while last month's jamboree occupied the rather more opulent Royal Opera House, but every attempt has been made to ensure the video game industry doesn't feel as though it sits at the children's table of awards ceremonies.Irish comedian and hobbyist game player Dara O'Briain will host the awards for the fifth year running while the walking-wounded retailer GAME has provided "support" (canapés? Offcuts of red carpet?) in the capacity of Official Supporter.The nominations for this year's Awards include no fewer than 53 games, from Blockbuster behemoths (or should that be dinosaurs?) such as Activision's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 and Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed III through to independent creations such as Thomas Was Alone and Sony's The Unfinished Swan.2013 also marks the introduction of a new award category: Best British Game in a bid to convince ourselves that the UK is definitely still a viable place to make video games - despite the existence of Canada and its endless tax breaks for game makers (and the syrup perks).In some ways this Best British Game award exemplifies the current tussle at the creative and commercial heart of the industry. Three of the six titles nominated for this inaugural award are independent creations, self-funded by their creators (Dear Esther, The Room and Super Hexagon) while the others are hefty, multiplatform blockbusters (Forza Horizon, LEGO: The Lord of the Rings, Need for Speed Most Wanted).It's an impossible award to judge, of course. How to set Dear Esther's bleak Scottish vistas against Forza Horizon's high contrast take on Colorado's deserts? What better exemplifies British-ness: LEGO: Lord of the Ring's curious mash-up of Danish plastic and Oxbridge fantasy fiction, or the twitch cruelty of Terry Cavanagh's Super Hexagon? One thing is certain: the essence of what makes a game British is not easily defined.Potentially the biggest winner of the night will be California-based Thatgamecompany, whose PlayStation 3 title Journey – a gentle parable on religion and death  - is nominated in eight categories, including that of Best Game, where it must fend off the likes of Mass Effect 3, FIFA 13, Far Cry 3 and Dishonored using only a cloak and scarf.In truth awards ceremonies – regardless of whether you win or lose - are neither 'fine' nor nonsense. The reality sits somewhere in between: here is a night to celebrate an industry that is steadily diversifying, maturing and finding new voice and range. The 53 nominees represent different points and corners of a creative space that widens each year. Taken as a whole, tonight's BAFTAs offer a splendid celebration of the achievements of a great many creative minds.Bravo. But now our attention must turn to the bickering and spittle of specifics – the playground squabbling over whose game could beat the other' guys game up in a fight. The BAFTAs are also great for that. So ready the popcorn and adjust your sights for sniping. Let the games commence.Block 27.53pm:The guests are gathered, the red carpet worn and the video game Baftas will commence in just over an hour. Luminaries already spotted include Valve co-founder, Gabe Newell (Half-Life, Portal, Team Fortress, Steam) who will be accepted into the academy fellowship later this evening.Randy Pitchford, co-founder of Gearbox is also in attendance, although we've been told he won't be answering any questions about his latest game (which stifles any questing reporter hoping to ask which bits of Aliens: Colonial Marines Pitchford and his staff actually developed).The guests are currently quaffing and banqueting. Meanwhile, the press room is awash with Mountain Dew and Doritos in the contemporary hospitality style.Block 37.59pm:Predictions? The main award 'Best Game' is a close-run affair with Dishonored, Far Cry 3, FIFA 13, Journey, Mass Effect 3 and The Walking Dead in the running. Let us know which title you hope will win in the comments (in the contemporary style).If you'd like to Tweet about the awards then Bafta is pretty eager that you use the hash tag #BAFTAGames.We'll be back in just an hour to talk you through the names and titles written on the inside of the envelopes.Block 49.07pm:And we're off! Dara O' Briain takes to the stage and opens by expressing his dismay at continually being asked to defend video games in the role of 'token' game playing celebrity.But he's happy as tonight he had a proper 'gamer' chat on Sky News about how annoying it is to be shot by German teenagers over the internet in Call of Duty.Block 59.09pm:O' Briain warning developers against the origin story. It's overdone in Hollywood, he says and, while Tomb raider look wonderful, he doesn't need to see Mario's "gritty" beginnings as an out-of-work plumber.O' Briain happy to see a slew of new awards in this year's game Bafta, but is sad that there's no category for the poor person tasked with writing the collectible letters and diary pages scattered throughout endless blockbuster game levels.Block 69.15pm:Fittingly, the first award of the night is for Best Debut Game. It's a strong category, from the bleak highland inscrutability of Dear Esther through to the engines-roaring-in-a-Texan-accent ebullience of Forza Horizon to the lazily cleansing wonder of Ed Key, David Kanaga's Proteus.The nominations for this first award are:·  	Deadlight·  	Dear Esther·  	Forza Horizon·  	Proteus·  	The Room·  	The Unfinished SwanBlock 79.16pm:And the winner is Sony's The Unfinished Swan, a game in which you throw black paint into a white world in order to reveal the objects therein. A worthy winner.Block 89.19pm:The second award of the night is for Original Music. Of course, Austin Wintory's score for Thatgamecompany's Journey made history in December as the first video game work to win a Grammy - will the Bafta Journey agree with the Americans?The nominations are:·  Assassin's Creed III·  Diablo III·  Journey·  Thomas Was Alone·  The Unfinished Swan·  The Walking DeadBlock 99.19pm:Yes. Yes they will. Journey takes the award and a tearful representative from Sony Music picks up the award on Wintory's behalf.Block 109.24pm:Next award is for Story, presented by Rhianna Pratchett, lead writer on the latest Tomb Raider, released today. A diverse set of nominations here, from the blocky love story simplicity of Mike Bithell's Thomas Was Alone through to the grand, universe-saving spectacle of Mass Effect 3 (complete with its fan-baiting conclusion).Nominations are:·  	Dishonored·  	Far Cry 3·  	Journey·  	Thomas Was Alone·  	Mass Effect 3·  	The Walking DeadBlock 119.24pm:And the award goes to The Walking Dead, Telltale's six part, episodic universe expansion of the Robert Kirkman graphic novel.Block 129.29pm:Boris Becker takes to the stage to introduce the award for 'Sports/ Fitness'.Does motorsport count as a sport? What about if it's motorsport in a desert and you're in a race to escape Skrillex who's possessed your car stereo? Hmm. Whether or not (the admittedly excellent) Forza Horizon quite qualifies for the 'Sports' category is a question for an earlier time.Wonderful to see New Star Soccer, the independently-created iOS by Simon Reed nominated. That we currently live in a world where a bedroom coder can go up against the financial might of EA and its annual FIFA franchise is agoodthing.·  FIFA 13·  F1 2012·  Forza Horizon·  New Star Soccer·  Nike+ Kinect Training·  Trials EvolutionBlock 139.31pm:And that we live in a world in which an indie sports game created on a shoe-string budget like New Star Soccer can beat the multimillion dollar behemoth of FIFA is (despite the latter game's considerable achievements) even greater.Block 149.35pm:Next up: the award for game innovation. From the PlayStation Move-controlled Wonderbook: Book of Spells (the Harry Potter game that turns your Move controller into a 'wand' with which to spunk magic over the pages of an old tome peripheral) through to, er, Black Ops 2 this is the award to celebrate invention (a far better word than innovation, wouldn't you agree?).·  	Call of Duty: Black Ops II·  	Fez·  	Journey·  	Kinect Sesame Street TV·  	The Unfinished Swan·  	Wonderbook: Book of SpellsBlock 159.36pm:And the award goes to The Unfinished Swan, the second of the night for Giant Sparrow's visually-arresting debut.Block 169.38pm:If the award for 'Artistic Achievement' was given to the game that allowed users to best express their artistry then surely it should go to Zynga's flash-in-the-pan phenomenon Draw Something?Many a majestic cock passed through their servers during the fortnight that we all played that game. But the Academy appears more interested in games that reflect the artistic achievement of their creators. Cowards!Anyway! The nominees for 'Artistic Achievement' are:·  	Borderlands 2·  	Dear Esther·  	Far Cry 3·  	Halo 4·  	Journey·  	The RoomBlock 17Journey: artistic achievement award9.40pm:The Bafta goes to Journey! Pro-tip for aspiring developers out there: principally spend your budget on modelling sand.Excellent New Yorker Robin Hunicke is here to collect the award! She's not wearing an elongating scarf, sadly, but her dress is terribly sparkly. Probably too sparkly for the PlayStation 3 to accurately render, what with it's attention being spent primarily on sand and stuff, which explains the cloaks in that game probably.Block 189.45pm:Next up it's the online browser category, which was labelled the 'Social' category in 2012, I believe.Nominees for this award are:·  	Amateur Surgeon Hospital·  	Dick and Dom's HOOPLA!·  	Merlin: The Game·  	Runescape·  	The Settlers Online·  	SongPopBlock 199.47pm:SongPop takes this one, a Facebook game in which you challenge friends and strangers to be the first to identify the songs playing at any given time.Block 209.47pm:Ian Livingstone takes to the stage to introduce the BAFTA Ones to Watch Award in association with Dare to Be Digital"You're so lucky to be in the games industry right now," he says. Is that supposed to be encouraging or threatening? TURN TO PAGE 93 TO FIND OUT ETC.Nominees are:·  	Pixel Story·  	Project Thanatos·  	StarcrossedAnd Starcrossed take this one. Good work, chaps.Block 219.55pm:Now the award for 'Game Design'. A strong category (and probably the one that theright sortof game developers hoped they'd be nominated for). Also, the first appearance for the wonderful XCOM (Advance Wars through a 1980s sci-fi glass).·  	Dishonored·  	Borderlands 2·  	Far Cry 3·  	Journey·  	The Walking Dead·  	XCOM: Enemy UnknownBlock 229.55pm:This award goes to Journey. I guess the panel was super into JUMPING and WIND. I would have gone for XCOM which is about SHOOTING and PERIL but hey-ho.Block 239.57pm:Now to the strategy award and it's XCOM's second chance to prove itself. But, what's this? DARK SOULS? Oh goodness. Our collective hearts are torn.·  	Dark Souls: Prepare To Die·  	Diablo III·  	Football Manager 2013·  	Great Big War Game·  	Total War Shogun 2: Fall of the Samurai·  	XCOM: Enemy UnknownBlock 249.59pm:And the award goes to XCOM! Such a deserving winner. It's a game full of strategy and aliens in suits and, even though there's a bunch of guns involved (and guns are definitely not a core value of The Guardian and its readership) it's also a game about redemption and tactics and chess in space armour so we are very much happy about getting fully behind this one.Block 2510.03pm:Ah! The family award. This should probably go to Monopoly every year till the end of all time but as Monopoly didn't first come out in 2012 (wait, did Monopoly: Prepare to Die edition come out in 2012?) we'll have to make do with one of the following:·  	Clay Jam·  	Just Dance 4·  	LEGO Batman 2: DC Super Heroes·  	LEGO the Lord of the Rings·  	Minecraft: XBOX 360 Edition·  	Skylanders GiantsBlock 2610.06pm:Admittedly Traveller's Tales had an unfair advantage there what with having two games nominated and also LEGO involved in their titles, but even so, LEGO: Batman 2 is a deserving winner regardless.Block 2710.09pm:Randy Pitchford takes to the stage to introduce the award for audio achievement. Did you know that Randy is a magician? Hey Sega, you should totally ask to see his best trick. OH WAIT YOU ALREADY DID.Ahem!Nominees are:·  	Assassin's Creed III·  	Beat Sneak Bandit·  	Dear Esther·  	Far Cry 3·  	Journey·  	Halo 4Block 2810.13pm:And the winner is Journey! Woah. Thatgamecompany just keeps winning. Did you know that Journey took three years to develop? Kudos to Sony for catching the vision and funding the developer through to fully realising its ambitions.Block 2910.13pm:A lady from Hollyoaks is here to present the nominees for best Mobile game. LittleBigPlanet Vita would be a worthy winner here as that game is wonderfully suited to the hardware. The nominees are:·  	Incoboto·  	LittleBigPlanet (Vita)·  	New Star Soccer·  	The Room·  	Super Monsters Ate My Condo·  	The Walking DeadBlock 30The Walking Dead: best mobile game10.17pm:But the award goes to The Walking Dead, a game I would recommend you play from the comfort of a sofa rather than the crimped window of the iPad on the lap.Block 3110.18pm:Now we turn to the award for 'Performer'. I *think* this refers to 'voice actor' but 'performer' has a wonderfully Shakespearean frisson about it, so let's go with Bafta's definition.The nominees are (although I wouldn't be surprised if Nolan North actually voiced all of them):·  	Adrian Hough (Haytham) - Assassin's Creed III·  	Danny Wallace (The Narrator) - Thomas Was Alone·  	Dave Fennoy (Lee Everett) - The Walking Dead·  	Melissa Hutchinson (Clementine) - The Walking Dead·  	Nigel Carrington (The Narrator) - Dear Esther·  	Nolan North (Nathan Drake) - Uncharted: Golden AbyssBlock 3210.24pm:Danny Wallace wins! Fun fact: the writer of Yes Man! once wrote for a Sega magazine back in the 1990s. In some ways Wallace is the anti-Charlie Brooker (who worked on a PC games magazine back in the 1990s).Block 3310.24pm:Now we turn to the award for best multiplayer. All of the games in this category are deserving, but this is the category that I think Journey should take.·  	Assassin's Creed III·  	Borderlands 2·  	Call of Duty: Black Ops II·  	Halo 4·  	Journey·  	Need For Speed Most WantedBlock 3410.25pm:The award goes to Journey.This is the category in which Thatgamecompany's game provides true invention.One of its creators, Jenova Chen, said last year: "None of us was born to be an asshole. I believe that very often it's not really the player that's an asshole. It's the game designer that made them an asshole. If you spend every day killing one another how are you going to be a nice guy? All console games are about killing each other, or killing one another together... Don't you see? It's our games that make us assholes.""The reason we wanted to create Journey besides reaching that cathartic moment in the end was to create a real connection between two people. The reason I do that is because most people are saying right now: social gaming is hot. But no other game is really socialising, as in the emotional exchange between two humans. In almost all games the only exchange between two players is bullets or numbers."Journey is a game in which the online component is intended to encourage co-operation and anonymous connection and in this regard, it breaks good and true ground.Block 3510.31pm:Now it's time to turn to the award for British game. Not the game that best embodies Britishness (croquet? cricket? cluedo?) but the best game made by a Brit. A difficult award to judge this. The nominees are:·  	Dear Esther·  	Forza Horizon·  	LEGO: The Lord of the Rings·  	Need for Speed Most Wanted·  	The Room·  	Super HexagonBlock 3610.34pm:And the winner is: The Room, an iOS puzzle game that's heavy on atmosphere and light on scarves.Block 3710.35pm:Next up is the award for Action game, a category so broad it's impossible to feel out its boundaries. Action is the primary verb of the entire medium. An un-actioned game is a game unplayed, right? Semantics!Still, sifting through the nominees, it appears as though 'Action' is being used to describe games with guns and explosions. Like,fortissimoguns and explosions.Nominations for the award are (presented by a man from The Only Way Is Essex who, I believe, provided motion-capture data for Master Chief in Halo 4):·      Borderlands 2·      Call of Duty: Black Ops 2·      Far Cry 3·      Halo 4·      Hitman: Absolution·      Mass Effect 3Block 3810.38pm:Far Cry 3! This is a game full of exploding barrels and sharks so it makes a lot of sense that it won the award for Action.Block 3910.42pm:And finally. The award for 'Best Game' (spoiler: it's Tetris). Danny Wallace takes to the stage to announce the nominees:·  	Dishonored·  	Mass Effect 3·  	FIFA 13·  	Far Cry 3·  	Journey·  	The Walking DeadBlock 40Dishonored: best game10.46pm:And the award for Best Game goes to: Dishonored.The team from Arkane Studios bound onto the stage. The game's set designer Viktor Antonov (architect of Half-Life 2's City 17) thanks his wife and apologizes to the British for the game's Americanized spelling.Whoops and glory.Block 4110.48pm:The evening is almost entirely uncoiled.Jonathan Ross flicks an over-conditioned fringe as he welcomes Valve's Gabe Newell to stage in order to accept the award for the Academy Fellowship as a result of his lifetime's work in video games.Gabe is self-effacing ('apologies I am not eloquent, apologies I am not wearing a tuxedo') but entirely sincere as he thanks both the players and the academy for the accolade.Block 4210.51pm:What? Half-Life 3 will be released in time for Christmas?Block 4310.54pm:Oh no wait. That's the white wine talking, not Gabe.Gabe has gone home to Seattle. Gone home to strut the halls of Valve Software topless, wearing only his Bafta award as a gold mask, while his denizens feed him grapes squeezed through the eye socket while building the game platform of the future.Block 4411.04pm:Which, um, seems like a good point at which to wrap things up. Thank-you so much for hanging out with us in the press room at the 2013 game Baftas.What lessons can be learned from this year's ceremony? That short games about religion, sand and wind that are entirely devoid of fighting will win the lion's share of Bafta game awards?Yeah, let's go with that, if only to see how this revelation affects the new Call of Duty.Block 4511.06pm:Till next year: good night.
Temple Run 2may only be a few weeks old, but Imangi Studios' popular endless-runner game already has a branded spin-off called Temple Run: Oz.It's the second Temple Run game to promote a Disney film – in this case Oz The Great and Powerful – following the release of Temple Run: Brave in the summer of 2012.The new game takes the Temple Run formula to the Land of Oz, as players run, jump and slide along the Yellow Brick Road. Other settings and characters from the film plus a hot-air balloon section are included in the game, which costs $0.69 on theApp StoreandGoogle Play.I've been playing it this morning, and it's fun, albeit with in-app purchase options running up to £69.99, which may be anunwelcome surprise for parentswhose children are playing. But it's also a useful illustration of the changing nature of licensing deals between the film and mobile games worlds.Rewind a few years to the time before mobile applications were rebranded as apps: an era when mobile operators were the main store-owners for mobile games, and when rubbish movie tie-ins were heavily promoted on their portals.The publishers of these games paid wild sums for their licensing deals, and then had to suck up expensive costs of porting the games to hundreds of handsets, as demanded by the operators. Often, the budget left over for making fun gameplay was often slender, to say the least. It showed.Publishers often made money because they knew the operators would stick their branded games at the top of their portals.While players were the short-term losers – paying £5 for a dreadful film tie-in – in the longer term it hurt the industry. Less than 5% of mobile users paid to download games, and that 5% churned a lot: people had one bad experience then didn't try again for a year or two.That's why I had to stifle a chuckle at the point during Mozilla's Firefox OS press conference at Mobile World Congress when a succession of operators took the stage to complain that Apple and Google's "walled gardens" were bad for consumers.It's not that Apple and Google's app stores are immune from criticism. It's just that mobile operators may not be the best people to be providing it: their own walled gardens and focus on brands over quality were what made mobile gaming a niche up until 2008.So, to 2013 and Temple Run: Oz. It's the latest example of a.) a  big gaming brand born and popularised on the app stores that b.) is being treated as an equal partner by a big traditional media company.Equal? Disney could have decided to make its own endless-runner game for Oz, taking Temple Run's basic gameplay and adding its own twists – much as Activision did for itsreboot of Pitfallin 2012. Yet Disney chose instead to work with Imangi Studio, with their respective brands given equal billing in the game's title.It shouldn't be controversial to suggest that of the two brands (Temple Run and Oz, I mean, not Temple Run and Disney) it's Temple Run that has the greater global reach.Even before Temple Run 2 came out in January 2013, the previous games hadgenerated 170m downloads on iOS and Android, with 15m daily active users. The new title raced to 50m downloads in its first 13 days on Apple and Google's App Stores.Tapping into that network of Temple Run fans is a smart move for Disney as it seeks to put bums on seats for its re-imagining of The Land of Oz.Yet Disney is also contributing to this partnership. Blockbuster films are measured in revenue as well as reach – cinema tickets, Blu-ray and DVD sales, merchandise etc – and that's something Temple Run can benefit from. Note that Temple Run: Oz is a paid game rather than a free-to-play title.These partnerships work both ways. That's why Disney is working with Imangi Studios rather than cloning its flagship game, and also why Disney inkeda web-video distribution deal for Outfit7's Talking Friendscharacters (700m+ app downloads and 120m monthly active users so far).It's whyAngry Birds Star Warsworked well as a meeting of equals – yes, equals, where the game's publisher Rovio arguably showed more reverence for the Star Wars brand than Lucasfilm itself has for the past decade or two – and why games like Doodle Jump and Fruit Ninja have also seen movie studios come calling.These partnerships should be a warning to anyone tempted to see mobile gaming (or mobile entertainment) as a tale of thrusting disruptive startups killing sluggish old media dinosaurs.If anything, it's about smart partnerships between the two, on much less exploitative terms than in the past.
Hey, it's Tuesday and tonight it's the Bafta video game awards. We'll be live blogging from 7-ish, so come and join us!
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInside Microsoft's house of the future &gt;&gt; BBC NewsMicrosoft invited BBC News to take a first look at its revamped Space of the Future at its headquarters in Redmond, Washington. The facility is used to portray what the firm thinks life might be like five to 10 years in the future.Where are the zombies, though? (Thanks @Challengingviews for the link.)Report: Chrome OS web traffic share up 700% since last June, still just accounts for 0.07% &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSince last June, Chrome OS's share of traffic on Chitika's network increased by 700%. Even so, Chromebooks still just account for 0.07% of desktop- and laptop-based traffic to sites in the company's network. That puts it ahead of the Wii at 0.02% and behind the PlayStation with 0.08%, but those consoles were obviously never meant to be web-centric devices to begin with. Last June, Chrome OS accounted for 0.011% of traffic across Chitika's network.Usual caveats about Chitika, but there you go. (By the way, it increased seven-fold. Isn't that 600%, since 100% is a doubling?)BlackBerry Z10 sales: 1/2 in Canada, 1/3 in UK from iPhone, Android &gt;&gt; BGRCIBC analyst Todd Coupland reported last month that 50% of pre-registration for the Z10 in Canada came from users who did not already own BlackBerry devices. Interest doesn't always translate to sales though, and it was unclear if BlackBerry would be able to get these iPhone and Android users to commit to the Z10 following its release.BGR has now learned from multiple trusted sources that BlackBerry has indeed managed to pull off the coup it so desperately needed. Several high-level BlackBerry executives have confirmed internally that half of all BlackBerry Z10 sales in Canada have been made to new customers coming from other platforms.What's more, one-third of Z10 sales in the UK, another key market for BlackBerry, have been made to customers who did not already own BlackBerry smartphones.This is slightly at variance with aninterview with FierceWirelesswhere the executive vice-president of global sales said that about a third of sales were "from outside the BlackBerry community" and that this figure was "consistent" among the 50 markets where the Z10 was launched.Sony happy with third spot in smartphone market &gt;&gt; IBTimes UK"Sony needs to sell about 50 million smartphones to rank third, behind Apple and Samsung. I think Sony has the ability to achieve it, but if it can't reach 50 million, it will fade and become irrelevant."At the end of 2012, Sony was ranked fourth in the global smartphone market by IDC, behind Huawei with 4.9% and ahead of ZTE with 4.3%. Samsung and Apple combined command more than half the market.However, when you look at the stats for 2012 as a whole Sony doesn't appear in the top five at all, indicating that it is staging something of a resurgence in this space."Sony happy" here means "Sonywillbe happy".The secure enterprise Android dream awakens? &gt;&gt; Open Source InsiderOpen source technology is not necessarily any less secure than proprietary.There - we've said it, do you feel better?Industry protagonists, commentators, analysts, evangelists and (god forbid) even bloggers cum technical journalists (scum of the Earth of course) have been advocating the wider "robustness" (cringes at industry marketing-speak term) of Linux and open platforms for a long time now.Let's look at the facts...And carry on to the next one..In the security world, Android is the new Windows &gt;&gt; ReadWriteFor decades, Microsoft Windows was the computer platform of choice — not just for the overhwelming majority of computer users, but also for a growing legion of malware creators. As the dominant computing platform, it offered the fattest, most lucrative target, and some of its fundamental architecture decisions made it vulnerable to many kinds of malware.With the transition to the mobile era, Windows is no longer at the center of the computing universe — for users or for hackers. That role is now occupied by Android. According to Stephen Cobb, a distinguished security researcher for the IT security company ESET, "Android is like early Windows." It's now the locus for security attacks and prevention — even if it's not getting as much attention in this regard as Windows used to.Losing patience with Windows Phone &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:Microsoft "screwed the pooch" on the rollout of Windows Phone 7.8. It is now March and AT&amp;T still hasn't offered me the update for my Lumia 900. Well, right now I think updates are on hold while Microsoft fixes a bug with Live Tiles. But every day that goes by I care less and less about the update. Basically, thanks for the cosmetic improvements but if and when 7.8 actually comes to my Lumia 900 it won't make the device measurably more useful to me. Microsoft has managed to turn WP7.8 from something intended to mollify WP7 device owners into something that rubs their nose in the lack of upgradeability of devices they acquired less than a year ago…So next month, when I would normally do my mid-contract upgrade, I'm not sure what to do. One thing is clear, the certainty that I'll be getting a new Windows Phone is gone. I just don't see the compelling value proposition.Planning for API v1's Retirement &gt;&gt; Twitter DevelopersBack in September, we released the Twitter REST API v1.1 and announced that API v1 would be retired in March 2013. I'd like to provide you with more detail on the plan to retire API v1.Who is affected?If you're a site owner that uses one of the older "goodie" widgets (e.g. profile, favorites, search and list widgets), you should move to Embedded Timelines as soon as possible. Likewise, if you've built your own widgets using unauthenticated client-side API calls, or if you or your widget consumes data from RSS or ATOM feeds, you should also migrate to Embedded Timelines. Unauthenticated requests are not supported in API v1.1.First "blackout test" on 5 March, but no definite date for lights out on API v1 yet.Firefox OS is repeating the mistakes of others and hoping for a different outcome &gt;&gt; EngadgetTerrence O'Brien:Sparse coverage and slow speeds will pose significant usability issues for these new consumers, but perhaps an even bigger stumbling block will be price. While we don't know how much some of these phones will cost, the moderately specced Geeksphone Peak is expected to hit retail for around €200. Lower-end Android devices can be had for less than €100 at this point without a subsidy, such as the Galaxy Y and the Optimus L3 (both of which retail for around £50 or €60, through Carphone Warehouse). More important though, is the total cost of ownership. A device that relies on the web to feed it every sliver of an application, right down to its individual UI elements, will inevitably suck down a significant amount of data. Sure, it'll be far less than if you were hooked up to Spotify and Netflix all day, but it will likely be more than if your applications were installed locally.Perhaps we should renamed this scheme "One Smartphone Per Adult", since it seems likely to be about as (un)successful as One Laptop Per Child.Samsung lock screen security flaw &gt;&gt; Terence EdenHere's a rather nifty security flaw I discovered on Samsung's Android 4.1.2. It allows you - in limited circumstances - to run apps and dial numbers even when the device is locked.…this attack is of limited value. That's one of the reasons why I've disclosed it.Making a call relies on the phone having a direct dial widget on the home screen.Running the apps is also of limited use - they go into the background immediately. If the app performs an action on launch (like recording from the microphone, switching on the flash, playing music, interacting with a server) that action will occur.Also tested by us on a Samsung Galaxy S3; it's real. The home screen is there, but you have to be very quick to hit the home screen before the lock screen is reasserted. This seems to arise from Samsung's TouchWiz tweak of having "In Case of Emergency" (ICE) contacts; stock Android doesn't offer that.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.(Note: we've added hard rules at the end of each item in the hope that it will improve readability on mobile. Feedback appreciated.)
The Pirate Bay, the notorious file-sharing site that was ejected from Sweden last week, claimed to have set up shop in North Korea on Monday.In a post on its website, the Pirate Bay said Pyonyang had invited it to use its network and the site has, in return, altered its sea ship logo to bear the North Korean flag.But the authenticity of the claim was cast into doubt by tracking searches conducted by a number of tech websites.In a release posted on the Pirate Bay site on Sunday, the group said that it had been "persecuted for beliefs of freedom of information" around the world."We have been fighting for a free world, and our opponents are mostly huge corporations from the United States of America, a place where freedom and freedom of speech is said to be held high,"the group said in a statement on its blog.In fact, the Pirate Bay did not explicitly say it was being hosted in North Korea – it only hinted as much.Analysis conducted by The Next Web concluded it was definitely not being hosted there, and said it was most likely still being routed through Europe:The individuals behind the Pirate Bay are unlikely to trade speed for the chance to say the site is hosted in North Korea. They are more likely to hack around and can claim it regardless of whether it's true.The Pirate Bay is a popular site that hosts links to torrented material, though a separate program is required to download the links' content. This function puts the Pirate Bay in a legal grey area in most countries though it has been the subject of many lawsuits."At the same time, companies from that country [are] chasing a competitor from other countries, bribing police and lawmakers, threatening political parties and physically hunting people from our crew," said the Pirate Bay. "And to our help comes a government famous in our part of the world for locking people up for their thoughts and forbidding access to information."It was revealed last week that the site was seeking refuge in Norway and Spain after the Swedish Pirate Party, which provided internet service to the site, faced legal pressure to shut down the Pirate Bay.North Korea may not have come to its rescue, but sister sites in Norway and Spainare definitely providing internet service to the company.It seems that the Pirate Bay's claim was an elaborate joke. North Korea has been claiming to have opened up its internet boders recently, playing host to Google executive Eric Schmidt. In late February, North Korea beganallowing foreigners to access mobile internet, resulting in a fresh cache ofInstagram images of North Korea.
Apple's value fell below $400bn (£265bn) for the first time in a year on Monday, as the prominent investor Warren Buffett said the company should ignore its critics and stick to running its business.At the close of business in New York, the tech giant's stock price stood at $420.05 (£280), a 52-week low, fuelling the demands of those who say it should pay back some of its $137bn cash pile to shareholders. The share price continued to fall in after-hours trading.But speaking on financial news channel CNBC, Buffett – who does not hold Apple stock – said that the company should ignore critics like hedge fund manager David Einhorn, who has pushed unsuccessfully for Apple to pay out some of the cash."I would ignore him. I would run the business in such a manner as to create the most value over the next five or ten years. You can't run a business to try and run the stock up every day," Buffett  said.But Buffett conceded that  Apple "may have too much cash", and revealed that he had once had a conversation about cash with the late Apple co-founder Steve Jobs."When Steve called me, I said, Is your stock cheap? He said, yes. I said, Do you have more cash than you need? He said, a little bit [laughs]. I said, then buy back your stock. He didn't," said Buffett.Einhorn dropped a lawsuit against Apple last Friday but has said he will continue to push for higher returns of cash to shareholders, something chief executive Tim Cook has said the board is actively considering.Cook said last week that he sympathised with "disappointment" among shareholders about its stock price, saying: "I don't like it either," he said. "We are focused on the long term."Apple's shares hit an all-time high of $705.07 (£465) in September. In 2011 it surpassed Exxon Mobil for the first time to become the US's most valuable company. The two have vied for the top slot since. On Monday it's market value fell below $400bn for the first time in over a year, putting Exxon back in the lead again.The company is under increasing pressure from rivals including Google and  smartphone manufacturers like South Korean electronics giant Samsung, whose Galaxy line has challenged iPhone's success.Last week Samsung scored a victory in a bitter legal tussle with Apple when a judge cut $450m (£300m) from a $1.05bn (£700m) jury award to Apple for alleged patent infringements and ordered a new jury trial to decide how much – if any – damages Samsung should pay.Judge Lucy Koh's decision, released late Friday, does not overrule the jury's decision in the original trial; the new jury will only decide the size of damages to be paid over 14 other products that were found to infringe Apple's patents on design or use, or both.Samsung used to be Apple's biggest supplier for phone parts, and Apple its largest customer. But in 2010, Jobs vowed to go to "thermonuclear war" over what he saw as copying of iPhone features by phones using Google's Android operating system.
A Facebook game that lets users do more than harvest digital crops and care for online animals launched on Monday, instead giving players the option to invest in micro-loans and create women's empowerment groups.Inspired by married authors Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn's Half the Sky Movement project, the game hopes to raise awareness of female empowerment issues by bringing them to a wider audience.Half the Sky Movement: The Gameis the latest branch in the Half the Sky Movement, which so far includes a book and PBS documentary. The couple conceived the game in 2009 at the annual Games for Change festival, organized by a group that facilitates the creation of social impact games and executive produced the game.The group has previously helped launch games created for consumers in developing countries, but this is the first foray into creating a game they hope can reach a mainstream audience."It's really this idea of: how do we take these issues that are deep and serious and real, and how do we provide players with an easy way to engage and feel good and want to share it?" co-president of Games for Change Michelle Byrd told the Guardian.Byrd joined the non-profit in July 2010 with the promise that the Half the Sky game would be created.The game begins inside in the home of the barefoot Indian woman Radhika, who must decide whether or not to confront her husband about the need to get medicine for her sick daughter. As players determine the best course of action throughout the game (negotiate for an expensive taxi ride to the hospital or earn more money) they receive prompts to donate to real-world causes and learn facts about the issues.At the beginning of the game, Radhika must confront her husband regarding their daughter's medical care.  Photograph: Games for ChangeGames for Change hopes that by having players earn real-world donations and learn facts, information will be shared with broad groups of people on their Facebook feeds. "Some of those people might not be aware of that stuff, and hopefully it will intrigue them, so even if they don't play the game, the messages within the game will at least be spread," Byrd said.In a digital world, technicolor characters in subtly soiled clothes can sometimes feel incongruous to the subject at hand. Dealing with this incongruity was a major focus while creating the game."It's definitely dealing with difficult subject matter," Byrd said. "It's trying to do so in ways that are engaging and light and provide you with tools to go deeper into the subject matter."Byrd said that the organization was beholden to three groups to create the game. First and foremost, the women and girls whose face the challenging situations in the game; second, Kristoff and WuDunn; and third, the source material from the book, which game developers used to help map out the games story."There were a lot of people who needed to feel comfortable with the translation of something that's real into something which can only be so serious and so deep," Byrd said. Some issues were not included in the game and some were added, including scenarios depicting issues happening in the US.The group received backing from a slew of philanthropy groups, NGOs and businesses, including social game behemoth Zynga. Players can unlock part of the $500,000 donation from sponsors after completing levels of the game to be donated to groups that work for issues in the game.Game players have the option of learning about the issues in the game and donating to real causes. Photograph: Games for ChangeUnlike most social games, it is impossible to lose, although certain choices will help players achieve the goals sooner."There is no wrong answer that is going to penalize you. Again, that's trying to focus on the opportunity that there is hope, and that sometimes you just need a different path," Byrd said.With the immense popularity of social gaming – more than 300 million people play these games each month – social impact games have become increasingly popular.The Knight Foundation funded localized gamesthat helped connect community members in Macon, Georgia, and improve hurricane preparedness on the Gulf coast.Other attempts at crafting social impact games have resulted in some bizarre products.Matchmaking site Shaadi launched a game calledAngry Brides in January 2012that was meant to raise awareness about dowries in India by having brides throw a variety of household goods at a row of prospective husbands.
