Five years ago, Lawrence Lessig was catapulted to fame when he was appointed special adviser to the judge in the antitrust case brought against Microsoft by the US government.At the time, he was a respected constitutional lawyer at Harvard Law School and an expert on internet law, but hardly a well-known figure. The appointment, followed by his suspension when Microsoft persuaded a higher court that his work with the open source movement indicated a bias against them, turned the soft-spoken academic lawyer into a poster child for the anti-Microsoft movement.Today, he is best known as a hyperactive opponent of legal and technical measures that turn copyright into an absolute property right. His two books, Code and The Future of Ideas, have informed the way we regulate the internet and defined the concept of the "creative commons" as a public space where ideas are shared and innovation emerges.Although he has widespread support from the net community, he is far from   optimistic about winning the argument. In Oxford to speak at a conference largely inspired by his ideas, he points out that "when I wrote Code, people told me it was wildly too pessimistic. It turned out not to be pessimistic enough. Things changed in a negative way more quickly than I predicted_ so I guess however pessimistic I've been, I've not been pessimistic enough".The past few months have not helped his frame of mind. In January, he argued in front of the US Supreme Court, the country's highest court, that a 1998 law that extended the term of copyright by 20 years was unconstitutional. It was perhaps the highest profile attempt to roll back the increasing control of intellectual property being claimed by media companies, but he lost the case.The defeat hit him hard. On his weblog he wrote: "I have often wondered whether it would ever be possible to lose a case and yet smell victory in the defeat. I'm not yet convinced it's possible."He does not really understand what went wrong, admitting that "it's still a little bit surprising. We had pitched the case as a case framed for   the conservative justices who have been keen on limiting Congress's power, and they didn't actually say why they thought it important to limit Congress's power in one area but not in this area".Losing the case does not mean he accepts that copyright should be extended. "The reason why it was so devastating to extend the term of existing copyrights is the huge amount of material that is basically unavailable right now because it's out of print," he argues. "It is simply material that's locked up, unavailable, and by extending the term of copyright for 20 more years means that for 20 more years it's going to be unavailable."The defeat may have reinforced his pessimism, but it has not slowed him down. After the Oxford conference he went to Brussels to receive an award from the Free Software Foundation for his work   promoting the political aspects of free software; and later travelled to Chicago to speak at an exhibition of "illegal art" - works of art that breach copyright law by their use of corporate images. And he still had time to pop into Downing Street to chat to the prime minister's media advisers about the importance of preserving the public domain in encouraging innovation.In an attempt to do something practical rather than just debate the issues, he has set up Creative Commons, which is devoted to expanding the range of creative work available for others to build upon by offering a range of legally binding licences that permit copying and sharing.The need for Creative Commons is clear to him. "I see an architecture of control whose regulation is increasingly that of controlling more and more of our lives," he says. "For a long time, only those who could publish were regulated by copyright. Now, with our digital network, the jurisdiction reaches everyone who would engage in a creative act using digital technologies."While Lessig works and campaigns in the US, the   issues he raises affect us all. European copyright law already gives rights holders the 70 years of control he argued against, and the European Union copyright directive will give companies the same legal powers to prosecute those who break or circumvent technological copyright protection measures as the controversial US Digital Millennium Copyright Act.Lessig believes there are things we can do here to mitigate the impact of what he clearly regards as a very bad law. "I have often thought that the best way to ensure that the balance in this system is maintained is to not make circumvention &#91;of copyright protection&#93; a crime, but to make circumvention an aggravating circumstance in any defence or punishment for copyright violation."So we might want to say that if I violate your copyright with a circumventing technology, then I get an enhanced sentence, just like if I hit you over the head with a gun, it's going to be a higher sentence than if I hit you over the head with a baseball bat."However, his trademark pessimism kicks in yet again. "The big problem is that   there's sympathy with that view among people who think about it in a dispassionate and balanced way," he says, "but there's no lobbying support for that view. The problem is the gap between what makes sense and what gets lobbying support, and that explains a lot of the craziness of America now."Despite his profile and achievements, Lessig does not see himself as a leader of the resistance movement, only as someone who sees the problems more clearly than most. "I'm a lawyer," he says with a smile, "so I can't think creatively. I can only think using the tradition we have."Yet within that tradition, this pessimistic campaigner is trying hard to change the world.LinksLessig's bloghttp://cyberlaw.stanford.edu/lessig/blogEldred vs Ashcroftwww.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eldred_v._RenoCreative Commonswww.creativecommons.org
You don't have to look hard to realise there are far fewer women in the IT industry than men. And there was no better contrast than the events of last Friday.Around 40 male hackers were milling around a secret London location, debating the latest developments. A short taxi ride away, a few hundred 11 to 15-year-old girls were arriving at the Science Museum to win prizes for building web sites.The latter was ITbeat 2003, a government initiative to encourage more girls to consider careers in the IT industry. Run under the auspices of E-skills, an IT skills body supported by IBM, the department of trade and industry and the Science Museum,ITbeat.comaims to promote IT among girls.The music industry and pop artists with teen appeal have added their glamorous weight to tackle a serious problem. The number of female IT professionals in the UK has fallen to 22% over the past seven years, according to the department. This is not only a crisis for women in the industry, it's a wider skills problem.Research company IDC says that IT spending in the UK will create another 500,000 IT jobs by 2005, which implies we are heading for a large deficit of women and key IT workers overall.Tosca Colangeli, of IBM, a sponsor of ITBeat, said the decision was taken to target the 11-15 age bracket because this is the time when decisions about careers tend to be made."We wanted to emphasise to girls that there is a huge variety of jobs in IT, and create a fun event to emphasise that," she said.  Elizabeth Varley, ofOnlinecontentuk.org, concurs:"The public image of IT careers needs a shake-up so people realise that there are many, many different types of jobs in the industry and that they can be creative, rewarding and also fun."Only around 5% of young women consider the IT industry for a career, with most perceiving it as nerdy, even though girls who pick IT often excel. In 2001, about 32,000 boys passed an IT GCSE compared with 24,000 girls. However, girls tended to score a higher pass rate.The ITbeat.com competition, launched in November, was promoted through teen magazines and schools, and invited girls to design a website for their favourite pop star. Entrants and winners were invited to a slumber party hosted by TV presenter Kate Thornton at the Science Museum.Milling around were role models from the IT industry, including Alison Hulme (Kiss FM DJ), Andrea Duffy (director of e-media, Sony Music Europe) and Shannon Ferguson (director of media and entertainment, Yahoo). Cherie Matrix, a community manager with Freeserve. com said: "I think the ITBeat project is great. I didn't have a real job until I got into the net a few years ago."Her enthusiasm was matched by April, 11, from the Blessed Hugh Farringdon Catholic School, in Reading. "There aren't enough girls into computers. We joined the school computer club and got to do lots of projects like the school magazine and learn about technology. I think it's really cool."Her friend Hayley, 12, added: "We get to use the    equipment without the boys taking over." Dominic Tester, their IT teacher, explained: "It's all about breaking the cycle of girls not being into IT. We have 108 girls in the school's computer club, and so many times I've heard the girls say 'I didn't know I could do this with IT'."The event was enjoyed by the 250 girls, if the screaming as the boy-bands and TV presenters shuttled on and off stage was anything to go by. And in keeping with technology, the technical hitch was never far away, in the form of intermittent power cuts in the celebrity marquee. Anna, 12, and Gretel, 15, from Winchester Westgate School, won their award with a web site about pop band Blue. Anna built the site while Gretel wrote the content. Anna said: "I was bored one day and started playing around on the internet and learnt how to build a site. Now I even teach my Dad how to do it."&#183;Onlinecontentuk.org Seewww.itbeat.com
To some, the global slowdown seems to have finally solved the IT skills shortage. However, when the economy bounces back, we will again be caught fighting the problems caused by the UK's underproduction of skilled IT workers.One solution has been to speed up the process of recruiting from overseas. However, this does not address the underlying problem that as a country, we are not making full use of our indigenous labour force.Women comprise around a fifth of IT professionals. That probably won't shock you, but it should. It won't shock you because you have always thought of IT as a male domain. Ask yourself why you have that perception and you are beginning to see the problem and the possible solution.As in many areas, the US is some way ahead of the UK - especially when it comes to getting women into high-ranking IT roles. Women comprise less than 10% of senior programmers in the UK, compared to around a third in the US, so there is much that can and should be done. With women making up almost half the UK workforce, equality is a matter of economic necessity.Best business practice says companies should recruit from the largest pool of talent. The perennial discussion about skills shortages and the dearth of women in IT could be seen as the same issue.Why do so few women enter the profession? Are they really discouraged by the stereotyping of the IT workforce as anoraks? The answer is yes. Women perceive jobs in IT as excessively complicated and not dynamic. If you ask a women to characterise a typical IT professional, she is likely to describe a young man   with excess facial hair, sitting behind a computer all day munching pizza and guzzling Coke.This view is far from accurate. Today's industry is remarkably diverse. IT is about people, and the successful IT manager will always have the user in mind.  As an industry, IT has developed dramatically from the days when programmers wrote lines of code out of garages.So fundamental is IT to the infrastructure of today's businesses that IT professionals now hold board-level posts. The government is trying to tackle the problem. The secretary for the department of trade and industry, Patricia Hewitt, has announced details of a strategy aimed at increasing the number of women employed in science, engineering and technology (SET).The scheme is aimed at school-age girls, providing resources such as software, online advice and ambassadors who go into classrooms to encourage girls to consider Set careers. The department also launched ITbeat with pop star Gareth Gates (see opposite) in an attempt to lend some glamour to a subject most schoolgirls find a turn-off.The second difficulty the industry needs to overcome is the promotion of greater flexibility. Not all women are interested in having children, but a number of women and men are looking to spend more time with their families. Contract work might seema solution, but the fact that fewer women work as contractors than as permanent employees suggests that this does not always work.Companies use IT contractors because they deliver a specific technical skill to solve an immediate problem. The ideal contractor needs to be constantly updating skills. This can make life difficult for women to get back into the industry after even a short break. The government needs to give tax breaks on training for contractors to help workers keep abreast of developments. Contractors cannot offset training costs against their income. The department should also set targets for recruiting and retaining women in IT careers.&#183;Ann Swain is the chief executive of the Association of Technology Staffing Companies.
PC owners may have been doing it for years, and Sega's Dreamcast may have blazed a trail, but online gaming is finally going mainstream. Xbox Live launches tomorrow, enabling Xbox owners with a broadband connection to compete against gamers from around the globe.Elsewhere, the trials for the broadband-only PlayStation 2 gaming network start on the March 31, while GameCube owners have the only console that offers connection for 56k users, even if only one game is available at present.But it is Microsoft's Xbox Live project that is the most ambitious. Analysts estimate that setup and network costs have totalled $500 million. "They're basically playing for the future with Xbox Live," said Schelley Olhava, an analyst for research firm IDC. "They really feel that if they build out the infrastructure now, it's going to serve them well in the future."Live has had a promising start. More than 350,000 users have signed on since the system launched in November in the US, while 96% of European test-gamers plan to recommend Xbox Live to friends.As well as a broadband account, Xbox owners will need to buy the starter pack, which includes the software, headset and one year's subscription to the system (renewal pricing is as yet unannounced). An Ethernet modem may be required, although shared access between PC and Xbox can be configured.Xbox Live connects gamers to a centralised network. It gives you one name, or Gamertag, which you use throughout the system. This allows you to make friends (and rivals) and also gain a place on each scoreboard. "The consumer wants a regular experience where you can identify your friends in a consistent environment and don't have to re-register for games," says Robbie Bach,   chief Xbox officer.The other key elements of Live are Optimatch, which allows you to find and compete with players of similar abilities, and downloadable content, such as new levels.But perhaps the biggest innovation is the Communicator headset, which allows you to talk to other players - a big enhancement to the experience. Whether it is taunting your opponent while overtaking on the last lap, or barking out orders in a Ghost Recon mission, the ability to speak adds a whole new dimension to the action. "We see the Communicator as the critical element that enables us to offer a really social experience," says Bach.The quality is pretty good, too. There is occasional lag, but chatting to a player in Texas or Tokyo is as clear as talking to one in Torquay. A real-time voice masking option is provided, allowing players to sound like robots or babies. If you don't want to talk, you can switch yourself   off; likewise anyone who annoys you. Persistent trouble makers can be barred or ignored and any harassment is frowned upon. "The communities have been remarkably self-policing with the Gamertag system ensuring that people who are jerks find no one to play," says Bach.Cheating can also be a problem. "We have code in Moto GP 2 which will disable the collision detection and stop the cheats," says Shawn Hargreaves, lead programmer at Climax.Six games will be available at launch. Highlights include Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon, a tactical spy game, and the big blasters, Unreal Championship and MechAssault. NFL Fever 2003 and Capcom vs SNK 2 will appeal to US sports and fighting fans respectively. There will also be downloadable content for Splinter Cell, Rayman 3 and Toejam and Earl 3. Fifty titles are planned by the end of this year.But how easy is it to set up? "We are broadband-agnostic   when it comes to ISPs," says Bach. "Live will work on all, but BT Openworld, NTL and Telewest will have full support from launch."However, while general broadband access is fine, connecting to Live itself is harder. Users have to decide whether to share access with their PC or connect directly. The former involves routers and a rudimentary knowledge of networking. The latter is easier, but requires an Ethernet modem such as the Speedtouch 530. Both methods are relatively straightforward, although it is likely you'll need to buy cables or a router. Despite the hype, setting up Live is not simply a case of plug and play. Bach is still confident: "The people buying in the first months are early adopters who are technically aware."Once connection is   achieved, the rest is easy. Sign up, choose your game and away you go. Players can invite you into other games and the whole system works pretty smoothly. Perhaps the biggest initial hurdle is overcoming traditional British reserve, although it doesn't take long before you are chatting and cursing.Xbox Live is an ambitious project, and Microsoft has a lot riding on it. They see it as a way to close the gap on the market leading PS2. But Sony can't be written off yet, especially as the world's largest publisher Electronic Arts has sided with the PlayStation 2 network.There has been much hype about online gaming but with the move to the consoles, and hence the mainstream, its time may have come. Bach is certainly convinced: "We see online as the ultimate way to open up the console gaming market."
MidbannedRe An end to the wait? (March 6): I first experienced "broadband" in 2000, when I started working for a company whose internet connection was 8Mbps. Using the internet in such circumstances becomes an entirely different experience. I think that the whole media economy would be given a huge boost by widespread access to such bandwidth.This is indeed what they seem to think in South Korea and Japan. I found the juxtaposition of the article on midband and the one about Japan's uptake of broadband intriguing indeed.  The latter tells how in Japan it is possible to buy a 12Mbps broadband connection for around &#163;13 a month. The article on midband tells how BT is thinking of offering a service at 128Kbps (roughly 1/100 that speed) for a similar price. The current "broadband" offer from BT is 512Kbps (or roughly 1/24 of the Japanese equivalent) for &#163;27 a month,   more then double the cost.How BT and others are allowed to market such an offering as "broadband" is a mystery. The current advertising of broadband services relies on big spectacle and oversize effects to convince the public that spending nearly &#163;30 a month is going to change our entertainment forever.Midband would be a generous name for the current services marketed as "broadband", ranging from 512Kbps to 1Mbps. It seems to me that 1.5Mps and upwards - or the ability to stream at least one full-size, full-motion video - is a more appropriate threshold for something that wants to claim the name of "broad" band.A great deal of time and money is spent in the UK in spectacular marketing campaigns aimed at selling an overpriced and inadequate broadband service, rather than focusing on the real consumer benefits of broadband. A little more vision and fairness, as shown by the Japanese operators, would help put that money to better use.Federico Gaggiofederico@gaggio.comHome highLike many others, I use ISDN HomeHighway. A telecoms colleague told me some time ago that if I am close enough to a sub-exchange for ISDN to work, then I am close enough for ADSL to work and   the quality of the copper pair to the sub-exchange is likely to be good enough, IF, and it is a big IF, the very small sub-exchange were upgraded. He said the fact that ISDN worked probably meant that my sub-exchange is already connected by fibre to the main exchange, also a prerequisite for ADSL.Can anyone tell us if this is correct?As the price of ADSL equipment for sub-exchanges falls, presumably we can expect more, smaller sub-exchanges to become candidates for ADSL.David Hutton-Squiredjhs@bcs.oorrg.ukRural mattersI live in a large village (pop: 3,000) around 10 miles from Oxford, with an industrial estate and a number of small businesses. Our exchange has between 100 and 200 people who have registered interest in broadband, but BT has not confirmed the trigger level for the exchange.As the government has promised broadband for all GPs surgeries, and there is one in the village, I wonder when they might put pressure on BT to get on with connecting us.  But that is probably pie in the sky, and those of us who work from home on freelance contracts and need to download images, etc, (which take forever on an ordinary modem) will just have to wait.Unfortunately, it means that people who employ us on hourly contracts may feel we are less economic to use and look elsewhere. So come on BT, don't give those of us in rural or semi-rural areas a duff deal.Sue Williamssue@nealedesign.freeserve.co.ukTough rulesYour excellent article on Wi-Fi (Online, February 13) failed to highlight one reason why the US is accelerating away in wireless deployment compared with the UK and Europe. The governing body in the US (the FCC) and the regulatory body in Europe (ETSI) takes a very different view on new technology. ETSI has a set of rules regulating wireless devices in Europe that are much stricter than the FCC. It is illegal in Europe, for example, to deploy the Vivato technology highlighted in your article. The net effect is that Wi-Fi is going the way of most new technologies, with the US leading the way. Mobile phones, of course, are different with Europe leading the world. We could do the same thing with Wi-Fi but not while ETSI stops us using devices that are legal in the US.Richard TaylorManaging director,  The Wireless Networkrichard.taylor@thewirelessnetwork.co.ukBlagger blogsAs an anonymous blogger, I read Dave Green's article (Second sight, March 6) with total ennui. He berates the average home blogger for failing to "expand the field of human knowledge". Perhaps he should practise what he preaches. &#91;Dave Green's website&#93;www.ntk.neyseems to regurgitate news stories with minimal effort and plenty of comment. There is a difference between opinion and knowledge. We all have the former, few can truly add to the latter.Derek Thomasmail@beertourist.co.uk
Wireless networking got a huge boost yesterday, when Intel started to include it in its latest chip set. Soon, most people buying a notebook PC will not have to think about whether or not they want to add Wi-Fi: it will be built in as standard. More than a dozen new notebook PCs based on the Centrino chip set were unveiled yesterday,   including models from Dell, IBM, Sony, Toshiba, and Britain's RM (Research Machines).Intel's chief technology officer, Pat Gelsinger, says "Radio Free Intel" should eventually become a standard feature of any device that includes a microprocessor. Where notebook PCs lead, handheld computers, games consoles, mobile phones, TV sets, video recorders and other consumer   electronics products will follow.Traditionally, this type of computer networking has been seen as too difficult for the mass market, but Centrino notebooks connect to Wi-Fi automatically. Gordon Graylish, Intel's director of sales and marketing in Europe, says: "Our goal is to have communicating devices work as simply as a mobile phone. We want to go from having the technology work to having it 'disappear'."If it works, it is the start of a revolution... but there is a long way to go. And, it must be said, Intel is pushing well ahead of the market. Most people do not have Wi-Fi at home or in the office, and you don't see hordes of notebook PC owners buzzing around the Starbucks and Costa Coffee bars, hotels, and railway stations that are pioneering Wi-Fi hotspots. Intel's approach is more like the baseball field in the Hollywood movie Field of Dreams: "If we build it, they will come."Intel is therefore putting a massive effort into supporting its strategy. As well as making the chips, it is including software to simplify Wi-Fi connections, doing deals to set up more than 20,000 wireless hotspots (see box), working with hotspot suppliers to ensure interoperability, and investing in other wireless companies. (Intel Capital has $500m to invest.) It is also planning a &#163;300m advertising and marketing campaign for Centrino, its first Radio Free Intel chip set.Centrino includes a brand new mobile Pentium processor, code-named Banias, as well as the Wi-Fi chip, code-named Calexico. But for the first time, the Pentium is being relegated to a supporting role, if it gets a mention at all.Centrino has been designed from the ground up for notebook computers, so the emphasis has been on saving power and extending battery life. It should enable users to get through a day's work without stopping to recharge their PCs, which can be done overnight. That's one reason for including the wireless capabilities in the core chip set: Wi-Fi cards consume a lot of power.Intel says building in Wi-Fi is also cheaper than adding a separate card, provides a more consistent standard, and makes wireless notebooks easier to manufacture - all of which should help drive down prices. Richard Dineen, research director for wireless at the Ovum consultancy in London, expects Centrino to have a lot of appeal to low-cost manufacturers in China. "The high level of integration is a key advantage for assemblers who   don't have a high level of skills," he says.Of course, manufacturers can use the Centrino chip set in different ways. Either they can use it to provide much longer battery life, or they can fit smaller batteries and make smaller devices, or a bit of both. Adrian Horne, PC brand leader at IBM Europe, says Centrino has allowed the company to reduce the thickness of its T40 ThinkPad by half an inch without reducing battery life, "and we can get nine hours with a bay battery. That was inconceivable before, on a full-size notebook".Not every notebook PC manufacturer will follow Intel's direction. Some will still use high-speed Pentium 4 desktop chips for users who want raw power, and Celerons for budget buyers. Some will use Banias, the Pentium chip from Centrino, with different Wi-Fi options, though if they do, they won't   get Intel's marketing support. However, most analysts expect Centrino to take over the mobile market. "From a technology standpoint, it's great stuff," says Isaac Ro, a senior wireless analyst with Aberdeen Group in Boston. "In the next six to 12 months, you're going to see a massive migration to this technology. It doesn't make sense not to do it. I especially expect the Tablet PC market to benefit."The Tablet PC, launched by Microsoft chairman Bill Gates last November, is the latest attempt to sell PCs that are operated by writing directly on the screen. Since Tablet PCs are designed to be carried around, taken to meetings etc, they should benefit greatly from the Centrino's built-in wireless capabilities, longer battery life, lower heat output and consequent reductions in size, weight and cost.So far, Tablet PCs have been more successful than   expected. "It's already obvious that Gates &amp; Co has scored a hit," Business Week magazine proclaimed last month. Toshiba sold out and had to increase production. But it is still a very small market. Alan Thompson, chief executive of Toshiba in the UK, says: "There was an initial flurry and we couldn't make enough for the first two or three months, but it has settled down a bit now. The Tablet PC is not going to go away, but the price difference people are willing to pay &#91;compared to a notebook&#93; is less than we'd hoped!"Handheld PCs and mobile phones will not benefit at all, of course, because none of them uses Pentium-style processors. (Too big, too hot, too expensive.) However, Palm and Pocket PC handhelds and mobile phones are in line to get equivalent facilities from Intel XScale chip sets, or rival chip sets expected from the wireless   market leader, Texas Instruments. Wi-Fi is not included in Intel's latest mobile chip sets - the ones code-named Bulverde (for handhelds) and Manitoba (for mobile phones). But once the idea has been proven in Centrino, it should not be too hard to add it.Samsung already sells a mobile phone with built-in Wi-Fi, the Nexio S155, though only in South Korea. It's an attractive idea because users can make free phone calls over the net using VoIP (Voice over IP) software, as well as getting high-speed access to data.Consumer electronics manufacturers are also looking at Wi-Fi as a way of networking things in the home. Toshiba has Wi-Fi in its offices and Thompson has already installed a Toshiba WBG 1200 wireless broadband gateway, which combines a Wi-Fi hub with an ADSL modem, at home."Wireless is now the ubiquitous thing for me," says Thompson, "and ubiquitous networking is now a central part of our strategy. We think people will want to beam stuff to various parts of their house, such as getting the internet to a small screen in the kitchen, or beaming a movie from a hard-disk video recorder or PC to a video projector in another room. It will definitely change the way the home works, and that's a big market."Intel certainly hopes so. At the moment, about 80% of its turnover comes from PCs, and the PC market is stagnant. It really wants to be big in the non-PC markets that have the potential to grow rapidly, and Wi-Fi looks like the obvious route. Ovum's Richard Dineen says: "It's a key indicator that Intel sees which way the wind is blowing, and it's blowing towards wireless. They are really smart. They understand the importance of making a   bold manoeuvre here, not clinging to an industry that's not growing."Isaac Ro, from Aberdeen Group, agrees that "the home networking piece is the seed ground", but is worried by the conference calls about Centrino that he has shared with journalists from leading US publications. "Reporters aren't quite getting the message," he says politely. He thinks Intel may be "under-serving the technology by not putting enough marketing behind it."Andy Brown, research manager for mobile computing at market analyst IDC, is also sceptical and asks himself: "Is Intel's marketing push going to be strong enough? Hmmm. They'll make sure it is. There you go! It's Intel. They can't afford to let this one slip, and I don't think they're going to."Hot for hotspotsAs part of its Centrino marketing push, Intel is trying to increase the number of Wi-Fi 802.11b wireless "hotspots" where users with portable computers - notebooks or handhelds - can connect to the internet. In the UK, Intel and Ericsson are supporting Inspired Broadcast Networks' plan to create the biggest wireless network in Europe, with hotspots in 3,000 pubs throughout the UK.IBN's Wi-Fi network, called The Cloud, will be based on a network of Leisure Link games terminals that already have broadband connections. Leisure Link has 90,000 pay-to-play machines in 30,000 locations in the UK. BT Openzone, which has hotspots in Costa Coffee shops, will be the first ISP to offer commercial services on The Cloud, starting in July. Seewww.inspiredtg.com/product_cloud_overview.html.T-Mobile is also rolling out a network of 56 hotspots in Starbucks coffee shops in the UK. It will reach 21 towns by the end of May. T-Mobile already offers about 2,100 hotspots in the US. Seewww.t-mobile.com/hotspot.In the US, Cometa Networks plans to open 20,000 Wi-Fi access points, or 10 times as many as T-Mobile has today. Cometa -   formerly known as Project Rainbow - is backed by Intel Capital, AT&amp;T and IBM, with investments from Apax Partners and 3i.  Seewww.cometanetworks.com.Some cities are also planning to install Wi-Fi as a public utility. The leading example at the moment is the small medieval town of Zamora in Spain, in a project that is also being backed by Intel. However, Adelaide, in South Australia, has much more ambitious plans for a Wi-Fi network for up to a million people. Long Beach, California, already has afree Wi-Fi networkcovering several blocks downtown.. There are also numerous community projects all over the world,including the UK, with Portland, Oregon, leading the way.Wi-Fi may never reach the level of coverage provided by mobile phone systems such as GSM, but it does not have to. Mobile phones became popular for use away from people's homes and offices: with Wi-Fi networks, the pattern is reversed. The vast majority of Wi-Fi connections will be made in people's homes and offices. Hotspots are just the icing on the cake.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The Government has squandered £1.5 billion on information technology projects since coming to power, according to a damning report to be published tomorrow.The figure is the total cost of cancelled or over-budget schemes over the last six years, according to the survey published in the trade magazine Computing. That represents a 50% increase in wasted cash since the last Computing survey two years ago.However, a leaked report shows plans are in place to change the way Government departments manage their technology programmes and cut the number of Whitehall IT disasters, according to the magazine.The figures come after Treasury minister Paul Boateng said last week that his department did not know how much has been wasted since Labour came to power.In response to a written question from Labour MP Derek Wyatt, Mr Boateng said: "The information requested is not held centrally and could only be obtained at disproportionate cost."High-profile disasters contributing to the £1.5 billion total include the £698 million wasted on the cancelled Pathway project to develop smartcards for benefits payments and the £134 million overspend on the magistrates' courts' Libra system identified by the National Audit Office last year.Mr Wyatt told Computing: "In business no group of shareholders would stomach the losses, over-runs and even pretty poor software that successive Governments have made."The opportunity cost value is hundreds of small new hospitals and schools."The magazine's estimates for Government IT projects that have run into problems since 1997 are:-- National Air Traffic Services - £180 million  1997-2002: Updated systems for Swanwick control centre were delayed and over budget-- Pathway - £698 million  1998/99: Smartcards for benefits payments - project cancelled-- Passport Agency - £12.6 million  1999: Cost of dealing with the backlog of passport applications caused by the project-- Prison Service - £8 million  1999: Home Office drew up plans to overhaul prisons IT, and then scrapped them-- Immigration and Nationality Directorate - £77 million  2001: Project cancelled because the system was over-complex-- National Insurance Recording System 2 - £40.4 million  2001: Delays caused by problem implementation added to operating costs-- Probation Service - Crams £118 million  2001: Work on the system was suspended after costs came in 70% higher than planned-- Child Support Agency - £50 million  2001/02: Overspend due to changes to the system-- Individual Learning Accounts - £66.9 million  2001/02: Flagship training scheme - project cancelled amid accusations of fraud-- Libra - £134 million  2002: Plan to link magistrates' courts ultimately re-negotiated-- Defence Logistics Organisation £120 million  2002: Armed forces asset management project put on hold due to pressure on resourcesTOTAL £1,504.9 million
What is the snoopers' charter?It's a plan to give state agencies access to your telephone, internet and email records. Data would include information including who you call on your mobile phone, and where you are calling from, and to whom and when you sent emails.I've read Spycatcher - didn't they have access already?Some agencies - the police, MI5 and MI6, the government listening post GCHQ, the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise - already had access. But the new proposals extend the number of agencies that can access this communications data.Who will be able to find out what I'm up to?The revised plans announced yesterday extend the automatic power to see this information to agencies with crime-fighting roles, like the UK Atomic Energy Constabulary, the Scottish Drugs Enforcement Agency and the Maritime and Coastguard Agency. Fire authorities and NHS trusts will also get full access, so they can investigate suspicious fires and hoax 999 calls. A long list of other organisations, including 468 local councils, the Royal Mail, Food Standards Agency and others, will have more limited powers to access details of phone and internet subscribers.So why was there such a fuss?Some campaigners feel such information should remain confidential for all but the most pressing investigations. And early versions of the proposals, which were revealed by the Guardian in June last year, sparked an outcry. It was revealed that hundreds of bodies - including your local council, any government department and the NHS - would be able to demand full details of your communications without so much as a court order.What did the privacy campaigners say about that?At the time Simon Davies, director of Privacy International, called the plans "a systematic attack on the right to privacy." John Wadham, director of Liberty, said the list demonstrated "it is not just the police who will be looking at our communications records. It is practically every public servant who will be able to play this game.So then it became law, right?Wrong. In a move that surprised everyone, David Blunkett backed down, admitting the government had "blundered" into its plans. He promised to go away and think again, and consult his son Hugh, 24, who works in IT.And that's where the new plans have come from?Correct (from the consultation, that is - Hugh's exact involvement is unclear). Yesterday the home secretary said he took concerns about intrusion into privacy "very seriously". He added: "To succeed in allaying fears of a Big Brother approach... government needs to secure public confidence that the boundary between privacy and protecting the public is set correctly."And the privacy campaigners - are they happy?They are a little happier than last summer, but still warn of trouble ahead. Simon Davies warned he thought the plans were a "Trojan horse" to "open up the entire debate about privacy." John Wadham said he welcomed much of the new plan - but said there was still a need for safeguards, including judicial scrutiny of requests for data.
Dixons is cutting the price, saysReuters. Nintendo denies Dixons is dropping the product. But life gets harder for Nintendo from Friday, when Microsoft launches the Xbox Live service in the UK.
Today, Intel is launching its Centrino chip set, which includes Wi-Fi wireless along with a new low-power Mobile Pentium chip code-named Banias, so expect a lot of media coverage likethis. I had a Centrino-based Tablet PC to play with over the weekend, thanks to Research Machines.....
You'd think we'd have sorted out our attitude to ads on the net by now, but there's no settlement in sight yet. I'm pretty sure that just putting those two infinitely loaded words "internet" and "advertising" together has got about half of you into the mood for a fight.I have a book in my study from 1994 called Advertising on the Internet. Reprinted on the back cover are quotes from the hate mail the author received while researching it. From the beginning, when it became apparent that the net could support advertising, parts of the internet community have rejected it outright.According to Doc Searls and David Weinberger in their newmanifestothe big mistake is thinking that "...the Web, like television, is a way to hold eyeballs still while advertisers spray them with messages."Advertisers are still uncertain. I've spent a lot of the last decade talking to them about the fate of advertising now that we're all connected together. There are two main scenarios. In the first, the Internet liberates us from advertising. The technology creates a kind of sci-fi utopia in which advertising essentially disappears.In this scenario, we consumers just articulate our needs and desires into the ether and stuff shows up to match them. Persuasion is phased out, with all those other outdated forms of mediation. Manufacturer and consumer enter into a kind of communion, enabled by "mass customisation", two way communication and opt-in marketing. Yuck.Advertisers fear this scenario most because it neutralises their power to talk to our desiring selves, to get us wanting stuff we'd never dreamt we needed, to fill our houses with Cheestrings, 3-in-1 dishwasher tablets and Barbie poodle parlours.In the other scenario, the net is translated into advertising heaven (or a grim dystopia, depending on your perspective). There are no secrets, no hiding places and no way to turn the damned thing off. Advertisers harvest data at every node - your shopping habits, favourite web sites, demographic data and shoe size are all available for a fee from the universal marketing database in the sky. Privacy activists and anti-business types hate this one - it seems to promise the final victory of commerce over civilisation. Double yuck.Neither of these scenarios has actually played out. In fact, the second one, the one the activists feared most likely, has had some nasty set-backs in the last couple of years - not least the dot.com crash and a rising impatience with intrusive marketing techniques. But both versions of the future are simplistic and both fail to take into account some pretty important factors.They are both premised on the inefficiency and general gnarliness of advertising. The utopians believe that, in their perfect world, ads will be unnecessary. Needs, instead of being manufactured by cynical blood sucking advertisers, will be met by a benign, listening technology, tuning in to our desires and arranging delivery between 8 and 5 weekdays.The shocking waste of attention, effort and money produced by off-target advertising will be a thing of the past: the ad jingle playing in an empty room, the unopened newspaper's freight of unseen double page spreads, the credit card ad sent to a nine year-old. All history.The dystopians are less hopeful... and more cynical. Advertisers have always taken wastage for granted - the automatic 50% of your budget thrown away whenever you book a campaign. The data paradise they dream of allows them to pitch products to a better and better-defined audience and drive wastage out of the system all together. In the meantime, though, their robots and mailing lists, pop-ups and cookies will lay waste to the open and permissive net.Of course, they're both wrong. Advertising is not evil and is not doomed, even on the internet. And the miserable, ad-saturated environment proposed by the dystopians is doomed to fail.Ads produce demand and lubricate markets. Even unconventional, open, social markets like the net need the kind of jolt produced by an surprising (read: unsolicited) ad to produce heat, economic activity, change. An entirely ad-free world would be economically sterile, incapable of kicking off new production-consumption cycles. Economic change would slow to a Soviet-era crawl.Of course, the net already offers dozens of new ways of getting these cycles going. The blogosphere's attention economy already produces hit books and web sites and amplifies ideas with unprecedented efficiency - and not an ad in sight.So-called "viral" marketing can produce the same kind of pervasive buzz that a good ad campaign produces. But even the net's hyper-connected multitude will never entirely replace the big bang effect of a provocative, well-placed advertisement.
The next version ofMicrosoft Flight Simulatorwill include a Wright Flyer from 1903, to celebrate a centenery of powered flight.
"One in four children in the UK are the victims of cyber-bullying, said John Carr, Associate Director of the children's charity NCH, formerly known as the National Children's Homes."APandReuterscovered the story, which was also picked up byThe Mirror.
McDonald's is getting into the Wi-Fi hotspot business in three US cities, with connections supplied by the Intel-backed Cometa Networks, reportsAP. Intel and Toshiba are also promoting hotspots, sayCompuerWorldandCNet.
Deutsche Telekom yesterday reported the largest corporate loss in German postwar history as it slashed the value of assets bought during the technology stock boom, including that of American wireless company Voicestream.The heavily indebted company's annual loss of &euro;24.6bn (&#163;17bn) beat figures announced by rival France T&#233;l&#233;com last week to take the title of Europe's largest loss yet.Deutsche Telekom was plunged heavily into the red by a &euro;20.6bn cut in the value of assets it bought during the internet boom, when sector valuations rocketed.The company slashed &euro;8.4bn from the value of Voicestream, the loss-making US wireless business that is now part of Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile empire."We are well aware of the scale of this figure," admitted   the chief executive, Kai-Uwe Ricke. "The results reflect the grave situation that the company found itself in last year," he said.Mr Ricke took over in November as investor dissatisfaction with the company's share price saw the ousting of Ron Sommer, the architect of   the company's expansion. Despite the colossal loss, analysts were cheered by news that Deutsche Telekom dramatically reduced its operating losses in the last three months of the year.The company made a net loss of &euro;100m in the fourth quarter, compared with   &euro;2.5bn in the same period a year ago, as revenues increased almost 10% to &euro;14.5bn. Revenues for the year at &euro;53.7bn were ahead of analysts' forecasts.Deutsche Telekom's annual earnings before financial charges of &euro;16.3bn also came in ahead of expectations as a   result of cost reduction in T-Mobile and a solid performance from the company's core German business.The shares, however, lost more than 8% as the company maintained its softly softly approach to reducing its debt, which dropped &euro;3bn in the fourth quarter to just over   &euro;61bn at the end of the year. Unlike France T&#233;l&#233;com, which is planning a &euro;15bn rights issue, Deutsche Telekom believes it can cut its debt through targeted disposals and increased efficiencies. Deutsche Telekom expects to have reduced debt to &euro;50bn by the end of this year.DotbombedWho lost what when the e-bubble burstAOL Time WarnerLoss:&#163;60bnHow it happened: The merger of internet service provider AOL with the huge global media and entertainment company, Time Warner, was the deal of the internet boom. But in January the merged group wrote down its assets by &#163;30bn, with three-quarters of that related to a reduction in the value of AOL.JDS UniphaseLoss:&#163;36bnHow it happened: The old adage that pick and shovel makers are the real winners in a gold rush was undermined last July as the American internet equipment manufacturer, JDS Uniphase, wrote down the value of its business by some &#163;25bn following a five year acquisition binge.Deutsche TelekomLoss:&#163;17bnHow it happened: The dotcom boom hugely inflated asset prices in the wireless world, with Deutsche Telekom overpaying for American business Voicestream and for licences to operate 3G services across Europe.Nortel NetworksLoss:&#163;16.5bnHow it happened: When the dotcom bubble burst orders at the world's largest maker of communications equipment effectively dried up. As Nortel Networks embarked on a massive company restructuring it slashed the value of its assets by &#163;10bn.VivendiLoss:&#163;16bnHow it happened: The takeover of US music, film and TV company Universal by French conglomerate Vivendi two years ago was Europe's answer to the AOL-Time Warner merger. But like its US rival, Vivendi has since been forced to admit the value of the acquisition has plummeted - by &#163;13bn, according to last week's results.
Roger Needham, who has died aged 68, helped keep Cambridge University at the forefront of computer research for more than 20 years, and set up Microsoft's first overseas research organisation alongside his beloved computer lab. Microsoft was US-based, and could have sited its new research lab anywhere in Europe.However, given the company's somewhat patchy reputation, it needed someone whose work was respected and whose integrity was beyond question, in order to attract the best researchers and keep them happy. Needham fitted the bill perfectly, and Microsoft let him get on with it.He revelled in his new-found freedom. He said: "One of the things I've noticed, having moved from being an academic to doing this job, is that I'm trusted now, and I wasn't then."Needham was neither a computer geek nor an absent-minded professor. He was a quietly spoken but convivial, down-to-earth type. One PhD student, Sape Mullender, now at Bell Labs, recalled feeling "somewhat apprehensive to meet one of the grand old men of computer science. He turned out not to be intimidating at all and immediately invited me into that hallowed place where he carried out much of his best research - the pub."Adjourning to the pub allowed for the serendipity that Needham prized highly, and he was very fond of a definition that he credited to a former colleague, Sir Hans Kornberg: "Serendipity is looking for a needle in a haystack and finding the farmer's daughter."The combination of affability, practicality, a deep sense of public service and a sharp, logical mind made Needham a natural committee man, and he spent rather a lot of his life sitting on them. These ranged from the Alvey committee, intended to stimulate Britain's hi-tech research, to the Defence Scientific Advisory Council, to the (in his words) "sometimes-lamented" University Grants Committee. He was also a trustee of the left-leaning Foundation for Information Policy Research and a Labour party district councillor.Needham grew up in Sheffield and Doncaster, where his father worked in the coal industry. He won a scholarship to Cambridge and gained his BA in mathematics and moral science in 1956. In his final year, he became interested in the Cambridge Language Research Unit. In a brief memoir published on the web, his wife Karen Sparck-Jones, professor of computers and information in the university's computer lab, says it was "originally a lively discussion group interested in language and translation, subsequently funded to do research on automatic translation". This sparked Needham's interest in computing. He did a diploma in numerical analysis and automatic computing in 1957, and worked at the unit until 1962, while researching his PhD.During this time, Needham married Karen, then a fellow PhD student. They built a house and in 1961 they also bought their first boat; they later sailed round the east coast in an 1872-vintage Itchen Ferry Cutter. Both projects became life-long loves.After graduating, Needham joined Cambridge University's mathematical (later, computing) laboratory, run by the renowned computer scientist Maurice Wilkes. He succeeded Wilkes as head of the laboratory in 1980, and served as professor of computer systems until 1998.During his 40 years at the lab, Needham saw computing develop from Wilkes's EDSAC (Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator) - the basis of LEO or Lyons Electronic Office, the first commercial computer - to today's cheap, ubiquitous systems. But he rejected the idea that he had lived through the information technology revolution. "I believe, on the contrary, that it has not happened yet, and that it is only beginning," he said.None the less, he was involved with the development of some groundbreaking systems and many original ideas. This included work on a one-way function to protect passwords, which became a common feature, the design and construction of the Cambridge Ring (one of the first high-speed local area networks) and the Cambridge Model Distributed System, which researched network-based computing. Most of these were team projects, but Needham was a team player.Needham was one of the first to appreciate the need for computer security, and in 1967, he devised a method for encrypting password files in a secure way. In 1978, he and Michael Schroeder published research on a system for identifying users by exchanging data, usually in passwords. The Needham-Schroeder protocol for authentication had a flaw, but they produced an enhanced version later.Needham retired from the university after becoming managing director of Microsoft Research Limited, Cambridge, but becoming "Bill's don" only made him more prominent. The research lab that started with three people in rented accommodation ended up with 55 researchers in a huge building (renamed in Needham's honour) with room for many more. It is an impressive testament both to the quality of the research at the university and the regard in which Needham was held.Late last year, Needham was diagnosed with incurable cancer. Microsoft Research organised a technical symposium, Roger Needham: 50 and 5, to celebrate his 50 years in Cambridge and five with Microsoft. The speakers included Maurice Wilkes and Rick Rashid, head of Microsoft Research in Seattle.Needham, by now in a wheelchair, donned a workman's helmet, saying he was still very much a practical engineer. He always said that "if there wasn't an industry concerned with making and using computers, the subject wouldn't exist. It's not like physics - physics was made by God, but computer science was made by man. It's there because the industry's there."His wife survives him.&#183;Roger Michael Needham, engineer and computer scientist, born February 9 1935; died March 1 2003
"The Web is dead and will be replaced by an executable architecture," according to George Colony, the founder of Forrester Research in Boston. But IT staff, marketers and business people will have to work together to make it pay. "It is a collaboration game between the T-shirts, the turtlenecks and the ties," says George. There's more atInfoWorld. Comment: When did the suits turn into ties? Never confuse alliteration with innovation....
Israeli twins Michael and Alex Bronstein, students at the Technion university, have developed 3D face recognition software that can tell them apart, reportsReuters.
Environmental groups have sued America's Federal Communications Commission, saying it illegally approves towers that serve as death traps for millions of migratory birds, reportsUSA Today.
Ladies and Gentlemen: I give you this year'sBloggies, the web's best weblogs as voted for by the community and its readers.
The words "finger" and    "dyke" spring to mind.    It's a valiant start, but    sadly the advertising    standards authority's    (ASA) latest battle    against email spam is about as likely    to succeed as the White House is to    serve up frogs' legs or snails.    The idea is simple, if a little naive.    The ASA has decided to finally get    tough and demand that bulk email    advertising (and text messages, for    that matter) must, from this point    on, either have your permission or be    clearly marked "unsolicited" in the    subject header so you can see what is    being offered before you rush to double-click on it.Quite how it will punish those who    are caught and convicted (a Herculean    task in itself) isn't clear, but do    you really think that the spam currently    squatting in your inbox will    soon be replaced by gentlemanly    notes headed along the lines of,    "Excuse me for wasting your valuable    bandwidth, disk space and time, and    sorry if we've never been formally    introduced, but would you, perchance,    be interested in our not-tobe-missed penis enlarger? Yours for a    bargain $99."I know we are a nation    that is fabled for applauding good    manners, but this is ridiculous. I don't    care how spam is headed, it is still    unsolicited and my life would be    notably more enjoyable if it was never    sent my way in the first place. With a    heavy heart, however, I long ago    accepted that this will never happen.    And what of all the spam sent to us    from beyond these shores, where the    ASA has no jurisdiction? The criminal    fraternity of Boca Raton, Florida,    certainly won't be changing their    ways, that's for sure. Boca Raton,    according to a recent report in this    paper, is the spam capital of the    world and out of the 150 spammers    said to produce 90% of the world's    spam, at least 40 of them reside in    this millionaire's paradise. It is highly    unlikely this criminal jet set will have    choked on their sea breezes upon    hearing the ASA's latest initiative.Just to prove how difficult this boil    is to lance, I decided to drop in on an    old, unused AOL email account I've    had for about five years - used only    once to send out an email since the    day it was first set up. Therefore, the    email address should never have    found its way on to websites, chat    rooms or newsgroups - the places    that spammers head to first to hunt    for prey. When I logged on I was    greeted with "You have 253 new messages".    Not too bad, I thought, for five    years' worth of unsolicited spam.But then I noticed that this was    the total for just the last month. A    quick tap on my calculator suggests    that this dead account has probably    received about 15,000 spam emails    over the past five years. Even if it    takes, say, one second to assess an    email as spam and hit delete, that    would still have been four hours of    my life in total taken up ridding one    email account of spam. If, indeed, I    had been actively using this account    for that period to buy goods online,    email friends, subscribe to email    newsletters and sign online petitions,    as most of us typically do, then    I could probably add a few zeros to    this figure.But could I purge this account of    spam and get it shipshape for use    once again? It will take weeks, if not    months, to see if my experiment    really succeeds, but I've made a start.I began by following all the standard    spam-busting advice: never respond    to a spam; only tell your address to    close friends and reputable bricks-and-mortar companies; diligently    use the various mail filters offered by    email providers, such as Hotmail and    Yahoo, as well as installing your own    mail filters, such as Mailwasher or    McAfee's SpamKiller; sign up to the    Direct Marketing Association's email    preference service; and forward    spam to the various blacklisting services    such as Cloudmark's Spamnet.    A day later and the spam had been    noticeably culled - I'd say by about    50% - but, like slaying cockroaches,    down weapons for just one day and    they are back with a vengeance. This    isn't that surprising considering that    all the spam entering my never-used    AOL account must have been randomly    generated by software that    invents likely email addresses and    keeps sending out messages 24/7    until they stop bouncing back.Therefore, the lesson from my not-too-scientific experiment is that persistence    does pay when battling    spam, but you will never succeed in    wiping it out once and for all because    the roots are buried far too deep.    It will certainly be interesting to    see what the ASA does once it snares    its first spamster (and Ofcom, too, if,    as lobbyists hope, it ever gets the    gnashers to bite), but just as I'm also    not holding my breath for the    promised, hard-hitting anti-spam    legislation from Brussels and Washington,    I'm going to carry on keeping    those spamsters guessing by using a    handful of different addresses for different    purposes. Oh, and stop replying    "yes, please" to all the "$$$Leo,    how would you like to earn $100K a    month?$$$" emails.
I've had some interesting discussions on spam since writing Online'scover storyon the subject last month.The question on everybody's lips: What can be done about the stuff? We are all suffering, and the problem is threatening to turn from mere nuisance to something that disrupts the ability to communicate via email. Essential communications are getting lost among the grimly familiar invites to learn the secrets of success, discover the path to penile perfection or get instant credit today.There is a range of solutions, from the simple to the complex. At the simplest end, I've set up a series of filters in Microsoft Entourage (the Mac email client). They sift out the most likely spams - ones that include a certain misspelling of my name, for instance, or which are addressed directly to the address issued by my broadband ISP (one I have never given out, but which is still regularly spammed).Your mileage may vary - depending on the kind of spam you get, you might have more success experimenting with the rules. For me, this technique catches maybe 10% of the spams, but every time I check mail, a deluge more pours in unfiltered.A particular problem is a Demon address I have owned since 1994, through which all my email flows: I can get dozens of copies of one spam because of the way Demon allocates subdomains (mailbox@yourname.demon.co.uk) rather than usernames (yourname@demon.co.uk) for email. Spammers guess that there are several users @yourname.demon.co.uk, rather than just an increasingly cheesed-off me, and flood it with their exhortations.I could look to the more sophisticated software solutions built in to Entourage, or Apple's own Mail client. They catch more mails, but too often also block legitimate email. Having to check through the lists of spam to fish out important emails rather negates the purpose of having the filter in the first   place. There are lots of other options, asoutlinedby Jack Schofield in the same edition, requiring various degrees of effort and expertise. It's up to you how much of either you want to invest to keep your inbox clean but, as Jack points out, no matter what lengths you go to, you're never going to catch them all.The solution, some feel, has to lie with your internet service provider (ISP). That's why Derek Wyatt MP, chairman of Commons all-party internet group, wants legislation that would compel ISPs to deal with spam at source.The details of how this would work are skimpy at the moment: Wyatt advocates a system of licensing for ISPs, with licenses being revoked should the ISP not do enough to prevent spam reaching its subscribers' inboxes. ISPs, not surprisingly, don't like the sound of this. Some moan this will punish them for a problem which is not of their doing (spam usually starts its journey   in the US).I'd also suspect that the notion of service levels, which such a licensing scheme would imply, would fill many established ISPs with horror. It would end, at a stroke, the days when they could suffer major collapses of service and simply shrug their shoulders, blaming circumstances beyond their   control.So are there any long-term solutions? It's unlikely spam will ever be completely stamped out, but a combination of legislation and technology might help ease the burden. In the United States, the Direct Marketing Association has long stalled attempts to create US-wide legislation that would make it an offence to send spam emails, citing freedom of commercial speech considerations. There are signs their resistance may be thawing: a bill to introduce new laws may actually be passed this year.That will be a great victory, but it will not kill the spam business completely. We can expect at least portions of it to move offshore - there are still plenty of places in the world where the business will be welcomed. And we can expect another portion, which never had much respect for the law anyway, to continue just as before; if you're peddling a scam in the first place, breaking some anti-spam rules is hardly likely to trouble your sleep.So it's likely that technology will still have its place in clearing our inboxes, no matter what the lawmakers say. That's bad news for us, but even worse news for those ISPs who are spending more effort in ignoring the problem, or attempting to shift it overseas and apparently out of their reach, than   actually doing something to deal with it.Happily, the best ISPs are already looking at ways to sift their clients' email - AOL said last week it blocked a billion in one 24-hour period, while BT is extending its anti-spam service. These ISPs have guessed we are willing to pay a little more to rid our inboxes of spam. Those of us who are losing patience with our ISPs ambivalent attitude towards spam could simply choose to move to another that works a little harder for our monthly direct debit.As the slacker ISPs realise what's happening to their customer bases, finding a solution to the spam problem might become a good way to win new customers. Then you'll really discover what can be done to rid the world of junk email.&#183;Regular readers will recall that, two weeks ago, I told of some  angst being caused by the latest version of Apple's movie-making software, iMovie3. Well, we have mixed news to report. The good news: late last week the company finally released a patch to the program that resolves some of the reported bugs in the program, and improves its speed of operation.The bad news? Well - as you might have guessed - it only fixes some of the bugs.   Asthis   poston Apple's tech help website sums up what many users appear to be saying: that while things are better, the program is still not ready for the same variety of uses as its predecessor. Potential users should still proceed with extreme caution.
Martin Campbell-Kelly, a historian who teaches computer science at the University of Warwick, has written another book:From Airline Reservations to Sonic the Hedgehog: A History of the Software Industry(MIT Press, $29.95/£18.67). The New York Times [free reg req'd] has reviewed it at lengthhere.
The search engine briefly known asRoogleis one for the blog buffs, but needs to stay out of range of Google's lawyers.
MiTAC's Smartphone 2002-based Mio 8380 has been reviewed on theInfosync Worldsite. The clamshell design removes one of the most horrible bits of the Orange SPV: the cramped keypad.... though Orange will have an improved version(see photo)next month.
Signs of life that come around every year: the first snowdrop, the first cuckoo, and the first preview of theCeBITcomputer show, which is held in Hanover, Germany, in March.
AOL has released a preview version of an e-mail client, AOL Communicator, "designed to appeal to its more tech-savvy members," saysCNet. Well, it could hardly appeal to them less than AOL's current e-mail offering. The other alternative would have been to support the Internet POP3 mail standard and let people use whatever client they like, but that's not really The AOL Way....
"Now that robots are beginning to come into our world, it's time to look beyond engineering and ask how people are going to react to them," said Arvin Agah, a robotics researcher at the University of Kansas. The story is inThe New York Times[free reg req'd].
AOL says it blockeda billionspam e-mails in a single day. Well, it's a start....
"Who do you want to be, IBM or Sony?" That's the question  the marketing guru   Regis McKenna is said to have asked Apple. But every  supplier has to   decide if it is in the computer business or the consumer  electronics   business.They are not the same.Computers are flexible and functional devices that are judged  by their   performance, and some are much better than others. Their  appearance is   either secondary or irrelevant. If you're spending $20m (£12.5m) on a   server, you'd have to be stupid to worry about whether the  doors are red   or black. It's going to be locked in a darkened room, and  hardly anyone is   going to see it, unless it goes wrong.Consumer electronics devices are, by contrast, very often  judged on their   appearance or, more accurately, on the image developed and  supported by   advertising and marketing. You can even sell products that  have badly   designed user interfaces and offer mediocre performance, as  the average   clock-radio demonstrates. As far as most consumers are  concerned, one TV   set or video recorder is basically the same as any other TV set  or video   recorder. In consumer electronics, design fashions change like  hemlines,   and for much the same reasons.Computers are designed as "open systems" to enable them to  be adapted   and upgraded. (In this case, "open" just means you can get at  the insides,   though it can mean more.) Often this means adding memory  and hard   drives, but it can mean changing the processor, graphics card,  modem, or   even the motherboard. It can mean replacing a CD-rom  drive with a CD-R   rewriter and then a DVD writer.Consumer electronics devices are usually, by contrast, sealed  boxes. The   parts are fixed so that they cannot be upgraded, and they may not  even be   worth repairing: either you can't get the parts or the labour  cost is too   high for them to be worth fitting. You throw it away and get a  new model   with the latest black/silver/translucent plastic design.Computers are being upgraded on a continuous basis. In fact,  modularity is   an essential part of the design, because all the parts are  developed   separately, and not all the different technologies develop at the  same   rate. Computer manufacturers exploit this to sell faster and  more powerful   systems every year, but at much the same price.Consumer electronics manufacturers, by contrast, want to sell  you exactly   the same device for years, but either for less money, or a  bigger profit   margin. Designs may get tweaked, but the main driver is cost  reduction   through component integration. Once a games console has  been launched,   for example, that's it. The manufacturer's challenge is to reduce  the   complex original to a couple of integrated chips that do the  same job for   less money.All this applies at the extremes, where the product is either a   multi-million-pound computer server or an ultra-cheap plastic  handheld game. But   many products, while clearly in one camp or the other, have  elements of   both - or can be treated as if they did. There are, for  example, hi-fi   geeks who open "sealed box" products and change or modify  some of the   parts.The more interesting question is: where do personal computers  fit in?There is no doubt about the historical answer: personal  computers are   upgradeable platforms. There have been dozens of computers  that have   been sold successfully as consumer electronics products, such  as the   Sinclair Spectrum, Commodore 64 and Amstrad PCW, but  they did not enjoy   the longevity of upgradeable platforms.The most famous example is the original Apple Macintosh,  which flopped   when it was launched as a sealed box product with a built-in   monitor,  in   1984. It was only by copying the PC industry's three-piece   approach -   system box, monitor, keyboard - with open expansion slots,  which it did   with the Mac II, that Apple was able to rescue the platform.  But as the   successful iMac and failed Cube designs show, the desire to  sell computers   as consumer electronics products has not gone away.Apple co-founder Steve Jobs has always taken Sony as his  model, and in   1998, told Fortune magazine: "The whole strategy for Apple  now is, if you   will, to be the Sony of the computer business." However, Jobs  clearly   understands that Sony has, in fact, two different businesses:  one   supplying consumer electronics products and one supplying  professional   markets. Hence there are different ways of packaging  Macintosh technology   for consumer and professional use. And although the iMac has  enjoyed only   a limited success, it has been far more successful than its  "classic"   ancestor.There is another indicator of what may be changing times: the  arrival of   the "desktop replacement" portable computer. These are big,  heavy beasts   with limited battery life, and they are clearly unsuitable for  portable   use. Buyers also sacrifice most of the expandability and  future-proofing   of desktop platforms: they are basically sealed box systems  that dare not   speak their name. However, they appeal to people who don't  want to   devote the house room to a desktop computer, preferring one  they can fold   up and put away.There are also reasons why a shift in the market makes sense.  First,   personal computers are now so cheap and so powerful that all  the things   most people need can be packaged in a single box. Second,  the buying   demographic has changed. PCs are no longer the preserve of  a small   proportion of geeks, they are bought by millions of ordinary  consumers who   don't need expandability, and would be too scared to take the  lid off if   they did.But I wouldn't take any bets on the market changing  dramatically. PC   prices depend largely on economies of scale that are  reinforced by volume   sales to businesses. Given the shape of the standard building  blocks, it   becomes increasingly expensive to vary the shape of the result.
The government's e-government strategy appeared to have been downgraded today, after reports that the chancellor is to slash the budget of the e-envoy in next month's Budget.According to today's Independent, the office of the e-envoy will have at least £5m of its annual £20m budget cut, and a substantial number of its 200 civil service staff redeployed.The office, which was the brainchild of Peter Mandelson and lives within the Cabinet Office, refused to comment on the reports, but the newspaper quotes sources as saying the job will be "a champion, rather than formulating policy".The e-envoy is Andrew Pinder, a former IT executive at the inland revenue and Citibank. He told the paper: "I am personally completely confident that I will have adequate resources to do my job."The Office of the E-envoy will continue to campaign and coordinate the UK's drive to become the world's leading knowledge economy, and remains dedicated to getting government services available online with a high take-up."The office was set up in 1998, with the remit to put all government services online by 2005, but recently individual Whitehall departments have established their own IT units, and responsibility for introducing braodband was swiched to the Department of Trade and Industry.The Commons public administration select committee will grill the cabinet secretary, Andrew Turnbull, about the relevance of the e-envoy next week.The government also set itself the target of making the UK "the best place in the world for e-commerce" by December 2002 - an ambition which few would concede it had met.A spokesman for the Cabinet Office said: "It's the annual budgetary process and we are not making an announcement until that is completed."Any changes will be announced in due course."Tom Steinberg, an IT commentator on the voxpolitics weblog - which monitors the interface of government and the internet - said: " It had a reputation for missing the blindingly obvious and screwing up the relatively easy, with an extremely unwise reliance on giant technology companies."In the final account, though, perhaps the major sin of the OeO was not to manage its media profile better. As an organisation it has done huge amounts to help local government around the UK with a massive transformation process of uninmaginable scale. But this was never seen by the public, or associated with it.""And if there is a capital crime in contemporary government - it is ignoring your media profile."
dbest bitfrm DIS wkz Economist - transl8 ithEr.
Apple has just released a much-anticipated patch to iMovie 3. Users can either use software update (in the Apple Menu | System Preferences... menu) or gohereand look for the link, in the right-hand column, that says "update to iMovie 3.0.2" to get the patch. It's claims to be a 1.9MB download off the website, but shows up as a 4.4MB download via software update.Regular readers will know why I've been keeping a close watch on this. For those who have just arrived: early last month I wrote apositive pieceabout my experiences with iMovie 3, and commented on the fact that we had so much TV production power at our fingertips. But within hours of it going live on Guardian Unlimited, I was getting a flurry of complaints. The emails pointed to serious "show stopping" problems with the software, and one or two even suggested I hadn't used the package. I had, for many hours, but decided to take a deeper look.Two weeks later, duly chastened, I wrotethis second piece, which rather upset Apple, about the hidden, serious, flaws in iMovie3. Those problems only become obvious under certain conditions, but rendered the package pretty much useless. Oddly, no other iMovie 3 reviewer I have read has acknowledged these problems yet.As I type, I've no idea if the new patch will address all the concerns - it's downloading in the background (update:no, it doesn't, according to postshere). But kudos goes to the users who found and documented the problems, and who pushed Apple into attempting (at least) to fix a terrible cock-up. Let's hope the company has learned from a very damaging episode - and that the damned patch works.
It's Thursday, so this week'sOnlineis also online....
At the start of the year, Apple unveiled a 17in screen PowerBook with the usual ballyhoo... and has failed to ship it, reportsMacCentral. The new model is distinctive innotusing the even more ballyhooed Titanium construction that turned out to be a bad idea for Wi-Fi networking, which makes the 15in version essentially obsolete. Of course, there are faster Windows notebooks with 16in screens, including theSony VAIO PCG GRX580, theCompaq Presario 3005USand theToshiba Satellite 1955-S801(a desktop replacement with detachable wireless keyboard), but Apple doesn't want to confuse its users by giving them competing hardware choices.
Duck itNow we're going to war, we should be prepared or, as the US Department of Homeland Security puts it, Ready. Its exciting site covers biological and chemical threats, explosions, nuclear blasts and radiation. Advice includes the now famous survival tip: "Also, include duct tape and heavyweight garbage bags or plastic sheeting that can be used to seal windows and doors if   you need to create a barrier between yourself and any potential contamination outside." Jim and Tim, the Duct Tape Guys, have now declared 2003 the Official Year of Duct Tape.Other sites propose alternative uses, such as Duct Tape Fashion, and 3M Canada has instructions for making a duct tape wallet. All this is great news for Henkel Consumer Adhesives, the supplier of   Duck brand duct tape, which has increased production by 40%. "Unfortunately," according to tests conducted by the US Department of Energy's national laboratory in Berkeley, California, "one of the things you can't do with duct tape is seal ducts."Still, when it comes to the question - duck or duct? - you can call it either, according to Stephanie Becker on BestStuff.com. But she   makes no reference to the much superior gaffer tape, which actually holds the universe together.www.ready.govwww.ducttapeguys.comwww.ducttapefashion.comhttp://masl.to?/N23212DA3www.duckproducts.comwww.lbl.gov/Science-Articles/Archive/duct- tape-HVAC.htmlwww.beststuff.com/articles/4700Mind gameTwo new sites have been launched to support Mind Out for Mental Health, the Department of Health's mental health anti-stigma campaign. Readthesigns.org is a portal designed to help users find out about specific mental health conditions, with links to organisations that can provide support. Mindnseek.net is a Flash site that delivers the same content as a game: "The more you explore, the more you score." Prizes include hi-fi systems, CDs and concert tickets.http://readthesigns.orghttp://mindnseek.net/Counter spyAfter a five-month delay, Lavasoft finally released the new version 6 of Ad-aware, its anti-spyware program for Windows. The standard edition has been improved, and is still free. There are also Plus and Pro versions. People have been downloading it from CNet's Download.com (one of many mirrors) at a rate of around a million a day. We switched to recommending Spybot when Lavasoft failed to update its malware signatures, and that has a higher user rating at Download.com. However, Spybot downloads   are still only a small fraction of Ad-aware's, so familiarity breeds content. Before downloading v6 of Ad-aware, go to Add/Remove Programs and uninstall v5 and RefUpdate, if installed.www.lavasoft.dehttp://spybot.safer-networking.dePrimal ArtJames Joyce is probably still rotating in his grave over the abuse of one of his best titles, and Sony is the latest to give him a twirl with Portrait of the Artist as a Video Gamer. It claims that: "Modern video   games demonstrate unprecedented levels of sophistication and creativity." The result is a sort of worthy, upmarket promotion for Primal, a PlayStation 2 game developed by Sony in Cambridge. From April 6-9, the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London will host an exhibition, plus public seminars for and about the games industry. The game is due on April 11.www.primal-art.comCar wiseHow reliable is your car? And will your next choice be better or worse? Warranty Direct   has a good idea because it pays claims. It has now published its data on the web, including specific types of fault, the average costs of repairs, and how long it takes to get cars back on the road. The most reliable makes include Ford, Fiat and Mercedes, with Mazda at the top. The worst performers include Land Rover, Alfa Romeo and Mitsubishi. You can also get information on different ranges of cars, and obviously you can click to buy insurance from Warranty Direct...www.reliabilityindex.co.ukUp UIt's no secret that the people running the UK's universities don't have a clue. However, now they can learn what to do, and have fun at the same time! The secret is to master Virtual U: The World's First Higher Education Simulation and Learning Tool. It looks like Sim City, but it is based on data from the Institute for Research on Higher Education at the University of Pennsylvania. The target audience is American university staff. However, the UK is heading down the same market-driven road, with top-up fees, student loans, and kids working their way through college.www.virtual-u.org/product.htmlSnap happyThe New York Public Library is putting its vast database of images online in Image Gate, a searchable database of photographs, prints, maps, manuscripts, postcards and other    ephemera. At the moment there are just a few samples available, but about 80,000 images should be online by the summer, and the plan is to have more than 600,000 images online. The library already offers the Mid-Manhattan Picture Collection Online, which has more than 15,000 images.http://digital.nypl.org/igatedemohttp://digital.nypl.org/mmpcoNew &amp; noted&#183;Magic mind reader:http://mr-31238.mr.valuehost.co.uk/assets/Flash/psychic.swf&#183;CamBlog is now in beta:www.camblog.com&#183;Playing with Time (QuickTime):www.playingwithtime.orgSix of the bestF1F1 Livehttp://f1.racing-live.comF1 newswww.f1-news.comITVwww.itv-f1.comFIAwww.fia.comEncyclopediawww.grandprix.com/gpemain.htmlThe outsiderwww.investinwilson.com
Picture thisWhen I import photos from my camera, I get a thumbnail of all the photos on the storage card. In the corner of each photo is an "i" which, when clicked, reveals a wealth of information about that picture: date and time taken, f-stop used, exposure time and much more. But when I transfer and save the photos, that information is lost. Is there any way to save it?Steve CandeJack Schofield replies:The information is kept in EXIF format, otherwise known as the Exchangeable Image File    Format for Digital Still Cameras. EXIF was developed by the Japan Electronic Industry Development Association and is now used by all the leading digital camera companies. SeeTsuruZoh Tachibanaya'swebsite for details.  EXIF information should always be retained with the image, as long as you don't edit, rotate or recompress it, and you have a program that can read it. However, it is possible to extract it and save it. I use EXIF-O-Matic, which is free for Microsoft Windows, GNU/Linux and Mac OS X. You can download it fromthe Institute of the Future in Virginia.EOM can export the data in either text or HTML form, and can process a whole directory of images in a batch. After that, you may want to figure out a way to import it into a database such as AskSam (which is what I use) or a spreadsheet. However, I would have thought that EXIF support would rapidly become an essential feature of photo album software, and if you can recommend a good example, please let me know. Otherwise, RoboPhoto 3.1, a $40 program designed for converting photos into web pages, shows what is possible (seewww.robophoto.com/exif.html- the tabs work).For more on EXIF software, seeAbout.comThere is also a privacy issue. If you are giving unedited photos away, the EXIF data may include information that you do not want the recipient to know.Block itI browse a lot of websites and end up getting junk mail from them. Is there any way to block or mask my IP address?Mike CosbyJS:There shouldn't be any way for a website to find out your email address unless you tell it, so surfing should not be a source of spam. You can find out what a web site can find out about you and your computer by going towww.auditmypc.com/freescan/main.aspand clicking the Privacy button. Otherwise, the simplest way for you to hide your details is to use a gateway or "proxy server" that provides anonymous surfing. Examples includeID Zap,SurfolaandAnonymizer.For true anonymity, services encrypt data so that even your ISP cannot read it. However, read the terms and acceptable use policies before you sign up. You can expect an anonymous surfing service to log    the pages you visit, and you cannot expect it to protect your privacy if you do anything illegal. Not that you were going to, of course.  Anonymizer's Stop (Secure Tips Online Program) service provides anonymous access to the FBI's Terrorism Activity tip page, and it says it could be used by any organisation that wants to encourage whistle-blowers.Popup adsWhile working on my computer - online but not browsing the internet - I have started receiving irritating pop-up messages headed Messenger Service. How can I stop these, and how can I switch off Instant Messenger completely?Kevin KnowlesJS:The ads are coming via a decade-old alert system known as "net send", which Microsoft calls "Messenger Service of Windows". (Search for the Microsoft Knowledge Base article Q168893.) It is only found in Windows NT, 2000 and XP, and it has nothing to do with any instant messaging software. Go to Control Panel|Administrative Tools|Services, scroll down to Messenger and click Stop, then disable it. For full details, seehttp://masl.toor MSKB article Q330904. As the latter explains, Windows    XP's Internet Connection Firewall will also block these messages, if you have Service Pack 1 (SP1) installed.Male/femaleAs a biologist, I sometimes wish to include the standard symbols for male and female in text (Word 97). These do not appear to be available in the symbols libraries, or anywhere else.Richard WilliamsJS:You probably have these already, if you hunt through the typefaces installed in Windows. For example, in Microsoft Word, go to Insert|Symbol then select the Times New Roman Special G2 font. Female is on line 2 and male is the first entry on line 3. Although used by biologists, the male and female symbols also signify the gods (and planets) Mars and Venus, so they could also appear in astronomy/astrology/mythology-oriented fonts and symbol sets.Swept awayThe Minesweeper window insists on appearing with the title and menu bar off the top of the screen, so the game cannot be played, nor can its window be moved.Leslie HallJS:Run Minesweeper, press Alt-Spacebar, then M. You will find that you can use the arrow keys to move the window down. (This should work with all Windows programs.) If you close and re-open Minesweeper it should re-open where you want. If it doesn't, then I am stuck for an answer.Backchat&#183;After checking a Valentine card, many users found their home page hijacked by a Searchex affiliate. Further to the information given last week, Brian Conlin adds that software to uninstall the program (a BHO or Browser Helper Object) can now be found in the FAQ, How do I remove Searchex as my startpage?, atwww.searchex.com/faq.html.
Dead Or Alive Xtreme Beach VolleyballXbox 	&#163;44.99 Tecmo/Microsoft 	****If you look at the screen of this new game, you'll notice straight away that  Videogame titillation has reached new peaks. The graphical oomph   of the Xbox makes for a mesmerising experience for teenage boys (and their dads). Whether cavorting by the pool or spiking on the court, these computer-generated ladies are gratuitously gorgeous.But despite the jiggling - look at the physics model on that! - DOA Volleyball will be equally appreciated by the girls. This game is as much   about building relationships as it is about blocking shots. Actually playing volleyball is a treat. The two-button controls keep it simple, with the tactics concentrated in the positioning of players. It also helps that the backdrops, like the graphics generally, are breathtaking. But it's the game structure that really appeals.There is something   uniquely Japanese about the relaxed style of play. Each game day is split into three sections, with different options open to you. Sure, you can play a bit of volleyball, if you can find a willing partner and opponents, but it's just as easy to lie by the pool or browse the shops. The evening is spent gambling at the casino or wrapping presents for other characters in an attempt to build up some kind of relationship. Give the right gift and you're far more likely to find a partner for a game. Get it wrong and you'll be twiddling your thumbs.In that case, you'd better wish for luck in the casino. After all, you really do need that new swimsuit. Sadly, multiplayer is restricted to a farcical two players. Beneath DOA Volleyball's heaving bosom beats the heart of a surprisingly fulfilling game. (GH)American ConquestPC	&#163;34.99 GSC/CDV 	***I'd love to be a fly on the wall at GSC, the Ukrainian developers of American Conquest. Two years ago they released Cossacks, an unexpected new benchmark in the real-time strategy genre, with its massive armies and painstak ing micro-management. It had a tendency to become repetitive and tedious, but surely such niggles would be resolved in a patch or sequel?Last year, Cossacks had a mission pack and an extra campaign released online, each with more options to research, more diverse armies and less freedom to experiment. It seemed to get bigger without getting deeper, more challenging or indeed more playable.And so here we are, with a stunning 16,000 units to muster in each of the game's 50+ levels, set from 1492-  1818. There is no doubt that this is the biggest wargame ever seen: the trouble is, it only confirms everything we already knew about warfare - that it was a bloody waste of men. In fact, you are almost encouraged to be reckless with their fate, lacking as they do the intelligence to even defend themselves without being lured by the thousand into the same obvious ambush.Yes, it is packed with detail and depth, but American Conquest is a sprawling mess of a game that manages to be epic while failing the far worthier   goals of being either enjoyable or essential. Fortunately, a proper sequel to Cossacks will be released soon, which should solve these problems. (MA)Rayman 3: Hoodlum HavocXbox, PS2, GameCube, GBA, PS1, PC		&#163;29.99 Ubi Soft		****The Rayman series of platform games has always impressed the public more than pundits: selling well did not help it to be perceived as a top-ranking game. But its third iteration, available on a bewildering array of platforms, is by some distance the most credible.It has clearly been assembled at some considerable expense, but also with more taste than you would expect: the intro sequence is accompanied by the funky strains of Madder by Groove Armada. And an awful lot of thought has been expended on both gameplay and storyline. The result is a platform game that just manages to stand out   from the crowd in gameplay terms (although some of Rayman's gadgetry brings to mind Ratchet &amp; Clank) and, unlike its predecessors, has bags of personality.As usual, it is up to Rayman to save the world, even though none of his body parts appears to be attached to one another. A convoluted plot involves Rayman's plum juice-addicted, dim-witted friend Globox accidentally swallowing gremlin-like creatures.The gameplay veers between conventional platform-style play, in which Rayman makes much use of his boomerang-like fists and objects such as guided missiles, puzzle-solving and set-pieces in which, for example, Rayman rides a rocket-propelled scooter. There are bosses to defeat, too. While Rayman 3 never feels as ground-breaking as, say, one of Shigeru Miyamoto's Mario games, it consistently shows imaginative touches and will beguile young and old alike. It slots into the very upper echelon of platform games. (SB)
After delivering the Sky+ box, which teams up a digital satellite decoder with a hard disk-based video recorder, British manufacturer Pace is now offering a similar proposition for viewers who want digital TV without a dish.Due in the shops imminently is the &#163;349.99 Twin Digital TV recorder, which enables the user to tune into the 30 or so channels offered by the Freeview digital terrestrial service, while storing up to 10 hours of programmes on a 20GB hard disk.The unit is similar to both the Sky+ box and other hard disk-based recorders such as the TiVo because it can pause   live TV. Viewers can stop a programme and later carry on watching where they left off, or return to real-time transmissions. Unlike standard digital terrestrial decoders, the unit's twin tuners also enable the viewer to watch one digital TV channel while recording another.There are, however, several key differences between the Sky and the Freeview boxes. Central to the Sky unit is the broadcaster's sophisticated electronic programming guide. Viewers are offered details of programmes up to a week ahead via an on-screen display. To record a timed programme, all owners need to do is highlight the programme and then press the record button.Freeview's electronic programming guide is limited to information about the programme being screened and what follows it. This obviously makes the Twin Digital TV recorder much more difficult to operate than its Sky counterpart.The recorder will support daily or weekly listings when   they are made available by Freeview, which, according to a company spokesperson, will be later in the year. Accessing those listings will be free, unlike Sky, which currently charges Sky+ owners a &#163;10 monthly subscription to access its electronic programming guide.The Sky + unit is also &#163;100 cheaper at &#163;249, and features a 40GB hard disk, which offers double the recording time of its Freeview rival.SmartphoneAfter establishing itself in its home market, Austrian mobile phone manufacturer Tel Me is now targeting the UK. The company, which has been in business since 2000, is hoping to grab a slice of the mobile market with its high-end touch screen smartphone the T919.Slightly larger and chunkier than rivals, the Nokia 7650 and Sony Ericsson P800, the T919 includes a large rectangular screen that can be used in both landscape and portrait modes.  Another key difference is the lack of a keypad. Dialling   numbers involves tapping an interface on the phone's touch screen.Unlike many of its rivals, which use the Symbian operating system, the T919 uses a proprietary OS to deliver a range of applications. These include POP3-based email with support for attachments, an organiser that can be synchronised with Microsoft's Outlook software, an integrated MP3 player and a built-in camera that can send messages via MMS.There is, however, no Bluetooth support, the phone is dual rather than triple-band, and the camera's image resolution is slightly lower than some of its competitors. The    handset manufacturers claim it will work with all UK networks, although it is still waiting for official network approval. The T919 is available now for around &#163;400. More details atwww.xtratel.com.Jukebox ZenA year on from its launch, Apple's iPod still rules the roost in the hard disk personal MP3 player market. It does, however, now have some serious competition in the form of Creative Labs' recently launched Jukebox Zen. Significantly smaller and lighter than previous Creative Labs jukeboxes - though still not quite as elegant as its Apple rival - the unit features a 20GB hard disk (the same size as the highly specified iPod), which can store music in MP3, Windows Media Audio (WMA) or WAV (full CD audio) formats.Transferring music from a PC to the player is, like the iPod, fast and simple, as Creative supplies cables for both USB (compatible with most PCs) and the much quicker Firewire connections. Using Firewire, Creative claims the unit can transfer tracks at up to   35MB per second, which fills the player's hard drive in little more than an hour.Other features include a rechargeable Lithium Ion battery with up to 12 hours' playback, a graphic equaliser and 1.7inch LCD display.Accompanying the player is the company's PlayCenter software. In addition to organising a PC's digital music files and ripping music from a CD, PlayCenter also enables users to transfer data files to and from the Jukebox. Compatible with both Mac and Windows operating systems, the Zen Jukebox is now on sale for &#163;329.99.
Fifty million pounds of lottery funding is betting on making us a nation of culture vultures. Next week, London's state-of-the-art Imax cinema will serve as an auditorium for the launch of the EnrichUK portal,www.enrichuk.net, a gateway to unearthing a glittering array of the UK's cultural, social, historical and artistic treasures which, without online access, would remain buried in galleries, museums, libraries and universities.A brace of baronesses - Baroness Pitkeathley, chair of the New Opportunities Fund,www.nof.org.uk, cash distributor to the 150 sites within the portal, and Baroness Blackstone, minister of state for the arts - are due to attend. Their presence indicates, perhaps, this portal's noble cause to "fuel the online learning revolution".Although the portal does not launch until Wednesday, some of the sites, such as the much crowed overwww.britishpathe.com, have already gone live.The digitisation of British Pathe's archive of newsreel shown in cinemas for 60 years until television plucked the company's famous cockerel logo, may be the feather in the portal's cap, but there's plenty more to discover.Those with thespian tendencies can visit the Royal    Shakespeare Company's Pictures and Exhibitions Collection,www.rsc.org.ukcollection, an online archive of photographs, costumes, designs, prompt books and memorabilia, some of which date back to the 17th century.Instead of having to schlep to Stratford's Birthplace Trust Library, you can sit at your screen and view more than 3,900 digitised images.  David Howells, curator of the RSC collection, points out that more than 60% of the collection is in storage."The online exhibition is helping make Shakespeare accessible at every level," he says. "You can see the full depth of production values from the stage manager's prompt book to lighting patterns."He is particularly proud of the gallery of costumes. "People are used to seeing classical images of great actors such as Laurence Olivier playing Shakespearean leads moodily lit in black and white," he says."Seeing the costumes reveals the brilliance of colour of many of the play's characters, addressing the more sombre idea people may have of Shakespeare." Theatrical heavyweights don't hog the portal's spotlight, however. The sitewww.applausesw.orgexplores theatre past and present in Plymouth.You can take a trip to the town's "hidden theatre", The Globe, and view its early Victorian architecture - a feat not permitted in person as it is closed to the public. Unearthing buried treasures comes closest to reality at the archaeological sitewww.idigsheffield.org.uk, where more than 400 objects excavated from around 35 digs in South Yorkshire and Derbyshire are dusted down to give a picture of everyday life in the past.Many of the finds, ranging from bronze daggers to clay-baked wig curlers, are too fragile to put on display at the city's museum.  It's not just our past cultures resurrected in the portal.World cultures also come alive. The Indian Institute Library is busy digitising one of the greatest treasures of British Hinduism, the Shikshapatri manuscript, atwww.shikshapatri.org. The ancient, palm-sized book of 212 verses contains the essence of Hindu moral codes for everyday life, and is an object of pilgrimage for devotees of the Swaminarayan Hindu sect.Putting the manuscript, which cannot be touched, on the web in Sanskrit and English will open up access for followers worldwide. "People want to come and see the manuscript at the library to experience darshan - getting in touch with the    divine through viewing a religious object," explains Dr Gillian Evison, a librarian at the Indian Institute."We are now getting emails asking 'when can I have darshan on the website?' Once we have solved how to get all the translations online without it taking hours for visitors to download, there is a whole treasure house of religious scripts in our library vaults we can make available. Instead of just being for academics, the scripts are coming alive in a whole new way for the faith community."A more secular site concerned with the hard-won rewards of the labour movement iswww.unionhistory.info, showcasing unique collections held in the Trades Union Congress library collections. You can pick its mind for online nuggets, such as the Match Workers Strike Fund Register, a record of the strikers at the Bryant &amp; May factory in Hackney, who struck in 1888 for better pay and conditions.Talking of labour: if you want some idea of the work behind each site, log on tohttp://farne.weblogger.com. This folk music site is under construction, but the online debate about the project's progress is fascinating - even if the rare recordings don't beat your drum. So one person's idea of culture may be another's idea of something you scrape off the cheese in the fridge, but there really is something for everyone. And let's face it - your lottery number probably won't come up, but at least you've got a winning ticket to untold cultural riches.
Take one GPS hand-held tracking device. Combine it with the kind of museum audio-guide where you punch in a number to learn about a particular exhibit. Voila! You have just invented the Hoppy.Unfortunately, Frenchman Jean Michel Adelaide    thought of it first, and the English-language version is now available. Adelaide was a student at the University of Technology in Troyes, in the Aube-en-Champagne region, about 100 miles south-east of Paris. In 1999, after graduating, he formed a company called Actual to develop his idea,    which he called the Hoppy, after the French nickname for a grasshopper.The Hoppy is primarily aimed at drivers, though walkers, cyclists and boaters can use it, too. It continuously monitors the global positioning satellites and, when the user is in the correct position, the appropriate commentary about a church, museum, monument or a whole town is triggered.It weighs around 300g and is about the size of a large personal stereo, although it does not yet have its own speaker. When you pick one up from the tourist office in Troyes, the only place they are available in the Aube region, you also receive a small portable speaker, and an audio jack to connect Hoppy to the car stereo or your own Walkman.Inside the Hoppy is a mini CD, which stores MP3 audio files. Storage capacity ranges from 32MB to 1GB, according to how much information people want to put on it. Hoppy can carry between three and 70 hours of information. The Li-Ion battery lasts six to eight hours, enough for a day's hire.  The majority of visitors rent Hoppy for a day and head off into the Aube-en-Champagne area, the second-highest champagne- producing region in France.Hoppy covers some 130 miles of roads on the champagne route, and 240 miles in the trial region east of Troyes. Routes west of Troyes will be added, and by the summer, it will be possible to rent the Hoppy from all the area's main tourist offices. Hotels will follow later. A trial French version was    launched last summer, with English and Dutch versions added this year.A simple menu system allows you to choose your language, and away you go. There will be a Theme option, so you can tell Hoppy what you are especially interested in, such as champagne or history, but for now, you can only choose General. The idea is simple, but how well does it work? If my one-day trial is typical, the results are mixed. We were a good 15 minutes out of Troyes before Hoppy picked up strong enough satellite signals to prompt the vital message, "Hoppy is Ready".But soon we were hearing all about a museum in one village, and something about the brick-making industry in the next.  We drove around the area's lake district, and Hoppy told us about the fishing, with its 63lb carps. At La Rothi&#232;re, a historical monument looms, and Hoppy tells us that it commemorates a Napoleonic battle, and includes a quotation from Napoleon about the village he loved.There were long periods of silence, where some local music would have been welcome. Someone from the tourist office assured me that this was a teething problem, as the English language version doesn't yet have the same amount of information as the French original.The text is compiled by people from the regional tourist board, and read by local actors in faultless English. No attraction pays to be included: the local tourist board trys to select on merit. Another hiccup is that Hoppy doesn't know whether it's coming or going. As we left   the town of Bar-sur-Aube we were given an account of some churches and buildings in the town, which was different from the description we'd had when we arrived, but not what you want to hear as the town recedes from view.The worst moment was in the village of Essoyes, where Renoir worked for 30 years. His studio can still be visited, as can his grave and various places he painted. It's a lovely place, but it was back to the guidebook as Hoppy stayed silent. The tourist office assured us he should have told us a lot about Renoir.However, Hoppy showed a marked increase in enthusiasm when we got on to the champagne trail. He became positively bubbly, telling us how they make champagne, and about some of the champagne houses such as Maison Drappier, whose cellars date back to the 12th century.We could have got as much from a book, but for the driver, especially, it was easier to hear the information  Hoppy's potential is obvious, and will surely become a familiar figure on the dashboard, but it will have to concentrate on doing things guidebooks cannot, rather than trying to replicate them. At the moment, it's only the hitchhiker's guide to Troyes; but tomorrow, the galaxy?&#183;Hoppy costs Euros 10 a day, plus a Euros 200 deposit. Available from the Office de Tourisme, 16 blvd Carnot, Troyes, France. Tel: (03) 25 82 62 70. Further information atwww.hoppy.info.
Mac or PC?I have four Macs: I never throw my old ones out! In my apartment, I have the history of Macintosh lying around, from my firstMac SEto my G4. I use an old G3 to run my office software -Netscape,Microsoft Wordand Excel. I usePhotoshopa lot ), whileAcrobat Readeris very important to my work. We Mac users are less vulnerable to viruses, although I'm still very careful about what I open. My brothers both use PC and claim Windows is much better for some applications, but for creative tasks, Macs are better.OS X?I useCubasefor my music and was going to try the new Cubase SX but it's written around the OS X platform, which isUnix-based. Unix has always been a good system but I'm still a fan of OS 9.6, and I always leave a few years before upgrading so they can fix all the bugs.Are you into programming?I'm not clever enough! The infrastructure of Windows OS is quite serious. When I was at school, everyone waslearning Basic,Pascaland'C') but, even then, it was too much for me! I'm happy to fix the odd OS problem: that's high-end stuff for me!How do you feel about MP3 file sharing?There's been hysteria about it. One guy from a studio here in Vienna organised a campaign against downloads and asked me for a statement. I told him that I honestly had nothing against it. When I was younger, I copied records on to tapes when I couldn't afford the records. I see it as a promotional tool - most people will buy the CDs if they like what they hear.Picture-messaging?A lot of people in Austria are getting into it. SMS texting is popular here, too, compared with America, where nobody seems to use it. The picture phones are cool but I want to wait on the next generation models when they are smaller and have better resolution. That will make them more interesting and less of a gimmick.Favourite sites?www.massiveattack.comis how I imagine the net will evolve. It's going to become more TV-like once the connections speed up. I have a cable modem, which is a lot better than 56k!www.realdoll.comis funny, and you always end up going back toAmazon- even when you don't want to!&#183;Visit:www.g-stoned.com/acts/tosca&#183;Tosca's album Delhi 9 is out this week
Sharp focusIt is so nice to see a story that doesn't focus on the point of view of the spammer. Everything I read seems to have a spammer whinging about how they aren't hurting anyone, that they don't do porn and that anti-spammers are anti-commerce. As a director of a small company, spam was crippling our business until we started using lists such as Linford's. He has helped us save email as a form of communication.Martyn GayDirector, Cactusoft LtdHarsh wordsNeil McIntosh did not fall into the trap so many so-called journalists do, and present the spammers as if they were legitimate and give "their side of the story". The facts are harsh and severe. Spam email will in very short order destroy email as a viable medium if it is allowed to continue. It must be stopped. And the sort of threats Steve Linford endures, and the constant attacks on his servers, indicate the criminal nature of so many of those committing this abuse. I am building a political protest site athttp://keep americafree.com, and am about to add an information link on The Failure of American Journalism. I congratulate you on good journalism, a rare commodity these days.Ronald D Edgeedge@indiana.eduVideo linkedColin Robertson (Feedback, February 27) hasn't understood. Let me try again. Ten    million plus Londoners suffer from steadily worsening traffic problems. He and I agree that the sooner a videophone service could be provided to help them, the better. I agree this service could be provided for suitably equipped PC owners over IP, but only 45% or so of households have the internet, let alone video-capable PCs; the hole-and-corner videophone possible over older machines would not do. Despite what Robertson says, bandwidth is no longer a holding factor. Correctly configured, ADSL or cable modems can provide the bandwidth needed. But the internet access they provide is contention based.I doubt whether this could give the necessary quality for a heavily used public service. The majority of Londoners would therefore probably use the latest videophone terminals working over ISDN2 on the public switch telephone network with interworking to the IP-based service. Individuals working on their own, as Robertson suggests, could not even begin to create a service available to and from everyone in the capital. The cable companies might do it. But BT is getting better all the time now; BT is realistically the only organisation that could do it.John Harperberry@pavilion.co.ukOperatic modeYour article on Opera and MSN (Web watch, February 27) was so positive that it seems churlish to quibble, but Opera Software ASA is not    Swedish but is based in Oslo - where the browser began life as a product of Telenor, Norway's national telecom. (It's hard to imagine BT building an open-source rival product to Microsoft's.) As well as being very fast to load, and using far fewer of your system's resources, Opera has one excellent feature that Microsoft's browser lacks - an ability to go into full screen mode (no toolbars). Netscape is not the only alternative to Microsoft's Internet Explorer.Andrew Mooreuniversalteacher@bigfoot.comMac shareTerry Shuttleworth (Feedback, February 27) requests that coverage of Mac issues be restricted according to the market share of Macs (about 3%). An excellent idea: please ask your sports desk to restrict coverage of Premiership football. There are many more pub games, and they don't ever get a mention!Jeremy Hendersonjeremy_henderson@hotmail.comTop notchI can understand the logic in restricting Mac-related articles to correspond to the supposed 2.21% market share. But Shuttleworth is missing the point that Macs represent the top 2.21%. (Apologies to Douglas Adams.)Brian Seaverbrian@bsweb.co.uk
The new chief executive of Orange yesterday kicked into touch the vision of founder Hans Snook as the mobile phone company's parent France T&#233;l&#233;com reported the largest loss in French corporate history.Solomon Trujillo, who started at Orange on Monday, said yesterday the company should work more closely with France T&#233;l&#233;com and could form partnerships with other traditional fixed line telephone companies, effectively killing Mr Snook's vision of the mobile phone as the ubiquitous lifestyle device of the future."Wirefree is at the centre of what most of us want," he said. "But it does not mean you do not want a fixed line."He suggested future services from Orange under his stewardship could include the provision of one phone number which works on a household line when the user is at home, or a mobile on the move. "Today I am not going to sit here and say I have it all thought out but I think I know how to make this happen," he said.His comments echoed those of France T&#233;l&#233;com chairman and chief executive Thierry Breton, as the man who took over the heavily indebted French phone company in October revealed a huge &euro;20.7bn (&#163;14bn) loss for 2002 at a press conference in Paris."This presentation is probably the gloomiest in France T&#233;l&#233;com's history," admitted Mr Breton. "The group has been impoverished over the last 18 months."France T&#233;l&#233;com fell deep into the red after an &euro;18.2bn writedown in the value of assets bought during the dotcom boom - including stakes in cable group NTL and German mobile phone company MobilCom.Mr Breton said the underlying business performed well, with earnings before financial charges up more than 20% at &euro;15bn last year, and the company's plans to slash its &euro;68bn of debt are well on track.France T&#233;l&#233;com recently renegotiated &euro;14bn of debt and launched a two-year efficiency drive designed to generate a further &euro;15bn. The company also has shareholder authority for a &euro;15bn fund raising."This is more than enough to deal with our liquidity crisis; we have shaken it off," said Mr Breton.While insiders say a rights issue will have to wait until after a war with Iraq, Mr Breton yesterday gave no indication of when a cash call will be made.Orange was also plunged into a loss in 2002 as the result of exceptional charges, but behind the top line loss of &euro;4.5bn, the mobile phone company increased earnings before charges by 51% to &euro;5.15bn.Orange cut &euro;5.2bn from the value of investments including its stake in Italian operator Wind, which is understood to be up for sale.Wind is one of several European mobile assets currently on the block. The Dutch business of MMO2 is also being touted around by bankers. Orange's finance director Simon Duffy said yesterday that his company had looked at it but "at the moment we cannot see a business case for merging with it."Finally, Orange deputy chief executive Graham Howe yesterday said customers will have to wait even longer than expected for new services using 3G technology. In Britain the company will launch a trial service only in London this year.He admitted that delays in the availability of equipment coupled with the high price of handsets could push a mass market roll-out of the service into 2006 from initial expectations of 2004/5."It in no way shape or form means we have lost our confidence in the benefits to the customer of 3G - but the time for it has not yet arrived," he said.Mr Howe, a former colleague of Mr Snook, will leave later this year. He has been mooted as a replacement for Graham Wallace as chief executive of struggling telecoms group Cable &amp; Wireless but he ruled himself out of the running yesterday.
The BBC has launched an investigation into editorial controls at one of its most popular websites at the same time as the government is preparing a far-reaching review of the corporation's internet services.Executives at Broadcasting House were yesterday asking tough questions about how a footballer who had taken out an injunction preventing the publication of a kiss and tell story was named on the popular Celebdaq website on Tuesday.The timing of the investigation is particularly embarrassing for the corporation, with the government review due to take place later in the year.An independent review of the BBC's News 24 channel last year attacked the corporation's board of governors for failing to adequately control management.It has emerged that the BBC does not check all messages sent by users for libel or offensive content before they are posted on the site.Under a two-tier system of regulation, websites such as BBC Children's and the Asian network have their messages interpreted before they are posted, while on others it does not check for libel or offensive content until after they appear on the site.It appears this system lies behind a blunder that could land the corporation in the high court facing contempt charges.The Celebdaq message board, on which people swap gossip and tips about celebrities, is edited only after people have posted their messages, a BBC spokeswoman confirmed.The spokeswoman said the corporation was reviewing whether all the Celebdaq boards should be moderated before messages are posted."&#91;These message boards&#93; can be pre- or post-moderated. If they are pre-moderated, it slows down the site," she said.&#183;The government announced yesterday that Ofcom, the new regulator for the media and communications industries, will begin operating on December 15. Ofcom is being created by the communications bill, due to come into force at the end of the year.
The Eurovision Song Contest isn't the only annual pan-European talent parade Britons pretend to ignore. Europe
    also runs the world's biggest and most sophisticated international e-government contest. The British
    government doesn't shout about it much, largely because it doesn't win.Officially, the e-Europe benchmarking
    exercise, carried out for the European Commission by consultants Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young, exists to stimulate
    progress towards "e-Europe". This was a collection of measures adopted in summer 2000 to help the continent
    compete in the new economy with North America and East Asia.The action plan includes an e-government target:
    "basic" public services to be online by the end of 2002, since revised to all services online by the end of 2005.
    How are we doing? The third benchmarking study, just published, suggests that e-Europe is becoming a reality:
    86% of organisations providing public services are now online. However, the sophistication of online offerings
    varies widely, as does the rate of progress made by different countries. The 18 countries studied (15 EU
    member states plus Iceland, Norway and Switzerland) fall into three groups.The stars are Denmark, Finland,
    Ireland and Sweden. In these four countries, most online government allows two-way interactions. At the "nul
    points" end of the table are Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg, which need "a little additional effort", as the
    report diplomatically puts it.In the middle are the rest, headed by the UK, which ranks fifth for "online
    availability of public services". These positions are largely in line with previous surveys. The Nordic countries,
    with small, well-educated populations, generally do well in international e-rankings. (The World Economic Forum
    ranks Finland number one for "networked readiness".) Ireland was an early adopter of e-policies to support its
    economic boom and has invested heavily in e-government.The laggards are equally predictable. Germany's
    problem is its devolved constitution. While almost every public body has a website, central government has little
    power to coordinate and enhance their efforts. Belgium and Luxembourg were late starters: political classes
    took little interest in the internet until told to by the European Commission. Belgium, however, is catching up
    fast: according to the latest benchmarking study, its rate of progress last year was second only to Sweden's.And Luxembourg does some things well, such as public libraries. Neither is there much surprise in the e-services
    that governments choose to deliver. Like private businesses, governments put their best efforts into collecting
    money. Services that generate income for the government - taxes or other social contributions - are the most
    sophisticated.In almost every country, public services for businesses score significantly higher than those for
    citizens and this gap is growing. Another recently published study, by market research firm IDC, supports many
    of the benchmarking findings, but identifies a new star.Surprisingly, it's the "old Europe" exemplar of France.
    According to James Weir, an analyst at IDC, France ranks with Finland in the sophistication of its online govern
    ment services. The UK is very much second division. Weir is particularly impressed by the French government    portalwww.service-public.fr.Users can do everything from checking their criminal record to bidding for
    government procurement contracts. France's success in e-government is in keeping with the tradition set by
    national hi-tech projects such as Minitel and the TGV.Public service is still an elite profession in France and
    largely untouched by Thatcherite reform. Civil servants can get on with web projects knowing they are unlikely
    to be working themselves out of a job.Should Britain adopt the French model if it wants to build a sophisticated
    e-government? Of course not: the cultures are too different, the cult of "modernisation" too embedded, the
    deadlines too near. Rather, we should celebrate e-European diversity as we celebrate other European diversities.
Everyone thinks they're weird. Especially in music: how can anyone know what I like to listen to? Switching between Bizet's Carmen, and Waylon Jennings' Mammas Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up To Be Cowboys, is confusing even for my taste.So when someone comes along with a system that tells you not only what you might listen to, but that there are others with similar tastes, well, then we jump at it.And so it is withAudioscrobbler.com, with which Richard Jones, otherwise known as RJ, might have the answer. In his final year of a computer science degree at Southampton University, RJ is building a system that monitors what you're listening to, and makes recommendations of new music.It works like this: You install some software on your machine - currently there are Audioscrobbler plugins for Winamp (Windows), XMMS (Linux) and iTunes (Mac OS X) - and it monitors what you are listening to. This data is sent up to the Audioscrobbler server, which records it against your user name.After some time, a pattern emerges. You really like bands A, B, C and D, and another user over there likes bands B,   C, D and E. So, says the system, chances are you will like band E, and the other user will like band A. Now scale this up to thousands of users, and you have the potential for really good recommendations.It's a little more complicated than that, though, says RJ: "People tend to listen to a few artists frequently, and lots of artists occasionally. Seemingly, people have a handful of favourite artists and a load of other ones they like as well. &#91;The system&#93; allows for calculating which songs are most popular in a more 'natural' way. For example, three people listening to the same song five times each makes it more popular than one person listening to it 100 times."This technique, known as collaborative filtering, is not new. The most well-known project to use this idea was called FireFly. The brainchild of Professor Pattie Maes, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, FireFly was also designed to suggest new music. But it asked the users to "rate" different songs or bands. This wasn't really a weakness at the time - FireFly was launched when dial-up access was the norm, and people couldn't be expected to be online all the time. But it did mean that their data could be skewed by sociological pressure. People might   rate the band by what they think is cool, rather than what they actually listen to.Audioscrobbler, on the other hand, infers people's tastes by monitoring what    they actually listen to, and not what they say. It is, it must be said, much easier to let the system run in the background, connecting to the net when it needs to, than have to   go online specifically, and answer questions.Amazon, the online retailer, also has a similar system, but it also has limitations. "It is based on what you buy or view online, but I sometimes buy CDs from Amazon as gifts for people, and sometimes buy CDs that I end up not listening to much," says RJ."The Amazon data is a good guideline but I wouldn't feel comfortable choosing a new CD to buy based on that alone. I hope I'll be able to trust Audioscrobbler enough to help in my CD-buying decisions in the near future."With his final report due in to his supervisor in May, RJ is excited about the potential of the project after graduation. "I'm looking into ways of 'acoustically fingerprinting' songs, so that songs can still be identified, even if they are not named correctly_ hopefully Audioscrobbler will become  the  way to discover and promote new music."Meanwhile, however, the popularity of the service - almost 2,000 users - means RJ is looking for help with the hosting.
Believe the hype spread in much of the world's media and you'd think Japan was the only place to be if you are even remotely tech-inclined. Internet this, robots that and (lashings of) online the other. Sure, it's a fun place to live for ready access to great food and even better trains, but it is only in the realm of telecoms that consumer Nippon has something special to offer Joe Public.More specifically, DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) connectivity is one aspect of online life where Japan has the UK whipped into a cocked hat. Although market-leader Yahoo Japan Corporation launched its first ADSL offering, at 8Mbps, only in September 2001, signups raced to the company's stated break even point of 2 million by last month.Industry watchers cite good, old-fashioned competition - essentially lacking in the UK - as the driving force. Kirk Boodry, director of capital markets at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in Tokyo, says: "The primary difference has been the existence in Japan of a substantial and committed competitor to the incumbent."While hitting black figures may spell the end of Yahoo's hyper-aggressive, loss-lead ing campaign, which saw white-coated staff handing out ADSL modems on every Tokyo street corner with a fervour fit for the tackiest nightclub tout, analysts say the market is on the up and up.Mark Berman, senior telecommunications analyst at CSFB Tokyo, says: "Japan provides the world's cheapest ADSL service with the highest data rate. The demand for ADSL is likely to accelerate as carriers roll out IP (Internet Protocol) phone services, allowing subscribers to make calls anywhere in the world for as little as a few yen a minute."Figures from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development have consistently placed South Korea at the top of the broadband penetration tree, but it won't remain there for much longer if Japanese regulatory authorities and market forces drive developments as expected.The Koizumi government's e-Japan initiative calls for government/private sector initiatives to push Japan to the head of the broadband pack. Fibre To The Home (FTTH) is frequently touted as the next boom technology here, and was the favoured business plan of the former government telecoms monopoly NTT   before Yahoo forced its hand.NTT finally threw its hat into the ADSL ring when it realised its precious ISDN network would be rendered impotent by the upstart's success and, perhaps more importantly, that its core voice traffic business was under threat from IP telephony.Boodry says: "Before ADSL, dialup users were paying 13,000 to 16,000 yen (&#163;68.50 to &#163;84.50) a month. Yahoo's marketing efforts and lower prices forced NTT to compete."FTTH may lie ahead, but speeds offered by current ADSL services make it hard to wish for more. Take my own recently installed Yahoo connection - a blazing fast 12Mbps for 2,480 yen (&#163;13.00) a month, free for the first eight weeks. In the UK, that would net me a less-  than-appealing unmetered 56kbps dialup connection from the likes of Freeserve or BT Openworld.Installation cost nothing, and the ADSL modem came with free rental for two months, followed by a charge of 890yen (&#163;4.70) each subsequent month.The disarmingly unctuous salesman tossed in a wireless LAN card, which I didn't need, and an IP phone handset, offering free calls for two months. I had to draw the line at the cordless IP phone with a built-in wireless router, which he promised would make a big difference to my one-room apartment. More important, setup took only a week from when I first succumbed to Yahoo's peripatetic pushers.Would-be surfers in rural areas may have to make do   with a 1.5Mbps service, but they're an unlucky minority. NTT and Yahoo both claim even Japan's hinterland and far-flung coastal areas are good to go.Boodry reckons: "About 80% of lines in Japan are qualified for 1.5Mbps at least - in many cases, anything above that would be best effort."Just when things looked rosy in this little garden to one side of the information superhighway, a leaflet landed on my doormat, pandering to my whims with a dual-pronged attack. It extols the benefits of a larger apartment in a newly built complex nearby, together with a very juicy carrot: every flat is fitted with VDSL (Very high bitrate Digital Subscriber Line) at 51.2Mbps. This is getting silly.
First there was dial-up. Then there was broadband. Now, meet a new way to connect to the internet: midband.  The term has been coined by BT Retail's chief executive Pierre Danon to describe a system that BT hopes might form a consolation prize for those who are out of range of the fast broadband internet access, through either cable or asymmetric digital subscriber lines (ADSL).Midband, which is due to start a trial in the next few weeks, will provide internet access at 128kbps. This is triple the typical connection speed of a standard dial-up modem, but just a quarter of ADSL.BT is tight-lipped about when the service might become available; that depends on the trial, it says.  "By mid-2005, broadband services could be available to around 90% of households in the country," Danon claimed late last year: it is available to    more than 66% now. Eighty per cent would use ADSL, which would rely partly on technology extending its range - it currently works if there is less than 3.4 miles of wire between you and the exchange. BT is also trialling "Exchange Activate", which makes ADSL viable by grouping at least 30 users together through a single ISP.Danon said that 10% will have access through other methods, including wireless and satellite. BT provides a satellite broadband service covering the country, but it costs hundreds of pounds to set up. However, the company is testing a cheaper option, which would provide broadband downloads at the same speed as ADSL, with uploads going through a standard modem.In the meantime, midband will cover 97% of the UK population. It will allow calls to be made at the same time as web-surfing, although this will halve the inter  net connection speed. And it will provide an always on connection for emails. Danon said that midband will be not much cheaper than broadband, for which BT charges &#163;27 a month, plus &#163;50 to set up, without email or web space, or &#163;29.99 with. A spokesman said last week that a monthly charge of "&#163;20 to &#163;25 seems about right".Last month, telecoms regulator Oftel was reported to be considering forcing BT to provide a wholesale version of midband. BT now says the service will be available in this way, which means competitors will be able to resell the service. This is an important move; with ADSL, wholesaling has pushed the price lower. Plus Net is charging &#163;19.99 a month for ADSL broadband, although it bans access to file-sharing and some newsgroups. On that differential, midband prices could drop to &#163;14.99 a month - what NTL charges cable customers for a 128kbps service.BT says it is testing several kinds of technology for midband. However, experts believe it will use ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network), currently used by BT for itsHome Highway service. Home Highway and midband are strikingly similar. They both cover 97% of the population, run at 128kbps and allow phone calls to be made while web-surfing. However, Home Highway costs &#163;25 a month plus &#163;74.99 initial set-up, plus ISP charges.For an always-on connection, the cost can reach &#163;100 a month. Midband could take advantage of an under-used element in ISDN to provide always-on email. Along with two 64kbps B-channels - which can carry voice or data - ISDN includes an always-on 16kbps D-channel, currently used just for signalling information.    "The D-channel was also designed to carry clear data," says Gordon Adgey, a telecoms engineer."The telecoms companies never allowed it to be used for this. There was always capacity sitting there." Adgey is founder of the Buckfastleigh Broadband project, which is using wireless technology to provide connection speeds up to 1.5Mbps (or 1,536kbps) to his Devon village and surrounding areas."Our concern is that this midband product would stop roll-out of broadband to rural areas: 128kbps has been available for 15 to 20 years. It's obviously an improvement, but it's a half-step." His comments are reflected by others who are currently, and perhaps permanently, beyond the reach of ADSL broadband. Shaun Thomas has run a community website in northern Essex (seewww.colnevalley.com) since 1997. He has helped collect 77 expressions of interest for enabling ADSL at the Earls Colne exchange - even though BT has not set a trigger level for conversion - and is planning a campaign."Midband would not be much faster than what we have now," says Thomas. As for the price: "Not really worth it, is it? I'd rather hold out for a proper product." Rod Ward, webspinner of theBurton-on-the-Woldssite in Leicestershire, is in the same position - 126 expressions of interest for the Wymeswold exchange, no BT trigger level - and takes a similar view of midband."It's a better speed than at the moment, but it would not enable people for home-working, or interactivity such as games," he says. "I can't see the great advantage that you would pay extra money for."Ward points out that some electronic government services will need full broadband, such as remote delivery of education. "The digital divide is not just between rich and poor, it's also between cities and country bumpkins.""If people are developing    rich services like interactive health and education, with quite a lot of video and pictorial content for ADSL speeds, these would be very unsatisfactory on a 128kbps line," says Richard Allan MP, the Liberal Democrat spokesperson for IT."It still leaves people partially excluded." Graig Farm Organics, a food retailer based in Powys, Wales, sells thousands of pounds worth of produce online, but is out of ADSL range. Bob Kennard, a partner of the firm, says the dial-up connection can take 20 minutes to download a batch of orders. Midband would be of interest - but because the Welsh Development Agency will reimburse the difference in cost between satellite and ADSL for businesses out of ADSL range, Kennard says midband doesn't seem worth it: "I would have hoped it would be a fair bit cheaper, given it's not as good &#91;as ADSL&#93;."Some broadband fans, however, say that midband will be worth having. "For a small office or home office user, it would be adequate," says Kevin Collis, a partner at consultancy Broadband Access Strategies. He says that ISDN tends to work at a consistent speed, unlike dial-up modems."But it is a cop-out," he says. Austen Stanley, who is campaigning for BT to set a trigger level at the telephone exchange in Fladbury, Worcestershire (seewww.adslforyou.co.uk), uses ISDN at home. He would be reasonably happy to get midband. But he wonders whether ISDN customers will be able to upgrade: he is tied into a 12-month contract.A friend, using another exchange, bought an ISDN service, as BT had set a high ADSL trigger level of 650 customers. BT then reduced this to 350, which was reached in two weeks. The exchange will soon be upgraded to ADSL broadband. "To say he's fuming would be an understatement," says Stanley.Better bytesData transfer speeds are measured in kilobits of data per second (kbps). For personal computers, there are eight bits in every byte, so a normal modem, which usually connects at about 40kbps, can receive about five kilobytes of data each second.A "narrowband" connection of this kind is fine for email and text-based web-sites. But for audio, video or downloading software, it is painfully slow. Furthermore, it blocks the phone line.Several faster methods share the term "broadband", although all imply much faster speeds and a constant connection to email and web surfing. The most widely available is ADSL. BT's consumer service (BT Broadband), allows download speeds of 500kbps, with upload speeds of half that.ADSL uses standard phone lines, but requires special equipment at each exchange. BT has fitted this at 1,148 of its 5,500 exchanges, but because it has concentrated on the larger ones, ADSL is now available to more than 66% of the population and 73% of businesses.Customers outside ADSL's range can signal their interest online. If an exchange gets a set number of interested customers, it will be upgraded. Following pressure, BT lowered many "trigger levels" in January.As of this week, 172 exchanges have passed their levels: 25 have been upgraded. The others will follow soon, including 14 that hit the target last week. Another 25 are within 10% of reaching the trigger point.Cable television systems can provide broadband access, sometimes faster than ADSL, at similar or lower prices - but mostly in areas also served by ADSL.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@ guardian.co.uk
The BBC is reviewing its editorial controls on the Celebdaq website message boards, after a footballer who had taken out an injunction preventing publication of a kiss n' tell story was named on the site.BBC executives are today asking tough questions about how the offending messages, which could land the corporation in legal hot water, were allowed onto the website yesterday.And today it emerged that the corporation does not   check all messages for potential libel or offensive content before they are posted.It operates a two-tier system of regulation - on sites such as BBC children's and the Asian network it  intercepts all messages before they are posted but on others it doesn't check for libel or offensive content until after the messages are posted.It appears this is the reason for a blunder that could land the corporation in the high court facing a contempt of court action.The Celebdaq message board, on which people swap gossip and tips about celebrities who are likely to be in the news, is only "moderated" - edited - after people have posted their messages, a BBC spokeswoman confirmed.An external agency, Chat Moderators, handles the after-post moderation of the message boards.The spokeswoman said the BBC was reviewing whether all the Celebdaq boards needed to be moderated before users' messages were posted on the  site."&#91;These message boards&#93; can be pre- or post- moderated. If they are pre-moderated, it slows down the site. This site had been post-moderated," she added.The decision to moderate what goes out on the children's sites mirrors the 9pm "watershed" guidelines that operate in TV. And a decision to keep a closer guard on the  Asian network message board would have arisen out of concerns about racism, particularly post September 11.But the BBC could not say why Celebdaq, which actively encourages viewers to trade on celebrity gossip, was not moderated like its children's and Asian sites.The BBC could face a costly legal battle over the Celebdaq message board postings.A teacher last year won a libel action against school reunion website Friends Reunited over libellous allegations made by a former pupil in a test case that established that the internet is not outside the defamation law.And last autumn gossip website Popbitch was forced to remove a rumour about David Beckham after being threatened with legal action from the footballer's legal team.Two years ago internet service provider Demon paid more than £200,000 to settle a libel action over material posted on one of its newsgroups.Demon refused to remove postings about physicist Dr Laurence Godfrey described by his lawyers as "squalid, obscene and defamatory".The case, settled just four days before a jury trial was due to begin, hinged on whether an ISP could be deemed responsible for what went up on the website, as is a traditional publisher.Demon argued at the time it had neither the resources nor expertise to monitor the content of hundreds of thousands of messages posted each day.Media lawyers said the legal position of the BBC over the Celebdaq website leak was unclear, because internet libel was such a grey area of the law."Ostensibly the BBC is likely to be liable for a breach of an injunction committed by a third party using their system. However, this is an uncertain area," said Dan Tench, a media lawyer with Olswang."If the BBC can show it acted properly and took down the offending posts as soon as they were noticed, it's unlikely in this case that a court would seek to punish the BBC heavily," Mr Tench added."However, the courts may in future be looking at the steps that celebrity gossip sites take to discourage or prevent such material being posted."Charles Boundy, a media specialist at legal firm Fladgate Fielder, added: "If the BBC admits some degree of editorial control over the website obviously it puts it at a higher degree of risk in terms of any defamation claim. And with the Celebdaq site, where it could be in the interests of punters to be indiscreet in the first place, the need for reasonable care could be regarded as heightened."Cases that have gone to court on internet libel have tended to be about ISPs, not content sites. Where there are new trends and no settled law there is a risk," Mr Boundy said."A court would undoubtedly have a good close look at this and could be making new law whichever way it jumped."
