It's Friday.
After the success of the Lego Movie it was perhaps inevitable. Minecraft, the creative building simulation that has so far sold over 35m copies, is on the verge of becoming a film. The game’s creator, Markus ‘Notch’ Persson took to Twitter on Thursday evening to confirm rumours. “Someone is trying leak the fact that we’re working with Warner Brothers on a potential Minecraft Movie,” he wrote. “I wanted to be the leak!”Film blog,Deadline Hollywood, first revealed the news, claiming that Warner Bros has bought the rights, and is already in the planning stages of a live action tie-in – although a release is far from confirmed at this stage. The site claims that Roy Lee, the producer of the smash hit Lego Movie, will oversee the project via his company, Vertigo Entertainment.First launched in 2009 as a modest indie project, Minecraft has become a worldwide phenomenon, with over 100m users registered on its official site. In 2012 the game made almost $240m in revenue. Described as a digital Lego set, players are free to explore a vast, blocky landscape, building whatever they like, from castles to spaceships, with a large range of materials. Originally launched for the PC, the game is now available on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 and versions for the next-generation consoles are also in development. The title has a fanatical audience of committed builders who often spend months on intricate architectural projects. Teachers are now using the game to teach children everything from mechanics to urban planning.Speaking to the Guardian, Persson confirmed a deal is in progress, and insisted that his studio, Mojang, will retain at least a level of creative control over the project. ”I wish I knew what was secret,” he said referring to the manner of the film’s announcement. “But I can tell you that signing a ’do whatever you want to this IP’ movie rights deal doesn’t seem like something Mojang would do.”Earlier this month the developer moved in to shut down a fan-made Minecraft movie that was seeking $600,000 on crowd-funding site, Kickstarter. Persson tweeted, “We don’t allow [...] kickstarters based on our ip without any deals in place. :/”It remains to be seen exactly how a live action movie will capture the essence of what is essentially a sandbox building sim. Although Minecraft contains enemies in the form of zombies, exploding creepers and skeleton archers, there’s little in the way of a set narrative beyond what players create for themselves – the game didn‘t even get an ending added until 2011.These are trifling concerns to Warner Bros though, which no doubt sees the game’s vast audience of loyal fans and a licensing operation that has already made many millions from books, toys and clothing. Hollywood, like most Minecraft fans, is adept at building mighty things out of the most basic of materials.•Minecraft at 33 million users – a personal story•Minecraft: how a game with no rules changed the rules of the game for ever
With its 25th birthday coming up in March, the internet is the most popular millennial in America.Newdata from the Pew Research Internet Projectillustrates America’s embrace of – and increasing reliance on – the internet since the 1990s. More than half of Americans (53%) admit they would find the internet “very hard” to give up, compared with 38% who thought so in 2006. When you compare those numbers to the measly 28% who feel this way about landline telephones, it shows a significant shift in preference toward different types of communication technologies.This chart represents a shift in American attitudes toward different types of information technology since the 1990's. Photograph: /PewWhat’s interesting about the chart above is that relatively few people (11%) feel like giving up social media would be difficult, even though a Pew study from last year showed that42% of Americansaccess multiple social networking platforms. (One caveat: This is the first time Pew has asked Americans this particular question.)But the survey also shows that Americans may still view participating in social media, accessing the internet and using email as entirely different experiences. That’s an interesting distinction, if not an entirely new one. For example, when people talk about“digital detoxing”, the internet as a means of consuming information isn’t on the receiving end of the vitriol – just the parts of it that serve as a means to communicate with others. But, paradoxically, communicating with others is what Americans appear to enjoy most about the internet.Internet horror stories abouttrolling and abuse tend to make headlines, and often for good reason, but a large percentage of Americans mostly see the internet as a tool for good and a way to connect with loved ones. Seventy percent of internet users say they have been treated kindly by others online, while a quarter of people reported having experienced abuse. Women tend to experience more of the extremes, while people age 18-29 seem have seen it all, indicating a unique adaptability among younger Americans.In other words, America, don’t believe all of the bad headlines you read about theinternet ruining our lives, making us dumber anddestroying our social relationships. We couldn’t live without it if we tried.Younger Americans are learning to live with all types of people online. Photograph: /PewOther takeaways:Digital detox be damned!Sixty-seven percent of internet users say their online communication with family and friends strengthens their relationships, while only 18% say it generally weakens those relationships.We don’t look up.Adult ownership of cell phones has risen from 53% in Pew’s first survey on this topic in 2000 to 90% now.We think positive.Americans think that the internet has been positive for individuals (90%) and for society in general (76%).
The European Commission is to hold talks with Apple, Google, and app writers, saying consumers need better protection against “unexpected costs” from in-app purchases on tablets and smartphones which can rack up bills of thousands of pounds.The EC’s justice minister Viviane Reding and consumer policy commissioner Neven Mimica will lead meetings in which they will look at whether it is misleading to classify games as “free” if in-app purchases are needed to make progress.“Consumers and in particular children need better protection against unexpected costs from in-app purchases,” Mimicasaid.“Misleading consumers is clearly the wrong business model and also goes against the spirit of EU rules on consumer protection,” said Reding. “The European Commission will expect very concrete answers from the app industry to the concerns raised by citizens and national consumer organisations.”In the UK, the Office of Fair Trading investigated in-app purchases (IAPs) in childrens’ games in 2013,reportingin September after five months with guidelines for app developers which some felt offered little change.The games app business is booming, with the whole app business expected to be worth around €63bn within the next five years, the commission said. More than half of online games in the EU are advertised as “free”, but can carry hidden costs. But games developers are also reacting to buyers’ increasing reluctance to pay upfront for games. That has driven down advertised prices while also encouraging the use of pricey IAPs in games designed and played by children and teenagers where spending is charged against an adult’s credit card linked to an account.The results can be dramatic. Apple wassued in the USby a group of parents who complained that their children had run up huge bills through such “IAPs”. It settled with a payout of around $600m. In the UK, two parentsmanaged to get a refund after their son spent £980buying virtual donuts in a Simpson’s game, while in 2011 another eight-year-old girl ran up a bill of £4,000 from games such as My Horse and Smurfs’ Village. Apple refunded her father.But Ilkka Paananen, the chief executive of the Finnish game giant Supercell, thehugely profitablemaker of hits such as Clash of Clans,said on Twitter: “We welcome this discussions, it is very important for the future of our industry. Important to set standards.”For many games companies, the use of IAPs has become essential. According to the app testing company Swrve, data from January showed that only 1.5% of players of mobile games spent any money at all - and that half of the total spending came from 0.15% of the total players, or one in ten of those who do pay in games.The EC’s move comes after concerns were raised by consumer groups in Denmark, Britain, Italy and Belgium about the prevalence and cost of IAPs. Though they can be disabled on any device, they are on by default.Among the proposals to be discussed are clearer explanations in games about the costs involved, removing inducements to make purchases such as “Buy now!” and “Upgrade now!” and preventing payments being debited without explicit consent.•OFT gives games firms April deadline to clean up in-app purchases for kids
Pierre Omidyar, the billionaire founder of eBay, branded activist investor Carl Icahn “false and misleading” Thursday as a bitter row over the future of the auction site escalated.Icahn has proposed that eBay spin off PayPal, the company’s electronic payment unit. The company has said it has reviewed that option and decided against it. But Icahn has attacked what he perceives as conflicts of interest on eBay’s board.Icahn attacked board member Scott Cook, the founder and major shareholder of finance software firm Intuit, which Icahn argues is a direct competitor of PayPal.Ebay has said PayPal and Intuit do not compete, but Icahn disagrees. “In our opinion, having Mr Cook on the board while planning PayPal’s future is akin to having Pete Carroll [the coach of the Seattle Seahawks] sitting in when the Denver Broncos were constructing their game plan for the Super Bowl. (Then again, maybe he did),” he wrote in anopen letter to shareholders.Icahn pointed to a hiring arrangement struck with eBay that barred the company from taking staff from Intuit. That arrangement is beinginvestigated by the Department of Justice.“Mr Icahn’s claims about Scott Cook also are unfounded. As founder of Intuit and chairman of the company’s executive committee, Scott has an exceptional track record of creating value and driving innovation. He has been an enormous asset to eBay’s board for many years. The overlap between Intuit and eBay is small for both companies. Regarding hiring, any restrictions ended years ago,”said Omidyar.Icahn argues shareholders have suffered in the past from similar conflicts on eBay’s board. According to the investor board member Marc Andreessen, a venture capitalist, unduly profited from eBay’s sale of videoconferencing-company Skype.“Ebay was planning to IPO Skype. Mr Andreessen and his investor group preempted the IPO, purchasing 70% of Skype for less than what eBay paid for it. Had eBay sold Skype to Microsoft at the price paid to Mr Andreessen’s group, eBay shareholders would have been at least $4bn richer upon the sale. Mr. Andreessen’s group profited by about $4bn in only a year and a half. This is an indisputable fact,” Icahn wrote.Omidyar said Icahn was “making unsubstantiated claims about our company – and deliberately impugning the integrity of our directors.” He said Andreessen had recused himself from all deliberations on the Skype transaction and the sale was “widely seen as a superb outcome for the company.”Icahn’s sally against eBay comes after a similarly high-profile, if less heated, battle with Apple. Earlier this month the activist investor ended a six-month campaign to force Apple to buy back $50bn of its own shares by September.
My father, Philip Thomas, who has died aged 87, was a pioneer in the world of fire safety science and engineering. He was also a proud Welshman with a love of jazz, malt whisky and his signature bow ties.Philip's work shaped the design of commercial buildings throughout the world, from shopping centres to airport terminals. His most significant contributions relate to the behaviour of fire; he developed analytical models of the behaviour of flames and "fire plumes" that became the basis for designing roof-venting systems for removing smoke and hot gases from single-storey buildings.Philip, an only child, was born in London. His father died when he was seven, and he was raised by his mother, Dilys. He won scholarships to Haberdashers' Aske's school and, aged 16, to Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He was awarded a double first in mechanical engineering in 1945 and a PhD in 1950. In 1951, he joined the government's Fire Research Station. During his career there, he published much of the research that has framed current scientific understanding of fire. More than 100 papers bear his name.At the root of Philip's success was a love of numbers, but his work was also crucially grounded in the practical realities of a complex subject. His publications would often baffle those who had little mathematical appreciation but their content almost always yielded profound advances in scientific understanding.Philip was the co-ordinator of the Fire Commission of the Conseil International du Bâtiment from 1974 to 1994 and chairman of the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) Fire Safety Committee from 1976 to 1995. In these capacities he put the new discipline of fire safety engineering on the map. He recognised that there was no single international institution that covered the full range of fire safety science, and led the foundation of the International Association for Fire Safety Science in 1985. He was elected its first chair, serving until 1991. He received many awards and prizes.A stroke in his later years inhibited Philip's physical mobility but his mental agility was undimmed, and vigorous discussion remained a staple of his life. Throughout his adult life he was absent-minded, nonconformist and unconventional, with stubborn principles and little interest in the opinion of the rest of the world, but he also had an easy chuckle and a strong love of friends and family. He enjoyed traditional jazz and musicals. If he hadn't been a scientist, he would have wanted to follow in the footsteps of Fred Astaire.His first wife, Sybil, died in 1997. He is survived by their two children – my brother, Rod, and me; by grandchildren and great-grandchildren; and by his second wife, Joanna.
Google is fighting a US court’s demand that it take down a trailer for an Islamophobic movie called Innocence of Muslims due to a copyright claim.The company was ordered to take down the video by the ninth US circuit court of appeals in San Francisco after an actress who appeared in it filed a copyright claim against the company.Google has complied with the order for the time being, but intends to fight it. It has replaced its standard takedown notice with one specific to this situation. On every copy of the trailer on the site, instead of the video is a note that reads: “This video is no longer available due to a copyright claim by an actress over her 5-second appearance in the video. A US court has ordered Google to remove the video. We strongly disagree with this copyright ruling and will fight it.”Cindy Lee Garcia is the actor in question. She claims that she was duped into appearing in the film, which depicts the prophet Mohammed as a paedophile and womaniser. The short movie sparked violence in the middle east when it was released in 2012, and 17 countries asked YouTube to take it down, including Bangladesh, Brazil, India, and Indonesia.Three other countries, Australia, Egypt and the United States, asked Google to review the video review to determine if it violated the company’s community guidelines; America’s request was made by Barack Obama personally. Google decided it did not violate their guidelines.Garcia says that the script she saw for the film, which she was told would be called Desert Warrior, referenced neither Islam nor Mohammed, and that her part was overdubbed in the finished movie.As a result, the court awarded her copyright to her performance in the film, reasoning that she thought it was for a different movie to the one which was ultimately created.•Game publishers vow to help YouTubers fight rogue copyright assault
A new social network launched on Thursday claims to connect people through their opinions on millions of topics.State invites users to express short opinions on anything from Justin Bieber and Syria to the new Samsung Galaxy S4 or WhatsApp, tagged with simple three-word subject labels drawn from a database of almost 11,000 descriptors. Posts can be as long or short as the user desires.“This is low-friction opinion sharing,” said said co-founder Alex Asseily, an entrepreneur who also founded the wearable technology firm Jawbone. “We wanted everyone to be able to voice an opinion and have it heard without needing to have an amazing amount of followers or to be a celebrity, because everybody has opinion to share.”Opinions are not black or whiteThe system, he said, allows for diversity and nuance in those opinions. State’s impressive background “word web” technology can understand, interpret and link up related terms to connect with other similar opinions.State opinion on WhatsApp purchaseOnce an opinion has been given to network, it becomes a search term as well as a statement. State can then map out related topics users might be interested in, content that has been shared through the network of opinions, as well as like-minded people and interesting connections.‘Some people who thought Snowden was a villain, also thought Prism was bad’State on Snowden“For instance, we found opinions around Edward Snowden and the Prism programme to be very much shades of grey. In general terms, some people who thought Snowden was a villain, also thought Prism was bad and likewise, some thought Snowden was a hero but that Prism was a good thing,” explained Asseily.“Of course, some had more standard reactions, thinking Snowden was bad and Prism good, or Snowden was good and Prism bad, but it just demonstrates how complex and interesting opinions can be.”State on PrismUsers can quickly share opinions on the go, both on the web and via an iPhone app with Android coming soon – a state and get out approach – but the network can also become a compelling network where one opinion leads to another, to an interesting topic or piece of content, to new friends and new world views.The product is not the personState differs in one important way from most other social networks too, because the product is not the person but the opinion users are not being sold to advertisers to support the service, unlike Twitter or Facebook or the plethora of other social networks.Anonymised, aggregated opinions are what State plans to use to fund its service in the distant future, but for now it is happy to take the route of many modern technology startups and just expand its user base in numbers and geography.“The crazy, ambitious, technical hurdles to overcome are large, but we believe in our manifesto: ‘every opinion deserves its time in the Sun’,” said Mark Asseily, co-founder of State. “We’ve spent lots of time musing over our policies and privacy as it is not just a little sidenote; it drives who we are and the decisions we make.”• Facebook, from a dorm room to1.23 billion users in 10 years
The story behind the collapse of MtGox is almost unbelievable. How could any business not notice that over £200m worth of assets had simply disappeared?The answer involves a flaw in bitcoin itself, seemingly compounded by MtGox’s implementation of the protocol and the company’s bizarre internal practices. Between them, they created a situation where a cunning attacker could convince the company to hand over money without even realising what it was doing.MalleabilityAt the heart of MtGox’s troubles lies an issue with bitcoin known as “transaction malleability”.When a bitcoin transaction is made, the account sending the money digitally signs the important information, including the amount of bitcoin being sent, who it’s coming from, and where it’s going to. A transaction ID, a unique “name” for that transaction, is then generated from all of the information in the transaction.But some of the data used to generate the transaction ID comes from the unsigned, insecure part of the transaction. As a result, it’s possible to alter the transaction ID without needing the sender’s permission.Nothing important is lost in that scenario, because the crucial payment information is still securely signed. But it can cause problems down the line if the sender is expecting the transaction to show up under a particular ID.In MtGox’s case, it appears that what happened is that the site was expecting transactions to show up in the public ledger under the specific transaction ID it had recorded. When those transactions didn’t show up – because the thief had edited the ID – the thief could then complain that the transaction had failed, and the system wouldautomaticallyretry, initiating a second transaction and sending out more bitcoins.Transaction malleability is a flaw in bitcoin itself, and it’s not MtGox’s fault that transactions can be renamed in this way. But it’s also a flaw which has been known about since 2011, and one which can be rendered harmless with software which accurately reports balances and transactions.The Bitcoin Foundation, a non-profit devoted to development and promotion of the currency,acknowledges that transaction malleability is an issue, which it says “cannot be corrected overnight”, but argues that “any company dealing with Bitcoin transactions and have coded their own wallet software should responsibly prepare for this possibility and include in their software a way to validate transaction IDs”. The Foundation’s own bitcoin software, the widely-used Bitcoin-Qt wallet, does just that.But simply allowing some bitcoins to be stolen through a bad implementation of the bitcoin protocol wouldn’t be enough to lead to the sort of collapse that MtGox has seen. That would also require serious lapses in how the company audited its accounts, and how it dealt with the discovery that it was in financial trouble.Fractional reserveRyan Selkis, the bitcoin entrepreneur whose publication of a leaked “crisis strategy” document was seemingly one of the triggers for MtGox closing its website, claims that conversations with sources inside and allied to the company paint a picture of an almost unbelievably lax approach to accounting.“MtGox has allegedly never conducted a single audit of its customer deposits,”he writes, “and it is believed that [Gox CEO Mark] Karpeles may have been the only one within the company to have knowledge of how to actually tap the exchange’s cold storage. It remains unclear exactly how this type of storage leak could have happened over a multi-year period without any knowledge on the part of the executives at MtGox.”One key question for the company is how long it had been operating without enough funds to pay every depositor. The transaction malleability issue was discovered in 2011, so it seems likely that the thefts started around then; but it’s perfectly possible for a company with a strong customer base to operate with a fractional reserve for a long time.FalloutThe real trouble for MtGox began in the summer of 2013, when the companysuspended withdrawals in US dollarsentirely for two weeks.Spooked by the prospect, customers began pulling their money and bitcoins out of the company. In effect, it was a slow-motion bank run. And eventually, that led to the company not having the bitcoins to return deposits; at the time of the creation of the crisis strategy document, it held just 2,000 bitcoin, while customer deposits totalled over 600,000.In early February, MtGox suspended bitcoin withdrawals as well as cash withdrawals. According to the leaked document, the plan was that Karpeles would ask outside investors to give the company enough bitcoin to return to solvency. Their motivation for contributing would be to prevent the collapse of the single company most identified with bitcoin.Selkis writes that that plan was put in action, but with less-than-stellar results. An emergency investor meeting was called, where Karpeles “outlined the extent of Mt. Gox’s losses”. But the investors did not buy in.“This meeting triggered a chain reaction of events in which the solicited investors rebuffed Karpeles and his colleagues,” Selkis says, “demanded they come clean to customers and stakeholders immediately, and then notified other industry executives, including those at the Bitcoin Foundation, of the catastrophic losses at MtGox.”On Sunday 23 February, Mark Karpeles resigned from the Bitcoin Foundation; on Tuesday, MtGox closed its website.•Mt.Gox v Fort Knox: What happens when a bitcoin exchange collapses
The Environment Agency is preparing to release a raft of flood mapping data for free commercial use, following accusations it blocked people finding out how the extreme winter weather would affect their homes.The effect could be to enable a range of startups and larger businesses to develop local flood warning systems using Environment Agency information, such as groundwater levels, real-time river levels and flood risk to homes.The agency derives only about £1m annually from licensing its flood mapping data, compared to an annual budget excluding flood relief of over £500m - while the floods that have ruined thousands of homes and businesses and displaced as many people are estimated to have cost over a billion pounds.Although many government departments and agencies including Ordnance Survey release datasets as “free data” for commercial re-use at the urging of Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude, the Environment Agency - which has a separate commercial status - has resisted such moves for years.Normally the agency charges for the use of its data, and imposes strict copyright rules which prevent its reuse - effectively closing it off from use online, where redistribution and reuse can magnify the usefulness of data.Yet data supplied to the Guardian suggests that revenues from selling its data were a tiny fraction of the agency’s income, totalling £7.4m over the 2011/2 and 2012/3 financial years - compared a total budget excluding flood relief in those two years of £1.02bn (£1,021m).Furthermore, the agency told the Guardian that licensing flood data generates about a third of its licence income - or about £2.4m over those two years, representing 0.2% of its budget.Floods under fireBut after come under fire over its handling of the crisis, an agency spokesperson has told the Guardian that “we have been working with the Cabinet Office to consider the value gained from our floor data being open, and to ensure that open use of our data leads to better decision-making and does not risk misleading the public”.For years the Environment Agency has been criticised by programmers and developers who claim that the Agency does not release data about river levels, flood plain maps, or other information that would help them to generate their own apps and systems to warn residents in areas at risk of flooding.The criticism was crystallised by Sir Nigel Shadbolt, head of the University of Southampton’s web science group and chair of the UK’s Open Data Institute, who has worked with Sir Tim Berners-Lee on making data open for free commercial reuse inside central and local government.In February, as the floods peaked, hetweeted: “A UK information infrastructure needs real time river levels, flood warnings and alerts as open data”.The agency has also deleted previous schedules for flood and river management from its website, making it difficult to follow how its schemes have changed in the light of government cutbacks.The agency made a number of datasetsavailable for free use in a “flood hack” by developers in February. But that was for a limited period of just three months - meaning that apps or web services which use that data after that time would have to be licensed.Shift to open governmentHowever, the agency now appears to be following the lead of organisations like the Ordnance Survey, Companies House and the Met Office by making its data available for free reuse using anOpen Government Licence.Jack Townsend of the web science centre at the University of Southampton echoed Shadbolt’s comment: “Perhaps the most important thing about open (flood) data is the serendipitous reuse that it enables in the long term, the unpredictable innovation that can build new ecosystems of tools and analysis based on this data that can build the resilience we need in a more unpredictable climate. For something like flood data, openness should be a no brainer.”The agency’s own flood risk map, intended to help househunters decide whether a home they are considering buying might be at risk, wascriticised in 2007for failing to show the location of a house relative to the flooding. At that time thousands of properties were inundated, with the damage estimated at £1bn - roughly the same as this winter’s.The agency has come under increasing pressure over the years to make its data available. Owen Boswarva, who has worked on developing risk models for the insurance industry, and represents professional data users on a government panel for data transparency,saysthat “the Environment Agency’s data strategy is probably the most commercially minded in the UK public sector, outside the Public Data Group trading funds [which includes the Ordnance Survey, Land Registry, Met Office and Companies House]”.Minimal lossBoswarva says that the licensing income that would be lost from making the data free “sounds like a lot of money. However it’s only about 1% of the EA’s total annual income from licensing activities such as environmental permitting and inland fishing” - which, he points out, have not changed in price for some years.Alist of the UK government’s “National Information Infrastructure” datasetscompiled by Boswarva shows that only four sets of data are included from the agency - and that only one, showing administrative boundaries for water management areas, is “open” so that it can be freely reused.Three other critical data sets, including national flood defences and flood warning areas, are not open - and so cannot be used by other developers without special permission.The Guardian’s Free Our Data campaign has repeatedly called for the Environment Agency to make the data it collects available for free, as happened with a large set of mapping data from Ordnance Survey.But the agency’s position as a quango - a quasi-autonomous non-governmental organisation - means that it does not have to obey government department rules on making data freely available. Instead, the agency argues that it is obliged to charge for data in order to cover its costs.In 2007, the Environment Agencythreatened legal action against OnOneMap, a site which collected data that would be useful to homebuyers - including location of schools, supermarkets, train stations - and flood risk. The site then removed the maps, and later closed.•“OK, let’s do it”: how Britain’s sets of government data were made free
March will see the launch of the first really big “Triple A” game release of the year – and for once, it’s not a sequel or the latest annual installment in a long-running series – it’s something new. Or newish. So if you’ve only just started gaming, or want to know why your friends or children are so interested in this sci-fi shooter, here are the basic facts.The backgroundTitanfall is published by Electronic Arts and developed by Respawn Entertainment, a new studio based in Sherman Oaks, California. The founders of Respawn, Jason West and Vince Zampella, were once the studio heads at Infinity Ward, the company that created the multimillion-selling Call of Duty series. When the duo were fired by Infinity Ward’s publisher Activision in 2010 (for alleged breaches of contract and insubordination), they took many of the studio’s senior creative staff and set up Respawn. Titanfall is their first game since the departure.The basicsTitanfall is a first-person shooter, which means the action is viewed from the first-person perspective, as though you’re in the game environment. It is multiplayer only, so you need to have an internet connection, and you’re going to be competing against other players from around the world. If you have a microphone headset for your console, you’ll be able to chat to other players on your team, though there is often a lot of “interesting” language (which can be switched off in your console’s settings menu).In each match, players start out controlling “pilots”, who battle on foot with a range of weapons, including smart pistols (which automatically target enemies) and assault rifles. At the start of a match, you choose the type of pilot you want to be – for example, a straightforward soldier, a more stealthy assassin or a ‘close-quarters’ specialist – these are known as classes, and more become available thoughout the game. The different classes have different weapons and items designed to facilitate different approaches to play.But that’s not all you get. As you play a match, a timer counts down and when it completes, you get to call in your Titan, a massive bipedal tank. When it arrives on the battlefield, you can then clamber in, then stomp around the environment with a whole new set of weapons. Again, there are different types of Titan – the Atlas, Ogre and Stryder – and they all have different roles in the game. Although much tougher than pilots, titans can sustain damage and when the shields completely fail, players are able to eject and play on as pilots until the build counter reaches zero again. If you’re shot as a pilot, you can “respawn” and join the game again.Discovering Titanfall’s robotsWait, who is fighting and what are they fighting over?Titanfall follows the conflict between two factions: the Interstellar Manufacturing Corporation (IMC) and the militia. The IMC is an aggressive mining and tech company that explores the galaxy looking for planets rich in minerals and then moves in to exploit the resources. The militia is made up of colonists who object to the IMC’s invasive and destructive procedures. It’s basically a gigantic fracking protest in space. In standard multiplayer matches, participants will get to play on both sides.How is it structured?As in most online first-person shooters, the action is divided into a series of short competitive matches, in which the aim is to shoot more of your opponents than they shoot of your team. In the ‘campaign mode’ you’ll follow a story that strings these matches into a narrative experience, complete with cinematic sequences between matches, as well as briefings and plot twists within the match itself. This idea of narrative multiplayer is quite new and it’s one of the reasons people are so interested in Titanfall. Usually multiplayer shooters have no real story, they’re more like a sport, where matches are played over and over again. In Titanfall, players are able to complete the story as both the IMC and the militia, andaccording to senior map designer Mohammad Alaviwhat players do in each match is acknowledged and commented on by story characters so there’s a sense of identity and immersion with the plot.Titanfall also has more traditional multiplayer modes, where players can just pop in for a couple of matches. There are different forms of matches from ‘team deathmatch’ (which is just two teams trying to out-score each other) to Last titan standing where everyone starts in a titan, but only gets one life, leading to a highly entertaining giant robot riot.At the end of every match, the team with the lowest score gets the chance to evacuate the battlefield by running into a drop ship and flying away. If any of the players escape they get extra “experience points” – the other team must try to shoot all the fleeing players or blow up the drop ship. Experience Points are earned throughout each match and earning enough allows you to ‘level up’ giving you access to new character classes, weapons and power-ups.There is also a booster system based around “burn cards” – these cards are earned throughout the game, and each one offers a different advantage, for example, a faster build time for titans. Players can build decks of cards and take at least three into each match, providing themselves with temporary boosts at vital moments. The system is inspired by the card trading game Magic: The Gathering.Titanfall’s Angel City mapLots of people online say it’s just Call of Duty in space. Is that right?No, not really. There are lot of elements of the game that are similar to Call of Duty, and that is to be expected: many of the conventions of the modern first-person shooter come from that series, or were cleverly refined by it. So the character classes are familiar, as are the weapons and the leveling up systems. As in Call of Duty, the action is extremely fast and the animations are smooth and quick, so there is a sense of constant movement and conflict. However, in Titanfall, Pilots have a very different way of moving. Instead of being confined to the ground as in CoD, they have jet-packs that allow them to jump to great heights, and to ‘wall run’ along vertical surfaces. This adds a greater spatial complexity to movement – a key skill is learning how to navigate the environment by jumping between walls and roofs, building momentum and providing a difficult target to hit. Skilled players are able to leap onto enemy titans and attack them directly. In a lot of ways, this fluid aerial movement makes the game much more like the classic first-person shooters Quake and Doom.Also, in each match, both sides have computer-controlled soldiers who help in the battle. There are different sorts, ranging from basic grunts to more sophisticated Spectre robots, which can be reprogrammed during the action. Some have complained about the fact that only 12 human players can compete in a Titanfall match - six vs six - which is a low count compared to other titles like CoD and Battlefield. However, the AI soldiers make it feel like many more people are involved. Respawn has said that i has kept the number of human players lower to create a more balanced experience. The team was keen to avoid the flow of action in titles like Call of Duty, where less experienced players are often shot and killed over and over again in very quick succession. Players tend to last a lot longer in Titanfall.So why have game critics been so positive about Titanfall?Although it looks like other science fiction shooters like Halo and Killzone, it has a very different feel. The design team has spent many months tweaking the controls so that the pilots and titans are great fun to control. The parkour elements of controlling the pilots are extremely intuitive and natural, yet skill and practise are rewarded through a deeper mechanic of stringing wall runs together in order to sling shot your character across greater distances. Also, the interplay between titans and pilots adds complexity to the battle experience and calls for a rich strategic approach. And, let’s face it, the game has giant robot tanks that fire missiles.However, it is still a shooting game, so if you don’t want to spend hours running around a series of environments firing weapons at other players, Titanfall probably isn’t for you. It is interesting and innovative within its genre, but it doesn’t challenge the over-arching conventions of the FPS. If you’re looking for something more ambitious, look out for the latest game from the creators of Halo – Destiny.How do I get it?Titanfall is released in the UK on 14 March, for Xbox One, Xbox 360 and PC. Notice that it is not available on PlayStation 4 – publisher Electronic Arts signed an exclusivity deal with Microsoft, which could prove pivotal in the battle between Xbox One and PS4 this year. The game is rated 16+ which means it is NOT suitable for children – there will be violence and explicit language.As well as the standard edition there is also a Collector’s Edition which comes witha massive robot statue, which is good for people who like massive robot statues.What if I’m new to the genre?Don’t be intimidated. Titanfall has a tutorial mode that introduces you to all the controls and the conventions, and a lot of the modes are team-based so you’ll be able to rely on your co-combatants while you get to grips with things. And however poorly you do at the beginning, you’ll be earning experience points that let you ‘level up’ to gain access to new weaponry. If you’re inexperienced, just keep your head down and concentrate on surviving rather than hunting down enemies. Give yourself a role, like protecting a base (in Hardpoint mode), or set up a private session with a few friends so you don’t have to worry about strangers. Oh and keep moving. Always move.Where can I learn more?You can go to theRespawn siteor to EA’s YouTube channel haslots of official ‘making of’ videos.•Xbox One gets price cut to £399 – with free copy of Titanfall• Titanfall preview: sci-fi warfare in crumbling futuristic cityscapes• Titanfall v Destiny – how this war will change shooters for ever
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe hear from technologist and entrepreneurNick D'Aloisio. Nick, at the tender age of 18, has already sold his first tech startup, the news app Summly, to Yahoo for £18m. At this year'sMobile World Congressin Barcelona he launched the UK edition of Yahoo's News Digest app. Nick speaks toSamuel Gibbswho also reports on some of the other big announcements at this years congress.Also joining Aleks are the Guardian'sJemima Kiss,Alex HernandKeith Stuart. The team discuss the recent purchase by Facebook of Whatsapp, the messaging app, for $19bn (£11.5bn) and why a game called Twitch Plays Pokemon has enthralled hundreds of thousands of online gamers.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA Long Tail of Whales: Half of Mobile Games Money Comes From 0.15 Percent of Players | Re/codeIn amobile monetization reportreleased today, app testing firm Swrve found that in January, half of free-to-play games' in-app purchases came from 0.15% of players. Only 1.5% of players of games in the Swrve network spent any money at all.The latter finding is in line with what the advocates of free-to-play have been saying for years: Players don't have to pay anything to enjoy the game. But the former stat underscores the importance of big spenders, or "whales" in industry lingo, to the app ecosystem.In other words, 15 in every 10,000 generate half of the money. Another 135 in every 10,000 provide the other half. And 9,850 in every 10,000 never spend any money.OEM: Windows Phone license fee plummeting &gt;&gt; PCMag.com"We're hearing Microsoft will drop the license fee quite a bit, as far as 70%, which will make their product more competitive in terms of price," Infosonics CEO Joseph Ram told PCMag.Ram's company is one of the many makers of low-cost Android phones here at Mobile World Congress. It makes the Verykool line of phones that are sold by carriers in Latin America, and primarily unlocked in the US.With license fees dropping, Infosonics would certainly consider building Windows Phones, Ram said.Microsoft is having to play at Google's pricing. Can Microsoft undercut Google at anything?Automatic connects your car to Twitter, Facebook, and more with IFTTT &gt;&gt; Automatic blogAutomatic is a device that links to your car's ECU and onboard computer and thence to a smartphone app:When we set out to create Automatic, it was because of the incredible potential we saw in connecting your car to the internet. Automatic uses that connection to track your trips, remember where you parked, tell you what's wrong with your engine, and even call for help in a crash.Today, we're taking that connection to a whole new level: giving drivers the power to connect their cars to dozens of popular web services like Twitter, Facebook, and Dropbox. We've launched the Automatic Channel on IFTTT.The internet of cars approaches, tweeting.xkcd: NowYou asked to know the time around the world? XKCD is happy to help with this HTML5-based page. Shortcut: http://xkcd.com/now .The first Tor Trojan for Android &gt;&gt; SecurelistVirus writers of Android Trojans have traditionally used Windows malware functionality as a template. Now, yet another technique from Windows Trojans has been implemented in malware for Android: for the first time we have detected an Android Trojan that uses a domain in the .onion pseudo zone as a C&amp;C. The Trojan uses the anonymous Tor network built on a network of proxy servers. As well as providing users with anonymity, Tor makes it possible to display 'anonymous' sites in the .onion domain zone that can only be accessed in Tor.Spy Lockout &gt;&gt; EFF and othersApple has approved the following proposal for discussion at its 28 February 2014 shareholder meeting in Cupertino. Spy Lockout was developed by Apple shareholders, developers, users, and employees, with advice from Electronic Frontier Foundation attorney Kurt Opsahl, encryption expert Bruce Schneier, Lavabit attorney Ian Samuel, and EFF founder John Gilmore…Apple should, to the full extent permissible by law, deploy its strengths in both technology and law to publicly reveal, challenge, reduce, and overturn every government attempt at covert surveillance against its customers that doesn't meet these standards: surveillance of single, identified individuals under a warrant issued by a neutral judge, particularly describing the person and places to be searched, and of limited duration. To the full extent permissible by law, Apple should not actively or passively agree to do or allow covert mass surveillance against its customers, nor remain silent about what Apple and the government have done or are doing.Note the phrase "to the full extent permitted by the law". That isn't very far.Government open standards consultation will likely impact all of us. Make sure your voice is heard by 26th February &gt;&gt; The Microsoft Partner Network UK BlogYou may not be aware, but the UK government is currently in the process of making important selections about which open standards to mandate the use of in future. These decisions WILL likely impact you; either as a citizen of the UK, a UK business or as a company doing or wanting to do business with government.in a good way by making ODF mandatory? Microsoft wants it to mandate both ODF and OOXML. Pity this only just appeared in our feeds.Stephen Wolfram's Introduction to the Wolfram Language &gt;&gt; YouTubeWolfram shows off the new symbolic language. If you don't have a couple of moments where your jaw drops in amazement at what it can do.. you should. (It runs on the Raspberry Pi, too.) Trythis previewand scroll down to the "plug sockets" example.The Typo review &gt;&gt; How the fuck did the Q10 ship?From the Tumblr of Hussein Kanji, who got so fed up with the BlackBerry Q10 he finally dumped it (after many months) for an iPhone - but with a slide-on keyboard from Typo, backed by Ryan Seacrest:If I was Ryan Seacrest's product guy, I'd add a battery pack to this and invest in better keys. There is plenty of margin on this thing. I can't imagine the bill of materials on this thing is more than $3-5.Now that I have this, I have no reason to use the Q10 anymore. But when I do, the Q10 keyboard is a breath of fresh air. The keys are much nicer. But functionally, these two things are pretty similar.if I was John Chen, I'd make an official Blackberry Typo for the iPhone. I'd price it at $150. It's free money. Anyone on iOS is *NEVER* coming back to Blackberry. Might as well sell them a keyboard. It's free money.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Manhattan US attorney Preet Bharara’s office is seeking information from businesses dealing in bitcoin on how some of them handled cyber-attacks that hamstrung several exchanges in recent weeks, a source familiar with the probe told Reuters on Wednesday.Subpoenas have been sent to numerous businesses, including MtGox, once the largest bitcoin exchange, as well as other firms that did business with the Tokyo-based company, the source said.Prosecutors want to know more about the nature of the cyber-attacks on MtGox and other exchanges and how those exchanges dealt with them. MtGox halted customer withdrawals on 7 February in response to what it termed unusual activity, and on Tuesdaythe exchange went dark, leaving customers unable to recover their funds.Mark Williams, a risk management expert who teaches finance at Boston University, said the investigation is a positive step in regulating virtual currency.“If bitcoin is going to be a currency then it needs to actually play by the rules,” Williams said. “At this point, there’s been no regulation in this sector.”Regulators have faced some hurdles in regulating bitcoin, which has not been designated as a currency or asset in the US economy. Williams expects that the rumored investigation and resulting decisions by the US government will have a global impact on the virtual currency industry.He also expects a short future for MtGox because they’ve broken trust with their customers. “They’re done, they’re toast, they’re Enron – they can’t resurrect themselves,” Williams said.MtGox’s apparent closure or hiatus also followsthe leak of what is alleged to be a “crisis strategy document”from the company, which says that almost 750,000 bitcoins (currently worth more than £200m) are “missing” due to theft which went unnoticed for several years.“As there is a lot of speculation regarding MtGox and its future, I would like to use this opportunity to reassure everyone that I am still in Japan, and working very hard with the support of different parties to find a solution to our recent issues,” Mt. Gox CEO Mark Karpeles said in a statement on the company’s website.After the closure, Japanese regulators began examining the legality of bitcoin for the first time.But the country’s authorities are still declining to take responsibility for bailing out MtGox customers who may have lost bitcoin in the exchange’s troubles.On Wednesday, a spokesman for the Japanese governmenttold the Wall Street Journal’s Takashi Mochizukithat the government would make “a proper assessment” on the regulation of bitcoin. The spokesman alsoconfirmedthat the government was working with the country’s police to collect information on MtGox and was prepared to “take action”.
Oral B’s new app controlled Bluetooth 4.0 toothbrush makes sure you brush your teeth properly, lets your dentist peek at your brushing habits and personalises your brushing.The toothbrush connects to the free Oral B app for the iPhone and Android, and will track your every brush stroke, collect data and chart your progress while giving you real-time guidance on how to get the job done faster and better.“It provides the highest degree of user interaction to track your oral care habits to help improve your oral health, and we believe it will have significant impact on the future of personal oral care, providing data-based solutions for oral health, and making the relationship between dental professionals and patients a more collaborative one,” said Wayne Randall, global vice president of Oral Care at Procter and Gamble.The smart bathroomOral B sees the connected toothbrush, launched as part of Mobile World Congress’s Connected City exhibition, as the next evolution of the smart bathroom. This plugs into a trend kickstarted by fitness trackers, and provides a useful resource for dentists.The new brush will be available in Spring in Germany and the rest of the world in June priced at about £199, and promises to allow users to personalise their electric toothbrush, changing brush head speed, as well as brushing patterns to focus on specific problem areas in the mouth. Dentists can also programme special brushing routines.The Oral B app connects to the brush over low-power Bluetooth 4.0, a standard which is used by a whole series of connected gadgets, including smartwatches and fitness bands. The Bush will store up to 20 brushing sessions, should the user not have their smartphone to hand, ready to sync at a later date.Oral B Smartseries connected toothbrush.The connected technology will be integrated into a whole line of smart Oral B toothbrushes at a later date.• Kolibree launched the‘world’s first’ connected toothbrush at CES in Janurary, but it is not yet available to buy
A new app promises to allow web users to lock down access to shopping, banking, email and social accounts when they are not being used, much like a digital lock.The Latch app allows users to control access to online accounts with a variety of services, including banks and e-commerce sites, without of a username and password, adding an easy to use extra layer of security for peace of mind and to stop email and other accounts getting hacked.“It’s like a physical latch in the digital realm – with one app you can just put the latch on and off, reducing the availability of your online accounts when you’re not using them, therefore reducing their exposure to hackers,” explained Chema Alonso, chief executive of the Telefonica-owned Eleven Paths told the Guardian.Flick a switch to lock or open your accountsThe premise is simple. When a user’s online accounts are not in use, they are locked down meaning that they cannot be logged into even with the right username and password combination.When the user wants to access their account they can simply flick a switch in the Latch app on their smartphone to instantly unblock them and allow the user to login with their normal username and password.Latch acts a digital lock for  web services such as shopping, banking, email and social accountsThe app connects with the Latch server, which in turn connects to the service the user wants to log in to, identifying that the lockdown should be removed and making the account freely accessible.The user can then lock down the account manually after they are done with it, automatically when they log out of it or after a set time, or have the latch opened only during certain hours, like a nine to five work day.If a user, or a third-party, attempts to log into a locked down account, the app will notify the owner, giving users an instant notification that someone is attempting to access their accounts and that they might have had their username and password stolen.Granular controlFor services that have a single sign-in but multiple applications such as email, calendar, cloud storage or an address book, Latch can be used to control access to all of them, or individual services.Parents can use Latch to control children’s access to services, but without allowing parents access to the content itself - leaving emails, for example, private.The Latch service has no access to username and passwords themselves – only a digital token that locks or unlocks accounts. This means that if Latch is hacked, the online accounts are still protected by the standard login details and if the user loses their smartphone, they can simply log in to Latch through another device.Available for almost everythingThe service is in pilot testing with various providers, including Telefonica’s own mobile phone service, as well as three universities in Spain. Eleven Paths has made it easy for online services to integrate Latch into their offerings, including open development kits and plugins for various platforms including blogging service WordPress.Despite being a Telefonica business, the Latch app is an independent and can be used by anyone on any network.The free Latch app was launched for iPhone and Android in December, but is now available for Windows Phone and FireFox OS, with a BlackBerry app in development.• What to do if youremail account gets hacked and how to stop it happening again
MtGox’s chief executive, Mark Karpales, has posted a further terse statement on the homepage of the shuttered Tokyo-based bitcoin exchange, promising that he is working very hard to find a solution to the site’s issues.The statement reads:“As there is a lot of speculation regarding MtGox and its future, I would like to use this opportunity to reassure everyone that I am still in Japan, and working very hard with the support of different parties to find a solution to our recent issues.”“Furthermore,” it continues, “I would like to kindly ask that people refrain from asking questions to our staff: they have been instructed not to give any response or information. Please visit this page for further announcements and updates.”Unlike the previous statement released by the embattled exchange, the latest comment is signed by Karpales himself, rather than “MtGox Team”.Karpales’ statement comes afterFox Business publishedexcerpts of a conversation between Karpeles, and the industry consultant Jon Fisher. In the chat logs, Karpeles confirms that the leaked “crisis strategy draft” was “more or less” legitimate:“As the name suggests it’s a draft, and it’s a bunch of proposals to deal with the issue at hand, not things that are actually planned and/or done.”The document proposes Karpeles step down as CEO, but he refused to disclose whether he had decided to take that advice, adding that “giving up is not a part of how I usually do things”.Japan investigatesAfter the closure of MtGox, Japanese regulators are examining the legality of bitcoin for the first time.But the country’s authorities are still declining to take responsibility for bailing out MtGox customers who may have lost bitcoin in the exchange’s troubles.On Wednesday, a spokesman for the Japanese governmenttold the Wall Street Journal’s Takashi Mochizukithat the government would make “a proper assessment” on the regulation of bitcoin. The spokesman alsoconfirmedthat the government was working with the country’s police to collect information on MtGox and was prepared to “take action”.Wednesday’s comments are an evolution of the government’s position from earlier in the week, when a spokesman for Japan’s Financial Services Agencytold the Journal: “Bitcoin isn’t a currency; it works as an alternative to currencies, like gold … The FSA is in charge of currency-based services. Therefore, bitcoin exchanges are not a subject to our regulatory oversight.”•Mt Gox v Fort Knox: How bitcoin can recover from Gox’s collapse.
Thecollapse of Mt Goxwill be hard for bitcoin to recover from. If aleaked “crisis strategy” documentis accurate, by the end of the site’s life, its total bitcoin holdings were just 2,000btc, while customer deposits totalled 624,408btc.The reason for the discrepancy, according to the document, is a vulnerability in the bitcoin protocol, which allowed 744,408btc - about 6% of all the bitcoins presently in circulation - to be stolen from the site’s “cold storage”, a bitcoin wallet unconnected to the main network where coins are (theoretically) safe from hacking attacks.The issue, known as “transaction malleability”, has been known about since 2011, and most bitcoin software is already protected from it. The Bitcoin Foundation, the non-profit devoted to development and promotion of the currency,says that“any company dealing with Bitcoin transactions [which has] coded their own wallet software should responsibly prepare for this possibility”.In early 2013, Mt Gox was the largest bitcoin exchange in the world, with an estimated 70% of all transactions going through the site. But the site always had problems, particularly with withdrawals. Stringent adherence to US money-laundering regulations (though based in Tokyo, it belonged to a US company, Mutum Sigillum LLC) meant it was significantly harder to sell bitcoins on the site (that is, converting them into a “fiat”currency such as dollars) than to buy them (swapping dollars for bitcoins).This caused the price to veer away from that on other exchanges. In June 2013, the site even implemented a “temporary hiatus” on dollar withdrawals, preventing every user from accessing their money. That hiatus officially ended after two weeks, but withdrawing dollars remained slow.Cold storage: something went badThen, in early February, MtGox also limited bitcoin withdrawals. Users could still use the site to trade bitcoins to other currencies within their own accounts (so if you owned 2btc you could credit your dollar account on the site with its equivalent), but couldn’t withdraw their purchases to spend outside the site. The price of bitcoin on MtGox became completely disengaged from the wider bitcoin market, and plummeted below $100 last Friday; on other exchanges it was above $500.It seems likely that it was early February when the company discovered that its cold storage was gone. While the value of customer accounts was 624,408btc, the company actually only possessed the 2,000btc that were in its “hot wallet” – the bitcoin wallet connected directly to the exchange and used to enable trading (rather like the cash float in a cash register, as opposed to the safe in the back of the shop – which was the “cold storage”).Even in pure dollar-denominated debts, the crisis strategy document says the company is insolvent, with $55m of liabilities but assets of just $32m ($5m of which are held by the US Department of Homeland Security after they were seized in August 2013.)Mt Gox seems to hope this won’t be the end of the road. The crisis strategy document implies a rebranding to “Gox”, replete with a new logo and a plea to big hitters in the bitcoin world to donate some money to ensure that depositors don’t lose all their holdings. A peek at the source code of the now-blank site contains a hint of a future acquisition, with an empty space labelled “put announce for mtgox acq here”.But the document is also brutally honest about the likely future of MtGox – and bitcoin itself. “The reality is that MtGox can go bankrupt at any moment, and certainly deserves to as a company,” it reads. “However, with bitcoin/crypto just recently gaining acceptance in the public eye, the likely damage in public perception to this class of technology could put it back 5~10 years, and cause governments to react swiftly and harshly. At the risk of appearing hyperbolic, this could be the end of bitcoin, at least for most of the public.”Most of the bitcoin community seems prepared to try and separate perception of MtGox from that of the currency and concept itself. Marc Andreesen, whose Andreessen Horowitz venture capital firm has invested heavily in bitcoin, described the firm as “obviously broken and possibly outright crooked” when speaking to CNBC on Tuesday. “This is like[bankrupt financial services firm] MF Global,” he continued, “not some huge breakdown of the underlying technology or other exchanges.”Henry Blodget, formerly an equities analyst and now in charge of Business Insider,puts it like this:No, Bitcoin is not &quot;doomed.&quot; But the collapse of the co that was synonymous with Bitcoin for years is a big confidence blow.&mdash; Henry Blodget (@hblodget)February 25, 2014There’s a chance consumer trust in bitcoin may survive. What happened to Mt Gox is essentially a bank robbery - albeit one bigger than any in recorded history (thenext-biggest recorded theft is for $108m). It’s actually far easier to comprehend than something like the collapse of Northern Rock or Lehman Brothers; and if those failures didn’t bring down fractional reserve banking or highly leveraged derivative trading, then there’s hope for bitcoin.Vanishing bitcoins, vanishing trust?But if the MtGox losses are equivalent to a bank robbery, they underscore the perception of bitcoin as a currency highly susceptible to bank robberies. Users of services includingBitcoinica,Inputs.io, and now MtGox have all seen their deposits disappear overnight.So how secure are other exchanges? Many bitcoin services were hacked together with little attention paid to long term security. For instance, MtGox incorporated encryption code which wasdescribed by its creatortwo years ago as “quick’n‘dirty” because they were “too lazy” to do it the proper way. In a world where a single bitcoin was worth pennies, that was acceptable, but once real money was at stake, the duct-tape approach led to problems.Bitcoin exchanges are now constantly under pressure, witha massive DDoS attackhitting some of the biggest in early February. By their nature, such exchanges are tempting targets for hackers; they are, in essence, a bitcoin wallet connected to a web interface. All too frequently, the security system in place has been easy to overwhelm.But the new generation of bitcoin companies – professional, venture-capital-backed, serious and, hopefully, secure – are fighting to change that. Their move towards reliability even extends to pushing for regulation of the currency,something which seems anathema to longer-standing users. “There’s probably some minimal requirements and procedures that should be put in place if you’re facilitating that kind of exchange,” as Fred Ehrsam, the co-founder of bitcoin payment processor Coinbase, said to regulators in January.Others are proposing a move away from another of bitcoin’s guiding principles: anonymity. “Anonymity prevents reversal of transactions, but with a trend away from anonymity, transactions will be visible and thereby reversible under certain circumstances,”says venture capitalist Michael Jackson of Mangrove Capital Partners. “A depositor protection scheme will come. In ‘real’ currencies, this protection is provided by the central banks, or currency issuers. With no central bank, the industry needs to take this role.” But there isn’t currently any technical basis for such a change, and it’s unclear if a non-anonymous bitcoin is even theoretically possible.Bitcoin still has long term issues regarding transaction speed, price volatility, and ease of use, as well as finding a killer app which isn’t online drug sales. But those take a back seat to the need to credibly reassure people who own bitcoins that their cash is safe. It needs to replace Mt Gox with Fort Knox.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBackground monitoring on non-jailbroken iOS 7 devices — and a mitigation &gt;&gt; FireEye BlogWe have created a proof-of-concept "monitoring" app on non-jailbroken iOS 7.0.x devices. This "monitoring" app can record all the user touch/press events in the background, including, touches on the screen, home button press, volume button press and TouchID press, and then this app can send all user events to any remote server, as shown in Fig.1. Potential attackers can use such information to reconstruct every character the victim inputs.Note that the demo exploits the latest 7.0.4 version of iOS system on a non-jailbroken iPhone 5s device successfully. We have verified that the same vulnerability also exists in iOS versions 7.0.5, 7.0.6 and 6.1.x. Based on the findings, potential attackers can either use phishing to mislead the victim to install a malicious/vulnerable app or exploit another remote vulnerability of some app, and then conduct background monitoring.Mitigation: kill any apps running in the background.New zero-day bug in IE 10 exploited in active malware attack, MS warns (updated) &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaMicrosoft has confirmed reports of a recently active attack that surreptitiously installed malware on computers running a fully patched version 10 of the Internet Explorer browser. The attacks also work on IE 9, the company warned.The zero-day exploit was served on vfw[.]org, the official website for the Veterans of Foreign Wars, according to ablog post published Thursday afternoonby security firm FireEye.Galaxy S5 ROM is a bit of a monster, taking up nearly 8GB of storage &gt;&gt; Android CentralWe have to preface what we're about to show you with the following statement: Pre-release device, lacking carrier customizations, yadda yadda. But what you see here is the storage listing on the just-announced Samsung Galaxy S5.And what you can see is that on the 16GB model of the Galaxy S5, half of the on-board storage is used up before the owner even turns on the phone.So, 32GB or SD card?Power Map for Excel now generally available, automatically updated for Office 365 &gt;&gt; MSDNBlogsToday, with Office Service Pack 1, we're announcing that moving forward Power Map will now be native to Excel. No longer a preview add-in, Power Map can now be found on the "Insert" tab in Excel for Office 365 ProPlus customers. Subscription customers will have access to all the new and upcoming features of Power Map, from new types of data visualizations on the Bing map, to new 3-D analysis features, to new ways of storytelling with your "tours". Power Map allows you to quickly visualize geospatial data that you have already brought into Excel with Power Query and mashed-up with Power Pivot.Looks rather good.Three reasons why the new Nokia Android smartphones will make waves in emerging markets &gt;&gt; Jana MobileA Nokia Android smartphone has an exciting potential, particularly in high-growth mobile markets such as India, Indonesia, and Nigeria. Below are three reasons why the new Nokia Android smartphones will make significant waves in emerging markets.Spoller: price, brand strength of Nokia, brand strength of Android. That is, if Nokia (or Microsoft?) chooses to market it as "Nokia's Android".Gox horror story thread - How much did you lose? &gt;&gt; RedditLots of putative money lost, and lots of tales of losing.The details on Virgin Atlantic's Google Glass pilot | CITEworldFor the pilot [program], Virgin Atlantic agents meet Upper Class passengers as they arrive by special limousine, then provide personal assistance for everything from providing baggage tags to seat changes to flight information - which is instantly available through the devices, according to Graham."We kind of meet and greet them," he said. "Then they go through a private channel through security to the airline's lounge."When announcing the wearable computing pilot project to affected employees, Virgin Atlantic first asked for volunteers to try them in their jobs. "There was a little bit of hesitation from some agents, who were afraid they would make them look funny. But now as one agent has led the way, we're now getting other agents interested in trying it out."He continued, "Every day, they're getting another idea [for a feature to add] or for a key piece of information that they'd like to add," he said. "What started as a job allocation system with information about the passengers basically has already been expanded.@GSElevator tattletale exposed (he was not in the Goldman elevator) &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe Twitter account, which has an audience of more than 600,000 followers, has been the subject of an internal inquiry at Goldman to find the rogue employee. The tweets, often laced with insider references to deals in the news, appeal to both Wall Street bankers and outsiders who mock the industry. Late last month, the writer sold a book about Wall Street culture based on the tweets for a six-figure sum.There is a good reason Goldman Sachs has been unable to uncover its Twitter-happy employee: He doesn't work at the firm. And he never did.The author is a 34-year-old former bond executive who lives in Texas.The official Goldman Sachs statement is hilarious. As are @GSElevator tweets such asthis one.Web Search interest: "galaxy s2", "galaxy s3", "galaxy s4", "galaxy s5" - Worldwide, 2004 - present &gt;&gt; Google TrendsThe huge leap in interest from the S2 to the S3 was reflected in sales; the lower peak for the S4 seems to have been reflected in its sales too. How is the S5 going to do? It's just starting to show hockey-stick growth in interest.Facebook massively overpaid for WhatsApp &gt;&gt; ContinuationsAlbert Wenger, a partner at venture capital company Union Square Ventures:A couple of days have passed since the news of the monster acquisition of WhatsApp by Facebook broke. More people have written about it already than I can possibly link to so I won't even try. My immediate reaction just based on financial metrics was that Facebook massively overpaid but I wasn't sure about the strategic side. Having had some time to think about that I am now convinced that this deal makes no sense.Why? Because phone number based messenger apps can bootstrap very rapidly off the graph that is contained in people's address books.USV was not an investor in WhatsApp.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Gregarious Xbox One owners who want to share their every moment of gaming brilliance with a live audience will soon be facilitated. Microsoft has announced that its console will support the Twitch.tv video service from 11 March, just in time for the launch of much-hyped shooter, Titanfall.After downloading the app, owners will be able to say ‘Xbox broadcast’ into their Kinect device during any gaming experience and the footage will begin streaming over the web, complete with a picture-in-picture video feed of the player and audio commentary. Although Sony’s PlayStation 4 has supported Twitch broadcasting since launch, its implementation isn’t currently as feature-rich, lacking the ability to store Twitch videos for later viewing. On Xbox One users will be able to archive their recordings; it will also be possible to view livestreams from any source, including the PlayStation 4, while the PS4 version only allows other PS4-produced content to be watched.Sharing gameplay footage has become a major new trend, with well-known YouTube gamers like PewDiePie and Syndicate attracting millions of viewers with their own ‘let’s play’ videos of major game releases. The Twitch network, which attracts 45 million viewers per month, changes the emphasis to live rather than pre-recorded game sharing. Viewers are able to interact with broadcasters via a chat window, and on Xbox One it will be possible to set up markers so that you’re notified onscreen when a gamer you’re following begins a live broadcast.Twitch broadcasting on Xbox One“Over the last two years, we have seen the broadcasting and spectating of video games go from a niche activity to a pastime shared by millions,” said Twitch founder, Emmett Shear. “As the experience grows in popularity, it’s important to provide as broad a feature set as possible for the community. Microsoft has done just that by rolling out the most robust console integration of Twitch to date and setting a new bar for others to strive for.”It’s not clear yet whether Xbox One owners will need an Xbox Live Gold subscription to broadcast via Twitch; we have asked Microsoft for clarification. However, it’s an interesting extension of the console’s games broadcasting capabilities. Even for those who don’t fancy themselves as gaming superstars, the ability to hop into any multiplayer games being streamed by friends, should make social gaming a tiny bit easier – as should the fact that Twitch feeds from friends and followers appear in your activity feeds and friends app.It’s likely that Sony will now respond with updates to its own live gaming sharing functionality. The PlayStation 4 was designed with broadcasting as a key feature – the controller has a specific “share’ button to start recording and posting gaming moments. The company has even promised that when its Gaikai game streaming service is launched later in 2014, players will be able to take control of a friend’s game over the web, helping them out of tricky sections.For now, we can probably look forward to the edifying prospect of Twitch Plays Titanfall, in which 150,000 viewers simultaneously attempt to guide a single pilot through an endless series of multiplayer bouts.•Twitch Plays Pokémon: live gaming’s latest big hit• Xbox One gets price cut to £399 – with free copy of Titanfall
The man behind a popular Twitter account thought to belong to a Goldman Sachs employee sharing secrets from inside the company’s elevator was unmasked on Tuesday night – and it turns out that the writer spends almost no time moving between Goldman’s floors.Instead,@GSElevatorbelongs to John Lefevre, a former bond executive for Citigroup who now lives in Texas. He never worked at Goldman.“Frankly, I’m surprised it has taken this long,”Lefevre, 34, told the New York Times, which uncovered his identity. “I knew this day would come.”The account started in the fall of 2011, when parody Twitter accounts were considered novel. That time has since passed, and any trendy event can and will lead to the creation of a fake account, such as:@JoeNamathsCoat,@Pharrellhatand@IamRoyalBaby.#1: Let&#39;s be honest. There&#39;s no way your guess is as good as mine.&mdash; GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator)November 6, 2013Lefevre has been posting less frequent updates as he works on a book on Wall Street culture. Simon &amp; Schuster imprint Touchstone bought his book last month. The book’s editor Matthew Benjamin said the unmasking “was not a surprise.”“We always expected his identity to be revealed at some point,” Benjamin told the Times.Wall Street insiders had for years bandied about theories on the account’s author, and Goldman Sachs dismissed claims that it had launched an internal investigation to find the owner of theaccount in August 2011. Lefevre said the account wasn’t specific to Goldman Sachs, and his observations were a reflection of “the culture in general”.#1: Only Neanderthals resort to violence. I prefer crushing one&#39;s spirit, hope, or ego.&mdash; GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator)December 25, 2013As of Tuesday morning, he had more than 625,000 followers and had posted more than 1,100 tweets. It only follows three other Twitter accounts: the businessman Carl Icahn, the model Kate Upton, and something called@Hope_plumbing, which recently posted the Friedrich Nietzsche quote: “Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process they do not become a monster.”#1: In the Hamptons, it&#39;s herpès.&mdash; GS Elevator Gossip (@GSElevator)July 21, 2013
Bitcoin is here to stay, despite a little hiccup in Japan. The digital currency, seen by its promoters as a super-efficient way to pay online, has suffered a setback with the Tokyo-based MtGox business, that once boasted it was the largest bitcoin exchange in the world, evaporating, at least for now. This would mean little if it could explain where bitcoins worth several million pounds held in its databanks have gone. The owners say they have yet to get an explanation.There is a strong rumour, based on a supposedly leaked report from the exchange, that theft accounts for around 744,000 missing bitcoins, or 6% of the entire world stock. With a bitcoin valued at more than $500 before the story broke, the theft could leave users more than $370m out of pocket.Such a huge loss would engulf most businesses in a welter of lawsuits. The digital currency was already battered by criticism pointing out its popularity with criminal gangs seeking to evade regulators or anti-fraud police. Critics also highlighted its lack of government support and the volatile price, which soared above $1,200 before Christmas before falling back below $420 on Tuesday.Techies claim they are the equivalent of Klondyke miners with a pick and shovel chipping away at rocks dotted with ore. In a sense that is how they come by their booty, except that the chipping is done by an algorithm and the whole exercise performed on a PC, perhaps from the safety of their bedroom. In a masterstroke, the currency's creator set a limit on the amount that could be generated, making everyone think that its limited supply would mean the price can only go up.That part of the plan at least seems to be unravelling. But even if the MtGox debacle hurts bitcoin beyond repair, it will be back in another guise – if only because digital currencies give clever people who lack the interpersonal skills to make it in business a chance to make a quick million bucks.Until the skills and cunning of bitcoiners can be redirected into something more useful, they will keep at it.
If unread emails and unreturned calls haven’t already turned your mobile phone into a vibrating source of guilt, feel comforted in the knowledge that there’s now an app for that.Samsung’s latest “fitness-focused” smartphone, the Galaxy S5, and two smartwatches, Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo, have landed, bringing data on physical activity (or the lack thereof) directly into the palms of users’ hands.The Galaxy S5boasts a new S Health 3 application that works with the phone’s built-in heart rate sensor and accelerometer to monitor if you’re being lazy or not.The smartwatchesboth come kitted out with a fitted gyroscope and can each measure heart rate on the wearer’s wrist. The Gear 2 also sports a camera, which could come in handy for gym mirror selfies, of courseHow much of this feels like a good move for people’s guilty consciences? As phones and watches this smart edge closer to the functionality of very persistent personal assistants, there are certainly a few things apps could stop nagging us about:When to be nice to someone you loveRomantimatic. That’s software developer Greg Knauss’s month-old app, designed to help people remember to tell other people that they love those people. Users can choose from a set of pre-written messages (“I love you”, or perhaps “my pants just vibrated, so I thought of you”) or compose their own, and be reminded to send them, Last Friday, Romantimatic had generated enough of online backlash – withElle,the AtlanticandEsquireweighing in – for Knauss to writea blogpostexplaining himself.Unromantic though it may seem, some of us are forgetful, after all.For when love needs a little poke under the ribs … Romantimatic app screenshot. Photograph: Romantimatic/screenshotWhen to call your mumStayInTouchfor Android expands Romantimatic’s remit to friends and acquaintances. Haven’t texted your mate in a while? The app’s ready to help you set a minimum time to allow between messages, or “a specific day count threshold”, if you’re feeling sentimental. Never again will your besties wonder where you’ve disappeared to, though they may start to catch on to your texts coming in at precisely the same time every two days.StayInTouch app screenshot Photograph: Chrud GamesWhen to be publicly shamed on FacebookAppBetterMe’s adherence to stick-over-carrot motivation comes across pretty transparently in its product description. Case in point: in order to be a better person who wakes up when they’re damn well meant to, BetterMe will “humiliate you by posting a message on your Facebook wall” if you snooze your alarm.The same function comes into play to make you keep appointments and commit to those workouts, when the iPhone app uses GPS and location check-ins to monitor if you’ve made it to the dentist, the office or the gym on time. If not, there’ll be a Facebook post written on your behalf announcing the failure. Nice.Here is a sneak peak of version 2 of BetterMe!#iphoneapps#lifehack#socialapps#productivityhttps://t.co/oJULFiUCpic.twitter.com/yc5M8nKK&mdash; BetterMe (@BetterMe_App)February 12, 2013When to feel guilty about not working outIn what’s quickly becoming a theme, another health-obsessed app takes the watchful eye a step further and throws money into the mix.Pact, for both iPhone and Android, gets users to bet on their chances of successfully eating healthier or exercising more in a given week. If they don’t meet their goal, they’ll have to shell out and pay other Pact members an amount agreed to when first setting the wager. If successful, they receive a little payment carved out of other Pact users’ failure money.I get paid to look this good! Tweet or IG an exercising pic w/#pactapp&amp; you could have one of these bad boys too!pic.twitter.com/Z7tkKGrD6A&mdash; Pact (@PactApp)January 10, 2014When not to drunkenly call your former lover...Finally, this is just one ofmanyappsout fighting the good fight against drunk-dialling exes at 2am. The premise is simple: once you’ve let your phone know that you’re planning to indulge in a spot of inebriation, the app quarantines certain numbers that you’ve identified as potential future danger zones. With theDrunk Dial No!app, your phone will hide individual contacts – and even entire groups – for between one and 48 hours, rendering them beyond your reach for calls and texting.Drunk Dial No screenshot. Photograph: Explore Fun IncThis doesn’t seem particularly foolproof if contacts are synced up to your Mac, but hopefully at that point in the night sleep would seem like a better option than logging on. Hopefully.•Flappy Bird clone Flying Cyrus takes a wrecking ball to App Store chart
MasterCard is partnering with network company Syniverse to reduce fraud and take the headache out of using credit cards abroad.The premise is simple – tie a credit card to the location of a mobile phone to make sure that where the card is being used is actually where the owner is, not a miscreant trying to use the card for fraudulent purposes.“There have been many attempts to help prevent credit card fraud, but this is the first solution that works globally and without the need for new devices or infrastructure,” explained Hany Fam, president of global strategic alliances at MasterCard, talking to the Guardian.No data neededThe system works transparently to the user and without the need for expensive roaming contracts. The user’s mobile phone simply needs to be powered up and be kept on the person and for them to have opted-in to the security service.Syniverse, which acts on the phone operator’s side interconnecting between different networks behind the scenes reaching more than 5bn mobile devices globally, is able to locate users via the mobile phone signal alone – no mobile data is required.“As soon as a mobile phone connects to the phone network we can see a user’s location within miliseconds, just by which mobile phone mast they connect to and it is unspoofable, as we get the data directly from the back end of the network,” explained Joe DiFonzo, chief technology officer of Syniverse talking to the Guardian.Eliminate the frustrations of card blocking while travelingMost credit card fraud occurs across country borders, according to MasterCard, so the simple ability to recognise that a cardholder is in one general location or another is enough to exclude a lot of fraudulent activity.It also means that users traveling abroad will not face the frustrations of automatic blockade of cards by their banks or providers when using them in another country.Fam explained that neither Syniverse nor MasterCard will actually track individual’s location, but will use a token system similar to the way credit card charges are authorised when a user inputs their pin.The system is currently in pilot stages, but Fam said this was just the first stage of MasterCard’s push for intelligent, technology-driven solutions to problems like fraud.Customers will be offered MasterCard’s anti-fraud system in the near future through their credit card provider, bank, mobile phone network or directly through MasterCard, depending on their country of residence.• In 2012, the Serious Organised Crime Agencyshut down 36 credit card fraud sitesfacilitating large-scale theft
EE’s chief executive thinks that the EU and media focus on roaming charges for using mobile phones abroad is “completely outdated” and that Europe is slipping behind on technology.Olaf Swantee was speaking about Mobile World Congress in reaction to plans by Neelie Kroes, in charge of the European commission’s digital agenda, to abolish charges for incoming calls in other EU countries by July 2014, and all roaming charges by 2016.Current charge caps are €0.24 per minute for calls, €0.08 per text message and €0.45 per megabyte of data, all excluding VAT. From July 2014 those will be reduced to €0.19 per minute for calls, €0.06 per text and €0.20 per MB of data.“I believe that the enormous focus on just roaming charges is wrong,” Swantee, EE’s chief executive, told the Guardian. “It is completely outdated. Clearly the industry, and I count myself in that, has had big issues in this space in the past, but nowadays it is much, much better,” he said.RechargingSwantee said that in his view the £3-a-day charges for roaming in the EU using a bundle or the same data and voice allowance that account holders could use in the UK were reasonable, and put roaming in reach of most people.“The European authorities should be more concerned about the fact that Europe used to lead mobile telecommunications in terms of networks and new technologies, but now they are trailing Asia and the US. That has an impact on jobs and innovation, which is very important,” he said.European rollout of the latest generation networks – 4G LTE – lags far behind that of the US and Asia, with the exception of the UK and some northern European countries like Sweden. More than 25% of devices in North America are connected to a 4G network, whereas only 2% of European devices are 4G connected, according to data from network provider Cisco Systems.“The exception is the UK, where we have built a network that is ahead of all the European networks and is only matched by South Korea and the US,” he added.EE’s 4G network presently covers 70% of the UK population. Anindependent report on 4G coverage worldwide by OpenSignal, which gathers data from millions of phone users, rates EE’s 4G network coverage as “poor but fast” and ranks it behind that from operators in Japan, Korea, Hong Kong, Canada and Sweden.4G aheadThe European lag comes from the fact that the US started investing in 4G networking in 2009, but it was many years later that European providers even considered it, a far cry from the last decade where European 3G networks were well ahead of their US counterparts.European countries were also slower to sell the wireless spectrum needed to establish 4G networks. The complex telecoms environment, with hundreds of operators across the various countries, also makes it more difficult for the companies to raise funds to upgrade networks. Many mobile operators in Europe are small and governed by complex regulations.EE launched the UK’s first 4G service on 30 October 2012, using surplus bandwidth on its network to getting a headstart on rivals which had to wait for an auction of spectrum. The surplus was created when Orange and T-Mobile merged their networks under the single EE brand, following regulatory approval in March 2010.The other UK mobile phone operators were awarded 4G spectrum in the UK 4G auction held by Ofcom in February 2013, with O2 and Vodafone launching 4G networks in August and Three in December.• In 2013, the EUissued a warning over roaming chargessaying caps were not optional
By now, veteran gamers will have seen the news and are no doubt preparing to re-ignite ancient rivalries. Old consoles will be dusted down and powered up, classic games re-discovered, raging arguments that have stalled for decades, unearthed once again.Sony Pictures has secured the movie rights to the book Console Wars, a forthcoming ‘business thriller’ about the rivalry between Sega and Nintendo in the early nineties. Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg are reportedly lined up to direct. This is weird and exciting news.But wait, a mainstream movie about warring consoles - who’s going to want to see that? Tut, if you’re asking that question you are a) very young in which case we’ll let you off, or b) missing out on some key cultural history.Let me set this up for you. In 1989, Nintendo controlled the video game business. It wasn’t just a big player, it wasn’t just the manufacturer of a really successful console (the Nintendo Entertainment System). Itwasgames , itwasconsoles.In the late-eighties, Nintendo had a 95% share of the market. In the US and Japan, people didn’t play games, they played Nintendo. In Europe, we were a bit distracted with home computers like the Spectrum and the Commodore 64, but we knew what was going on, we saw the conflict brewing.Because on the periphery was a company called Sega, and it looked to Nintendo’s home console domination with jealous ire. Set up by ex-US airman David Rosen in the sixties, the company specialised in arcade machines, at first semi-mechanical beasts, but later video game coin-ops.Rosen had been stationed in Japan during the Korean war and started out importing photo booths into the country before building his own games cabinets and setting up a string of arcades.In the eighties, Sega produced some of the greatest arcade games ever made – Space Harrier, Outrun, Hang-On – but its early attempts to break into the home console market failed – because, just to reiterate this again, Nintendo was IMMENSE. It had deals with all the best Japanese developers to ensure they couldn’t make games for anyone else. There was no way in.But Sega wanted in, and it was going to fight.Player two, press startSo what we have is a classic Hollywood underdog story – the established champion against a scrappy upstart with ridiculous dreams. But the dreams weren’t so ridiculous. Sega built the Mega Drive, a powerful console capable of effectively porting the best arcade games onto a home machine for the first time.And in America, the company’s president Michael Katz had the great idea of targeting the machine at an older audience: instead of competing directly against Nintendo and its output of cute family gaming titles, it would go for the teens and the twenty somethings, with cool edgy beat-’em-ups like Streets of Rage and grown-up sports sims like Madden NFL.Sega hired in cool advertising firms to make insane adverts blasting heavy rock music and showing kids rebelling against the status quo by, erm, playing Altered Beast. The ads had kids screaming ‘Sega’ at each other. It was like a mini-revolution – a youth cult with its own language.So this is Beatles vs Stones, or Blur vs Oasis territory. It’s the kids taking sides and expressing themselves, it is youth identity expressed through consumer products on a hyper-kinetic level.There was so much rivalry. Sega mags hated Nintendo mags, Sega players scorned Mario, Nintendo fanatics hated Sonic. Every major release was fodder to the fight. Who had the best role-playing games, the best shooters, the best version of Street Fighter? This stuff mattered. It mattered to us.The hero of this underdog story is of course Sonic. When Sega released the Mega Drive (or the Genesis as it was known in the states), the console did okay and built a good user-base, but Nintendo wasn’t too worried.But then a small development team housed within Sega had the idea of a platformer based around speed and evasion, and eye-searingly bright colours. Its hero wouldn’t be a portly plumber or a weird alien, it would be a foot-tapping hedgehog. In 1991, it unleashed the turbo-charged result: Sonic the Hedgehog, a platformer so ridiculously fast, so layered, so challenging, it changed mainstream game design ethos.By then Michael Katz had been replaced by Tom Kalinske at Sega of America and this guy had a profound and brilliant idea - reduce the price of Genesis and bundle Sonic the Hedgehog with it. It was the razer and the blade, of course, the classic loss leader, but it was risky in such a volatile market.But it worked. Sales exploded – 15m Genesis/Sonic bundles shot off shelves. The game was adored. Sonic was cool and irreverent, like a teenager with even bluer spiker hair than a lot of teenagers already had in the early nineties. Sonic said, don’t wait for anything, time is of the essence, you have to live fast or you’ll die.I’m fascinated to see how this is captured on the big screen without making everyone throw up.Trapped in the futureThis was also a time of fear and controversy; there was even courtroom drama. When Sega released the schlocky horror game NightTrap, America’s right-wing worry-warts got into such a lather, the US games industry was called in front of a senate hearing.Senator Joe Lieberman saw in games the next big youth quake, the thing that was going to destroy society when television and rock-n-roll didn’t. Nintendo and Sega squared up against each other in the court room. Nintendo’s US chief Howard Lincoln said he was disgusted with NightTrap - he was trying to score business points in a room where politicians were seriously thinking about banning mature-rated games. It was chaos.Along the way, Sega invented the concept of the synchronised global video game launch with Sonic 2’s Day, the nuclear hyped arrival of the Sonic sequel. There were also the gore wars over visceral fighting game Mortal Kombat (Mega Drive showed the bloody fatality moves, the Super Nintendo didn’t), and in the same genre, there were fanatics round-housing each other over whether the SNES version of Street Fighter II was better than the Mega Drive edition.Then you had the fantasy adventure fans smiting their enemies over who had the best titles: Final Fantasy or Phantasy Star? Zelda vs Landstalker? It was intense. It was war.I’m not sure how Rogen and Goldberg will set all this in a narrative film. Perhaps they’ll follow two kids whose friendship is torn asunder when they find themselves on opposing sides, perhaps it will follow one of the real-life eccentrics involves in the crazed business machinations.We’ve mentioned Katz, Kalinske and Lincoln, but there are so many more – Trip Hawkins, for example, the founder of Electronic Arts who held Sega to ransom by reverse-engineering the Genesis game carts then threatening to manufacture his own, busting the whole business model wide open. Or Yuji Naka, the difficult genius who coded Sonic, who made other programmers gasp in awe at his achievements.The war we’re now involved in – the war between Sony and Microsoft – is mild-mannered and businesslike by comparison. The two companies even congratulated each other on the respective launches of their expensive next-gen consoles. The games industry is a billion dollar concern controlled by sensible corporate ghosts who make conference calls to investors and talk about games in the same way they’d talk about agricultural or chemical products - just the things that bring in the money.Sega vs Nintendo wasn’t like that. We all knew it. It was intense and all-consuming. The guys in control lived this stuff. Sega of Japan CEO Hayao Nakayama virtually destroyed a meeting room when Kalinske flew over to explain his idea of making their best game, Sonic, free with the console. The twice-yearly Consumer Electronic shows were like battlezones, with the Sega and Nintendo booths fortified beneath game screens and neon, like science fiction citadels.Hyper-fandomIf a movie can capture a fraction of the reality of this era, it will be enormous fun. I’m writing a book about the Mega Drive right now and I’ve spoken to hundreds of execs, developers, fans and journalists; the passion still burns 20 years later. Video game culture has been poorly served by cinema over the last four decades. A handful of excellent documentaries really doesn’t cut it – especially when you consider the mass of god-awful tie-in shockers like Street Fighter: The Movie. Games deserve better.Sure, if you’re going to look back at the nineties, Blur vs Oasis had the sex and glamour of popular music, but that faux-showdown didn’t define the era for me in the way that cultural pundits insist. Sega vs Nintendo did. This was the first hint that games were vying for space in the same socio-cultural arenas as pop music and TV.Sega vs Nintendo was post-pop, post-cinema and super focused on a new tribe of kids who didn’t subscribe to the ideas of rebellion and identity that grew out of fifties rock-n-roll. Parents were terrified because their kids weren’t picking up guitars to rebel anymore - they were picking up controllers and learning multi-move fighting combos – and no one over the age of 30 had any idea, any frame of reference to cope with that.The rivalry between gamers, the intensity of the game worlds being conjured on the Mega Drive and Genesis screens - all of it was utterly alien. It was Baudrillard’s idea of hyper-reality captured in every front room. It was the beginning of the future.So yes, Ninetendo vs Sega. It is not a silly little retro computing face-off that can be summarily dismissed as geeky nonsense by people who weren’t there or don’t get it; it was the start of a new way of thinking about interactive technology, and the dawn of an era in which gamers self-identified as gamers.Communities arose, genres formed, and pixels and polygons were were the constructive forces, the semiotics of a new communicative medium. I’m not sure Seth Rogen will go for any of that, but you know, even if his film is about a cute plump kid who gets the girl in the midst of the console battle drama, it’s still a recognition of something important.Not every youth cultural phenomenon of the last forty years is about music or TV and not everything we got up to in the nineties – amid the dour gloom of grunge and the self-celebratory fizz of Britpop – can be pacified and eulogised into a Mojo Collector’s Edition.• Sonic Boom – gaming’s hedgehog hero reinvented
BlackBerry is working with Chinese manufacturing company Foxconn to produce a new, cheaper smartphone that will sell for under $200, it was announced on Tuesday.The chief executive John Chen told the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona that the Z3 will launch in Indonesia in April, and that it was built in just three months instead of the usual 12.Chen said the handset would eventually be released in other markets “with an LTE version sometime before I die”. The handset is entirely touchscreen, but Chen also announced a second new “classic” phone, the Q20, that will be released before the end of the year - which will feature BlackBerry’s trademark mechanical keyboard and also revives its trackpad.It will resemble older BlackBerry models, but will use the new BB10 software.“Almost everyone I’ve met, in government, enterprise, loves the keyboard, but it turns out what they love just as much is the little belt above the keyboard that held the trackpad and buttons, which is why they didn’t like the Q10. So we decided to listen to customers, and give them what they want.”Foxconn owner Terry Gou said: “We have 100% confidence in BB and we are fully supporting them. We will make this work.”Secure messaging futureChen went on to announce that the company will promote its expertise in secure messaging with a new service called BBM Protected.Chen, who took charge of the company in November, vowed to take the company back into the black by the end of the fiscal year and into profitability next year.He said his path to turning the business around was centred on secure communications and productivity for the regulated industries, including banking, government, healthcare and other data-secure business.“We are still committed to the device business, but one of our turnaround strategies is to focus on enterprise, the regulated industry and our server business,” said Chen at a session with the press at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.BBM ProtectedChen explained that BlackBerry’s profitable server business, the BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES), will be the focus for the company in the immediate future, with a new version BES 12 due to be released by the end of the year that will bring cross platform compatibility with Windows Phone, as well as Android and iPhone.BlackBerry will leverage its popular cross-platform messaging service, BBM, which currently has 85 million monthly active users (WhatsApp has 465 million monthly active users). Its new BBM Protected service will offer enterprise customers secure, encrypted end-to-end messaging as well as allow companies to keep a record of conversations for compliance regulations. It will be the first of a suite of enterprise BBM applications and services.‘Spread ourselves a little too thin’Chen admitted that the company’s consumer focus damaged BlackBerry’s standings in the enterprise space, which it was historically strong.“There’s a certain truth to the fact that we focused on the consumer, spreading ourselves a little too thin, before I came on board. I have now rectified that,” Chen said.Clarifying his position on apps, Chen said that security was of paramount importance and that the level of certification required for entry into the BlackBerry World app store was going to be very high ensuring security on the platform, “we feel that’s a value add.”Chen also explained that the company was also working on high-end devices, which is something business users demand accord to BlackBerry, but that he could not talk about them at this stage.• Phone manufacturers only have one chance to get it right
Apple has issued an urgent fix for a vulnerability in its SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) code, used to create secure connections to websites over Wi-Fi or other connections, for its iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices.The fix, which is available now for both iOS 6 and iOS 7, is for a flaw which appears to have been introduced in a code change made ahead of the launch of iOS 6.0.The flaw also affects Mac computers running Mac OSX - for which there’s no fix announced yet, although Apple says one is “coming soon”.Update:the fix is included in OSX 10.9.2, whichbecame availableon Tuesday. There is also an update for Mountain Lion, though it’s not clear why as that wasn’t thought to be affected.The bug, and its discovery, raise a number of questions. Here’s what we do know, what we don’t know, and what we hope to know. (Apple declined to comment in relation to a number of questions we put about the vulnerability.)How can I check whether I’m vulnerable?Go togotofail.comand see what message you get. If all is good you’ll get a green message. On an iOS device, you’ll get a warning to update. If you’re on a Mac, you’ll either get a green message (your system is safe) or a yellow message (in a safe browser pointing out that other apps could be vulnerable) or a red message (telling you to patch your browser).What should I do?If you use an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch, update its operating software. Go to Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Software Update. For devices using iOS 7, update to iOS 7.0.6; for devices on iOS 6 which can’t be updated to iOS 7 (the iPhone 3GS or iPod Touch 4G), update to 6.1.6.Note that Appleisn’toffering an update to iOS 6 for devices which can be updated to iOS 7 (iPhone 4, iPad 2, etc). For those, your only options are to update, or live dangerously.If you’re using a Mac on an older OS version, ie 10.8 (”Mountain Lion”) or earlier, you’re safe.If you’re using a Mac on the newest OS, 10.9 (aka “Mavericks”), don’t use Safari to connect to secure websites until there’s an update. Use Mozilla’s Firefox or Google’s Chrome: they use their own code for connecting to secure websites. No bug has been found in that.What did the bug do?In theory (and perhaps, depending on who knew about it, in practice) it could allow your connections to secure sites to be spied on and/or your login details captured. Updating the software prevents that. The bug affected the SSL/TLS encrypted connection to remote sites.What’s the importance of SSL/TLS?When your device (handheld or PC) connects to a website using the SSL/TLS (Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security) method, the site presents a cryptographic “certificate” chain identifying itself and the authority which issued the certificate. Your device already has a list of issuing authorities which are trusted, and it will check the name of the site and the certificate it presents with that authority.It’s a four-step process:• Site presents certificate chain• Your device checks site’s certificate matches name of site you’re on• Your device verifies that certificate comes from valid issuing authority• Your browser verifies that certificate chain signature matches the site’s public key.(There’s also a guide to how it works at thegotofail.com FAQ.)In theory, a certificate that has the wrong name for the site, or which hasn’t been issued by the authority, or which is out of date, won’t be trusted. At this point you’ll get a warning in your browser telling you that there’s something wrong and that you shouldn’t proceed or your data could be at risk.A faked certificate could mean that the site you’re connecting to is actually being run by someone who wants to collect your user login details - as has happened in Iran. In 2011 the government there is reckoned to have used a certificate issued from a subverted certificated authority to set up a site which (through DNS diversion) could pretend to be Google’s gmail.com - andcaptured the data from dissidents who thought they were logging into the site.So it’s important that your device can authenticate SSL certificates correctly. Sometimes you will come across sites where you get a certificate warning but which say you should trust it (for example because it’s a subsidiary with a different name from the one which owns the certificate). Be wary. Don’t approve certificates without being cautious.What was the bug?Due to a singe repeated line of code in an Apple library, almost any attempt to verify a certificate on a site would succeed - whether or not the certificate’s signature was valid. It would only throw an error if the certificate itself was invalid (due to being out of date, for example).The bug is in the code below: it’s the second “goto fail;”, and would be carried out in every circumstance.static OSStatusSSLVerifySignedServerKeyExchange(SSLContext *ctx, bool isRsa, SSLBuffer signedParams,uint8_t *signature, UInt16 signatureLen){OSStatus err;...if ((err = SSLHashSHA1.update(&amp;hashCtx, &amp;serverRandom)) != 0)goto fail;if ((err = SSLHashSHA1.update(&amp;hashCtx, &amp;signedParams)) != 0)goto fail;goto fail;if ((err = SSLHashSHA1.final(&amp;hashCtx, &amp;hashOut)) != 0)goto fail;...fail:SSLFreeBuffer(&amp;signedHashes);SSLFreeBuffer(&amp;hashCtx);return err;}When did the bug appear?In iOS 6.0, which went public in September 2012. It’s not yet clear precisely when the error appeared in Mac OSX, but it’s likely to be at the same time, since the mobile and desktop OSs use common code trees. The bug wasn’t there in the final version of iOS 5, 5.1.1,released in May 2012. The same code has apparently been carried forward through into iOS 7 and Mac OSX 10.9; it’s even in thelatest versions of iOS 7.1, which is still in beta.Thediff of the two code versionsshows the addition of the extra statement at line 62:Apple's SSL/TLS verification code, showing the differences between versions. The red lines were removed in the update; the green lines were added. The crucial change which broke SSL is line 62. Photograph: Public domain(The red lines are removed in the updated code; the green lines are added.)It’s not an obvious difference unless you’re looking for it; in that case, it stands out like a sore thumb to any programmer.How did the bug get there?Here we have two divergent theories: accident or conspiracy. Either it’s a stupid mistake inside Apple, or it’s a nefarious plan by the NSA (or others?) to ensnare targets’ communications by planting a back door in a key piece of code.Arguing against the conspiracy plan is the fact thatApple publishes this code on its open source page. On the basis that “many eyes make bugs shallow”, and that the whole internet has been able to look at this epic “goto fail” for ages. If the NSA puts its secret backdoors out in the open like this, you’d expect them to be found a lot faster.Arguing for nefarious conspiracy is - well, not very much. Apple should have found it, but didn’t; either of its compilers (GCC and Clang) should have thrown an error, but testing by others has shown that it doesn’t unless you have a particular warning flag (for “unreachable code”) set. A compiler which pointed to “unreachable code” (that is, a segment of code which will never be activated because it lies beneath a code diversion that always applies) would have caught it.One former Apple staffer who worked on Mac OSX told the Guardian it’s “extremely unlikely, at least under normal circumstances” that the flaw was added maliciously. “There are very few people on any given team at Apple, and so getting changes lost in the shuffle would be difficult. The flip side is that there aren’t strong internal consistency/integrity checks on the codebase, so if someonewereclever enough to subvert normal processes there would be easy ways in.”But, the programmer added, “this change does not specifically stand out as malicious in nature.” The way it almost certainly happened is that it was a copy/paste error, or a merge issue (between two branches of code) that went unnoticed - “two similar changes could cause a conflict” (where the code has an illogical flow) “and in resolving this conflict an engineer might have made a mistake.”What do programmers say?One former Apple employee who worked on Mac OSX, including shipping updates and security updates, told the Guardian that Apple will be able to identify who did the code checkin which created the bug. “While source code management is on a team-by-team basis (there’s no company-wide policy), nearly every team uses some system (GitorSVN) that would be able to track commits [changes to code which are “committed” for use] and assign blame.”The most likely explanation is that it occurred through the merging of two branches of code (where two or more people were working on the segment of code). Code merging is completely common in professional programming; reconciling conflicts between separate branches tends to be done by hand, using editors which will show up “diffs” (differences) between the old, new, and alternative new code.Adam Langley, who works on security for Google’s Chrome browser (but hasn’t worked for Apple),says:This sort of subtle bug deep in the code is a nightmare. I believe that it’s just a mistake and I feel very bad for whomever might have slipped in an editor and created it.The author of the gotofail.com site thinks otherwise:It is hard for me to believe that the second “goto fail;” was inserted accidently given that there were no other changes within a few lines of it. In my opinion, the bug is too easy to exploit for it to have been an NSA plant. My speculation is that someone put it in on purpose so they (or their buddy) could sell it.(By “sell” he’s referring to the fact that you can now sell “zero-day exploits” to nation states and security companies - garneringup to half a million dollarsor perhaps more.)The fact that Apple is fixing the hole now suggests that it isn’t NSA-inspired. Though asJohn Gruber has pointed out, it’s perfectly possible that the NSA discovered this hole when iOS 6 was released and knew that it could exploit it.One peculiar fact: if the NSA was aware of this security hole, it doesn’t seem to have told the US Department of Defense, whichpassed iOS 6 for use in governmentin May 2013.When did Apple find the bug?Early in January. On 8 January it contactedCVE, the Common Vulnerabilities and Errors database(used by all the major software developers) to reserve the bug number CVE 2014-1266 for the newly-discovered vulnerability, though CVE didn’t know what the vulnerability was.Apple seems then to have begun working on the fix and how to roll it out. What’s odd is that despite finding the vulnerability then, it didn’t fix it in two beta versions of iOS 7.1 that were released after that time. One possibility - though the company won’t confirm this - is that it discovered the failure to authenticate the certificate in January, but took until now to narrow down the faulty piece of code - although given how quickly it took the rest of the web to do the same (a matter of a few hours) this seems unlikely.Why didn’t Apple spot the bug sooner?Its tests didn’t find it. The company won’t say what methods it uses - whetherunit testing(in which individual chunks of code are tested individually) orregression testingwhere the new code is tested against known tests.The former programmer there says “Apple does not have a strong culture of testing or test-driven development. Apple relies overly on ‘dogfooding’ [using its own products] for quality processes, which in security situations is not appropriate.“From a good software engineering standpoint, this type of issue should have been found. It is shameful they are not runningstatic code analysisat all (let alone automatically) on such important codebases.” The problem with static code analysis is that it can generate false positives - warnings about faults which aren’t - which led to several teams rejecting the idea, though it’s unclear whether the Security team was one of them.How did Apple find the bug?It seems to have been from a line-by-line review of code, almost certainly sparked by the revelations published by the Guardian of the NSA’s Prism efforts - and its otherclaims to have cracked SSL. At one point there was speculation that the code review was instigated by Kristin Paget, who was until recently in charge of Apple’s core OS X security, having joined in September 2012.But Paget (who has just started working for Tesla) hasunleashed a blistering attack on Apple on her blogfor releasing the fix for iOS but not also patching the desktop at the same time:WHAT THE EVER LOVING F**K, APPLE??!?!! Did you seriously just use one of your platforms to drop an SSL 0day on your other platform? As I sit here on my mac I’m vulnerable to this and there’s nothing I can do, because you couldn’t release a patch for both platforms at the same time? You do know there’s a bunch of live, working exploits for this out in the wild right now, right?As she points out, Apple’s own security update system uses SSL - so might that be hacked by a “man in the middle” attack to plant malware?How about your update system itself – is that vulnerable?Come the hell on, Apple. You just dropped an ugly 0day [zero-day vulnerability] on us and then went home for the weekend – goto fail indeed.FIX. YOUR. SHIT.Why didn’t Apple fix the bug for Mac OSX at the same time as it did for iOS?It certainly should have, as Paget points out. Another former Apple staffer agrees; apparently Apple decided instead to roll out the fix for Mavericks as part of its 10.9.2 software update rather than as a separate security update (which it has done before). But other bugs were found in 10.9.2, delaying its release - and reducing the security of Mac users. (As noted above, the fix for OSX was rolled out on Tuesday, four days after that for iOS.)Have there been mistakes like this before?Mistakes abound in software - and encryption mistakes are surprisingly easy to make. In May 2011, a security researcher pointed out that WhatsApp user accounts could be hijacked because they weren’t encrypted at all; until September 2011, there was a flaw in the same app which let people send forged messages pretending to be from anyone.A common mistake is the use of default logins which are left active: millions of routers around the world have default user IDs and passwords (often “admin” and “admin”) which can be exploited by hackers.A similar coding mistake bricked Microsoft’s Zune on the last day of 2008 - which, as luck would have it, was a leap year. There was acoding mistake in the software for the timer chipwhich wouldn’t allow it to display a date equivalent to the 366th day of the year.Apple has also made some similar egregious errors - notably in having alarms whichdidn’t adjust when daylight savings timedid, and so kept waking people up either an hour early or late.Google too had anerror in version 4.2.0 of its Android software: you couldn’t add the birthdays of people born in December to their contacts, because that month wasn’t included.More seriously, versions of Google’s Android up to version 4.2 could seeconnections made over open Wi-Fi hijacked and malicious code injected, UK-based MWR Labs said in September 2013. It’s unclear whether that has yet been patched; millions of Android devices are still using versions below 4.2. Ars Technica, reporting that flaw, noted that “while the weakness can largely be prevented in Android 4.2, users are protected only if developers of each app follow best practices.”And Microsoft had a long-running flaw in Windows 95 and Windows 98 which meant that if your computer had been running continuously for just under 50 days, it wouldsuddenly hang- and you’d have to reboot it. Why? Because it measured “uptime” using a 32-bit register, which incremented every millisecond. After 2^32 milliseconds (aka 49 days and 17 hours), the register was all 1s - and the only way to reset it was turning the power off. That’s quite aside from the many flaws exploited in its ActiveX software to install malicious programs on Windows machines in so-called “drive-by installations”.What lessons are there from this?In thewords of Arie Van Deursen, professor in software engineering at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands,When first seeing this code, I was once again caught by how incredibly brittle programming is. Just adding a single line of code can bring a system to its knees.Not only that - but the flawed code has been both used and published for 18 months, and tested by a government security organisation which passed it for use. Software bugs can be pernicious - and they can lurk in the most essential areas. And even companies which have been writing software for decades can fall foul of them.But the former staffer at Apple says that unless the company introduces better testing regimes - static code analysis, unit testing, regression testing - “I’m not surprised by this… it will only be a matter of time until another bomb like this hits.” The only - minimal - comfort: “I doubt it is malicious.”•Feeling smug that your iPhone can’t be hacked? Not so fast...
MtGox, once the largest bitcoin exchange in the world, has disappeared from the internet with many millions of dollars of customer deposits, leaving only a short statement by way of explanation.Addressed to “MtGox Customers”,the statement reads, in full, “In the event of recent news reports and the potential repercussions on MtGox’s operations and the market, a decision was taken to close all transactions for the time being in order to protect the site and our users. We will be closely monitoring the situation and will react accordingly.”Until the statement was posted, the site was just a blank white page from Monday night until Tuesday morning, while the company’s Twitter account was wiped blank on Monday. On Sunday, its chief executive Mark Karpeles resigned from the board of the Bitcoin Foundation, the charity that promotes the use of the cryptocurrency.MtGox’s apparent closure or hiatus also followsthe leak of what is alleged to be a “crisis strategy document”from the company, which says that almost 750,000 bitcoins (currently worth more than £200m) are “missing” due to theft which went unnoticed for several years.Ina joint letter, the CEOs of a number of other bitcoin exchanges said that MtGox had confirmed its “issues” in private discussions. The founders of Coinbase, and the CEOs of Kraken, BitStamp, Circle, BTC China &amp; Blockchain.info, released the statement late Monday night.“As with any new industry, there are certain bad actors that need to be weeded out, and that is what we are seeing today,” it reads in part. “We are confident, however, that strong Bitcoin companies, led by highly competent teams and backed by credible investors, will continue to thrive, and to fulfill the promise that bitcoin offers as the future of payment in the internet age.”The claimed MtGox strategy document claims that the 750,000 bitcoin loss is as a result of the same “transaction malleability” issue which caused it to halt bitcoin withdrawals in early February; but says that the actual losses happened closer to when the problem, which is inherent to bitcoin, was discovered in 2011.The document suggests that a temporary closure, and rebrand to “Gox.com”, may be enough to clean the company’s image. As for making up the missing millions, it proposes asking “bitcoin big players and the core community” to donate money. The rationale is that the total collapse of MtGox would be so bad for the digital currency that everyone who is invested in bitcoin will have a motivation to keep it alive.Before the company issued the statement, the source code of the blank MtGox page contained an HTML comment reading “&lt;!-- put announce for mtgox acq here --&gt;”, suggesting that it is soon to announce an acquisition.On the Reddit bitcoin subforum, users traded stories about how much they lost in the closure. One who claimed to havelost 4,750 bitcoins(£1.3m) said “I don’t know how dying feels, but I’m pretty sure that’s how I feel now.” Anotherlost 1998 bitcoinbut says “Despite all this, I’m still a believer in bitcoin (just not so much other people).”Bitcoin prices were down across the board, with the Winkdex price index showing a 22% drop in the price of one bitcoin in the past 24 hours over five of the largest exchanges from $581 to $437.MtGox did not respond to requests for comment. The Japan-based company, which was originally known as the Magic the Gathering Online Exchange, began as a site for selling cards from the popular Magic trading card game. It rapidly pivoted into selling bitcoin in 2010, and was sold to Mark Karpeles in 2011. By April 2013 it handled 70% of the world’s bitcoin trades.•Bitcoin Foundation vice chair resigns amid money-laundering investigation
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe great Facebook email experiment is over &gt;&gt; Re/codeFacebook is retiring its email address system, the company announced on Monday.From now on, any emails sent to a users @facebook.com email address — which all Facebook users could claim upon signing up for the social network — will now be automatically forwarded to the default personal email address used to sign up for the site…It's not for lack of trying to make it work. Two years ago, Facebook gave users a nudge toward using their Facebook.com email addresses by switching the default settings and displaying those addresses on users' pages without letting them know beforehand. It did not go over well.BlackBerry Ltd's head of user experience Don Lindsay is latest executive to leave smartphone maker &gt;&gt; The ProvinceThe ongoing executive exodus from BlackBerry Ltd. now includes the man responsible for overseeing the design of the user experience for the BlackBerry 10 operating system.On Monday, a spokesperson for BlackBerry confirmed that Don Lindsay, vice president of user experience at the Waterloo, Ont.-based company since 2009, left the firm in December.Nokia welcomes Android developers &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dediu:Devices are commoditizing, operating systems are commodities and the Android platform is a commodity. Value will not be captured in any of these technology modules. Ecosystems are another matter. It's where Facebook (and its acquisitions) reside. It's where Google lives and it's where iTunes has been for a decade.Nokia's adoption of AOSP as an operating system is consistent with the ecosystem strategy set forth three years ago, and is also consistent with Microsoft's competitive strategy.Which is why I believe Microsoft is not only comfortable with this development but had agreed to it over a year ago when work on this initiative was already well under way.See later for Frank Shaw's outlook.Fish on wheels &gt;&gt; YouTubeBy using a camera and computer vision software it is possible to make a fish control a robot car over land. By swimming towards an interesting object, the fish can explore the world beyond the limits of his tank.In cars next?Mobile World Congress, Microsoft and Nokia &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft Blog - Site Home - TechNet BlogsHead of Microsoft PR Frank X Shaw on the Nokia X line:There's been lots of speculation about what this announcement means for Microsoft and about our pending acquisition of Nokia's Devices and Services business. Here are a couple of points to put things into context.First, our transaction with Nokia has not yet closed. Today, we operate as two independent companies as required by antitrust law, and we will until the acquisition is complete. The anticipated close timeframe for the acquisition remains end of the first quarter of 2014.Second, we're pleased to see Microsoft services like Skype, OneDrive and Outlook.com being introduced on these devices. This provides the opportunity to bring millions of people, particularly in growth markets, into the Microsoft family. The Skype team on Monday announced an offer in select markets for the first customers who purchase a Nokia X, one month of Skype's Unlimited World Subscription. Read the Skype blog for more details.Finally, our primary smartphone strategy remains Windows Phone, and our core device platform for developers is the Windows platform.From the sound of it, he isn't pleased to see the Nokia X - that's a gun in his pocket.Windows Phone users are more willing to pay for apps compared to those on Android &gt;&gt; WinBetaAccording to a new data gathered by Statistic Brain, it seems Windows Phone users are more willing to pay for apps compared to Android, with iOS users being on top of the list.According to the data collected by Statistic Brain, 62% of Android users never paid a dollar for an app, while the number is a little lower for Windows Phone - currently at 58%. Even when you compare the number of downloads on each platform, Android has a whopping 29bn downloads compared to 4.1 billion on Windows Phone, the difference is massive. In terms of total app store revenue, Android generated $1.2bn, while the Windows Phone Store racked up $950m.In other words, a mean of 4.1c per app on Android v 23.1c per app on Windows Phone. For iOS? 23.7c. BlackBerry? 22.9c.Here are the numbers.351 million new smartphones shipped in China in 2013 &gt;&gt; Tech In Asia351m new smartphones shipped to stores across China in 2013, according to data from market intelligence firm IDC. That means China accounts for just over one-third of all smartphone shipments around the world at the end of 2013. Smartphones now account for over 80% of China's total phone sales.While shipments don't equate to sales (who knows how many are lying unsold on shelves or in warehouses), the number gives us a good sense of the momentum behind smartphones in the nation. It's harder to tell how many active smartphone users there are in China – mainly due to China's much-altered Android phones not registering with the mothership at Google – but search giant Baidu reckons there were 270m active Android users in China in Q3 2013.The AOSP phones sold in China do count for the purposes of "Android" tallies in IDC's and Gartner's figures, though, which can be confusing to some. Now Nokia is on the AOSP bandwagon too, maybe more clarity will follow.LG: No Windows Phone devices for some time yet &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintLG has confirmed to Pocket-lint that although it has been a life-long partner for Microsoft's Windows Phone we shouldn't expect to see a new Windows Phone handset from the manufacturer any time soon.Talking to Pocket-lint at the pre-MWC launch event for the G Pro 2 and G2 mini smartphones, a spokesman for the company confirmed that there are no Windows Phone devices on the roadmap at the moment.Difference between being a Windows Phone "partner" and "company which actually churns them out on the production line" becomes apparent.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Facebook users whose friends and family have died leaving profiles on the site will be able to request “Look Back” videos for their loved ones.The site has also changed its policies regarding memorial accounts to allow users to retain in death the privacy settings they selected in life.“This will allow people to see memorialized profiles in a manner consistent with the deceased person’s expectations of privacy,” said Facebook’s Chris Price and Alex DiSclafaniin a blog post. “We are respecting the choices a person made in life while giving their extended community of family and friends ongoing visibility to the same content they could always see.”Both changes affect memorial pages, profiles of users who have died and whose family members have requested the page be left open in memory of the deceased. The tradition began as an ad-hoc practice, but in 2009the company made the practice official, in part to prevent users being asked to “get in touch” with dead friends.Until now, memorial pages have automatically been set at the “friends-only” privacy setting, allowing only those who were friends with the page’s subject in life to see their account after death.Facebook will also let users who have suffered the loss of a loved one request to view that person’s own “look back” video, the short round-up of past activity on the site that Facebook produced for its tenth anniversary. As Price and DiSclafani explain, the impetus was a user request:“For one man in Missouri, the Look Back video he was most desperate to watch was one that had not yet been made. John Berlin reached out to ask if it was possible for Facebook to create a video for his son, Jesse, who passed away in 2012. We had not initially made the videos for memorialized accounts, but John’s request touched the hearts of everyone who heard it, including ours.”Any user can request to see a deceased loved ones video on Facebook’s site.•Mark Zuckerberg: Facebook’s future is to reach billions of mobile users
It's Tuesday.
Adding voice to WhatsApp is a logical move. Having taken text messaging revenues from mobile phone operators, Facebook is now looking to do the same with voice calls. People already use WhatsApp to send texts, pictures, video and short sound files. If you're on a data connection, all the things you send and receive as data are broken into packets.The same can be done with a voice signal: that's how Skype works, and it is available on mobile phones as well as desktop computers.Carriers, especially those that make lots of money from international calls, have every reason to be worried. Text messaging, or SMS, has been the most golden of geese. It generated global revenues of $104bn in 2013. But this represents a peak as WhatsApp and other messaging apps such as BlackBerry Messenger and Apple's iMessage began to take over. The research company Strategy Analytics forecasts that SMS revenues will keep dropping,probably by another 20% by 2017.If that's what WhatsApp can do to texting, what might it do to voice calling, especially abroad? Skype had little impact there, even though it's much cheaper, because it wasn't easy to use on mobile. WhatsApp offers much more in that arena. Its momentum is unstoppable, and with Facebook able to promote its use, there's every reason to expect that Facebook's billion users might soon be hooked up .Carriers will then be reduced to competing on quality and speed of data coverage. Once revenue from voice calls starts dwindling, they will be reduced to companies that maintain expensive networks and hand out Sim cards to order.Such a notion would have been startling at the turn of the century, when phone operators paid £22.5bn in the UK for next-generation licences. A generation of a different kind is taking over now.
Samsung has barely changed the general look and feel of its "TouchWiz" customisations it makes to the standard Android experience since the Galaxy S4.Swipe a chosen finger eight times across the home button to save a fingerprint scan for unlocking the smartphone and confirming payments via PayPal.Once a fingerprint has been saved on the device a simple swipe down over the home button is enough to unlock the Galaxy S5.Samsung's new S Health 3 application pulls data from the Galaxy S5's accelerometer and heart rate sensor to track your fitness levels.The Galaxy S5 has a heart rate sensor next to the flash directly below the camera.Measuring your heart rate on the Galaxy S5 is easy. Just place your finger over the sensor and it will give a live readout on the screen for around three seconds before giving a result.Samsung has finally made its smartphone settings menu easier to navigate, ditching a confusing tabbed layout for a long, logical list.The Samsung Galaxy S5 has the same plastic construction as the S4 before it, complete with metal-like plastic edging.To make the Galaxy S5 water and dust resistant, there is a flap that covers the USB 3.0 port on the bottom of the phone when not in use.
Samsung's new Gear Fit has a touch sensitive curved Amoled screen. Menus are navigated by swipes of the finger.The Gear Fit has a heart rate sensor built into its back.The biggest issue with the Gear Fit is that the watch face is horizontal and shifted 90 degrees from the orientation of a normal watch face.The Gear Fit sits about 1.5cm tall on the wrist, but can be fit under most sleeves.The curved screen of the Gear Fit means it is more comfortable to wear, fitting the profile of your wrist more readily.The Gear Fit needs a charging adapter, that clips onto some metal contacts to allow the smartwatch to be charged via micro USB.
Samsung Galaxy S5 launch.Samsung’s new flagship Galaxy S5 Android smartphone aims to ditch gimmicky features for a fingerprint sensor and heart rate and fitness tracking.The slightly larger and more powerful smartphone has a fingerprint reader directly under the home button, which will unlock the smartphone and authenticate PayPal payments, taking thefingerprint-reading battle to Apple, its chief rival in the smartphone market.“People don’t want a load of complex features, they just features have an impact during everyday life, like a personal fitness tracker and a super fast camera, so we’ve made the new device based on those principles,” said James White, head of strategy and product marketing for Samsung UK talking to the Guardian.‘Everyone wants to be healthier’The integrated heart rate sensor, which sits beside the flash just below the camera, works with the smartphone’s other sensors to track fitness and health using Samsung’s new S Health 3, which works as a pedometer while in the pocket.The heart rate sensor of the Samsung Galaxy S5 is next to the flash directly underneath the camera.Health and fitness are one of Samsung’s new focuses, with the recent introduction of the Gear 2 smartwatches also capable of measuring activity and heart rate.“Everyone wants to be healthier, but must don’t have enough time for it, so the S5 can now do it for you,” said Kyle Brown, head of technical product management at Samsung UK talking to the Guardian.Samsung also announced a fitness-focused version of the Gear 2 smartwatch, the Gear Fit, which has a curved AMOLED screen and measures activity and heart rate, as well as displaying notifications from a Samsung smartphone.Unlock with a swipe of the fingerSamsung has also fitted its latest high-end Android smartphone with a fingerprint reader, that unlike Apple’s TouchID works more like a traditional fingerprint scanner requiring the user to swipe their finger across it. It is positioned directly under the home button, and in limited testing seemed to work well as long as the finger was swiped in the same way as it was configured during the fingerprint learning process.Positioned under the home button it makes unlocking the smartphone easy with one hand, unlike the fingerprint scanner on the back of theHTC One Max phablet. Samsung has partnered with PayPal to allow buyers to authenticate PayPal payments using the fingerprint sensor, and Samsung says further applications are coming.Plastic fantasticThe Galaxy S5 has a 5.1in full HD AMOLED screen, making it slightly larger than the screen of its 5in predecessor, and a new, more powerful 2.5GHz quad-core processor. Samsung has fitted a sightly larger battery, as has created an Ultra Power Saver Mode to extend the battery life by days if needed.Despite expectations to the contrary, Samsung has stuck with a plastic design for the Galaxy S5 making the device look almost identical to the Galaxy S4 before it but bringing the leather-like backs from the recent Galaxy Note 3. It is also water and dust resistant, although not submergible like Sony’s waterproof smartphones.The Samsung Galaxy S5 comes in a variety of removable coloured backs.The flagship smartphone is both light and slim, but at 145g and 8.1mm thick it is slightly heavier and thicker than last year’s 130g and 7.9mm thick S4. It is more solidly built, however, exhibiting very little flex in the body despite its plastic construction.Quick snapSamsung has also made sure that the camera on the Galaxy S5 – now boosted to 16-megapixels over the S4’s 13MP – can capture photos quickly with a 0.3 second autofocus time, making sure that users do not miss the action.The S5’s camera is also capable of shooting live high-dynamic range pictures and video allowing greater details in photos and video with complex lighting and letting the photographer see the results on the screen in real time before taking the shot.Like the Galaxy Note 3, the Galaxy S5 can capture 4K UHD video, which is four times the resolution of full HD, although its screen cannot natively display it at full resolution.Replacing ‘gimmicky’ S4Samsung hopes the focus on fitness and camera speed for Galaxy S5 will replace the gimmicky features of the S4, which garnered mixed reviews on its release in April last year. Critics focused on Samsung’sbloated, gimmicky software and plastic construction, which detracted from an overall solid high-end Android smartphone.Samsung admitted that its mobile software, including that found on the Galaxy S line of phones, was poor in November, andpledged to work “very hard” to produce improved software. The electronics company dedicated half of its research and development workforce to the software issue, with software engineers numbering around 40,000 of its 326,000 employees worldwide.“Even though we’re doing the software business, we’re not as good as we are in hardware,”said Kwon Oh-hyun, vice chairman and chief executive of Samsung Electronics.These additional features such as “air gesture” (to move pages without touching the screen), “air view” (to enlarge previews without touching the screen) and “smart scroll” (to scroll through pages using eye movement) have been dismissed as gimmicks critics, who don’t see them bringing any value to users.The S5 has some of the features, but has a much simplified menu system, making it easier to change settings than previous Galaxy models. Samsung’s apps have also a cleaner, flatter design, although the overall look of Samsung’s “TouchWiz” modifications to the standard Android experience resembles that of the S4 and Note 3.Sales stagnationSamsung has brought forward the launch of the Galaxy S5 as sales of its predecessor have failed to live up to expectations. The Galaxy S4 onlymanaged to keep pacein terms of sales in 2013 year-on-year compared with the Galaxy S3 from 2012 - hitting 10m shipments in four weeks, 20m by early July 2013, and 40m by late October. The smartphone market as a whole expanded by around 50% over the same period, while Apple’s iPhone sales grew by 16% to 102m in the first nine months of 2013.While Samsung makes a large range of smartphones and tablets, including budget offerings like the Galaxy Ace line, a lot is riding on the success of the Galaxy S5. The larger Galaxy Note 3 with a 5.7in screen, althoughplagued with similar software issuesto the Galaxy S4, has beenoutselling the smaller device recently, despite the phablet being considered a niche product by many.Samsung’s dominance of the Chinese market, one of Korean company’s biggest sources of sales, has been threatened by indigenous handset makers such as Huawei, ZTE and Lenovo, which now owns the American Motorola. Samsung has been pushing hard to build share in the US of the past couple of years. The US is the world’s richest smartphone market, where data from ComScore suggests that by the end of December 2013 Samsung smartphones were used by 26% of all smartphone owners, equivalent to 37.9m users.The Galaxy S5 is expected to be available around April for a similar cost as the £550 Galaxy S4.• Samsung beatsApple to releasing a fitness-tracking smartwatch, the Gear 2 with integrated heart rate sensor.
Samsung's second generation smartwatch, the Gear 2, improves on the original by being thinner, lighter and more capableThe Gear 2 is capable of playing music, independently of a smartphone or tablet, via Bluetooth headphonesThe Gear 2 stands about 1.5cm tall from the wrist, but will fit under shirt sleevesThe buckle at the back is adjustable and slimmer than the one on previous Samsung smartwatch, the Galaxy GearThe Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo each come with removable straps that are released by a small lever underneath the strap. The smartwatches will take regular watch straps, as well as a series of options from SamsungThe Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo both have clip-on charging units that provide a microUSB socket for charging up the smartwatchesThe Samsung Gear 2 Neo smartwatch loses the Gear 2's camera and metal frame, but also loses 13g making it noticeably lighterThe Gear 2 Neo has a heart rate sensor like the Gear 2, which measures your heart beat on your wristThe Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo can chart your changes in heart rate as part of its fitness tracking abilitiesThe Gear 2 Neo sits about the same height off the wrist as the Gear 2, but is slightly larger overallThe Gear 2 Neo has a similar clasp to the Gear 2, as well as interchangeable strapsSamsung has produced a range of colours and patterns for the Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo, adding to the ability to customise the smartwatch
Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg addressed the world’s biggest mobile conference today stating the company’s ambition to reach billion of web users through its new Whatsapp mobile acquisition.Wearing the industry-standard tech billionaire attire of jeans and a modest dark t-shirt, Zuckerberg justified the recent $19bn acquisition by saying it complemented Facebook because its founder, Jan Koum, shares Facebook vision of connecting billions of people.“WhatsApp is the most engaging app we’ve ever seen on mobile, it blows everything else away, but it’s Jan Koum’s vision, to connect billions of people. That’s what made WhatsApp a good fit,” Zuckerberg told Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.“By being part of Facebook, WhatsApp can focus on adding more users, not having to focus on revenue, so he can go on and connect a billion more people.”“We are absolutely not going to change plans around WhatsApp and the way it uses user data. WhatsApp is going to operate completely autonomously. They might use people and infrastructure to grow, but the vision is to keep the service exactly the same. They do not keep the content you send, and we’re not going to change that.”Zuckerberg also spoke fiercely against the US government’s surveillance of web consumers, but said the issues had inspired the industry and civilians to work together. “People have been… aligning on policy issues, pushing the internet forward and a lot of the industry is much more aligned because of how shocking the NSA revelations were,” he told MWC.“The government kind of blew it. They went way over the line over not being transparent. They’re only now getting to the range of where they should have been, but they could have avoided the whole thing.”Facebook also announced several initiatives from Facebook and theinternet.orgfoundation, whose goal is to connect the next five billion people to the internet in developing nations.‘The next five billion people’A report by Deloitte on behalf of Facebook andinternet.org, the social network’s partnership with six mobile phone companies, found that productivity in developing nations could be increased by as much as 25%. That productivity increase would result in 140m new jobs that would lift 160 million people out of poverty and generate$2.2 trillion in GDP.To tackle the problem of connecting “the next 5 billion people”, Zuckerberg announced a series of new initiatives, including a newinternet.orgpilot project called SocialEDU.“It’s easy to take for granted that most people have access to the internet, but only one third of the world, 2.7 billion people, currently have access to the internet. Upgrading to a smartphone doesn’t instantly mean access to the internet, that’s just not true. So we’re not on a path to connect everyone right now, unless something dramatic changes,” he said.“We want to create is like a dial tone for the internet - like a universal emergency number - basic services that we think everyone should have including messaging, weather, search provided for free with the ability to upgrade to use higher bandwidth services,” he told MWC.“We don’t have all the answers, but the early indications are promising. We’re looking for a some more partners to see if it works in other places. What we want to do next is a year long trial, to see how far we can push this and show the model works. Internet.org is an on-ramp for the internet.”Using low-cost smartphones where fixed internet connections are not available, SocialEDU will provide students in Rwanda with free online access to a collaborative education resource. It was created by Nokia and Facebook with the help of the Rwandan government, telecoms company Airtel and edX, the internet-based interactive education platform provided by MIT, Harvard and Berkeley.Unilever and internet.org will also conduct research to identify challenges to internet adoption in rural Indian communities, before starting a series of projects in India to help give internet access to those communities.Pushing mobile apps, a partnership between Facebook and Ericsson has created the Internet.org Innovation Lab based in Facebook’s Menlo Park head quarters in California. There developers will be able to test their apps in simulated developing world network conditions optimising them for countries like India.Flood of Facebook appsFacebook has been pushing its own mobile experience and apps heavily over the past few years.Facebook added WhatsApp to its expanding roster of mobile apps last week, bolstering the social network’s userbase with another 465 million monthly active mobile users. It was the biggest in a long line of Facebook acquisitions, which include Instagram, the mobile photo-sharing application.Facebook has been steadily growing its in-house mobile apps too. Its newest app, Paper for the iPhone, was released this month in the US, which redesigned the way users interact with Facebook, using a swipe-heavy way to access the Facebook news feed and news content from around the web.Facebook has also attempted more ambitious mobile integration with Facebook Home, which replaces the standard Android smartphone design with a Facebook-first experience.Eyeballs on screensOf the 1.23 billion monthly active users of Facebook, 945 million used Facebook on a mobile in December last year, showing that mobile is already a very important part of Facebook’s business.Facebook’s shift to mobile has primarily been driven by the need to maintain the interest of its users, who are using the desktop site less in favour of the smartphones and tablets. Relying on advertising for the bulk of its revenues, Facebook has prioritised building a system to serve ads to users wherever they access the site. The company also hopes that it can use mobile to reach new audiences in developing markets where desktop use is relatively uncommon.Mobile data outnumbers fixed broadband by over 3:1Mobile phone coverage far outstrips traditional landline phone and broadband infrastructure in many developing nations, which means the mobile phone is the primary computing device for many. The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) estimates that there are at least 6.8 billion mobile subscribers globally, and of those 5.2 billion are based in the developing world.Mobile data subscribers number in the 1.2 billion in developing nations, but fixed broadband connections only come in at around 357m in those same countries, meaning that mobile data outnumbers fixed broadband by over 3:1 in the developing world.Facebook has made moves to grow its mobile audience in developing markets before. Back in 2010, Facebook launched Zero, at 0.Facebook.com, which offered a very simple version of the site for free through selected mobile phone operators. The site consumed only very small amounts of data – perfect for developing nations where data coverage could be slow and expensive.• What didFacebook actually buy in WhatsAppfor $19bn?
Sometimes it looks as if the true mission at Google is not to help us find things, or even to make money, but to create a master-race of employees. At the Googleplex, if you candemonstrate the right kind of sparky coolnessand get hired,the perks are legendary. There are free meals, free haircuts, free bikes, free cars and even free beer and wine on Fridays. (Which sounds suspiciously like a breeding programme.) Currently, and as usual, Google is considered the best company in the US to work forby Fortune magazine.Want in? It isn't easy. The stringency of Google's job interviews is legendary as well. Luckily, its personnel chief Laszlo Bock has now listed the five qualities they look for,in an interview with the New York Times. Before applying for a job at Google, therefore, ask yourself these five questions.Do you have an IQ higher than 130?The worst possible answer here is "Yes." Bock specifically wants "intellectual humility", without which he claims people can't learn. Those who have been clever all their lives often commit, Bock says, "the fundamental attribution error, which is: if something good happens, it's because I'm a genius. If something bad happens, it's because someone's an idiot." Taking IQ tests and remembering the score suggests exactly the wrong combination of self-aggrandisement and insecurity.What shall we have for dinner this evening?Don't say "I don't mind" or "I'm easy, really" or "What would you like?" or any of that rubbish. If we're going to solve the dinner problem your opinion is required, so stand up and give it. This is the kind of "emergent leadership" that Google want: the willingness to take charge when required, and not take charge when not.Where Google staff in London eat lunch. While discussing their dinner plans, surely. Photograph: Penson/REXWhy did you choose the last five articles you read?What do you mean you don't know? Bock's first criterion was a type of intelligence that he calls "learning ability", which is defined as being able "to process on the fly … to pull together disparate bits of information." It doesn't bode well for Google's "structured behavioural interviews" if you go to pieces when a simple question like this is fired at your face.Are you incompetent and lazy?You are? Excellent. Bock wants to hire people who feel "ownership" of the company's projects but also enough "humility" to do only what they usefully can. If you're incompetent, therefore, you're only going to ruin anything you get involved with, so never volunteering is the right call. Clever and active is another successful combination.Do you have a track record of doing something really well?If so, that's a disaster. When faced with a problem, Bock explains that: "The expert will go: 'I've seen this 100 times before; here's what you do.'" A clever novice will usually also solve the problem, and while sometimes they fail this is more than compensated for by the valuable occasions when they solve it in new ways. People are better at things, in short, if they don't know what they're doing. If you do get in, you might find that a useful line on Friday nights.
Deutsche Telekom, the German parent company of the mobile carrier T-Mobile, is releasing a new app for all its users that encrypts voice and text messages.The company is acting on privacy concerns raised in the wake of the Snowden revelations with the creation of the app, which encrypts each voice or text exchange between two devices using a unique code.The app will be officially unveiled at the CeBIT technology trade fair in Hanover, Germany, in mid-March. It is not yet clear when it will be made available to customers, but it will initially launch for Android phones and come to iOS devices later.The service will be run by Deutsche Telekom's enterprise unit T-Systems in co-operation with Germany's Sichere Mobile Kommunikation mbH (GSMK), a provider of encrypted phone services and devices."To the best of my knowledge, this marks the first time that a major network operator throws its full weight behind end-to-end mobile voice encryption," GSMK's chief executive, Bjoern Rupp, said on Monday."This is not just in the form of a specialised niche product, but in the form of a mass-market-compatible product that will be rolled out to all of its customers," he told Reuters at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, the world's biggest annual phone industry conference.Deutsche Telekom's own secure communications unit provides handsets to the German government, such as the modified Android phone used by Angela Merkel. But the version of the "Merkelphone" that the company sells to private buyers costs €1,700, preventing widespread adoption.Rene Obermann, Deutsche Telekom's CEO, has been vocal about the need for his company to throw itself behind privacy efforts. In November he went so far as to call, in an editorial in the FAZ newspaper, for Germany to wall its internet off from the US and to create Europe-only clouds. But critics point out that T-Mobile US, a wholly owned subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, has worked with American intelligence agencies in the past.
A burger stand in east London has become one of the first places in Britain to take Dogecoin, the meme-based cryptocurrency, for physical purchases.Olivier Rynkiewicz started theBit bourbon steamed burgers standwith his girlfriend Thais Muller in mid January. The stand, based in Brick Lane’s Sunday Up Market, sells burgers steamed in bourbon-infused water – although on the day the Guardian visited, the steam oven was broken, forcing the couple to cook the burgers a more traditional way.Rynkiewicz said that he decided to accept payment in Dogecoin, as well as the more conventional bitcoin, after being told about it by his brother.“He told me about bitcoin when it was still not really worth much. When no one took it seriously. I didn’t at the time, but now we started doing [the stand], and I was thinking, ‘OK, bitcoin was worth shit at start, it was worth nothing. Now it’s worth, what, $500 or $600?’“So I was like, alright, bitcoin could jump so high, why not Dogecoin? And anyway, people have this stuff - bitcoins, dogecoins - but there’s not many places to use them.”The burgers sell for £5.50 to £6.50, but owing to fluctuating exchange rates for cryptocurrencies, the stand has to be more accommodating with users attempting to pay digitally, and owing to a collapse in the Doge/GBP exchange rate over February, the Guardian arrived at the stand with 2,000 too few Dogecoins. (The difference was made up at a later date.)Purchasing is easy with an Android phone and the Dogewallet app, but somewhat harder with an iOS device. Apple’s longstanding policy against bitcoin apps extends to Dogecoin, and so users are forced to make do with web wallets like that at Dogeapi.com. The lack of a QR code scanner on that wallet renders payment tricky, but the problem is surmountable with a second QR reading app.Whichever device is being used, the customer must scan a QR code posted on the stand to get Rynkiewicz’s Dogewallet address, and then type in the amount to send (normally around 8,000 Doge) by hand. The biggest potential hurdle is poor mobile connectivity in the marketplace, a former brewery: all cryptocurrencies require an internet connection for transfers to be completed, and it took several tries to join a 3G network with an iPhone.Rynkiewicz has taken 100,000 Dogecoin at his stand, worth just under £70 at current exchange rates. He has no intention to exchange the currency for hard money, however, instead speculating on the chance of appreciation.“I don’t cash them out, I store them, because it’s not the main source of income. There’s like two or three doge customers a day. So if I’m going to lose on it later on, if, yeah, if, I can afford it.“I do believe it’s going to, not replace the normal currency, but be used really often. This stuff is the future. Hopefully I will be one of the few owners.”Despite offering both dogecoin and bitcoin sales, Rynkiewicz has only sold one burger for bitcoin. He says that of the two currencies, he prefers dogecoin, “because, like, bitcoin is jumping so high all the time. Now if the price is 500 you’re going to buy something, a burger or something else, and you get home and find it’s worth £100 more, two times, three times more.“Bitcoin is more like investment, more for greedy people. Dogecoin’s about fun.”•It’s bobsleigh time: Jamaican team raises $25,000 in Dogecoin
Microsoft has learned its lesson from elements of the Xbox One launch that did not work, says Harvey Eagle, the UK marketing head of Xbox. Speaking before the announcement of the Titanfall bundle deal, which will see the sci-fi shooter included with the console, he conceded that aspects of the service, especially its social functionality, need improving.“I want to be honest: there are some things that haven’t worked as well as they were intended to - we’ve had a lot of feedback from our community about that,” Eagle told the Guardian. “The March system update will improve party chat; it will be turned on by default, you’ll be able to chat with friends across different games, you’ll be able to get to your friends list much faster - that will now be on the homepage of the Friends app.“We’re also adding an ‘invite friends to game’ option to the multiplayer titles and that will be available within each game’s menu so it’ll be much easier and quicker to set up multiplayer games. The last thing is we’re adding a ‘recent players’ list so you can quickly call up who you recently played with, making it easier to stay in touch and add new friends. All of these things will be implemented in time for Titanfall to make sure it’s the best multiplayer experience it can be.”Hype and Hype-abilitySo far, a key problem has been that Microsoft has had to fight on the backfoot, the victim of a sometimes chaotic pre-launch build up. The machine’s controversial announcement eventconcentrated on live TVand multimedia functionality rather than games, and its digital-first agendaobfuscated the sharing and selling of software between players.However, Eagle says that Microsoft has clearly moved on. “The original thinking behind what we did at the time was to make some announcements about the entertainment features that we were building into the box that we felt were unique and special, and then very quickly afterwards move on to gaming,” he said. “We’ve been consistently talking about games since E3 2013, that’s what we’ll carry on doing, reminding people that this is a games console for gamers, that just happens to have some incredible entertainment features built in as well.”Another much-discussed aspect has been the arrival of ‘paymium’ titles on the Xbox One – full-price games that also offer purchasable items and features in the form of microtransactions. Forza 5 was heavily criticised for its inclusion of an overt in-game real-money mechanic.“We’re trying out a number of different business models to understand which are best for us and best for gamers,” said Eagle. “You’re not going to get everything right first time – we’re still at the stage of experimenting and trying new things; everything we learn from our community we put into what we do going forward. There is still a huge appetite for big commercial triple A titles if you get it right - look at GTA V. But obviously developers are looking at other ways to monetise and I think that will carry on.The HD conundrumThere have also been technical questions over the Xbox One hardware, with several early multiplatform titles running in full 1080p HD definition on PlayStation 4, but only 720p resolution on Xbox 360.“Let’s be clear about this: Xbox One fully supports 1080p at 60 frames-per-second,” said Eagle. “Forza Motosport 5 is an example of a game that delivers on that. It’s up to individual developers to determine what is the best balance in order to deliver the best experience to gamers. No longer can you measure or talk about power in terms of pixels and polygon counts. Performance in this era comes from three areas: hardware, software and the cloud.“The reason the Titanfall beta has been so successful is that it is powered by dedicated servers – that makes the game run smoothly without interruptions. You need to think about what power really means in the next generation.”So will other developers, outside of exclusive deals and first-party studios, be supported in using Microsoft’s vast server network to ensure multiplayer games run as smoothly?“We’re committed to allowing developers getting the maximum out of the investment that we’ve made,” said Eagle. “We said at launch that we’d built a server farm of 300,000 dedicated servers to support multiplayer games - it would be foolish of us not to work with developers to ensure they get the maximum from that power.”As for forthcoming games, Eagle has said that Microsoft understands the importance of original and exclusive content – as well as supporting the indie development community – and predictably promises that more will be announced at the E3 video game exhibition in Los Angeles in June.“We’ve made some exclusive announcements, including Project Spark, Kinect Sports Rivals and Sunset Overdrive,” he said. “There will also be a significant pipeline of new games coming from Microsoft studios, some of which have been announced, some you’ll hear about at E3.“Look out for some very exciting game announcements, both from Microsoft studios and also our third-party partners... We’re very excited about E3.”•Xbox One gets price cut to £399 – with free copy of Titanfall
Microsoft has announced that it is cutting the price of its Xbox One console. From 28 February, the machine will be available in the UK for £399.99, which is £30 less than the current retail estimate – though stores will be free to discount further. Right now, the reduction is exclusive to the UK.Perhaps more importantly, from 14 March for a limited time, the console will be bundled with a download code for the hugely anticipated sci-fi shooter, Titanfall. The package will come with one month’s free access to Xbox Live Gold, the subscription-based online gaming service that is needed for all multiplayer titles.In effect, the Titanfall offer, which will be available worldwide, gives new console owners one of the year’s most anticipated games for free. Furthermore, Titanfall will not be available on PlayStation 4, only Xbox One, Xbox 360 and PC.Publisher Electronic Arts signed an exclusivity deal with Microsoft last year in a move it referred to as“a tactical opportunity”. The company previously provided its hit Fifa 14 title free with the launch of Xbox One.“The reaction from gamers and members of the media who’ve been lucky enough to see the game has been almost universally positive,” said Harvey Eagle, marketing director at Xbox UK.“It’s one of those special games that don’t come around very often that we call system sellers – people will buy a console in order to experience them. It’s an amazing opportunity for us.”Titanfall demo - two million downloadsDeveloped by Respawn Entertainment, a studio founded many of the team behind the Call of Duty titles, Titanfall is a science fiction first-person shooter, heavily focused on multiplayer online engagement. Boasting some intriguing touches, such as giant bipedal tanks that can be called in and operated by players, the game has received enormously positive coverage in the specialist press. A recent demo version of the title was downloaded and played by over two million gamers.With the hardware now out, the focus of the competition between Sony and Microsoft will now be on games – and securing exclusive titles is likely to be a key part that. Bundling key releases with hardware is a familiar ‘loss leader’ strategy for console manufacturers. Nintendo famously bundled legendary puzzle game Tetris with its GameBoy handheld, while Sega made Sonic the Hedgehog available free with new machines when it reduced the price of the Mega Drive in the US, ensuring the platform’s success.Microsoft certainly needs to keep up the pressure on Sony’s machine. In February,sales of 5.3m were announced for PS4, and although figures were not released for Xbox One at the same time, financial results released in January suggested it hadshipped (rather than sold) 3.9m units by January.The new price point brings the console closer to the PlayStation 4, which retails at £349, mostly because Sony chose not to bundle its camera peripheral and instead sells it separately. Microsoft’s Kinect motion tracking camera comes with every Xbox One sold.Microsoft is yet to announce any similar price cuts elsewhere in the world, but has released the following statement, “as with many products, pricing and offers vary from country to country. We’re committed to providing the best value to all our customers and have nothing further to announce at this time.”Microsoft is now looking toward the major E3 conference in June to strengthen its position, with what Eagle says is a range of announcements.“We’re at the start of our journey with Xbox One,” he said. “We’re in 13 markets around the world at the moment, Sony is in 49 markets. This has been the most successful Xbox launch ever, and we’ve already seen that both consoles are commercially successful, which is great for the industry.“What I will say is, we’re only a few months in and this is a generation that’s going to go on for many, many years. We’re in it for the long haul.”•PlayStation 4 sales pass 5m worldwide•Xbox One takes on PS4 with Steven Gerrard ad
