It's official. Britain last week put its name to an international commitment to make data produced by government bodies available for free use in the internet economy. This is the first formal statement that the government has come on board the Free Our Data campaign launched by Guardian Technology (and widely derided as impractical) more than two years ago.The commitment to make public sector information free, or charge no more than the marginal cost of maintaining and distributing the extra copy, appears in theSeoul declaration for the future of the internet economy, signed in the South Korean capital last week. The UK was one of nearly 40 countries to endorse the declaration, drawn up by the OECD club of developed nations.Alongside commitments to encourage broadband, reduce digital exclusion and protect the critical infrastructure of the net, the declaration recognises the importance of public sector information in the new economy. "Public organisations are a major source of information, an increasing amount of which is digitised or produced in digital form and can be re-used in innovative ways for significant economic and social benefit."However "while commercial and non-commercial access to, and, re-use of, public sector information and content is generally becoming more open, obstacles sometimes impede efficient and effective use". These include "restrictive or unclear rules governing access and conditions of re-use; unclear and inconsistent pricing of information if re-use is chargeable; complex and lengthy licensing procedures; inefficient distribution to final users; and barriers to development of international markets".The declaration calls for the removal of "unnecessary restrictions on the ways in which it can be accessed, used, re-used, combined or shared". When public sector information is not provided free, prices should be transparent "and not exceed marginal costs of maintenance and distribution". However, one loophole is available: "Any higher pricing should be based on clearly expressed policy grounds."The minister responsible for the internet, Shriti Vadera, did not attend the Seoul conference. However, Britain was represented by senior officials of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. Their commitment to free data marks a significant change of heart - the department is responsible for the Shareholder Executive, which exists to ensure the remaining nationalised industries are as profitable as possible.Although not binding on public bodies in the UK - several of which are required by law to make profits on their data - the declaration shows how quickly the political wind is changing.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Played, loved and cried over the mid-90s roleplaying classic Final Fantasy VII? Add a star to the score above, because you are going to love Crisis Core. This PSP adventure brings back many familiar characters and fleshes out the backstory. Newcomers needn't worry, though, as the RPG action is easy to pick up and plays out well on the small screen. Combat is fluid and exploration a relative joy. Such a shame, then, that the progression system is a mess. Levelling up - a staple of roleplaying games - is achieved via a random fruit machine style reelspin. If you can get over the quirky progression system - and traditionalists will struggle - the game soon becomes an addictive mix of exploration, combat and plot advancement. It looks marvellous, too - think impressive vistas and sharp character graphics. In fact, this is the prettiest PSP title yet. The non-initiated will miss out on some the plot's deeper moments, but nostalgia alone makes Crisis Core a must for Final Fantasy VII veterans.
Defending the iPhoneGuy Clapperton misses the point when it comes to why people choose the Apple iPhone (In touch with smarter phones, June 19). A lot of people, like me, aren't tech savvy or interested in how all these phones rate against each other. What we want is something reliable - and, judging by experience, that has to be anything made by Apple.Nick Stimson,AshburtonSo if people don't queue up, or if the queues don't stretch far enough, that means they don't want an iPhone? Has anyone EVER queued up for a BlackBerry?iphonefootprint.comYang in stormy watersPutting myself in the position of a CEO, it's not immediately obvious to me why I would scuttle the ship just to make some short-term financial players and a few noisy bloggers happy (Can Jerry Yang survive at the top of Yahoo?, June 19).broadstuff.comLeading the free chargeMoves are afoot to press for free (or affordable) access to public-sector information throughout Europe, with the UK taking the driving seat (Austrian mountains: now 93% cheaper, June 19). If it comes to pass, it would most notably affect sources like Ordnance Survey which, if it became affordable (or even free) could in turn revolutionise the potential for research out here in blogspace, not to mention the head-spinning possibilities for mashups.lewfootsnoop.wordpress.comDon't dongle abroadVictor Keegan (Dongles are great ... until you go abroad, June 19) says that 3G mobile donglers can usually get mobile broadband speeds of around 3.6Mbit/s. In my experience you're lucky to get anywhere near that. The really scandalous part, as Keegan points out, is the charge for using this abroad.Allan jones,Yardley GobionGive Flickr the flickAnd people wonder why I never bother with sites such as Flickr (Why digital thieves take your photos, June 19). Nothing against them, I just figured that this type of behaviour had to be going on.liquidmatrix.orgSome people like me use Flickr as a data backup. I save all my best photos on Flickr in full resolution so I have a 24/7 online service to show them to the people and download them if needed. I got mad a few months ago when I had to cover the visit of Roger Waters in my country and a magazine took my pictures and used them, deleting my watermark and my name and not paying me a cent. When magazines do this, you wonder what can you expect from individuals.flickr.com/groups/central/discussFirefox 3 is fubarIt's not just downloads that are overwhelming Mozilla's servers - it's complaints. Firefox 3 is utterly fubar and should never have been released. I've been happily using Firefox for a couple of years, and right now I'm back with v2.0.0.14, which is where I'll stay until they produce a version that actuallyworks. Version 3 isn't it.Ron Graves,PrentonCan't play, won't payI bought my son a Sony PS3 for his birthday on the grounds that his PS2 games would be compatible with [it]. Imagine my horror on finding the sombre news that the PS2 games were NOT playable. As recently as mid-May I was told it would be compatible from the big games stores. The Japanese and American versions, I have since found out, are retro-enabled. May Sony wither on this electronic highway robbery.Anthony John Hand,Polesworth&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Just over three months ago, I bought a new laptop. Unlike my previous three-year-old one, which had been cutting-edge "professional" level, top-of-the-range - biggest hard drive, fastest processor, as much RAM as I could cram into it - the one I got is a middle of the middle "consumer" range. (To be precise, the previous one was a 1.67GHz Apple PowerBook; the new one is a 2.4GHz Core 2 Duo Apple MacBook.)We know that in three years, processing power should - if Moore's Law still holds - have quadrupled. That's pretty much true. What I hadn't expected was that processing demands would have stayed pretty much stable. So that whereas I would regularly find the PowerBook thrashing its little heart out as it updated my RSS feeds while checking my email while displaying about 100 tabbed browser pages while I composed a blog post with pictures while playing a song in the background on iTunes while checking a different email in a different email program while running a database query - did I mention that I like to multitask? - these days it's rare even for the fans to turn on.Intrigued, I askedthe Twitter worldhow often people see their CPUs max out. It can be difficult to know if your machine's pausing because the CPU's crammed, or whether it's something else, such as waiting for the disk to swap a page of data to RAM, or for the network to deliver some data; generally I think that you know that the CPU is stressed because it's continuous. More simply, you can monitor your CPU usage using some of the graphical tools on your machine. Though it's an unscientific survey, it's indicative: only video processing and non-destructive editing of big photos can touch the sides of most modern processors.Which means that for most people, we've already reached the point where you don't need any extra processing power. There are 1bn PCs in the world,according to Gartner; and our own calculation is that most of them are Pentium P4s, since 600m were sold in the past three years. So until we get to the stage where there's high-definition internet TV coming down the telephone line, it's hard to imagine something everyday that will push the household computers of the future. And even then, add-on dedicated hardware - a USB dongle, say - could handle the extra video processing.I know; the end of the ever-faster computer has been announced many times in the past decade. Certainly people making films (such as those working on their ownDoctor Who animations) will always need more poke from their machines. But the situation more generally reflects that of cars. We've all long passed the days when the most important statistic about your next car is how quickly it goes from 0-60mph. (Every car can do this in 2.7 seconds: drop it from a 40-metre roof. Gravity does the rest.) Nowadays we're more concerned with fuel economy. Even if advertisers still try to sell us the joy of the open road, we're more interested in the joy of the affordable road.In the same way, the adverts for computers still talk of processor speed, disk size, RAM; but in what may be a rare case of the producer being ahead of the consumer, Intel is pushing the "performance per watt". I think it's on to something. With energy prices forecast to rise by another 40% by year-end, our electricity bills may soon start prodding us in the way that our cars' fuel bills do.When that happens, you'll pay heed not just to how fast your computer can crunch numbers, but how efficiently it does so too. Do you know how much it costs to power your computer? In years to come, you'll worry about that, not how fast it is.
Several years ago, I made a prediction: that Sony and other games companies would use the explosion of music-based games, such as SingStar and Dance Dance Revolution, to pull new record talent from their pool of millions of players. At the time I was being facetious, but now I'm not so sure. While to the layperson the games could be viewed as innocent post-pub fun, there indeed may be something more, er, Fame Academy going on: train players to be vocalists using pitch feedback in SingStar, dancers using floor mats in dancing games and infrared camera systems in the Eye Toy range and band members in Guitar Hero and Rock Band. Observe the budding talent in their living rooms using a secret reversible internal switch in the EyeToy, and when a certain high score is achieved, send an A&amp;R man round to sign the deal. The result is an army of cookie-cutter pop proles with diplomas in interactivity.I have often wondered, when The Darkness's I Believe In A Thing Called Love is blasting out of my television speakers and a little red light comes on in the camera, whether the talent bods at Sony HQ are crowded round the Eye Toy TV footage of my living room, swooning at the extraordinary talent that's blaring through their monitor. Yes, alcohol does give undue confidence, and I'm sure my ever-patient downstairs neighbour Shaun would have something to say about my actual ability, but clearly someone's been watching: I'm performing at Glastonbury tomorrow night in the Queen's Head tent, doing my own rendition of the song that made Pulp superstars when they performed on the Pyramid stage in 1995. Common People - waggly index finger and all.But it's not just me getting up in public and strutting the stuff I normally reserve for my nearest and dearest. There are other hand-picked SingStaristas who'll be stealing the show from Kate Nash and the other (proper) talent. And if you don't manage to get into the Glasto compound to grab the open SingStar and Hip Hop Karaoke mics, there are plenty of other opportunities this summer. Across the festival fields during this music season are little stages of home-trained talent. Some are pretty big stages: Isle of Wight-goers will witness the twiddly highs of Guitar Hero after Johnny Rotten clears the main stage. Surely this path of towards superstardom is far nobler than the X Factor winners and Pop Idols?Of course, the unlikely possibility that my pet Orwellian theory is true does concern me. But - for the moment - not enough to stop me flailing around a muddy tent on Friday night. I'll think about it later. I'm off to arrange my rider.
If you enjoy watching films online, then the front page of getfilmsnow.com might look an attractive place: the images there recently included X-Men: The Last Stand and Robert Rodriguez's Planet Terror. In the weeks the Guardian has investigated it, the front page has boasted images from The Matrix, The Assassination of Jesse James , The Simpsons, Seinfeld and the 1942 classic Casablanca - overall, the sort of films that may draw in young teens.However, those promised titles don't amount to a hill of beans compared to what you'll find if you take the free three-day trial subscription: thousands of pornographic films or trailers. And worse, if you don't cancel the subscription promptly, your computer will fall victim to a series of popups, pointing out that you need to pay Platte Media for your use of getfilmsnow.Does the latter sound familiar? Getfilmsnow is the latest site to use a popup billing system that first appeared in 2007, then run by Micro Bill Systems: it demanded money following users' access to pornographic websites. And this is the same model, run by a new company (Platte International Ltd) but with the same person - Ashley Bateup, now chief executive.But unlike the first incarnation - which was explicit that you were getting billed for access to porn - this one seems disingenuous about the sort of content it offers. And it is now planning to apply the same model to music, a move that has at least one analyst worried about its potential to upset would-be buyers of music online.Now, the Guardian has learnt, getfilmsnow has been sent a cease-and-desist letter relating to images from Warner Brothers and Twentieth Century Fox films. And the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) has indicated that the use of images for films that are not on the site may be in breach of unfair trading terms.MBS came under the watchful eye of the OFT after complaints from people who insisted they had not realised that they were agreeing to be billed. In January, Bateup promised changes to the billing and access software (Porn bill firm opens new front, January 24).MBS pops up againThe business was then acquired by Platte International. In March, MBS gave an undertaking to the OFT to change its business practices after a review of the sign-up process, the fairness of the terms and the automated billing. This struck a balance between "protecting consumer interests without stifling innovation" (OFT accepts undertakings from Micro Bill Systems Ltd).The ruling also applies to Platte International, which operates through a specialist division - Platte Media - to provide consumer digital entertainment. Publicly available information says it has links to Leeds, Gibraltar, Austria, Holland, Essex and the British Virgin Islands, with a head office in Brazil. The company is backed by a wealthy Chinese investor (whom Bateup declines to name).Though some consumers complain of being caught out by the popup bills from getfilmsnow.com, we found the installation process unmistakable: signing up involves a download, clicking through screens, and entering a four-digit number. But forget to cancel the trial, and a &pound;29.99 bill for 30 days' subscription soon pops up. The software is difficult to remove, too. But where are the films? The Platte International website claims to have "licenses in place with all of the major film studios and music labels". But  Twentieth Century Fox - which owns X-Men: The Last Stand and The Simpsons - says it "has not licensed any of our products to Platte Media and our legal team is investigating the matter".Licensed to billWarnerBros., which owns The Matrix and The Assassination of Jesse James says: "The content on the GetFilmsNow website is not licensed or otherwise approved," and hinted at "ongoing legal issues".The Guardian also learned that Platte Media was sent a "cease and desist" letter regarding the images on its front page. The original images were then removed and replaced with Planet Terror, Pillow Talk, Casablanca and others, although the X-Men picture remained."It's ironic that they talk about the illegality of people removing their software, yet are misleading the public, using copyrighted materials for which they have no right to do so," saysmbsvictims.org.uk, a support organisation which grew out of people outraged or angered by MBS's - now Platte's - billing methods.So why use yet more pictures of films that are not available? Surely this is misrepresentation? "No. It's not our intention to misrepresent at all," says Bateup. "The reason that I don't think we're misrepresenting is that we don't advertise that page [getfilmsnow.com] at all." But it is linked to from Platte International websites, indexed by search engines, and is visible to the world.Bateup blames the missing films on delays in integrating the content and promises that the featured titles will be available. This seems a poor excuse for not ensuring that the photographs reflect the true content, as web pages are easily changed - and Platte has changed it in response to complaints from film companies.He also says the contract for the film content is with the British internet Broadcasting Company (BiBC) - not, as Platte International's website claims, with all major film studios. This website also states: "Platte International ... has recently partnered with BiBC Limited for additional music, video and audio book content from all of the major music labels and film studios." But there is no partnership: "BiBC does not have a contract with Platte International to provide film/video content for getfilmsnow.com," says managing director Paul Hague.The internet is for porn?Challenged to explain the missing films, Bateup admits his marketing is all about pornography. His selling point for popup billing remains anonymity - no name, email or financial details required to sign up. "Over 35% of consumers pay by postal order - this in itself says something about the consumer and their wish to remain anonymous," he says.Bateup also claims popup billing is being extended into streamed online music (1970s to present) on chartunlimited.com, thanks to another content provider which he won't identify. If so, this new website might attract new users - like teenagers - who might not realise how the billing software works or bother reading lengthy terms and conditions.That worries Mark Mulligan, an analyst at Jupiter Research, who follows the music market. While emphasising that he hasn't looked at chartunlimited - "and I don't want to risk doing so" - he says there are important implications, given that twice as many UK consumers aged under 25 use file-sharing networks to get music, rather than paying to download: "The legitimate market needs all the help it can get, and chartunlimited.com has the potential to be a bad news story the music industry could do without."But Platte Media could have more significant matters to deal with. Des Fitzpatrick, a case manager in the OFT's Scambuster team says: "The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPRs) prohibit misleading actions and misleading omissions in commercial practices. It is possible that placing images of films that the trader cannot (legally) supply on the website may constitute a breach of the CPRs." Some of Platte's users may be complaining - but the OFT has the power, in extremis, to put it out of business. And the legal threats from film studios could also be a problem. In trying to capture a bigger market, Platte may have made too big a grab for fame.Now you see them, now you don'tWhen we first saw Platte's website, there were pictures of X-Men: The Last Stand, The Assassination of Jesse James, The Matrix, Robocop, The Simpsons and Seinfeld. Once signed up, we didn't find these titles. Instead we noted around 1,500 trailers (freely available elsewhere), a few hundred old films, TV episodes, and videos. We also saw several thousand porn titles such as Big Bottom Girls, Busty Beauties and New Wave Hookers.
Pervasive security cameras don't substantially reduce crime.  There are exceptions, of course, and that's what gets the press.  Most famously, CCTV cameras helped catch James Bulger's murderers in 1993.  And earlier this year, they helped convict Steve Wright of murdering five women in the Ipswich area.  But these are the well-publicised exceptions.  Overall, CCTV cameras aren't very effective.This fact has beendemonstratedagainandagain: by acomprehensive studyfor the Home Office in 2005, byseveralstudiesin theUS, and again with new dataannouncedlast month by New Scotland Yard.  They actually solve very few crimes, and their deterrent effect is minimal.Conventional wisdom predicts the opposite.  But if that were true, then camera-happy London, withsomething like 500,000, would be the safest city on the planet.  It isn't, of course, because of technological limitations of cameras, organisational limitations of police and the adaptive abilities of criminals.To some, it's comforting to imagine vigilant police monitoring every camera, but the truth is very different. Most CCTV footage is never looked at until well after a crime is committed. When it is examined, it's very common for the viewers not to identify suspects. Lighting is bad and images are grainy, and criminals tend not to stare helpfully at the lens. Cameras break far too often. The best camera systems can still be thwarted by sunglasses or hats.  Even when they afford quick identification — think of the 2005 London transport bombers and the 9/11 terrorists — police are often able to identify suspects without the cameras. Cameras afford a false sense of security, encouraging laziness when we need police to be vigilant.The solution isn't for police to watch the cameras. Unlike an officer walking the street, cameras only look in particular directions at particular locations.  Criminals know this, and can easily adapt by moving their crimes to someplace not watched by a camera — and there will always be such places.  Additionally, while a police officer on the street can respond to a crime in progress, the same officer in front of a CCTV screen can only dispatch another officer to arrive much later. By their very nature, cameras result in underused and misallocated police resources.Cameras aren't completely ineffective, of course. In certain circumstances, they're effective in reducing crime in enclosed areas with minimal foot traffic.  Combined with adequate lighting, they substantially reduce both personal attacks and auto-related crime in car parks. And from some perspectives, simply moving crime around is good enough. If a local Tesco installs cameras in its store, and a robber targets the store next door as a result, that's money well spent by Tesco. But it doesn't reduce the overall crime rate, so is a waste of money to the township.But the question really isn't whether cameras reduce crime; the question is whether they're worth it. And given their cost (£500 min the past 10 years), their limited effectiveness, the potential for abuse (spying onnaked womenin their own homes,  sharingnude images, sellingbest-of videos, and even spying on nationalpoliticians) and theirOrwellianeffectsonprivacyandcivil liberties, most of the time they're not. The funds spent on CCTV cameras would be far better spent on hiring experienced police officers.We live in a unique time in our society: the cameras are everywhere, and we can still see them. Ten years ago, cameras were much rarer than they are today.  And in 10 years, they'll be so small you won't even notice them.  Already, companies like L-1 Security Solutions are developing police-state CCTV surveillance technologies like facial recognition forChina, technology that will find their way into countries like the UK.  The time to address appropriate limits on this technology is before the cameras fade from notice.&#183;Bruce Schneier is chief security technology officer at BT;schneier.com
Still clinging to Internet Explorer, Opera or Safari? Now is a good time to switch to Firefox as Mozilla, the organisation behind the open-source browser, last week finally released version 3.0.Firefox 2.0, which was released in October 2006, was disliked for being a lot bigger than its predecessor, and was perceived as a lot slower. Wendy M Grossman wrote in Technology Guardian shortly after its release: "Is software bloat an inevitable consequence of increasing age and success?"Well, maybe not. The new version of Firefox feels much faster. The notorious memory leaks of flavours of 2.0 are plugged. The developers claim 3.0's Javascript performance is 9.3 times faster than IE7's and 2.7 times faster than its predecessor. They also claim 15,000 improvements to the old version - most of those are under the hood, but reviewers across the web generally agree that there are several features that are distinct improvements.The first is security: I've been using Firefox on my Windows PC since about version 1.5 and haven't had a single infestation of malware since I switched from IE (where I did). Version 3.0 warns you if it suspects a web page is a forgery or a phishing site and continues to block drive-by installations of malware. I like the new address bar, which offers you suggestions of URLs based on your browsing history as you type, though one commenter remarked on theLifehacker review: "I didn't really like how the smart address bar popped up with sites from my history. Sometimes you want those things to be secret".What sets Firefox apart is that it's open source, which means that anyone can code for it. This is best expressed in the gazillions of plugins, or add-ons as they're known in the Mozilla world, written by individuals to extend the functionality of the browser. It becomes an intensely personal experience: you can arrange your tabs, check your Gmail, generate tinyurls, run scripts, customise its appearance - the list goes on. Perversely, though, this is also potentially a weakness: a malicious coder could easily slip in something nasty.On the downside, older operating systems (before Windows 2000 or OS X 10.3) are shunned. And not all your favourite extensions will work just yet.Is it better than IE, Safari or Opera? Yes, I think so, and so do many other geeks. We can't all be wrong.Pros:Much faster; improved safety featuresCons:Some add-ons don't work; only for newer operating systemsmozilla.com/firefox
At a desert test site in Texas, a street battle rages between US soldiers and local "insurgents". It's much like any other training exercise, except the soldiers are accompanied by a Mule (Multifunctional utility/Logistics &amp; Equipment), an armed robot the size of a Humvee. The insurgents are positioned overlooking an intersection, a potential kill zone. The commander pulls out what looks like a PlayStation gamepad and the Mule is sent forward.It presents a tougher challenge than the typical human soldier. The Mule can fire Javelin anti-tank missiles and has a turret-mounted machine gun, in addition to a digital "eyeball" with laser and heat-recognising target acquisition systems for aiming its weaponry. It is semi-autonomous, using GPS to navigate and localised perception to avoid trees and buildings. Its six wheels are on pneumatic legs, enabling it to climb over cars and barriers. Within minutes, the formerly deadly intersection is secure.In just a few years' time, Lockheed Martin will start shipping the Mule to conflict hotspots. The US army has 1,700 on order for 2014. Fifteen Warfighter brigades will be equipped with the units, constituting a human to robot ratio of 29:1. Many will be used to clear minefields and carry gear, but half will be armed.Unfriendly fireFoster-Miller is another company fielding Armed Unmanned Ground Vehicles (AUGVs). Three Swords robots - tracked devices the size of a chest of drawers fitted with light machine guns - were tested in Iraq last summer by the US army. Apparently theywere a success. The company is now promoting a heavily armed version called Maars, which, according tothe brochure, can be programmed to recognise no-fire zones."The robot hasn't fallen over once," says David Byers, assistant program manager for the Mule. "In fact, last summer in testing, it was being used to pull soldiers out of a ditch."In the past five years, military use of robotic systems has increased dramatically. The US army alone has fielded more than 6,000, many of them in Iraq and Afghanistan. They are mostly used to conduct reconnaissance and disarm explosives, but there are regular news reports of Uncrewed Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) performing missile strikes on insurgents they were monitoring (Launching a new kind of warfare, October 26, 2006)."A lot has been learned from UAVs," says David Chang at West Point Military Academy. "UGVs are almost a decade behind UAVs in development and the technological challenges are far greater. Picture the difference for a UAV at 20,000 feet with no obstacles, and contrast that with a UGV, which must navigate in a dense urban environment. Sensors, fusion of information, detecting negative obstacles and real-time control is imperative to ensure safety."Byers says autonomous convoy experiments with the Mule, where the UGVs follow each other in a flocking pattern, have been going well. "If the robot is lost, inertial navigation systems can put it out of harm's way. If the operator is taken out" - injured, killed or loses contact - "then control can be transferred to another authorised party." Thereaction from the US armyhas been overwhelmingly positive.The British army would not comment on whether it plans to use armed robots, but it already incorporates many of the unarmed models in its operations. Stefan Kern, one of the organisers of the European Land Robot Trial, says: "The German army is strongly investigating the use of unmanned ground vehicles, but armed robots are not the focus of this process. Short-term realisable robots are the major challenge at the moment."No one thinks the robots will be completely autonomous any time soon. Chang says: "There are still challenges to be overcome in situational awareness and tactical behaviours. When these units are eventually fielded, there will always be a human in the loop to make the tough decisions." Byers adds: "There will always be a soldier involved, at least part-time."Shooting secondIn Australia, a company called Metal Storm has adapted the Packbot, produced by its American partner iRobot. The Packbot is usually used to gather sensory data on dangerous locations, and has been adapted into a semi-autonomous killing machine called the Warrior: it can automatically acquire and fire at three targets in approximately 1.2 seconds, selecting the appropriate munition for each target. Stationary versions of Metal Storm weapons are already used for perimeter security. According to Joe Dyer of iRobot, the real benefit of the system is its resilience. As he succinctly puts it: "A robot can shoot second."Nimblett of Lockheed is confident that army units with robotic capabilities will have a clear advantage over their enemies. "Battlefield perception is much better with the robots," he says. "So the real advantage is in our situational understanding." You only have to watch the video of a Swords cruising into a potential combat zone, its gun turret rotating, to get the idea.The only force outside the US with plans to deploy armed robots is the South Korean army. Last year Samsung announced it had built an armed sentry to be deployed at the border with its northern neighbour. The robot is essentially a machine gun turret, without the manoeuvreability or firepower of its US rivals. It doesn't interact with other battle units in the way the American, network-centric, models do.For now, the US army has the clear advantage in armed robotics. The technology it is developing gives them and their allies the ability to outmanoeuvre and outgun enemy combatants with unprecedented ease.But won't that be unfair on human opponents who don't have the US army's resources? Byers is dismissive: "I hope it is unfair. You should never go into a fair fight."
Every day our Chatterbox section provides a forum for Gamesblog readers to debate the latest news, reminisce about old games and, of course, argue about the merits (or otherwise) of the latest releases.Sadly, not everyone gets to trawl through all 100+ posts a day, so they're missing out on lots of informed comment from our wise and opinionated community. So from now on, every Wednesday we're going to pick out the best bits from the past week's chatter and shove them up here on the front page, so we can all get a look at what's being discussed.This week, it's a special edition - just one post by regular commentator, Cheddar Frenzy, bemoaning the state of next-gen games development.By the way, the photo is of a 'nightspot' about 100 yards up the street from Guardian HQ on Farringdon Road. Sorry, I've been waiting ages to use this.Chatterbox Tuesday: CheddarFrenzy on the lack of creativity in next-gen gamesPersonally, I've enjoyed the death throes of the PS2. The games I've played over the last year or so have shown more invention and character than any number of "Best gamez EVAR11!" on the current gen. I've not even come close to fancying a PS3.I couldn't give a monkey's about the resolution of these games, or how many frames per second 'Teh C3ll' can churn out. I'd rather see something up there that has a hint of originality and individuality and that has been lacking in so many ways.It feels to me that this gen so far has had to cater for the mass market because everyone is so scared of losing money by doing something different. And people are so stupid for the most part that they believe that the ever rising Metacritic ratings mean that games are getting better, not that companies are getting better at exploiting gamers. These are the people who believe that GTA4 is more than just Vice City with new clothes on because it got straight 10s across the board. The people who knew that Halo 3 was brilliant before they ever even started playing it. The people who genuinely believe that Ratchet and Clank is good/important enough to be a system seller, or that Resistance:FOM is anything other than tedious uninspired dross that would have been ignored if it hadn't been a launch title: a new Red Faction, if you like. The people who will align loyalty to a company who genuinely couldn't give a s**t if they live or die, as long as they hand over the cash.It's like watching Middlesbrough at the start of a premiership season...There is an absolute lack of ambition. Everyone is maintaining the status quo and making sure they don't go bust. Except the whole league is made up of Middlesbroughs this time, so no one wins. Or like Cameron's inevitable march to Downing Street, where people can't make an active choice for the better because there is no better, no independence of thought, no character, just people baselessly singing their own praises in pursuit of cash and/or power - and other people are falling for it. So studios like Clover go under after one phenomenal game, whilst there are approximately 67 billion companies pumping out Ninjabread Man and the like and making shedloads of cash. It's just depressing sometimes.There have been exceptions to this though, and there are some things that give me hope, and some games that have actually been fun (shock!). Online gaming capabilities have improved immeasurably (on the 360 at least - I haven't tried the others) even if the idiots who use them haven't. Oblivion made me feel that there was a way forward by actually using the power of the 360 to do something on a scale that had never been done before without losing the character of Morrowind. Pro Evo on the Wii is frankly brilliant, and once the controls click, I can see it being my favourite version yet. Mass Effect and Bioshock have both had their moments, and have distinct personalities even if they aren't perfect. Everybody's golf on the PSP is a thing of joy, and, remarkably, is actually fun to play. Live Arcade and the PSN have potential, if they open them up properly.In terms of RPGs (usually my favourites), I'm waiting to see what Square can do with the new technology because all of them have been distinctly uninspiring so far (including the very disappointing Mistwalker games). The likes of Valkyrie Profile 2 and Persona 3 have more personality in their loading screens than all the RPGs I've played so far this gen. Even FF12 tried something a bit different, even if it wasn't 100% successful...
PSP: would she look more interested if it was also a phone?Rumours of a Sony mobile phone with PSP functionality have been around almost as long as the handheld console itself, but today,Marketing Weekis speculating that the product is real (or at leastalmostreal) and slated for a Winter 2009 release. From the article:Sony Ericsson launched its F305 gaming phone to a mixed reception last week. One analyst says it is "strange" that the model did not include the PlayStation branding.Another industry source says the relationship between Sony and Sony Ericsson has become "frosty" and he adds that Sony has learned from its "strategic error" of giving its Walkman branding to Sony Ericsson.Hmm. In some ways this would make sense for Sony. Although PSP is doing okay (sales hit 13.89 million last year, bringing the userbase up beyond 37 million), game development has become rather stagnant - indeed, Zeno Colaço, SCEE's vice president of publisher and developer relations, recentlytold Pocket Gamer, that the company needed to, "revitalise the developer community to get behind PSP". He hoped techy add-ons like the camera and GPS system might get creative juices flowing, but look at the release line-up and it's an arid desert of movie-tie ins and tardy conversions from PS2 and PS3. Perhaps by combining the platform with phone functionality, Sony will engage with a more mainstream audience and therefore encourage studios to experiment with Loco Roco or Patapon-style concepts. Either that or we'll get an endless glut of quiz and poker sims.At the same time, it would be an enormously risky move. 3G iPhone is out on July 11, Nokia N-Gage is hanging around building its user base and Android is on the way - there are some big players fighting for dominance in the quality mobile sector. And as Apple has discovered, a winning consumer electronics brand does not always translate immediately into a winning mobile phone presence. On top of this, specialist gaming phones have hardly set the industry alight over the last three years.PlayStation may still be the biggest games brand in the world, but is it big enough to get people to buy a new phone, presumably to enjoy the same games available on the stand-alone console?
A trip to Manchester forTech Weeklyhas kept me from my blogging duties, but whilst I've been distracted by more auditory pursuits (hear the resultshere), the gamesbloggers have been hard at work makingSpaceship!a playable thing of epic proportions.Thanks to your eloquent and all together excellent creative contributions to our Room Description Drive, we have completed all of theUpper Deck's locationscontent. That means the coders can get on their finger horses and gallop into the interactive beyond.I'll stop with that analogy. It's going nowhere.But seriously, now that we have all theUpper Deck locationsand the wiki regulars are hard at work integrating your contributions into thepuzzle outlinesandsynopsis, the coders have started on making the Upper Deck dreams into reality.However, thanks to the extraordinary loquaciousness of your additions, we haveobjects objects objectsthat need some attention. Help!I'll start today with two locations, and over the next few days, I'll let you know about other rooms which need some object-ive fleshing out. Yours is free rein. So if you think theRec Roomneeds an old fashioned Peep Show cinematic coin-op as well as the latest arcade shooters, feel free to add. And if you think theCanteenneeds gobs of space-food goo on the walls and the ceiling, those walls are yours for the describing.There's a handy form to fill out, but the most important bits are a) the descriptions and b) what happens when (if) the objects are manipulated. Here, I'll give you an example from theBriefing Room- deck of bawdy playing cards left lying on the table:What is the name of your object?Pack of playing cardsProvide three or more words for the player to refer to your object with.cards, pack, deck of cards, naughty cards, risque, playing cardsDescribe your object here.Scattered on the table is a deck of rather naughty playing cards that you use for your bi-weekly poker game. They appear to show rather artistic sketches of naked figures of four alien types (one for each suit) in what you assume to be erotic poses. You are not sure if they are male or female.How can the object be manipulated by the player, and what happens, or is displayed when the player attempts to do so? (for example, the player may try to take or push or pull or jump over your object...)Take:(No gravity if used) You jump about like a mad cricket for half an hour catching all the cards. Breathlessly you put them in you space suit pocket, hoping they will provide entertainment at some later point... although you doubt it. Your personal tendency is towards homo-sapiens....Take- (Gravity) Easier said than done, naked Zorgians are scattered all over the place...breathlessly, you gather the cards up and put them in your pocket hoping they will provide entertainment at some later point... although you doubt it. Your personal tendency is towards homo-sapiens....Play card/poker:There'll be plenty of time for poker after the ship's been fixed.It's as easy as that. So add away to theRec Room's and theCanteen's Scenery Objects and play away.In the meantime, if you have mad coding skills or have always wanted to try your dab hand at an easy language, head to theText Adventure Coderspage and read all about it!
As ourGamesblognoted yesterday: "Sony has made itsannual filingwith the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission -- and it makes for terrifying reading. Since its launch in 2006, PS3 has apparently lost the company $3.3bn -- the inevitable consequence of selling the machine below (maybe even well below) cost price for the last two years. The report refers to this as 'strategic pricing'. "It shouldn't be that terrifying. Strategic pricing is standard in the console industry (unless you can ship old technology, like Nintendo with the Wii) and all SEC filings contain lots of warnings about the worst things that can happen: if you paint too pretty a picture, you risk getting sued by shareholders. "Well, we did warn you" is just a corporate insurance policy.Also, we always knew Sony was going to lose tons of money on the PlayStation 3, once it took the decision to fit a $250 (or so) Blu-ray drive instead of a $10 DVD. And while this might not have done the PS3 all that much good, it enabled Sony to beat Toshiba even though most people who bought a standalone HD movie player bought HD DVD.However, this doesn't mean Sony doesn't have real problems. It's lost its monopoly market share of the games console market, and is fighting Microsoft for the runner-up position behind Nintendo. The loss of market share also means Sony has lost its dominance of exclusive games, which puts the PS3 in a much worse position for the long term than the PS2 enjoyed.It's also true that Microsoft has been losing roughly $1 billion a year on the Xbox line because of its own strategic pricing (plus chucking in an extra billion for the Red Ring of Death disaster), but this doesn't help Sony. Sony is struggling, financially, and every billion hurts*. Microsoft can lose a billion (or pay a billion in fines) without really noticing -- it's one week's revenues. Even in the financial quarter that included the RRoD charge, Microsoft increased its profits by 7% to $3.05 billion.Either way, all three manufacturers must now be working on the next round of consoles, and that looks like being another big win for Nintendo. There's not much Sony can do to top the Cell processor and Blu-ray, and both Sony and Microsoft now have a vested interest in prolonging the current battle, so as to benefit from reduced hardware production costs and higher games sales. (The profit payback for those initial losses.)Nintendo, by contrast, can simply flog Wii consoles until sales finally sag, then produce a new version with a similar level of technology to the current Xbox 360 and PS3. A Wii with decent graphics could start the cycle all over again.* According toan AP story: "Sony Chief Executive Howard Stringer vowed the company will become profitable in its money-losing TV and game businesses during this fiscal year ending March 2009. Stringer said Sony has achieved recovery since 2005 by exiting or downsizing 15 product categories, reducing 10,000 global workers and shutting down 11 manufacturing sites."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Phorm, the server-side adware company, is poised to begin its next trial to provide ads based on peoples' internet browsing to a limited number of opt-in customers using BT Broadband: we hear that it will start imminently, perhaps even this week.But while it's caused a privacy storm here in the UK (with some protesters planning to picket BT's annual shareholder meeting) - see our coveragehereandhere(andlisten to the interviewwith Phorm's CEO and chair, Kent Ertugrul) - there's also been moves to introduce similar systems in the US.Thus Charter Communications, the fourth-largest cable operator in the US, quietly said in May that it would trial systems from NebuAd, which uses a similar system to Phorm: it invisibly tracks what web pages you request, analyses the header and some of the text, and then tries to figure out what you're generally interested in finding out.Now Charter is backtracking: the trial has been put off, and "privacy concerns" are being cited.Quoththe Charter PR:"As we do with all new service launches or initiatives, we conducted focus groups well in advance, which told us that most broadband consumers would look upon this service favorably," Charter said on Wednesday."However, some of our customers have presented questions about this service as well as suggested improvements," it said. "We will continue to take a thoughtful, deliberate approach with the goal to ultimately structure an advertising service that enhances the internet experience for our customers and addresses questions and concern they've raised."Put that way, it all sounds like everyone was so pleased, obviously theyhadto delay it. Can't bepleasingpeople too much.The reality though is that US legislators had kicked up a storm, prompted by privacy advocates: "The fact is that it would have allowed profiling of an individual - where they were going and what they were doing online, and there was no guarantee that this information could not ultimately be compromised," Ed Markey, a Democrat from Massachusetts who chairs the House of Representatives Energy and Commerce subcommittee on telecommunications and the internet,told the Washington Post. "They made the right decision in halting their test."NebuAd has been accused offorging Google data packets. The packets had extra Javascript code in them which loaded data from another page. (This sort of diversion is bad: if there weren't a company you trusted behind it, you'd conclude that your router or machine might be compromised. Which is what happened when BT did its early - quite feasibly illegal - trials of the Phorm system. Phorm has since changed its system so it doesn't inject Javascript.)And the other part of the reality is that Charter doesn't know when it's going to restart the scheme. That comes perilously close to "dropping" it, you have to think.Now, Phorm has insisted repeatedly that its system means that people can't profile you; if someone breaks into its database, all they'd find is a set of unique IDs,web pagespre-defined ad channel match, and times, but nothing with IP addresses or names or emails that could link the ID to a person.Will that be enough, though, if similar ideas are being put off in the US, where privacy online isn't usually as strongly defended at the individual level (and is certainly not as enshrined in the law as in the UK and Europe)?(Bonus link: aninterview with the CEO of NebuAdat Gigaom, at the end of May. If you've followed Phorm, it will sound very familiar.)(Updated:26 June: Phorm pointed out that it does not store web pages; it stores "the unique ID, pre-defined ad channel match and time stamp". Changed in the paragraph above.)
This week we're in Manchester, and looking (and talking about) the 60th birthday of Baby, the world's first programmable computer. There's news, talk, details about Manchester (why is it the place for digital stuff?) and much more, in our regular podcast.Launch audio playerGet in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand join our newTwitter feed.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook groupSubscribe via iTunesDownload mp3Podcast feed URL
Nokia moved to counter the growing threat of Apple and Google in the race to supply the next generation of mobile phones by taking control of the British software company Symbian yesterday and announcing plans to make its mobile phone software free of charge.Symbian, which Nokia helped create with the UK-based Psion 10 years ago, makes the operating system software that sits on so-called smartphones, handsets that can access the internet and play music. As mobile phones become more powerful and people do far more than just make calls and send texts, the software that powers these devices has become a crucial battleground.Symbian has about 60% of the global smartphone market with its technology in more than 200m handsets already. But the recent entrance of Apple into the market with the iPhone and plans for Google to do likewise with its Android operating system later this year have threatened the positions of Symbian and Nokia, which makes four out of every 10 phones sold worldwide.Kai &Ouml;ist&auml;m&ouml;, Nokia's vice-president, insisted that the company's move, which has been under discussion for several months, had nothing to do with the threat posed by Google or Apple. "Looking at this as a response to anybody would not do any justice to the boldness and magnitude of what we are doing."Analysts were in no doubt about the Finnish company's motivation: to prevent Google's Android operating system, due to appear on phones towards the end of the year, grabbing a significant slice of the market. Nokia's plans to stop charging for operating software also pose a threat to Microsoft and the BlackBerry developer, Research In Motion.Nokia is spending &euro;264m (&pound;209m) on the 52% of Symbian it does not own and bringing on board its 1,600 staff - more than 1,000 of which are in London and Cambridge. Ericsson, which has 15.6% of Symbian, Sony Ericsson, with 13.1%, Panasonic, with 10.5%, and Siemens, with 8.4%, have already agreed to sell. The last remaining shareholder is Samsung and Nokia expects the Korean firm also to sell its stake. Nokia then plans to integrate its own smartphone operating system - called Series 60 - with the UIQ standard developed by Motorola and Sony Ericsson and the MOAP platform of Japan's NTT DoCoMo. It will roll together all these systems, in the form of about 10m lines of computer code, into one free-of-charge software product that is "open source", or accessible to all, within two years.That new product will be controlled by a non-profit organisation called the Symbian Foundation, which already has more than 20 members including Vodafone, Orange, Nokia, Samsung and LG. All members will be able to use the new operating system to install on handsets or develop applications free of charge.Many mobile phone firms complain that the sheer number of operating systems makes it very hard to develop new revenue-generating services.Setting up the foundation means Nokia will be abandoning hundreds of millions of pounds of software-licensing revenues. Symbian alone made &pound;160m last year by charging mobile phone makers for its software. For Nokia, however, the ambition is to make it as easy as possible for engineers to develop applications for the new system, which will make Symbian handsets more attractive to consumers and consequently to mobile phone companies."I am convinced this will lead to us selling more phones," said &Ouml;ist&auml;m&ouml;.Symbian's chief executive, Nigel Clifford, described the creation of the Symbian Foundation as "epoch-making". Analysts said it would also frustrate Google, whose Android system is also "open source".Emeka Obiodu, at the industry analysts Global Insight, said Google's plans had been "fatally derailed" by Nokia's move."Nokia is taking the fight to Google on its own terms," he said. "Google prides itself on open-source credentials and is eager to build up a coalition of industry players to push through with its agenda (which is to cultivate a viable platform for mobile advertising). However, Nokia has nipped that in the bud."By tying up the top five mobile handset makers, key chipmakers and the likes of AT&amp;T and Vodafone, Nokia wants to starve Android, and similar initiatives, of influential industry players, leaving them to toy around with smaller players with lesser chance of changing the status quo."It will also be a blow to Microsoft, which has toiled for most of the past decade to get into the mobile phone market and now faces the prospect of its main rival becoming free of charge. Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system has only 13% of the market and costs handset makers $8 to $15 a phone to use.
Ferry Halim makes the most beautiful Flash games in the world. His site,Orisinal, is a treasure trove of gorgeous mini-games, sporting wistful, pastel-hued visuals and delicate soundtracks. They're as much - if not more - about concept and aesthetics as 'gameplay'. Which is fine as a) there are lots to try and b) they're free.The latest,Sunny Day Sky, is a brilliant example. It's a sort of side-on stylised version of Frogger; you control a cute little bear navigating the rush-hour traffic by jumping from car roof to car roof, using an umbrella to get some air. The more cars you jump without landing on the road surface, the better your score. Behind you, the coastal scenery drifts by dreamily.Come and have a go if you think you're soft enough.[ViaJay Is Games]
In this week's Tech Weekly Aleks Krotoski takes the show on the road to Manchester, celebrating the vibrant technological innovation of the UK's second biggest city and – according to the podcast's own Bobbie Johnson – the cradle of the industrial revolution.Home of the first passenger steam train, the world's first industrial park andthe first programmable computer– the reason for our trip to the city. We mark the 60th birthday of The Baby by speaking to three of its creators.We also ask the local digerati what it is that makes Manchester the place to be.Shaun Fensom, chairman of Manchester Digital, helps us navigate the Mancunian technology network, andProfessor Steve Furberfrom the University of Manchester takes us on a magical history tour through the academic origins of many of the city's innovations.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme throughout the week•Join our Facebook group
Despite probably being the cause of more gaming-induced RSI than any title sinceDaley Thompson's Decathlon,Diablo 2was a triumph. Blizzard's hack, slash and loot-heavy adventure was released back in - gulp - 2000 and sustained a huge following, especially online. But since then its been very quiet. Whispers of a sequel have cropped up every now and then but eight years on there is still no firm news. Until now. Well, sort of. Blizzard have posted aDiablo-esque teaser imageon their EU site. Could it have anything to do with this weekend'sWorld Wide Invitationalevent in Paris? Previous events in the US and South Korea have seen big announcements - Burning Crusade, Starcraft 2 - and Paris is unlikely to be any different. Could we be seeing the announcement of Diablo 3 this weekend? Let's hope so. And heck, get it on a console too. Diablo 3 on 360 or PS3? Yes please.
Sony has made itsannual filingwith the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission - and it makes for terrifying reading. Since its launch in 2006, PS3 has apparently lost the company $3.3bn - the inevitable consequence of selling the machine below (maybe evenwellbelow) cost price for the last two years. The report refers to this as 'strategic pricing'.Here's the bit everyone's quoting:Even if Sony is able to sufficiently recoup its investment, significant negative impact on Sony's operating results could occur during the introductory period of the platform. Further, even if the platform is ultimately successful, it may take longer than expected to recoup the investment, resulting in a negative impact on Sony's profitability.[Deep breath]... on the positive side, PS3 software sales increased from 44.6 million to 57.9 million units within the fiscal year, with the PSP on a surprisingly good 55.5 million units and good old PlayStation 2 on 13.73 million units.Of course, the problem now is that Sony is going to have to claw back that money on videogame and Blu-ray movie sales - in the midst of an economic downturn. Gulp.
Symbian was spun off from Psion as a way of making it independent, and a number of companies own pieces, including Sony Ericsson, Panasonic, Samsung and Siemens. However, Nokia is now offering to buy the 52% of Symbian that it doesn't already own, for €264 million, and says it will make the system open source. Nokia says:The acquisition is a fundamental step in the establishment of the Symbian Foundation, announced today by Nokia, together with AT&amp;T, LG Electronics, Motorola, NTT DoCoMo, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments and Vodafone. More information about the planned foundation can be found atwww.symbianfoundation.org.One of the reasons for the move is to "to unite Symbian OS, S60, UIQ and [DoCoMo's] MOAP (S) to create one open mobile software platform."According to Symbian's press release:"Establishing the Foundation is one of the biggest contributions to an open community ever made," said Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, CEO of Nokia. "Nokia is a strong supporter of open platforms and technologies as they give the freedom to build, maintain and evolve applications and services across device segments and offer by far the largest ecosystem, enabling rapid innovation. Today's announcement is a major milestone in our devices software strategy."Symbian is by far the world's leading smart phone software platform, with more than 200 million devices sold. Around 18.5 million were sold in this year's first quarter.The move looks as though it's positioning Symbian to compete against Google's Android, and at the same price: free. However, it's hard to know how much of a threat Android represents when there are no Android phones. Motorola has tried hard, but so far, Linux has been a failure in the mobile phone market.
"Important? Tennis games?!" I hear some of you scoff. And sure, while few of us really look forward to the next iteration of Top Spin or even Virtua Tennis, the genre has played a major role in the birth and development of the videogame industry. Even now, it's often tennis games that are pushing the frontiers of analogue sensitivity and complexity against the need for intuitive user-friendliness in console controls.So, while Wimbledon hots up, here's a quick run through of the key titles, together with nostalgic YouTube footage. Grab a bowl of strawberries, some clotted cream and a cheeky glass of Pinot (I don'tcareif you're at work - get into the spirit of things) and join me on a brief amble down tennis memory lane.Tennis for Two (1958, Oscilloscope)Running on the oscilloscope at the Brookhaven National Laboratory and programmed by physicist William Higinbotham, Tea for Two was arguably the first computer game ever made (though some point to the even earlier project,OXO). Check out theYouTube footage!Pong (arcade, 1972)Al Alcorn's take on the Magnavox Odyssey Tennis game essentially kickstarted the games industry, both in the arcades and later, on home consoles. The title symbolises the odd, apologist relationship gamers have with software - many claimed to be able to produce spin on the ball, although this functionality was never part of the program (the direction of the ball was affected by the area on which it struck the bat, but that was about it).Match Point (1984, Spectrum)Psion Software's early effort pitched featureless stickmen against each other in a rough approximation of the Wimbledon finals. The visuals were sparse but the simulation was pretty advanced for the time - players could control the speed and direction of the ball with deft timing and after-touch. Looking back, the ball boys bear an unfortunate resemblance to Starvin Marvin from South Park. YouTube videohere.Super Tennis (1991, SNES)Perhaps the first modern day tennis sim, featuring an array of court surfaces, lots of differently-skilled players and several two-player modes. It is, however, mostly remembered for its fast, intuitive action - a sort of Tennis equivalent of Sensible World of Soccer. The scrolling court visuals and crisp sound samples impressed gamers at the time, too.YouTubeit up!Pete Sampras Tennis (1994, Mega Drive)Codemasters' sleek Mega Drive effort matched Super Tennis for sheer playability, adding some of its own eccentric features, including a Crazy Tennis mode where you could play against portly platform hero, Dizzy. Codies also introduced its J-Cart technology allowing up to four-players to take part in doubles matches.Virtua Tennis (1999, arcade and Dreamcast)The defining tennis sim of the modern era. The Dreamcast original mixed intuitive controls with lovely animation to produce a simulation of incredible depth. The World Tour mode was an inspired addition, providing a range of surreal mini-games to test different aspects of your game. Subsequent iterations have tweaked the formula and improved the visuals, but the essence of this Sega NAOMI/Dreamcast classic remains unmolested.Here's a trailer.Wii Sports Tennis (2006, Wii)A popular element of the revolutionary Wii Sports compilation, drawing impressively accurate motion-sensing performance from the Wiimote. Okay, so your lack of control over the onscreen player could get annoying at times, but the fun of acting out physically extravagant shots - often at the risk of the odd patio door or Ming dynasty vase - is what this game was all about. Here is a sillyWii Tennis 'accident'movie.Okay, so what vital tennis titles have I missed? The first person to suggest Anna Kournikova's Smash Court Tennis will be sent to the naughty step.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
As a young man, Fergus McGovern pretty much had it all. The company he founded in 1984, Probe Entertainment, was one of the big hitters of the British games scene.Specialising in licences from arcade games and film tie-ins, Probe came up with a string of hits, OutRun, Mortal Kombat and Fifa Soccer among them."Every kid loved video games, and having the opportunity to make games has changed my life," he says, laughing. "To be honest, I achieved quite a lot when I was very young. We had seven Christmas number ones out of 10, and in 1995 I was given a lifetime achievement award. That's too young.""Today I look at Grand Theft Auto IV breaking records, and think back to Mortal Kombat, which was a massive hit," he says. He particularly remembers the event dubbed "Mortal Monday" – September 13 1993, when all the different versions of the original Mortal Kombat game were released simultaneously."That stands out in a lot of people's minds."Probe was sold to Acclaim for a rumoured $40m in 1995, making McGovern a multimillionaire. After leaving the company a couple of years later, he founded HotGen – the company behind some of those plug-and-play joystick games inspired by arcade classics like Pac-Man.The slate of products includes joystick games, virtual pets and interactive books as well as more traditional handheld console titles."We employ just under 45 people based in sunny Croydon," he says.Although the feeling may differ somewhat from his previous ventures, HotGen's forte is much the same as Probe's – working on proven, popular licences. These days that includes Disney properties like High School Musical, as well as SpongeBob Squarepants and Spider-Man. The games and products have earned HotGen and the companies it partners more than $4bn in sales.The next big thing he's working on is a Guitar Hero-style game where the player keeps up with songs from the popular children's TV show Hannah Montana.The benefit from this way of doing things, he believes, is that it allows creators to be much closer to what they're making than in the immense production houses of the 21st century videogames industry. It's much more akin to how the games industry began."Instead of developing games for three years at the cost of tens of millions of dollars, we can see a product on the shelves in months," he says. "All the people who work here are seasoned programmers or artists, but instead of being divorced from what they're making in other companies, they're working in small teams."These days his interests are expanding, including property and an associate directorship of Crystal Palace Football Club. And where some developers are at pains to stress their arty credentials, McGovern is proud to have moved toward the world of toys."Toys is still a fun industry," he says. "It's like Tom Hanks in Big."
Microsoft has written to its partners to remind them about Windows XP reaching its "end of life" stage. It says:* Windows XP will no longer be available for purchase from Microsoft for general retail and OEM partners as of June 30, 2008* For system builders that date is January 31, 2009* For Windows XP Starter (in emerging markets) and Windows XP Home for NetBooks and NetTops (formerly known as ULCPCs), the date is June 30, 2010* Per our longstanding practice allowing 'downgrade' rights, enterprise customers and purchasers of Windows Vista Ultimate or Windows Vista Business editions can choose to downgrade to Windows XP Professional if they feel the need to get ready for Windows Vista.In other words, if you were going to buy Windows Vista Home, for example, you have to upgrade to a more expensive copy of Vista to get the right to downgrade to an inferior operating system.Microsoft also says:Customers will receive mainstream support for Windows XP until April 2009, and will be able to receive extended support from Microsoft under our extended support policy until April 2014. For more information about Microsoft's Support Lifecycle Policy please visit this Web site:http://support.microsoft.com/gp/lifepolicyMicrosoft offers "a minimum of 10 years of support for Business and Developer products," which is roughly three hardware cycles. In the case of XP Pro, support will have run from 2001 to 2014.
Grand Theft Auto, which was primarily developed by the Scottish company Rockstar NorthThe UK needs game development staff. Desperately. And right now. The problem is, there's no way near enough to go around - and when talent emerges, it's being tempted out of the country. These are the concerns of industry lobby group, Games Up, formed by leading developers and backed byTigaandELSPA.Announcedlate last month, the collective has two key aims. One is to pressure the government into providing tax breaks to the British videogame industry so that it can compete with other countries where such incentives are encouraging digital sector growth. France, Quebec and US states Michigan and Georgia are familiar examples, with the Canadian province, especially, blamed for a brain drain of UK staff.But the key concern is more fundamental than that. Games Up also wants to take on the education process in this country..."Games developers need an increase in the supply of mathematics and science graduates to meet their skill needs," said Tiga CEO Richard Wilsonrecently. "This in turn means that primary and secondary schools need to enable more pupils to achieve higher levels of attainment in mathematics and the sciences at GCSE and at A level. Yet Ofsted reported this week that students are increasingly abandoning sciences at A level in favour of 'softer' subjects."This is definitely what I'm hearing from developers. I recently took a tour of studios in the North East for a forthcoming issue of Edge Magazine, and most said they'd noticed a downturn in students coming out of secondary and higher education with specialisms in core subjects such as maths, physics and computer science. And it seems the problem of finding game development talent is not being helped by the rising number of university courses specialising in videogames. David Braben of Frontier Developments and spokesman for Games Up said last week, "95 per cent of video gaming degrees are simply not fit for purpose. Without some sort of common standard, like Skillset accreditation, these degrees are a waste of time for all concerned." Indeed, it turns that out of the 81 game-related degrees available, only fourareaccredited by the government's monitoring body.Again, this is something developers talked to me about. It seems university courses are often far too broad, offering a range of skills, but not enough depth in any of them. Several game design courses, for example, cover elements such as 3D character modeling and animation - elements that aren't really central to the designer's role. Indeed, the content seems to show a basic lack of understanding about game design, which is more about game systems, game rules, narrative structure and level design than creating polygonal objects.Things are improving though. In the North East, developers such as Atomic Planet, Reflections and Eutechnyx are now working directly with local universities to fine tune course content. This is happening in other areas, too - notably Abertay where Dave Jones of Realtime Worlds has been an important influence. There are also more courses running virtual development projects where students are put into groups to create their own games. This has the dual benefit of providing vital first-hand development experience and of giving students a final project to show off to prospective employers when they leave uni. Abertay has taken this a step further with itsDare to be Digitalcompetition which provides a strong, well-publicised forum for new dev projects, attracting the interest of many key publishers.However, in arecent article on Silicon.comone 'industry insider' claimed that the UK's shortage of young game development talent is more to do with the death of traditional bedroom coding. From the feature:Many of the current crop of games industry employees learnt to create programs by getting creative with the home computers of the 1980s and 1990s - hardware such as the Atari ST and Sinclair Spectrum - so the rise of plug-and-play games consoles is likely to have contributed to the partial demise of 'bedroom coder culture'.I'm not sure I agree with this. After all, the PC still provides an excellent platform for home development, at all skill levels. Designers can cut their teeth on any number of in-game map editors, while inexperienced programmers can employ packages likeSploderandGame Makerto kickstart basic projects - it's even possible to download license-free 3D game engines for amateur or indie projects. And of course, there's a wealth of online games sites that'll host shareware titles.As for console development, coders happy to get their hands a little dirtier (figuratively speaking) can buy a Dreamcast and hit the demoscene, where tools, libraries and boot disks are available for development on Sega's console. The PSP, too, has a healthy homebrew scene. The people active in this community are the same sort of kids who grew up fiddling with C64s and Amigas - the scene never really died, it just transfered.No, the problems - and the potential solutions - go back further. As Tiga notes in a recent press release, "Developers also recognise that efforts to recruit from a more diverse pool of candidates could help to ease skills shortages. For example, the potential to recruit more women into the games industry in the future is significant. Girls already outperform boys in mathematics at GCSE level - one of the foundations for studying subjects vital to employment in the games industry."Maybe the answer to the UK's talent shortage isn't to fall back on, or attempt to re-ignite, the traditional 'geek' demographic, but to start talking to the girls who are excelling in maths. Backing up Tigas stats, a recent study,reported in The Economist- has shown that girls can do as well, and sometimes better, than boys in subjects like maths and physics in developed countries where they have equal educational opportunities. In the past, maths-heavy professions have found it difficult to interest girls, but titles like Singstar, Guitar Hero and GTA IV are slowly transforming perceptions of the games industry, once dismissed as a nerdy ghetto, but now undergoing an image shift to mainstream entertainment phenomenon.There will always be boys who love to fiddle with technology - they're in the bank as far as future game development goes. The problem is, there's not enough of them. And while it's all well and good attempting to prise from the UK government the sort of tax breaks offered in other countries in order to keep hold of the talent we do have, it's not going to help much with the shortage of fresh-faced starlets from the education pipeline. For this, game developers need to do what, stereotypically, they've never been good at. They need to talk to girls.
The world now has more than a billion PCs, according toGartner, and the total should reach two billion early in 2014."We forecast just over 180 million PCs -- approximately 16% of the existing installed base -- will be replaced this year," said Meike Escherich, principal research analyst at Gartner. "We estimate a fifth of these, or some 35 million PCs, will be dumped into landfill with little or no regard for their toxic content."A lot of the next billion will be installed in the big developing countries, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. The majority (58%, says Gartner) of the first billion were installed in the developed world, particularly the USA, Western Europe, and Japan.It would be interesting to know where Gartner gets its numbers from, because I can't see any sources beyond guesswork. And with sales running at 200-250 million units a year, I'd have thought we'd have hit a billion a year or two ago, on the assumption that most last four years, and some longer. (In a static market, 20% disposal rate would imply a 5-year cycle.)Mind you, I'd have a hard time guessing how many PCs we have in our house. They aren't all still in regular use, but there's a grey area between used and scrapped. How many have you got?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Big hitters Alone in the Dark and Battlefield Bad Company (both 360) arrived this weekend but I've been spending most of my gaming time on an unexpected treat -Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution(360). I get on with strategy games about as well as I do with mobile - ie not very - so was expecting very little from this latest attempt to shoehorn the genre onto a console.Like the PC games Revolution is a turn-based sim that sees you building up your empire and either dominating your opponents with force or blinding them with science. This is one of the first console games where city building, resource mining, education and diplomacy are as important to success as combat proficiency. But most console strategy games are ham-fisted clunky affairs, almost all of them far better suited to mouse and keyboard PC gaming. But Civ Revolution is a revelation. Logical and easy to pick up controls, well designed and non-intrusive tutorials and a vibrant art style that drags you in. The game is pacey too. Longstanding Civ veterans may baulk at some of the restrictions but strategy and cerebral reflection are still necessary and everything just moves so much faster than the often glacial progress of yore.I'm roaring through the single player stuff so it looks like multiplayer is the focus. So far Civ Revolution is my biggest and most welcome gaming surprise of 2008. Anyone else played yet?
"Earlier this week the Swedish stasi-government decided -- against the peoples wishes -- to wiretap all internet and telephone traffic in order to protect Sweden against threats. As you all know, being a neutral country makes Sweden a target for all the terrorists of the world, apparantly," blogs one of The Pirate Bay's admins,Peter Sunde.Many people have asked me what we're planning to do -- and the answer is "A lot!". We're going to help out in any way we can with fighting the law. This week we're going to add SSL to The Pirate Bay. We're also going to help out making a website about easy encryption -- both for your harddrives and your net traffic. As some people know, we're running a system for VPN-tunnels already and we're going to lower the price for that as well and open it up for international users as well.Sunde also says: "We want Sweden to be banned from the Internet."That won't stop The Pirate Bay, of course, because its servers are not actually based in Sweden.....We've written quite a lot about The Pirate Bay, where "we" usually meansBobbie Johnson. See, for example,How three Swedish geeks became Hollywood's Number One enemy, andIs the Pirate Bay going to be shut down again?, andNotorious pirate website faces copyright case. There's a January 2008 interview with The Pirate Bay atSlyck.
Last Thursday we ran a piece about a new (to us) wrinkle on copyright infringement, detailing how some people who had put photos on Flickrunder a Creative Commons non-commercial licence(oops - they weren't) found that they were being sold on eBay by someone who was claiming the rights to them.The headline we put on the story:Why digital thieves take your photos - and profit from them(though it was billed on the front page of the site, for brevity, as in print, because we're working with different space, it was "Who is sellingyourphotos?".And the sub-heading "In an age when digital photography rules and people post their images online, how can we stop our photos being stolen?"Now, I got a letter from a reader who said, in part,"I only read the heading and subheadings of this. For god's sake, at least use the correct terminology. The photographs in question simply are not being stolen. They're being copied. No thieves in existence there, but copiers. Illegal copiers I'm sure (whether it's a good idea for so many things to be illegal to copy or not is another issue). You're not helping us nor yourselves by perpetuating this kind of BS. The party who initially has possession of the item in one case no longer has the item, and in the other, does. That's a big difference. That's why we have different words with very different meanings to describe the two fundamentally different situations. But you've got them mixed up. And helped other people get them mixed up too."I asked him: if it isn't theft, what is it? His reply:"Copying. Illegal copying. The law which covers this is called copyright I think. *Copy*right. There really isn't an argument here IMO."Now, from a legal standpoint (which is where these things eventually end up if there's money involved), I'd suggest that what has been stolen with the sale of those photos is therightof the photo's creator to decide how to use it: commercially, non-commercially, with or without attribution.It's an intangible piece of goods, certainly; but it's one which has a monetary value (as evidenced by the fact that someone else has made money by selling the product on eBay).My question to you all: do you think that the language of "theft" is correct in this case? Or do you think we should use some other phraseology?This isn't arguing about new models of commerce on the net that could be enabled by giving content away for free; it's about what language to use when the content isn't being given away for free, and when people have stated that they want to retain those rights. What's the correct language, do you think?
Not many websites have kept their pre-eminence for more than a decade, butExpediahas managed it. The design is showing its age but it's often the simplest, quickest and cheapest way to book a trip if it includes a flight and a hotel. Even if you eventually book through a travel agent, Expedia is a great source of information.The cheapest long-haul flights usually involve a change of planes, and I've found thatExpedia UKoften comes up with options the travel agent can't see. Most importantly, you can instantly see how long the flight will take, and you can sort flights by duration to juggle price and time. You can – and I do – save money by booking flights to Las Vegas via Phoenix, or Vancouver via Seattle. But you don't want to spend more than 20 hours getting somewhere that's 10 hours away, and that's an easy mistake to make.Because Expedia pulls up lots of options quickly, you can also save money by trying different travel dates, especially if you can include a Saturday night. If you can travel midweek, it may be cheaper to stay for six or seven days than for a weekend.But the biggest savings usually come by constructing a package with a flight and a hotel where Expedia has special prices. These aren't as good as they used to be, but Expedia's deals can still come out cheaper than making separate bookings on discount sites. And by using Expedia's hotel area maps, you can also balance convenience (eg close to the beach or conference centre) and price.Expedia is based in Bellevue, Washington, which is a good place to stay if you're visiting Microsoft. This isn't a coincidence: Microsoft launched the website in 1996, before spinning it off as a separate business. Expedia has had no connection with the software giant since 2001, and it is now part of a group that includesHotels.com,Hotwire.comand the excellentTripAdvisor.But the site still carries Microsoft's fingerprints: you can sign in using a Microsoft Live ID (your Hotmail or Passport address), and Expedia still uses Microsoft's MapPoint. However, you can't move its maps around easily, as you can in Microsoft's Virtual Earth and Google Maps.Unlike some of its rivals, Expedia also has a reasonable global network, with sites in 15 countries. These now include Australia, China, India and Japan, as well as the major European countries.And although Expedia has its detractors, when Fortune magazine published its annual list of America's Most Admired Companies in March 2008, Expedia was placed third in its category, between Google and Amazon.Like Amazon, eBay, Yahoo and a few other giants from the 1990s, Expedia's site is showing its age. However, it's so big, and has so much traffic, it is increasingly hard to change.If you're prepared to shop around using some of the newer, more focused travel sites, you may get a better deal. But as a one-stop supermarket that covers everything from cruises to corporate travel, Expedia does the job.
Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer has been interviewed by theFinancial Times, with an amusing opening: "So, you finally got rid of that other guy."Ballmer's main point is that Microsoft doesn't have much share of the online ad business and that this makes it a good prospect for growth -- hence the attempt to buy Yahoo.FT:The Yahoo bid was taken partly as a tacit admission that you needed to do something fairly radical. Was that a fair response? .MR BALLMER:No, it's inaccurate. It may be fair; I can't comment as to fair. In a sense online is our best deal, isn't it? We're small; the other guys are big. There's a market out there. We have only one way to go, and it's up, baby, up, up, up, up, up!Well, he would say that, wouldn't he. But technology markets generally follow power laws and Google is steadily increasing its market share, just as Windows did. So, more likely, the only way is down....However, as usual, Ballmer makes a virtue of Microsoft's persistence, which is something few firms have even if, like Microsoft, they're rich enough to be able to afford it:FT:Is that he core attribute of this company, persistence? .MR BALLMER:I think our long term - I'd call it our long term approach, which is a combination of taking on bold challenges, being patient, being persistent, being relentless. There's an accountability and in some senses you've got to be relentlessly accountable and you also have to be willing to stick with things. We don't pull back; it's not what we do. . Sometimes we get shareholders who will question us on that, but I think it's our great strength. It's what built Windows, it's what build [sic] Office, it's what built our enterprise business, and what's going to let us build the search business. It's what [sic] letting us build a TV business.It's easy to mock Ballmer, of course, but he's doubled Microsoft's sales from $25bn (2001) to $51bn (2007) and annual profits from $7.3bn to $14.1bn, even after legal and Xbox-related charges. Revenues could reach $60bn this year -- none of which has been reflected in Microsoft's share price. Perhaps with any other CEO, that's the kind of thing that might have been of more interest to the Financial Times....
At his three-bedroom, two-bathroom home in a leafy suburb of Perth, Western Australia, 44-year-old Ian Usher's eyes are glued to his computer screen. Since noon yesterday local time, the Briton's entire life has been up for auction on eBay following a painful divorce.In the opening hours of the sale 70 bids were registered and the price of his life in Oz stands so far at A$1.7m (&pound;820,000). "I feel pretty good, shell-shocked really," he said. "It's going much better than I'd anticipated." The online auction will close in a week.Usher, originally from Darlington, Co Durham, moved to Australia six years ago but his dream life soured when he and his wife, Laura, decided to separate. He came up with the eccentric idea of getting rid of everything he owns so that he can start a new life.On offer is the former marital home in Wellard, a 30-minute train ride from the boom town of Perth, a Mazda car, a Kawasaki motorbike as well as all the other toys one needs to enjoy the laid-back Australian lifestyle: a jetski, kite-surfing equipment, a mountain bike and the obligatory barbecue. Also included in the single lot is a two-week trial run at Usher's job as a rug store shop assistant in Perth and an introduction to his friends so that the successful bidder could, theoretically, walk straight into a ready-made life.Usher's websitealife4sale.commakes much of the fact that the reason for the auction is because he was left heartbroken by his marriage breakdown two years ago. "My life's on a much more even keel now," he said. "I'm ready to move on." He said his ex-wife, who remains in Perth, is intrigued by the sale and wishes him well.Usher's house is valued at A$420,000 so it seems strange that someone - the latest bidder comes from Australia - wants to pay way over the odds for his house and possessions."I've been checking and they do seem to be genuine bidders at the moment," he said."However if the worst comes to the worst and all this ends up falling through I can just get the market price for the property in Perth. But I suppose then I'd always be known as the man who couldn't sell his life on eBay."The auction closes on Sunday and Usher said that, whatever the outcome, he will head to Perth airport with his passport and a few personal belongings in hand.He plans to visit family and friends back home in Darlington and has decided to travel overseas afterwards."There is a big world out there and whatever happens, I'm off," he said.
He is everyone's friend and, by the yardstick he invented, the most popular man in the world. He has helped turn the music industry on its head and change the way a generation communicate. But as Tom Anderson has discovered, even having 200 million friends and Rupert Murdoch as a boss won't help when your website is no longer flavour of the month.The extent to which MySpace has been surpassed - in column inches, buzz and now in global users - by Facebook over the past year is the latest manifestation of the ever-increasing velocity of the internet hype cycle. In the UK, MySpace was caught in a pincer movement between Facebook, which made social networking acceptable as it swept through offices like a rash, and Bebo, which cornered the market in younger users. According to ComScore, Facebook is now bigger globally with 116.4 million unique users to MySpace's 115.7 million.Anderson admits it was a wake-up call when the huge organic growth of the site he co-founded with his friend Chris DeWolfe in August 2003 and sold to News Corp for $580m two years later suddenly came under pressure. "We felt like we'd peaked. We weren't tailing off but our growth was slowing down. Everyone who was going to get on MySpace got on it long ago. We've been rolling along and things have happened easily for us," he says. "We've never fought an uphill battle. We launched the site, people loved it and we kept growing and growing."MySpace 2.0Around the world, challengers are snapping at its heels - Google's Orkut in Brazil, Facebook across Europe. So the previously publicity-shy Anderson, who tends to concentrate on product development while leaving the business side to DeWolfe (there has been online speculation about whether he even existed) has been forced to stick his head above the parapet to outline his vision for the future of the site.Over the last year, MySpace has been quietly shedding its chaotic look for something more polished. "We were sitting there, feeling like we had peaked somewhat and thought about how we were going to attract people," Anderson says. "We asked people why they didn't go to MySpace. A lot of people thought it was too hard to use, they thought it was a music site, or a content site. Privacy was a concern, or they'd say it was a site for teenagers."Dubbed "MySpace 2.0" internally, the redesign will be completed over the next four months and a wide range of new features introduced, all intended to shed its reputation as a media platform for music-crazed teens and make it the prism through which all its users access the internet - from communication to sharing pictures, listening to music to watching TV. Meanwhile, of course, every other web player - from Yahoo to MSN, Google to Facebook, the BBC to Netvibes - is aiming to do the same thing.The new MySpace is cleaner and more professional, which should please advertisers but could disenfranchise the core user base that flocked to its messy online equivalent of a teen bedroom. "If they want, users can still mess it up," protests Anderson with mock indignation.In the redesign, the homepage "becomes more like My Yahoo", he says. "It's a start page into which you can pull in anything you want. The hope is that this creates a world of utility for people who are using MySpace, but also attracts a new group of people who realise you can pull in email, stock quotes, weather and so on." Anderson says the redesign will fulfil his original vision: "The very first plan I wrote for MySpace was that it would be a portal, but a portal wrapped around your user profile."He notes that all MySpace's big Silicon Valley competitors have tried and failed to launch their own social networking sites. Going the other way - mapping utilities, news, applications and so on onto a social network - may prove easier: "We're trying to move into their territory and they've all moved on to ours and failed quite miserably." In one of several nods to the success of Facebook, much is being made of the potential of "apps" or "widgets" - the small, useful utilities developed by third parties.A vignette from last year's World Economic Forum in Davos captures the transient nature of online stardust. Jeff Jarvis recounted on his blog how a "clearly enchanted" Murdoch spent most of an industry dinner cosied up to Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, only for DeWolfe to dash over as soon as he had gone "as if he were jealous of the attention Dad had given that other kid".But Anderson insists he is not fixated on Facebook, which has only half as many US users as MySpace. "I look at the global numbers but a lot of the countries they're so huge in have no ad market, so they're not really significant to us. I wouldn't single out Facebook as a concern, because we've got different local competitors around the world," he says, not altogether convincingly.Where DeWolfe is smooth and sharp, Anderson seems a little nervous and unspun. With his fringe, skinny jeans, hooded top and scuffed Adidas, he could pass for a member of one of the hundreds of thousands of bands that now use MySpace as their conduit to the world. Yet while he's no preppy Madison Avenue deal-maker, he also doesn't fit the geeky stereotype of Silicon Valley.One of the original strengths of MySpace was that it was born of Los Angeles rather than Stanford, the Valley university whose alumni include Google's founders. But that had its downside too, Anderson admits, and MySpace is now pedalling hard to build links with the "developer community" he hopes will build the applications to power its future growth.Also key to the site's future prospects will be whether it can build on its early success in music. From Arctic Monkeys to Lily Allen, it became synonymous with a wave of acts who bypassed traditional marketing and built a fanbase online. Following tortuous negotiations, it now has deals with every major label to act as a global streaming jukebox. But some think MySpace has left it too late."So many people are saying this is the next thing for music. Every song from every band is there. What you'd find on iTunes, you'll now find on MySpace and it's free," enthuses Anderson. "Whether it's financially successful is the big question. Can we make money from the ads? Can the record labels be satisfied with what we're bringing in? That's the challenge. That's a big leap and a big effort. Time will tell if it works out."Video stealingMurdoch is particularly keen on making progress in video, Anderson says. As well as investing in its own experimental productions, MySpace is building up its library of licensed content from News Corp and elsewhere. "Video could have been that big win, we could have been YouTube. But since we were a company owned by News Corp that has a great respect for intellectual property, we couldn't have been YouTube," says Anderson, taking a carefully aimed swipe at its Google-owned rival. "They were just stealing content and turning the other way for years. And they're still doing that at some levels. Google is basically too big for anyone to go against in a serious way."He was "quite naive", he says, about the speed with which MySpace would be able to expand into new areas in its early days, recalling a year-long negotiation with eBay that eventually came to nought. He also admits to being initially "concerned" about the possible implications of the News Corp deal and says the days that followed the takeover, as he became mired in discussions over budgets, were hard. "For a while at the beginning, I did feel like I was getting pulled into the budget stuff too much, and a new format for planning that I didn't like too much as opposed to our old shoot-from-the-hip banner," he says. "But I've really been able to remove myself from that process and get back to the things I like the most, which is working on the site."As the MySpace takeover is now routinely cited as proof that Murdoch still has his finger on the media pulse in the digital age, it's easy to forget he was widely considered to have overpaid when he shelled out $580m. A single search advertising deal with Google later recouped $900m and, as the site's user figures mushroomed, the acquisition was hailed as a bargain. But as its rivals have caught up, the questions over its future strategy and revenue-generating potential have returned. Analysts continually question whether the cluttered MySpace environment can drive substantial ad revenues.MySpace has been profitable from day one, Anderson says, bringing in close to $1bn in revenues last year, and he argues that News Corp got it cheap. "We were profitable before News Corp bought us. No one knows that. We've been profitable ever since News Corp bought us. For a four- to five-year-old company, we're doing much better than Google or Yahoo were doing at the same point. When someone asks how we're going to make money, that's a relative question. We're making a lot of money. Rupert and crew got a great deal for what they bought MySpace for."Anderson is confident that revenues will only increase as advertising budgets follow users and move online. As he contemplates the future, there are "lots of things to be happy about". Splitting the leadership of the company with DeWolfe suits them both, he says, and his eyes are now focused on the battle ahead: "It's extremely difficult. It's a lot more difficult than anything we've done before. With this redesign, there's a lot of drama. Is this going to work? We've not had that before."Curriculum vitaeAge32EducationUniversity of California, Berkeley (BA English and rhetoric); University of California, Los Angeles (MA Film - critical studies)Career2000product tester and copywriter, XDrive2001ResponseBase, later bought by eUniverse, which became Intermix2003founder, MySpace2005Intermix, including MySpace, sold to News Corp; became president
Here we have room for all your letters and blog pingbacks, unlike inprint. Read them! Including the debate about the iPhone's usefulness...BANKING CODEThe article is rather misleading, since the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) absolutely overrides both the Banking Code and any special rules imposed by individual banks. Under the CCA you are not liable for any transaction which was neither made nor authorised by you, and nothing the Banking Code or the banks may say makes any difference to that. This is no different from the law regarding cheques - you are not liable for any cheque you never signed yourself. The various threats made by banks to victims of fraud implying that they are liable because they have somehow been negligent (having written down &amp; lost their PIN number, for example) are completely empty, as reference to the reports of the Financial Services Ombudsman will attest. There is not even any legal basis to the banks' frequent reference to a £50 penalty in the event of 'negligent' loss - the CCA lays down no penalty itself, and in practice few banks charge one either. Nick Steadman (no post town given)How does it affect people using systems like Open BSD or Open Solaris? Most of these people don't run antivirus software for the very good reason that it's largely pointless. And what about people like me, who mostly use Linux Live CDs to do our banking? Are they saying this is less safe than a windows box, even with up to date scanners? And lastly why does the banking code contain advice for the customer anyway. I thought this was best practice for the banks? Mark Lester, WorcesterUNFOUND IPHONEI find it extraordinary that Mr. Arthur's article on the prospective new iPhone omits to mention the biggest deficiency on the existing device: lack of [device-wide] search. This fundamental omission of functionality makes trying to find contacts or old emails - the easiest thing to do on any other PDA - a nightmare. Those of us who bought the phone as a business machine found that it is essentially a toy for kids to hear pop songs on first, a business tool second. David Cohen, Art Critic/Contributing Editor, The New York Sun, New YorkFOR THOSE ABOUT TO ROCKHi, just a note to point out a couple of (big) inaccuracies in your review of Rock Band (5 June). The review states that "plastic facsimiles of drums, a microphone, bass and lead guitar" are "all supplied with the game". No. You cannot buy a pack with all these instruments and the game in the UK. You can buy a pack which contains drums, one guitar and a microphone (the "Band in a Box" set) but it is separate from the actual game, which must be purchased separately. This plus the "Solus" game has an RRP of about £180, which you give as the price of the game. You can also buy a guitar or set of drums as a separate package. The review also says that "it won't work with Guitar Hero guitars". Wrong. The Guitar Hero guitars work just fine with Rock Band. It is the Rock Band guitars that won't work with Guitar Hero. I know all this as I bought the solus game a couple of weeks ago and have played it with my Guitar Hero guitar. I am currently on holiday in Florida and have just bought a set of drums for the equivalent of about £40, half the extortionate RRP of the UK drums. Your review certainly got that part right: the price of Rock Band in the UK is way too expensive. Nick Thompson, LeedsPHORM FILLING&gt;&gt; seems clearcut to me - the EU will also be taking no action, which will generate a collective "phew!" at the BT tower this week.thehermesproject.blogspot.comFREE OUR SURGERY?&gt;&gt; I have been practicing general surgery for more than 15 years. If my mortality data has to go online, how does government expect me to offer surgery to high risk patients? Obviously I have to look after my data and ensure that it's not skewed by those who have less chances of surviving operation.freeourdata.org.uk/blog/?p=206#commentsSEARCHING FOR GOOGLE ALTERNATIVES&gt;&gt; Well that's it then; the work I do on a daily basis is making it hard for Victor to find that perfect bijou lodging house in Italy. Time to turn off the PC and go &amp; do something less boring instead. Because obviously only huge corporates can afford SEO. Oh, hang on [the Guardian does]. Except of course that this is utter codswallop. Indeed I'd suggest that someone at The Guardian obviously doesn't think that SEO is such a bad thing as The Guardian site appears to have benefitted from at least a quick once over from someone who understands what makes sites more search friendly.ciarannorris.co.ukDIGG IT&gt;&gt; Of all the people to come up with a search engine capable of catching Google I would not have bet on Kevin Rose. My money was on Joshua Schacter but he sold to soon and it now looks like delicious is doomed. Rose gets what most other tech founders don't: people matter more than machines. I think this comes from the fact that Rose is not a mathematician nor even a coder. Digg came from an insight he had into what people wanted - to see what other people liked and who was like them.ontechnology.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; Yeah, what the people really want are stories about Ron Paul, Apple &amp; kittens falling off TVs. And buckling to your community when they break the law is a really clever way to build a business.ciarannorris.co.ukRED HOT&gt;&gt; Wonder if bloodsugarsexmagik was the background music?dailygrail.com&gt;&gt; once Professor Compton's idea is fully developed, it will be used for other, more interesting things than chillis, such as drug detection. Oh. Now I wish I'd never written about it.gizmodo.comBROADBAND SPEEDSYou have to empathise with Internet Service Providers in light of the publication of a voluntary code for regulating published broadband line speeds (June 6). Ofcom appears to have misunderstood the meaning of the "up to" prefix that precedes the advertised service provider bandwidth numbers. Equally, you can see that some ISP's put the "up to" prefix in the Terms and Conditions, but mostly in small wording that could be missed by the consumer. Dedicated high-speed connectivity is available if businesses are prepared to pay for it. The challenge for UK ISPs is that, having waited for a "killer app" on which to justify their high-speed infrastructure upgrade programmes, the mass adoption of online video has left many UK ISPs between a rock and a hard place. Faced with significant new demand for high-speed broadband connections service providers are faced with a prohibitive backhaul pricing model from the major UK incumbent on one side, and a commoditised consumer market that now expects bandwidth-for-free connectivity, that means they cannot build viable business models that enable last mile links to be upgraded to fibre. Until service providers solve this conundrum, delivering the highest broadband line speeds across the entire network – and at a competitive price point - will remain an ongoing challenge. Jon Pearce, Head of Product Management, ZyXELFUEL ECONOMY (CONT'D)The Toyota Prius is a lot more subtle than your correspondents recognise. The reason the Prius is such a brilliant car is the computer under the bonnet which is constantly trying to optimise all the resources available to it. Even on a motorway, the resources are being continuously optimised – as one descends an incline, for example, the car's energy due to its mass is captured and used, with any excess being stored in the battery for later use. Recovering energy from braking is another example. I have just driven my Prius 700 miles, mostly on motorway, from the south of England to the north and back. It returned an honest 64 mpg. The worst it has ever done in nearly 3 years was 54 mpg when I did 500 miles in France with 4 people and their luggage, including a roof box. I'm disappointed if I don't get 60 mpg on my usual mixed driving. If one understands the subtlety of the system and drives in sympathy with what the system is trying to achieve, truly remarkable results happen. And I've been achieving this for the last 3 years. Sorry to sound so smug! Steve Holloway, Chichester
In one part of the Money Programme special on Bill Gates and Microsoft (below), we see the original team being reassembled to repeat the photograph taken in 1978, before the company left Albuquerque. Pity they didn't match the original, which is usually a good idea with before and after shots.Newsweekhas just published the pair, in low resolution. It notes:Present for the reunion was office manager Miriam Lubow (center of new picture), who missed the original sitting due to a snowstorm. (When Lubow, now retired, first met Gates, she couldn't believe that disheveled kid was the president.) Absent for the reshoot was Bob Wallace (top center), who died in 2002; after leaving Microsoft in 1983, he pioneered the idea of shareware.
tumblr. - The DocumentaryfromDaveAOKonVimeo.If you have not had the pleasure, there is a list of tumblelogs atThe Tumblelist.Fromhttp://www.davidslog.com/
'Is Google Making Us Stupid?' was the provocative title of a recent article in the US journal The Atlantic. Its author was Nicholas Carr, a prominent blogger and one of the internet's more distinguished contrarians. 'Over the past few years,' he writes, 'I've had an uncomfortable sense that someone, or something, has been tinkering with my brain, remapping the neural circuitry, reprogramming the memory. My mind isn't going - so far as I can tell - but it's changing. I'm not thinking the way I used to think.'He feels this most strongly, he says, when he's reading. 'Immersing myself in a book or a lengthy article used to be easy. My mind would get caught up in the narrative or the turns of the argument, and I'd spend hours strolling through long stretches of prose. That's rarely the case any more. Now my concentration often starts to drift after two or three pages. I get fidgety, lose the thread, begin looking for something else to do. I feel as if I'm always dragging my wayward brain back to the text. The deep reading that used to come naturally has become a struggle.'His diagnosis is that he's been spending too much time online. His complaint is not really against Google - it's against the network as a whole. 'What the net seems to be doing,' he writes, 'is chipping away my capacity for concentration and contemplation. My mind now expects to take in information the way the net distributes it: in a swiftly moving stream of particles. Once I was a scuba diver in the sea of words. Now I zip along the surface like a guy on a Jet Ski.'To judge from the volume of commentary that has followed his article, Carr has touched a nerve. He was 'flooded with emails and blog posts from people saying that my struggles with deep reading and concentration mirror their own experiences'. Various &uuml;ber-bloggers such as Andrew Sullivan, Jon Udell and Bill Thompson took up the theme, adding their own twists. And prominent newspaper columnists such as Leonard Pitts (Miami Herald) and Margaret Wente (Toronto Globe &amp; Mail) also revealed their private fears that addiction to cyberspace, and online media generally were, in fact, rotting their brains.What's surprising in a way is that people should be surprised by this. The web, after all, was designed by a chap (Tim Berners-Lee) who was motivated to do it because he had a poor memory for some things. Add powerful search engines to what he created and you effectively have a global memory-prosthesis. Who won the Ascot Gold Cup in 1904? Google will find it in a flash - and remind you that the race that year was run on 16 June, which is also the day in which all the action takes place in James Joyce's Ulysses. What was the name of Joyce's father? A quick Google search turns up the DNB entry, which reveals all. And what was the name of the woman who proved to be Parnell's downfall? Ah yes, here it is: Kitty O'Shea... and so it goes on.The combination of powerful search facilities with the web's facilitation of associative linking is what is eroding Carr's powers of concentration. It implicitly assigns an ever-decreasing priority to the ability to remember things in favour of the ability to search efficiently. And Carr is not the first to bemoan this development. In 1994, for example, Sven Birkerts published The Gutenberg Elegies with the subtitle The Fate of Reading in an Electronic Age, a passionate defence of reading and print culture and an attack on electronic media, including the internet. 'What is the place of reading, and of the reading sensibility, in our culture as it has become?' he asked. His answer, in a word, was 'shrinking' due to the penetration of electronic media into every level and moment of our lives.But people have worried about this since... well... the Greeks. In the Phaedrus, Socrates tells how the Egyptian god Theuth tried to sell his invention - writing - to King Thamus as 'an accomplishment which will improve both the wisdom and the memory of the Egyptians. I have discovered a sure receipt [recipe] for memory and wisdom.' To which the shrewd old king replied that 'the discoverer of an art is not the best judge of the good or harm which will accrue to those who practise it... Those who acquire writing will cease to exercise their memory and become forgetful... What you have discovered is a receipt for recollection, not for memory.'In other words, technology giveth; and technology taketh away. Now, who was it who said that...?john.naughton@observer.co.uk
VW Golf Bluemotion&pound;13,697Miles per gallon:62.7Seats:5Good for:ModeratesBad for:Motor headsIt seems the new Golf I've been testing this week has a defect. Very un-VW I know, but I've been driving for more than an hour and the fuel gauge hasn't moved. I wasn't expecting the kamikaze dive of the BMW M6's pointer, but I was hoping for at least a pulse, a flicker of life to show that the 30 miles I've covered have been completed at some cost. After all, the car's a diesel - it must be running on something other than used chip fat and synthesised jelly. But no, the needle is glued to the letter F, the thing is kaput, and at a totally inappropriate moment the needle will become unstuck, plummet faster than the house price index and leave me stranded.It turns out there is no mechanical problem, and after another 20 miles or so the needle moves half a degree south before making its nest there for the rest of the week. You see, this Golf is fitted with VW's BlueMotion technology (the specification first appeared last year on the Polo). The BlueMotion 1 achieves an astonishing combined fuel economy of 75 miles to the gallon. On the open road the Polo can now do 90 miles to a single gallon and in the process produces a scant 99 grams of carbon per km - which means it ducks below the magic 100 figure and is thus exempt from tax.This same technology has now been rolled out across six of VW's other products - including the Jetta, Passat and the Golf. VW's binge-drinking brigade - its Touaregs and Phaetons - have so far been left propping up the bar. But who knows, we might one day see a 4x4 gas guzzler reduced to teetotal status.At the heart of the BlueMotion movement is VW's belief that there is still plenty of life left in diesel. At a time when other manufacturers are putting their energy into petrol/electric hybrids and alternative fuels, VW is proving that with a bit of clever tinkering, diesel still has a big part to play in our immediate motoring future.Essentially, BlueMotion cars have been fitted with an automotive gastric band. A combination of revised aerodynamics, optimised gear ratios, a new turbocharger and harder tyres all lead to a reduction in loading on the engine, which in turn leads to a rise in efficiency and lower carbon emissions. As a drive, the car doesn't have the zip and zest of its heavyweight equivalent, and the engine is noisier, even at higher speeds. But within a day or two you get used to it. What you don't get used to, however, is looking at your instant fuel consumption figure and seeing a number in the 60s. The car's 1.9-litre engine, coupled with a 55-litre tank, has a theoretical range of 750 miles. That's Land's End to John O'Groats without a single fuel stop.At the top of the Golf tree - there are 35 different Golf models currently available, and that doesn't include the nine Golf Plus variations - is the fire-snorting, juice-gurgling 3.2 V6 4Motion R32 sportwagon. And though these two polar opposites share the word Motion, that's where the similarities end. It seems clear in these days of eco doom which Motion we should be passing.martin.love@observer.co.uk
It was 1976. Moira and I were both 19 when we decided to get married; our honeymoon was to be a hitchhiking adventure in Europe. Neither of us had jobs, so we decided to start a new life travelling. Once we'd managed our way out of Calais and spent the night in a farmer's field, we were picked up by a man who spoke fluent English. 'I was educated in England,' he explained. We were both pretty dishevelled, but he invited us back to his place where he promised to open a 'can of something'. After a long drive along a dark country lane, we arrived at 'his place' which looked to me more like a chateau. He later revealed he was the local mayor. His servants waited on us with numerous courses and drinks to match. In the drawing room after dinner, our host pointed out bullet holes in the oak panelling. He explained these had been deliberately left by his father as they were from a British Spitfire. 'Naturally, if they were from a German plane they'd have been immediately repaired,' he said. Before the Mayor dropped us back on the main road, he phoned his wine supplier in St Emilion and arranged for us to work on the grape harvest in a few weeks' time. We were warmly welcomed and stepped into another world of hard work and well-earned enjoyment each night over wonderful meals and as much wine as we could drink.&#183;Do you have a memorable journey? Send it tojourneys@observer.co.uk
Billionaire Carl Icahn is expected to tone down his attack on Yahoo! dramatically by slashing the number of directors he plans to nominate to join the troubled internet company's board.The activist investor, who owns $1.5bn of Yahoo! stock, launched a proxy fight to replace the internet company's 10-member board last month as it rejected a $46bn takeover bid from software giant Microsoft.Hedge fund Paulson &amp; Company joined Icahn's band of disaffected investors, with its own $1.4bn investment in Yahoo! and a vow to support plans to oust Jerry Yang, the founder and chief executive, and his colleagues.But in recent days Icahn has begun discussing plans to tone down his attack on Yahoo!.Insiders told The Observer that he had not been able to secure the support of many big institutional shareholders, whose votes he would need to get his own slate of directors nominated to the Yahoo! board.Some of the big investors are concerned that Icahn's stake in Yahoo! is too small to give him such a dominant role at the company as he would achieve by nominating an entire slate of directors.Bill Miller, investment manager at Legg Mason Capital Management, first welcomed Icahn's intervention. It is understood, however, that the star stock picker has become worried about Icahn's approach.Icahn is expected this week to put together a smaller list of prospective directors whom he will nominate to join the Yahoo! board. 'Nominating one or two members to the board would give him a proportionate representation,' said a source close to Icahn, referring to the size of the activist investor's holding in the internet company.Yahoo! has meanwhile begun its own internal shake-up in an effort to ease investors' concerns. Aside from forging an advertising joint venture with arch-rival Google, the company is said to be working on a big overhaul of its email, search and home page units.But senior Yahoo! managers are leaving in droves, in a further sign that all is not well inside the Silicon Valley founding father.At least 50 top executives have left since January 2007, nine of them since the Microsoft bid collapsed in May.
Yahoo staff who don't want to "do a Butterfield" can now use a handyonline resignation formwith drop-down menus to fit most eventualities.It has been created by "Wired contributor Mat Honan -- the man behindBarack Obama is your new bicycle," saysWired.
I want to find a way of connecting my laptop to my stereo without wires. Is there a sort of Bluetooth device that can let me do this?The options here are legion. However, most of the gadgets on the market let you listen to music that's being pumped out of your hi-fi using Bluetooth headphones, rather than send in music. Sony's awkwardly named HWS-BTA2W Bluetooth system, around &pound;60, lets you stream from a computer to hi-fi very easily, while Apple fans could try the Airport Express (&pound;65), a small Wi-Fi router that works with both Macs and PCs. It plugs into a mains electrical socket and can pick up music streams directly from your computer over your Wi-Fi network, and has an audio out to plug straight into a hi-fi.Higher up the market you have wireless devices, such as the Roku SoundBridge (around &pound;130, fromExpansys.com), which do a similar job and are perfect for gadgeteers. And if you're feeling really flush, look around for Soneteer's Bard system, a USB dongle that plugs into your laptop and transmits to a receiver jacked into your stereo. The result is very high-quality sound that's highly recommended by audioheads. However, it does cost around &pound;240.
On my MacBook desktop there is a folder called "Prints08" - a little temporary resting home where I occasionally drag and drop the pictures I really like and of which I would like to have prints.That is the theory. In truth, I also have folders called "Prints07" and "Prints06".  Somehow I have not yet, in three years, gone through the next stage of actually burning the images on to a disc and taking them down to Snappy Snaps.So the pictures live on in iPhoto, which is a very good home in its own way. I like the way colour pictures look on the best high-resolution computer screens. I like the way you can crop pictures so easily, turn them into slideshows, add music and perform clever tricks in homage to Ken Burns.About six months ago I was actually in need of a print of something and found an online printshop that was staggeringly quick and rather cheap about turning an emailed image into a large print. But when it arrived, there was something dull and not very engaging about the glossy paper version of a picture that had positively glowed on screen.Doubtless that was my mistake for relying on Google to find me a really brilliant printer who would lovingly hand-print emailed images. This was just Snappy Snaps for people who couldn't be bothered to walk down the road. But it did make me wonder why I still hanker after the printed image.My parents knew nothing else, of course. My brother and I treasure their leather-bound albums - black card pages, white ink captions, hinged mounts. They begin with tiny sepia images with serrated borders and end in washed-out colour five-by-four Kodacolour prints, now fading with time. They are the nearest we come to family bibles.But now there's iPhoto, automatically dated and so easily archived and albumed. How do I know that spring is late this year? Because this year's bluebell pictures are precisely a month later than last year's. Who needs prints?So when someone suggested I road-test a new portable Polaroid printer I was lukewarm on the idea. And I was no more than tepid when it arrived, even though it is genuinely portable - no bigger than a mobile phone - and rather sleek.Getting it to work was initially a problem. Most modern devices come with handbooks the length of Middlemarch. The Polaroid PoGo manual is, by contrast, a haiku. It basically tells you to plug in your camera and, er, that's it. If in doubt, it says, consult your camera's own manual. Which, in my case, I lost a long time ago.So I fiddled around for a bit and was contemplating the humiliation of handing it back, explaining that I couldn't actually make it work. And then, all of a sudden, I pressed some button or other and the sweet little black box (on sale from July 1 at &pound;99 a throw, from John Lewis and amazon.com, among others) started winking before smoothly regurgitating a little print.Yes, a little one - just three inches by two inches, about the size of a business card. It took about 30 seconds to print a perfectly sharp little image using some sort of clever inkless thermal printing technology (prints cost about 30p a pop).But why? I stared at this little print in a semi-admiring way and wondered why I would ever want to make bonsai prints - as opposed to emailing them, or posting them on Flickr or Facebook, or turning them into a screensaver.And then my 24-year-old daughter walked into the room. Half an hour later she had printed off 20 prints, discovered you could peel off the backs and stick them down, and was phoning half a dozen of her closest friends to pass on advance intelligence of this miracle device that was about to transform her, and their, lives.So what do I know? Maybe the web is over, the printed word is back and illuminated calligraphy will be the new Photoshop. Buy now while stocks last.&#183;Stephen Fry will return next month.
Weighing in at over a tonne and comprising 1,500 valves and miles of wiring, it is not what most people would recognise as a computer.Despite its antiquated appearance, however, this enormous machine - once nicknamed "The Baby" - was once the cutting edge of technology. Some of the pioneering engineers behind it gathered in Manchester yesterday to celebrate the birthday of what was the world's first digital computer.Sixty years ago today The Baby completed its first calculation, giving birth to technologies which we are still using.The anniversary drew some of the pioneering engineers involved in its development to the city's Museum of Science and Industry to see a replica of the machine in action. "The birth of The Baby changed the world forever," said John Perkins, a professor at the university's faculty of engineering. "We hope the celebrations will raise the profile of computer science and encourage the brightest and best of the next generation." Formally called the Small Scale Experimental Machine, The Baby filled a laboratory at the university but had less processing power than a 21st century calculator. In early trials the machine failed to produce a result. But on the morning of June 21 1948 Baby finally delivered: offering the answer to a maths problem that it had been posed a mere 52 minutes earlier.Geoff Tootill, the only surviving member of the three-man team who constructed the device, said he had no idea about what the future held when the switch was flicked. "We couldn't foresee that a computer could be so inexpensive and so powerful."It's been borne on me over the years that the computer was becoming not only more important, but also more known to the public - this was completely foreign to us. In the 1940s we were accustomed to the very tight security discipline during the war."That first program the machine processed in 1948 was intended to solve a complex mathematical problem: determining the highest proper factor of 2 to the power of 18. And yet the machine could not add or multiply - only subtract. But Baby was at the edge of technology. Teams from around the world were racing against each other to produce the first modern computer, with academics and engineers in the US and Germany close to building functioning machines. Although other computers had been built when Baby came into operation, they were designed for a single job or required rewiring to perform a different calculation. Baby was the first which could be reconfigured for different tasks simply by altering programs in its memory.Instead of storing information on a hard drive, as we do today, Baby kept its data in a cathode ray tube - the same sort of technology used in TV screens.Manchester was one of the world's leading centres of computer science and development, and later that year Alan Turing - the mathematician made famous for decoding Nazi ciphers at Bletchley Park during the second world war - joined the university to help work on Baby's successors. That produced the Manchester Mk 1, one of the first commercially available computers, and the forebear of modern home computing.Chris Burton, who masterminded the building of the replica, said that it was necessary to capture a tangible tribute to the pioneers in Manchester who brought about this revolution.Baby's power pales in comparison to even the most common modern gadgets - an iPod can hold more than 640 million times more information - and the most powerful supercomputers are light years ahead.Tale of the tapeCompared withIBM's Roadrunnersupercomputer - now confirmed as the world's fastest electronic brain - theBabyis barely on the evolutionary ladder. It could store128 bytesof information, negligible today. The machine could perform600-800 operations a second, allowing it to solve complex maths in minutes, rather than weeks. Roadrunner is able to run at 1.026 petaflops - or1,000 trillion operations a second.&#183;This article was amended on Tuesday June 24 2008. The world's first stored-program electronic digital computer, the Baby, performed substantially fewer than the 3.5m operations per second that we gave it credit for. Its speed was 600-800 operations per second. The computer was capable of storing 128 bytes, rather than bits, of information. These errors have been corrected.
BMW is (as car companies tend to be) pretty clear about the customers it is hoping to tempt with its extraordinarily sleek and boldly nose-thumbing new 4x4, the X6. For a start, it doesn't expect there to be too many of them - just 1,600 in the first year, by comparison with the 5,000 average annual sales of the X5, BMW's previous ground-breaking SUV, still out there, doing well enough, and currently collecting children from a prep school near you.Sales of 1,600, incidentally, would, BMW insists, comfortably confirm the X6's status as "a niche car". The distinction between "niche" and "plainly unpopular" is often hard to define mathematically, but it's an important one, spiritually speaking, within the car industry, and we're happy to honour it here.Anyway, within that niche demographic, BMW further identifies a particular customer likely to be tickled by the X6 - the person who used to own an X5, or something similar, and is still keen to have a car along the same lines, but this time, being that little bit older, will be looking for a vehicle that, as BMW puts it, "doesn't scream 'family' ".And fair play to this imaginary customer. Who wants a car that screams "family"? Families do quite enough screaming on their own, and cars that scream "family" form their own faintly listless genre. The X5? Screams "family". "Well-upholstered family", maybe, but still "family". The Toyota Previa? Screams "family" until its bumpers fall off. The Volvo V70? Screams "family" so loud it keeps other families awake. A grey roof box with absolutely anything underneath it? Screams family to the point where blood vessels burst in its cheeks and an ambulance has to be called.The ultra-smart X6, with its front-to-back coup&eacute;-style flow and feline prowl, does not scream "family". But what does it scream? Well, money, obviously. Confident business executive with a strong sense of entitlement and a house in Surrey, too. And it screams "road tax changes, what road tax changes?"It wouldn't be entirely fair to say that it screams "footballer's third car", but it definitely whispers it. You can see it parked in front of the newly built, six-berth garage along with the Bentley Continental and the Audi R8.And it is, of course, a fantastic machine, offering politically insensitive quantities of acceleration and unearthly amounts of comfort. During a test day in Scotland, we were encouraged to thrust our X6 round a tight course defined by cones in order to assess the full majesty of its Dynamic Performance Control - a system that basically leaps around the car, supplying drive to the wheel that most needs it on an ad hoc basis.We were then offered a "compare and contrast" exercise in an old X5. The difference was spectacular. Flipping between the obstacles with a casual nudge of the steering wheel, the X6 offered the kind of rabbit-avoiding agility that you might expect, perhaps, from a low-slung sports car. From a 4x4 with a boot bigger than a VW Touareg's, it seemed almost preposterous.As a result, the X6 (larger, in fact) seemed smaller to drive than the X5 by a factor of about four. Honey, they shrunk the car. Next step: shrinking the kids.BMW X6 xDrive30dPrice£41,965Top speed137mphAcceleration0-62 in  8 secondsAverage consumption34.4mpgCO2 emissions217g/kmEco rating4/10
