A selection of 13 apps for you today:The Sims FreePlayEA has ported its freemium mobile take on The Sims from iPhone to Android, letting players create up to 16 Sims and then control their homes, careers and love lives. It's influenced by – but doesn't connect to – the hugely popular The Sims game on Facebook.AndroidClearThere's a huge buzz already around iPhone productivity app Clear. It's a To-Do list app – of which there are many already – but its key selling point is its user interface, which does away entirely with virtual buttons in favour of swipes and multi-touch pinches.iPhoneSports Illustrated Swimsuit 2012Time Inc has just released this year's Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue, and as in previous years, there's an app for that. Specifically a free app with some of the photos from the print issue, and an in-app payment of £4.99 to get every single photo, a collection of videos from the photoshoots and, inevitably, "rotating models 360 degrees".iPhoneSports Illustrated Swimsuit Viewer 2012That's not the end of Time's swimsuit action on the App Store though. A separate Viewer app is designed to be used with the magazine's print issue, offering augmented reality features. "Simply hold your iPhone or iPad device over any page marked with an icon throughout the issue and the app instantly streams video of the model straight from her shoot..." The link above is for iOS, buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhone / iPadSketchshareiPad app Sketchshare is a "collaborative sketching tool". That means up to four people can use it on their iPads to scribble and/or brainstorm on the same virtual document, complete with voice chat if they're not in the same place.iPadSwarmbitSwarmbit is describd as a "social proximity network" – a way for people to share photos, videos, music – yes, this may be controversial – documents and files with other people in the same location, making folders available on a temporary basis. The Android version joins the existing iPhone app.AndroidPinmarkBilling itself as "the journal that writes itself", Pinmark is an iPhone app that collects the photos you take, the music you listen to and the locations you visit, and then stores them in a chronological record on the device. And yes, that's on the device: "All your information is stored in your iPhone and we don't see or keep any information about you..."iPhoneKFC Finder UKNot scared of getting chicken-grease on your iPhone screen? Kentucky Fried Chicken's official UK app may be for you. It promises to help "stop everything and find some chicken y'all", with additional videos.iPhoneGumtreeBritish classifieds website Gumtree.com has launched its official iPhone app, providing mobile access to the service, including the ability to find ads in the user's current location.iPhoneOne Epic GameiOS endless-running game One Epic Game has sprinted onto Android, with an admirably high-concept pitch: "Choose your weapon. Race through all the levels. Kill everything and anything."AndroidA Little Book About FeelingsBeautiful iPad book-app A Little Book About Feelings aims to explain emotions to children, with the help of a collection of felt animals.iPadHappipetsAnother iPad app for kids with lovely production values, Happipets is all about learning the alphabet by constructing animals from letters, with real and fantasy animals as well as a freeplay mode.iPadFujifilm Photo ReceiverKodak may be ditching its digital cameras partly due to increased competition from smartphones, but Fujifilm is taking a different strategy. Its Photo Receiver iOS app wirelessly squirts photos from one of the company's Wi-Fi equipped cameras to the Apple device.iPhone / iPad
Tablets such as the iPad will outsell desktop and laptop PCs within a few years and eat into their sales, says Apple chief executive Tim Cook.He also hinted that the company could be preparing to launch into the smart TV market with a revamped version of the Apple TV set-top box, and that Apple still sees enormous potential for growth in the smartphone market, especially in China.Speaking at a Goldman Sachs technology conference,the transcript of which has been put online by Macrumors, the head of the world's most valuable company – who took over from Steve Jobs last August when Jobs, then seriously ill, stepped aside – insisted that he would not let the "unique culture and unique company" unravel after its co-founder's death last October: "I'm not going to witness or permit the slow undoing of it. I believe in it so deeply."He alsodealt with the topic of supply conditions for workers in the company's supply chain, insisting that Apple cares about every worker and that the audit being conducted by the Fair Labor Association was probably the biggest in manufacturing in history.He revealed too that Apple now has 100m users of its iCloud data synchronisation service, which was launched in October. "I view iCloud not as something with a year or two product life – it's a strategy for the next decade or more. It's truly profound," Cook said.Cook suggested that the growth of tablets "will be good for the PC industry, because there will be this strong competitor and tablets will innovate like crazy and customers will decide which to buy. There will be a strong PC industry but tablets will be stronger in units."He said he had begun using the original iPad before its launch in January 2010: "We had our [window] shades pulled so no one [else in the company] could see us, but it quickly became that 80-90% of my consumption and work was done on the iPad."From the first day it shipped, we thought that the tablet market would become larger than the PC market and it was just a matter of time."Apple's iPad sales in the fourth quarter of 2011 hit 15.4m, more than double the number of the same period in 2010, while total worldwide PC sales fell by about 1% to 92.5m, based on figures from the research companies IDC and Gartner.With rumours swirling that Apple is about to launch the next generation of its iPad device, including a higher-resolution screen, Cook said: "I don't predict the demise of the PC, I don't subscribe to that. Given what we've seen, I believe the iPad is cannibalising some Macs but more PCs. There are more of them to cannibalise than Macs so thats a plus to us. Tablets in general will cannibalise the PC."He paid tribute to Amazon over rival tablets using Google's Android operating system: "Everybody that was in the PC industry and everybody in the phone industry decided they had to do a tablet. There was 100 tablets put on the market last year! They aimed at iPad 1 and by the time they came out with something we were on iPad 2."We wound up with 170,000 apps and I'm not sure there is 100 yet on the other platform. At the end of the day, people want the great product. Amazon is a different competitor. They have different strengths. They'll sell a lot of units. They have and they will."Television hintsOn the TV front, Cook described the existing Apple TV set-top box – which essentially connects to the iTunes Store to show bought or rented films and TV shows – as a hobby, the same description that Jobs used about it. Apple sold 2.8m of the devices in 2011, almost half of those in its enormous Christmas quarter.But Cook said: "We don't want to send a message to our shareholders that we think the market for it is the size of our other businesses. The Mac, the iPad, the iPod, the iPhone. We don't want to send a signal that we think the length of that stool is equal to the others. That's why we call it a hobby."Apple doesn't do hobbies as a general rule. We believe in focus and only working on a few things. So, with Apple TV however, despite the barriers in that market, for those of us who use it, we've always thought there was something there."If we kept following our intuition and kept pulling the string, we might find something that was larger. For those people that have it right now, the customer satisfaction is off the chart. We need something that could go more main-market for it to be a serious category."Premium pricingChallenged on the high price of Apple's iPhone, and the price of its other products, Cook insisted that he thought people would always prefer a more expensive but higher-quality product."Price is rarely the most important thing," he said. "A cheap product might sell some units. Somebody gets it home and they feel great when they pay the money, but then they get it home and use it and the joy is gone."The joy is gone every day that they use it until they aren't using it anymore. You don't keep remembering, 'I got a good deal!' because you hate it."SmartphonesCook said that there is huge opportunity in the smartphone market – despite Apple's record fourth quarter in which it topped the smartphone league, selling 37m iPhones and edging ahead of Samsung.He said: "37m is a big number. It was a decent quarter. It was 17m more than we'd ever done before. We were pretty happy with that, but let me give you the way I look at the numbers."As I see it, that 37m for last quarter represented 24% of the smartphone market. There's three out of four people buying something else. Nine out of 10 phone buyers are buying something else."Handset market is projected to go from 1.5bn to 2bn units. Take it in the context of these numbers, the truth is that this is a jaw-dropping industry with enormous opportunity. Up against those numbers, the numbers don't seem so large anymore. What seems so large to me is the opportunity."China opportunitiesSelling to China could be hugely valuable in the longer term, Cook said."In 2007, the revenue combined from Greater China, several other parts of Asia, India, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, was $1.4bn," he said."Revenue last year for that same group of countries was $22bn. We're only on the surface. That's how I feel. We focused mainly in China. Last year we began to focus increasingly more in Brazil and Russia."Cash and SiriCook also tackled the issue of Apple's $98bn cash pile, the Siri language interface on the iPhone 4S.He said that the Siri voice interface introduced on the iPhone 4S was another profound change in input [methods] which, despite being still a beta [unfinished] product, had become essential to his own life.But despite his reputation as the leader of a tight focus on costs in Apple's supply chain - the role for which he was originally hired by Jobs in 1998 - Cook said that iCloud and Siri were not something Apple runs profit and loss analyses on.Instead, he said: "We run the company from the top and don't worry about the iCloud team or Siri team making money. Measuring things at that level wouldn't achieve anything. Both of these things go in the profound category. They're things that you'll talk to your grandkids about that are profound changes."Of Apple's cash pile – a large amount of which is outside the US, and would attract high taxes if it were repatriated – Cook said: "We've spent billions in the supply chain. We've spent billions in acquisition including on IP. We've spent billions on retail, the infrastructure of the company, the data centers et cetera."Yes, we still have a lot. I would say we're judicious and deliberate. We spend our money like it's our last pennies. I think shareholders want us to do that. They don't want us to act like we're rich."We've never felt that way. It may sound bizarre but that's the truth. In terms of our approach to cash, I've said since becoming CEO that I'm not religious about this. I'm not religious about holding it or not holding it. We're in very active discussions at the board level on what we should do."
Apple chief executive Tim Cook has insisted that the company is committed to improving conditions for workers in its supply chain and eradicating underage labour.Speaking at a Goldman Sachs technology conference,the transcript of which has been put online by Macrumors, the head of the world's most valuable company tackled the topic of conditions in Apple's supply chain in China and other countries, where theFair Labor Organisation (FLA) has begun inspecting conditions in the factoriescarrying out final assembly of Apple products."Apple takes working conditions very seriously, and we have for a very long time," Cook said. "Whether workers are in Europe or Asia or the United States, we care about every worker."I've spent a lot of time in factories, personally. Not just as an executive. I worked at a paper mill in Alabama and an aluminium plant in Virginia. Many of our top executives visit factories on a regular basis. We have hundreds of employees based there full time."We are very connected to the process and we understand working conditions at a very granular level. I realise that the supply chain is complex and I'm sure that you realise this."The issues around it are complex. Our commitment is simple: every worker has the right to a fair and safe work environment, free of discrimination, where they can earn competitive wages and they can voice their concerns freely. Apple's suppliers must live up to this to do business with Apple."No one in our industry is doing more to improve working conditions than Apple. We believe transparency is so very important in this area."Cook said the idea of using underaged workers was abhorrent and eliminating it in the company's suppliers was a top priority. Having ended it among final assembly companies – which put the elements together into the final product – Apple would now remove it from other vendors in the chain. "If we find a supplier that intentionally hires underage labor, it's a firing offence," he said.In January, Apple collected data every week on more than half a million workers in its supply chain, he said, and achieved 84% compliance – "significantly improved from the past, but we can do better. We're taking the unprecedented step of reporting this monthly on our website, so it's transparent to everyone what we're doing."Cook said the audit now under way by the FLA was probably the biggest in manufacturing in history.
It's Wednesday, then. Gotta love Wednesdays.
Social gaming firm Zynga released its first set of results as a public company on Tuesday and beat Wall Street's expectations, but only just.The game maker behind CityVille, FarmVille and Words With Friends delivered fourth-quarter revenues of $307m, or 5 cents per share.Analysts had expected the company to report earnings excluding items of 3 cents per share on revenues of $302 million, according to Thomson Reuters. The company's shares fell heavily in trading after the closing bell.Zynga's shares slumped after the firm went public last year but have been riding high since it was revealed that the firm accounted for 12% of Facebook's revenues.For the period ended 31 December, Zynga reported a net loss of $435m, or $1.22 a share, compared to net earnings of $43 million, or five cents a share, for the same period the previous year.The company said 54m people were "daily active users" of Zynga games in the fourth quarter compared to 48m in the fourth quarter of 2011, a rise of 13%. The number of monthly active users was up 23% at 240m.At the end of the year Zynga accounted for all of the top five games played on Facebook.In a statement, founder and chief executive officer Mark Pincus said: "Zynga set new records in the year in terms of audience size, revenues and bookings. We saw great momentum in mobile and advertising and ended the year with a strong pipeline of new games. We are excited about the opportunities in front of us to continue delighting our current players and to bring play to millions of new people."
Myspace has said it has added more than 1 million new users in the past 30 days, taking it to 25 million registered users and representing a dramatic turnaround for the social network that Rupert Murdoch abandoned almost eight months ago.The website claimed that about 40,000 people a day had signed up to Myspace since it introduced new ties with rival social networks, Twitter and Facebook."The numbers tell an amazing story of strong momentum and dramatic change for Myspace," said Tim Vanderhook, chief executive of Myspace. "And the 1 million-plus new user accounts we've seen in the last 30 days validates our approach."Myspace was sold by Murdoch's News Corp in June last year for $35m – compared with the $580m paid for the website in 2005. The website's new owners, digital media firm Specific Media and investors including Justin Timberlake, promised to shift the ailing social network to focus on music.The figures released on Monday are the first insight into the website since the sale.Vanderhook claimed that Myspace now offered the biggest free music collection online, ahead of popular streaming services such as Spotify and Deezer.Myspace has a music catalogue of more than 42m songs, according to Vanderhook. Spotify has a library of about 15m songs in the US."Myspace is building meaningful social entertainment experience around content, where consumers can share and discover the music they love," he said."Consumers are getting excited about Myspace again – a testament to a great music product."A number of the new users are thought to have come through Myspace's new music player, which provides streaming music, but also from the fact that would-be users can join directly via Facebook: its Facebook app this year jumped from 900,000 monthly active users in the four weeks to 14 January to 1.6m by 14 February.While the figures suggest that Myspace has fallen far behind newcomers such as the Google+ social network, which claimed 90m registered users in mid-January, some analysis suggested Myspace was still seeing more traffic in January than the search engine's nascent site.But as the music player becomes more popular, users might not need to visit the site – which would enable it to continue to grow even without having direct traffic statistics to show for it.In October, the former Myspace chief executive under News Corp, Mike Jones, suggested the website would not have fallen to rivals such as Facebook if it had been relaunched as "an entirely new brand".Murdoch earlier admitted that his company had mismanaged Myspace "in every way possible" and made a "huge mistake" not selling the website in 2006.
In January 2010, accountant Paul Chambers tweeted that because of snow at Robin Hood airport, he was going to blow the airport sky high. His comment led to his arrest, and has now reached the high court. On this week's Tech Weekly, Aleks Krotoski talks to Father Ted writer and Twitter aficionado Graham Linehan, and to Observer columnist Nick Cohen, about their views of the case and the ramifications for social media. Aleks and Charles also discuss technology patents and Microsoft's next operating system, Windows 8.Plus Charles talks to Intel UK MD Graham Palmer about the challenger to Macbook Air, the Ultrabook. Does it have what it takes to revive the slumping PC market?
Sony has revealed the cinematic trailer that will accompany the launch of itsPS Vitaconsole in Europe. The minute-long film shows commuters, students and beauticians indulging in dramatic game-like sequences, claiming to be part of a new world where play merges with real life.The video will only be part of a multi-million-pound marketing onslaught set to herald the arrival of the console on 22 February. In the US, it has been reported that Sony will be spending an astonishing $50m (£32m) on advertising for the device, which features a 5in OLED screen, front and back touchscreens, and online connectivity.The trailer represents a shift in advertising direction, away from the handicraft imagery of many mid-period PS3 ads, and back to the movie-like bombast of the nineties. Indeed, the piece bears many similarities to the classic Double Life advert for the first PlayStation, which depicted a variety of normal people describing their alternate lives as gamers. Here it is:The message, of course, is different. While the earlier advert was designed to recruit twenty-somethings into the emerging PlayStation "lifestyle", the Vita version is about portability and social connection. With the new handheld's Near function, gamers will be able to locate nearby Vita owners and see what they're playing, or join in on local multiplayer games. With its his-res visuals and 3G and Wi-Fi connectivity – Vita is both pervasiveandcinematic. That's the idea, anyway.It's typically stirring stuff, created by Amsterdam-based ad agency 180. But with a price tag of £230 for the Wi-Fi version and £280 for the Wi-Fi/3G model, an important question remains: will enough people who may already own smartphones, Kindles, netbooks and tablets be stirred into another portable hardware purchase? Sony is adamant that it will secure a large enough audience, and in Japan, where the device was launched on 17 December, it has shifted in excess of 500,000 units. A similar performance in Europe would be encouraging.Certainly, the tagline "The world is in play", which is accompanied by a Twitter hash tag, #TheWorldIsInPlay, is a strong statement of intent.
Investors are waiting to find out how much real money social gaming firm Zynga makes from all its virtual cities and farms when the company reports its first results as a public company.The company behind CityVille, FarmVille and Words With Friends started trading on the Nasdaq stock market last December and its shares initially had a bumpy ride. Now the firm is benefiting from what analysts are calling the "Facebook halo".Social media giant Facebook is planning an initial public offering and as part of its regulatory disclosures revealed Zynga accounts for about 14% of the company's total revenues.Analysts expect Zynga to report revenue of $302m for the quarter ending December 31, according to consensus estimates from FactSet Research. The company had revenue of $195.8m in the same quarter a year before. If analysts are right, revenues will have risen 54%.Zynga's shares ended the day at $13.4 on Monday. Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne Agee, said he believes the company's shares are now way overvalued. He believes they are worth closer to $7."We think that their growth is slowing and their margins are under pressure. This run up has all been spurred by the Facebook IPO," he said. "Facebook's valuation is not Zynga's. It's not a platform like Facebook. Zynga is much more dependent on Facebook than the other way around."Bhatia says Zynga relies on Facebook for 93% of its revenues and is not convinced that about games company's plans to make money from mobile games.But Michael Pachter of Wedbush Securities expects Zynga to beat Wall Street's consensus estimates for the quarter, citing "robust user growth.""This is a really, really new business and we don't have a lot of metrics to measure them by," he said. But he said growth at the company looked great and that he expected that to be reflected in growing revenues.The launch of games such as Adventure World and CastleVille in late 2011 and January launches including Hidden Chronicles, which had attracted recorded 18.7m monthly players by the end of January, should help the company outperform, said Pachter.
I expect only a very limited number of games this year will require me to wrench a tusk from a giant demon elephant. Asura's Wrath is certainly one of them.Developed by Capcom in creative partnership with CyberConnect 2 (previously responsible for the .hack and Naruto titles), this looks to be one gigantic throwback to a different era; an era of rabid anime hack-'em-ups in which kinetic thrills and convoluted whiplash plot lines took precedence over logic or game mechanics. The days of Zone of the Enders or Devil May Cry in its early pomp.But that would be unfair. Asura's Wrath is... different. Structured into a series of 15-30 minute episodes, each with its own intro and cliffhanger conclusion, this is more of an interactive anime adventure than a brawler. The story follows the eponymous warrior, who has angered the seven gods of an eerie desolate kingdom by refusing to let his daughter become their high priestess. In the fight that follows, he kills one god, but is then imprisoned in rock by the others. 10,000 years later, he awakens, a bit peevish and looking for revenge.What follows is the story of Asura's furious voyage into bloody retribution. Every chapter that I've played is a tightly scripted battle, culminating in a behemoth of a boss encounter. There's skyscraper-sized red-skinned elephant, its flailing trunk firing lava bombs as it attempts to stamp on my tiny character. Later, we're up against a similarly gigantic turtle, which scuttles toward you with immense speed, sending out fireballs all around.The visuals are really rather astonishing, a scratchy manga style, that makes each character look like some kind of savage linocut, come monstrously to life. In a strange mix of mythologies and religions there are Buddhas with machine guns, and apes with glowing scarlet skin, there are clockwork-like guards torn from Greek fable; and our hero, in one chapter, spawns four extra arms, like a vengeful Hindu god.The controls take on a typical hack-n-slash form, offering a projectile attack, a standard melee strike and a heavy attack, which acts as a fatality on felled enemies. Each successful strike adds to your burst meter, allowing Asura to build toward a crescendo of destructive violence, that usually ends with a boss being flung high into the stratosphere, or lanced through a mountain.Boss defeats are often multi-staged and also take in quick-time events. With the giant turtle, for example, hitting R2 to kick off the Burst attack is followed by a quick tap of the triangle button to get Asura' onto the beast's back, where he can enact a final deadly blow. Later, aboard an orbiting spacecraft, the player has to grab a giant machine gun Buddha around its chunky neck then run up a steep incline, bashing the circle button to generate speed before launching the metallic monster into space. Everything is context-sensitive, everything is played for maximum outrageous drama."One of cool things about Asura's Wrath is that you are not confined to your size when it comes to fighting enemies" says CyberConnect2 CEO, Hiroshi Matsuyama. "You will encounter those smaller than you, as well as those larger, to the extent of an entire solar system. Due to this, we didn't want to have Asura fighting with just punches and kicks and wanted to tailor each battle with an adequate fighting system. It is crazy, but it worked."Interestingly, Matsuyama sees the burst attacks as a sort of crossover mechanic between the combat and the story. "It links the drama and the gameplay," he says. "When it is full, Asura will explode in rage that triggers the drama to go to the next step. Often, activating the Burst Gauge results in impossible comebacks which add twists to the already exciting and emotional plot."The fun of the game so far has been watching all this play out; just drinking in the lavish effects and the raging narrative swirl. It doesn't look as though this will be in any way a traditional third-person action romp, with exploration and discovery; Asura's Wrath appears to distil the experience down to two elements: story and fighting, ripping you from one setpiece to the next.Occasionally, there are breaks in game style. In one section, it becomes an on-rails air combat shooter, with Asura flying in behind a fleet of spacecraft, targeting their hulls and letting fly with fiery missiles. Hitting the triangle button at the right time grabs incoming rockets and lobs them back.At points, it will also be possible to take control of another character, a rival named Yasha who has followed Asura through his 12,000 year stasis. "Yasha is a real contrast to Asura," says Matsuyama. "He is a very calm, logical character. By looking through Yasha's eyes, you get a totally different perspective to each event. You could call him the alternative protagonist and he will have his own episodes in game."The over-riding sense of very specific action, set within a restrictive narrative and based around highly choreographed encounters brings in an unexpected comparison. In a sense, Asura's Wrath is a fantastical anime Heavy Rain; providing gamers with a TV series-style set of tense, culminative scenes and attempting to drag you in via plot and characters, rather than intricate control. And there are quick time events.It's strange... a really strange game. But Asura's Wrath, from the six chapters I've played, is also weirdly captivating, an extravagant visual experience. The question is whether the interest can be held over many more chapters – and whether the daft story of galactic gods and monstrous sci-fi/religious monsters can sustain over 10 hours or more. A lot more than I expected, I am looking forward to finding out.Asura's Wrath is released on PS3 and Xbox 360 on 9 March.
There are tens of thousands of smartphone and tablet apps for kids available on the various app stores, but how many are making much money for their creators? The jury is still out on whether many of the startups making educational and/or entertaining apps for children will turn a profit.One company that's doing rather well, though, isOceanhouse Media. The Californian firm has launched more than 300 apps for iOS, Android and webOS, and has sold more than 1m paid downloads of its Dr. Seuss apps on iOS alone.Its first app wasn't based on a book – music appBowls: Authentic Tibetan Singing Bowlslaunched in March 2009 – but according to chief executive Michel Kripalani, Oceanhouse quickly realised there was an opportunity to work with book publishers."We saw that we could add value to a book publisher by doing all the technical work to move to mobile," he says. After an early licensing deal with self-help publisher Hay House, the company took a "long shot" and pitched to Dr. Seuss Enterprises.A one-shot deal to turn How The Grinch Stole Christmas into an iPhone book-app for Christmas 2009 went so well, Oceanhouse asked if it could license more titles. "They said well, why don't you do the whole library of 44?" says Kripalani."Entrepreneurship is a matter of being willing to try to do the unexpected, but a big part of it is luck and being in the right place at the right time. We knew there was something here in the market, but not exactly how we were going to fit into it. But we were persistent."Oceanhouse has since launched book-apps based on other publishing brands, including The Berenstain Bears, Elmer the Patchwork Elephant and Smithsonian.The company and its licensing partners have benefitted from being recognisable brands at a time when the number of kid-apps is exploding, making it hard for many parents to find the excellent apps amid a sea of… "Garbage!" laughs Kripalani. "There are a lot of problematic apps out there."An interesting thing about Oceanhouse Media is that the "omBooks" engine it uses for its book-apps isn't packed to the gills with interactive wizardry, compared to some of the rival apps for kids out there.That's a deliberate choice, explains Kripalani. "We really don't want to substantially add or delete anything that was there in the original books, some of which were printed 60 to 70 years ago," he says."Seuss had to choose from a palette of two or three spot colours, and we leave those exactly as is: we haven't gone in and recoloured the pages, and we don't add a lot of animations or bells and whistles."Kripalani says this approach is backed up by a soon-to-be-released study by the company behind Sesame Street, which he says indicates that too much interactivity might actually harm children's comprehension of the text.It's an interesting contrast – although note, not necessarily a contradiction – to the views of UK publisher Nosy Crow, whose apps are very rich in animation and interactivity, but which are also developedwith the strict provisothat this kind of content must serve the story rather than distract from it."Our belief has always been to do a really solid adaptation which reinforces the education and literacy component," says Kripalani."We're not trying to create some crazy fancy dancing characters and puzzle games. We just don't think any of that belongs in a book. So in our apps, you can tap on any word that you don't know to hear the individual word spoken very clearly. Those are the tools that the child needs. They don't need to tap on the cat and have him jump up and down and spin around."What about Apple'srecently-revamped iBooks offering, providing tools for publishers to put more interactivity and multimedia in their iOS e-books, as opposed to apps?For illustrated books like the Dr. Seuss catalogue, the new iBooks might now seem like an obvious distribution channel than the App Store itself. Kripalani chooses his words carefully, keen not to criticise Apple."I don't want to knock it, but the simple reality is that the iBooks platform is not yet robust eough for what we want to do. Everything from the way we handle audio and the number of audio channels to the deep level of interactivity when you are touching on pictures and bringing words forward. It's not quite there yet."However, he also has concerns over whether the new tools may lead book publishers to think porting their titles to mobile devices – particularly smartphones – requires less thought than an app would."The problem will be if people believe it is okay to take a double-page spread of a normal children's book, leave the layout the way it is and shrink it down to a 3-inch screen for iPhone," says Kripalani."The text will become so small, you won't be able to read it! We solved this problem back in 2009 with The Grinch by putting in a pan-and-zoom system and breaking the pages down into sub-pages. That problem can only currently be solved in app form."That problem is also currently being solved on Android as well as iOS, with Oceanhouse having been notably bullish in its support for Google-powered smartphones and tablets – in contrast to a number of its book-app rivals.Kripalani says that Android fragmentation remains "a mess", but is nevertheless positive about the potential to sell book-apps on Android devices, particularly tablets like Amazon's Kindle Fire and Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook."Android has been good for us: we're selling enough units to justify the effort, primarily in Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble's stores," says Kripalani. "That's not really a surprise, as both of those stores cater to people who are book buyers. We have a really good foundation to build on there."That support will continue, as will Oceanhouse's ongoing development work on the omBooks engine to add new features. The company is also keen to break out of its book-apps pigeonhole again, taking some of the brands it works with into other kinds of apps.It has already happened with Dr. Seuss. Oceanhouse released theDr. Seuss Bandmusic game for iOS in December 2011, and educational appThere's No Place Like Space!in November 2011.The former title raises the question of recent trends in the mobile games market. Dr. Seuss Band uses in-app purchases to unlock certain instruments and content, at a time when freemium games are riding high in the App Store and Android Market charts.There are dangers with using IAP for apps that will appeal to children, though. "Some developers are becoming really predatory, which sounds very strong, but I know what I'm saying," says Kripalani."Some developers are taking advantage of the situation to turn children into click-mules. Do this, now do that, now spend some money. They're turning the child into a click-zombie trying to do whatever it takes to feed their virtual fish, or whatever. We're interested in exploring in-app purchasing, but we won't ever be predatory."He comes back to Oceanhouse's educational ambitions, filing misguided use of freemium billing alongside unnecessary multimedia and interactivity on the company's Not-To-Do list."It's a question of how to decide what features go into your app. Will this feature enhance literacy? If it will, it's a feature we'll consider. If not, it probably ends on the cutting-room floor," he says."Other people might say 'does it make it more fun to play?', or 'does it get people sucked into giving us 99 cents?', but that's not the way we work."
Apple will launch the third version of the iPad on Wednesday 7 March at an event in San Francisco, according to a number of reports online. The reports also that the device will have a "retina" screen – with four times as many pixels as the current model – and could include 4G connectivity for US high-speed networks.The website iMore saysthe device will have a quad-core processor – compared with the dual-core A5 chip in the current iPad model. The increased screen resolution would increase the apparent detail on images while not requiring software developers to rewrite their products.The Wall Street Journal saysthat it will also include 4G connectivity (also known as "LTE"), which offers connections at up to 100Mbps, but in smartphones have been found to be a serious battery drain.The WSJ says that the LTE version will be sold through AT&amp;T and Verizon, the two largest carriers in the US. Apple told the Guardian that "Apple does not comment on rumours or speculation."While the iPad launch has been expected – last year Apple's iPad 2 was launched on Wednesday 2 March – there is no indication yet whether the company will also unveil its much-anticipated new TV system at the same time. Expectation has been growing that Apple will move into the burgeoning "smart TV" market, either offering a new version of its Apple TV set-top box, or offering integrated TV sets with internet connectivity.The rumours of an impending launch have been heightened by some reports in the US that the current Apple TV device is in short supply – usually an indication that the company is about to revise it.Apple's iPad 2 was launched within days of its launch. That brought a dual-core processor and faster graphics processing, and while reviewers were underwhelmed at what they perceived as a lack of difference from the first version – which went on sale in April 2010 – the iPad models have sold strongly, selling 14m in three quarters during 2010, and 40.5m in 2011, including 15m in the Christmas quarter.But the iPad faces challenges from Amazon's low-cost Kindle Fire device, and the expected arrival this autumn of tablets running a version of Microsoft's new Windows 8 operating system.• A Chinese company says it will ask customs officials to block imports and exports of Apple iPads in a dispute over ownership of the name for the tablet computers.A lawyer for Shenzhen Proview Technology said on Tuesday the company is preparing a request to block iPad shipments on the grounds that they violate Proview's ownership of the iPad trademark in China.Authorities in one Chinese city have seized iPads from retailers.Shenzhen Proview Technology registered the iPad trademark in China in 2001. Apple bought rights to the name from a Taiwan company affiliated with Proview but the mainland company says it still has rights to use the name in China.A Chinese court rejected Apple's claim to the name in China last year.
A selection of eight apps for you today:Angry BirdsWeb-based Facebook applications are usually out of this column's brief, but we'll make an exception for the long-awaited Facebook debut of Angry Birds. New for the social network are social features to compete with friends, and four new power-ups to get past tricky levels, which can be earned, gifted or bought using Facebook Credits.FacebookDream HeightsZynga's new iPhone game Dream Heights is already controversial due to its resemblance to indie title Tiny Tower – a number of one-star reviews on the App Store are making this point. The game involves building a tower, populating it with virtual people and businesses, and then visiting towers of friends.iPhonePudding.toWith Instagram still not available on Android, the market is open to competitors to stake their photo-sharing claims. Pudding.to is the latest, promising to be "the most innovative photo sharing app ever". That means filters, yes, but also the ability to upload multiple photos, and richer tags including music and location.AndroidStagedomStagedom is an intriguing new iPhone music app from startup Death Star Labs. It pulls in music videos and tracks from around the web, as well as artist biographies and tour dates. Social features to connect with other fans and artists are also promised, with Facebook and Twitter baked into the mix too.iPhonePicture Me Cute As Can BeeOceanhouse Media's latest book-app wants to put children in the story, popping their photos (and those of their friends/family) onto characters in the tale of bees, bunnies and flowers.iPhone / iPadFraggerAlready a huge hit online and on iOS, Miniclip's Fragger is now available on Android. Worms-esque mechanics see you hurling grenades at a host of enemies across 370 levels.AndroidPaper BaronHere's a curveball: a location-based paper planes game for iPhone launched by the Royal Australian Air Force. The idea being to fly virtual paper planes against other people on "airstrips" tied to real-world locations.iPhoneBeat Hazard UltraCold Beam Games' new iOS title is a "music driven arcade shooter" – a dual-stick shoot 'em up that generates levels based on the songs in your iPhone or iPad music library.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHacker says porn site users compromised, claims Anonymous affiliation &gt;&gt; USATODAY.comUp to 350,000 users' names leaked:The breach is a potential embarrassment for Luxembourg-based Manwin, which runs some of the world's best-known pornography websites.A small sample of the hundreds of thousands of pieces of user data allegedly compromised were posted to the Internet earlier this week. E-mails, user names, and encrypted passwords were divulged, and in some cases it was possible to infer porn users' full names and country of origin.The hacker claiming responsibility for the breach told the Associated Press that he carried out the attack to draw attention to the site's vulnerability.Sure, sure.10 myths holding HTML5 back &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsMartin Beeby of Microsoft points out the most egregious of them. They're all very good points. Print them out and put them on the wall so you can use them next time someone says "Well, of course, HTML5 won't be ready until 2022…"Myspace gains 1 million users, touts more music than Spotify &gt;&gt; CNN.comPrepare for amazing:Maybe Justin Timberlake and friends weren't so crazy after all. Myspace, the once dominant social-networking site that faded into obscurity during Facebook's rise to dominance, added 1 million new users over the past month, according to the company. "The numbers tell an amazing story of strong momentum and dramatic change for Myspace," said Tim Vanderhook, CEO of Myspace. "And the 1 million-plus new user accounts we've seen in the last 30 days validates our approach."Only one word for it: impressive.Where would U.S. consumer electronics be without Apple? &gt;&gt; Fortune TechYou wondered?Down 6% in 2011, that's where, according to the NPD Group If it weren't for tablets and mobile phones, 2011 would have been a miserable year for the U.S. consumer electronics industry. Total U.S. retail sales for the year were $144 billion, down 1% from 2010, according to a report issued Monday by the NPD Group.Tablets made 10.7% of US consumer electronics sales, up from 5.1% in 2010. Apple basically pulled the industry out of a 6% dive.What to do when your Nokia Lumia 800 will not turn on &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson:Nokia Lumia 800: delightful smartphone but with a few irritations. If you have one, I recommend that you do not let the battery fully discharge - a challenge since the battery life is not the greatest - since if you do, you may have problems turning the phone on again.Warming the phone a little seems to be the best idea.PlayBooks lapped up from RIM by distributors &gt;&gt; Channel RegisterGood news, everyone!RIM UK PlayBook shipments took off in Q4 as price cuts finally convinced distributors to increase their orders. According to data from Context, the number of RIM fondleslabs sold to UK wholesalers during Q4 was up nearly three fold on a sequential basis to 32,000 units, taking market share to 3.4 per cent.Oh.July 2007: CEO Balsillie shrugs off 'BlackBerry killer' &gt;&gt; thestar.comHello, hindsight:...some are arguing that Apple has single-handedly redefined the concept of a cellphone with the iPhone's giant touch-screen interface, making devices such as the BlackBerry Pearl, launched just last September, appear relatively clunky and outdated."Nobody does industrial design as well as Apple does it today," says Carmi Levy, senior vice-president of strategic consulting for AR Communications Inc. "But you can bet your next mortgage payment that RIM's engineers are already working on the next design that mimics and probably leapfrogs the iPhone. That's the name of the game." [Co-CEO Jim] Balsillie IS the first to admit some will find the iPhone's look appealing, but he says he's doubtful the device will have much of an impact on RIM's overall sales. For one thing, he says, the iPhone will hold little appeal for RIM's core business market and its need for secure information technology systems, which RIM has been providing for years with its corporate BlackBerry email servers.He was also critical of Apple's selling the phone through its own stores. Wonder if we'll see RIM setting up stores. (Thanks @lessien on Twitter for the link.)AOL Partners with blinkx for Video Search &gt;&gt; Aol.comGood for Cambridge-based Blinkx:AOL today announced that its video search results are powered by blinkx. In turn, blinkx will incorporate AOL's premium video assets into its current index of over 35 million hours of content, making them easily searchable and accessible to users around the world. The partnership expands the quantity and quality of AOL's video search results and also delivers integrated Safe Search tools that block adult oriented content from minors.A few years ago, Blinkx was poised to take over the world because of its ability to search inside video. Somehow the promise wasn't quite fulfilled.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's Valentine's Day! Something tells me the Chatterbox regulars will be treating this annual homage to unimaginative romantics with the respect it deserves.
The European Commission and the US Department of Justice have given the go-ahead to Google's $12.5bn (£10.4bn) acquisition of Motorola Mobility (MMI), the US handset and set-top box maker – a move that will open a new and potentially explosive chapter in the fight over smartphone patents.China must also do the same before the merger can be completed.The approval puts Google and Apple at loggerheads as the Motorola subsidiary tries to squeeze the iPhone maker for payments on patents that chipmaker Qualcomm, an iPhone chip supplier, says have already been licensed.But in a clear shot across Google's bow, the US Department of Justice said in astatement accompanying its approvalthat while Apple and Microsoft had made clear commitments over licensing of "standards-essential patents" (SEP) for use in smartphones, "Google's commitments were more ambiguous and do not provide the same direct confirmation of its SEP licensing policies." For that reason, the DoJ would continue to monitor the market and "will not hesitate to take appropriate enforcement action to stop any anticompetitive use of SEP rights".The EC had a similar warning. Following an extended review of the proposed merger, on which the two companies shook hands in August, the EC declared on Monday evening that it has decided that the deal would not affect the supply of Android software to other handset makers. But Joaquin Almunia, the EC's competition commissioner,warnedthat "the commission will continue to keep a close eye on the behaviour of all market players in the sector, particularly the increasingly strategic use of patents."Google has said that it is buying MMI, which made the first mobile phones, because of the strength of its portfolio of 17,000 existing and 7,500 pending patents covering a huge range of essential standards in the wireless and mobile fields, as well as other areas. The acquisition will allow Google to provide patent protection to device makers using its Android mobile operating system, who are now facing legal attacks over patents from companies including Apple and Microsoft.Microsoft has already forced companies including Samsung, which makes almost 50% of all Android handsets, and HTC to sign per-handset royalty deals where it claims patent ownership. The software giant claims that 70% of Android handsets sold in the US are covered by such deals – and it is after more, such as China's Huawei, another Android handset maker. Microsoft is also locked in patent battles with MMI.Apple last week filed a potentially explosive lawsuit in the US, claiming that MMI is abusing its ownership of essential patents used for mobile phones, after it wrote to Apple and chipmaker Qualcomm in January. In the letter, MMI revoked Apple's ability to use two patents embedded in Qualcomm chips used in the iPhone. Such specific revocations are not normally allowed under the terms on which "essential" patents are licensed: if Motorola is found to have breached the "FRAND" (fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory) rules around the licensing of its patents then it could face sanctions from standards bodies, and damages from Apple.Apple is seeking to extend the case to Germany, where it is fighting attempts by Motorola to impose bans on sales of its iPhone 4S handset and on the use of its iCloud web storage and synchronisation service.If Apple can show that MMI is abusing FRAND patents, that could bring the case to the attention of Joaquin Almunia, the EC's competition commissioner, whowarned in a speech on Fridaythat "Owners of such standard essential patents are conferred a power on the market that they cannot be allowed to misuse."In approving the takeover, Almunia added that the decision "does not mean that the merger clearance blesses all actions by Motorola in the past or all future action by Google" and that any action on "the question [of] whether Motorola's or Google's conduct is compliant with EU antitrust law" would be taken separately.Almunia could impose fines for abuse of up to 10% of a company's global turnover – which, following the merger, would amount to billions. Google's largest previous fine was $500m,exactedlevied by the US government last August, for its role in the illegal sale over the internet of pharmaceutical drugs from Canadian outlets to the US.MMI was spun off from the larger Motorola company in January 2011, but has since struggled financially, recording net losses in every quarter and losing both money and market share in its handset business. While its revenues of around $3.4bn per quarter will be small compared to Google's, which passed $10bn in the fourth quarter, it is expected to bring tax benefits which will mean it has no net effect on profitability.Google has said repeatedly that it will run the MMI business at arm's length, and will not favour it over other handset makers using the Android software. But analysts suspect that it will increasingly look to its subsidiary to showcase handsets with new versions of Android, as it tries to enforce greater conformity on the rapidly growing use of the software.Almunia's team has yet to rule on a separate investigation into Google's behaviour in Europe, where it is deciding whether to mount a full antitrust investigation over advertising and search practices. A decision is expected in March.How Motorola bid itself up by 33%Last July Larry Page, chief executive of Google, contacted Motorola Mobility afterlosing the bid for a series of patents being auctioned from the bankruptcy of Canadian communications company Nortel. Google, bidding with Intel, had given up when the bids by a team of Apple, Microsoft and BlackBerry-maker RIM reached $4.5bn – but its Motorola bid would go far beyond that.According to aSEC filing made by Motorolafollowing the agreement of the acquisition, Google indicated it would be interested in buying the company – and two weeks later, on 20 July, the famed "corporate raider" Carl Icahn, then holding about 11% of the company, told Sanjay Jha, MMI's chief, that the company "should explore alternatives for the MMI patent portfolio". In other words, Icahn was saying: sell. (Icahn disclosed this advice in a filing on the day he made it.)A week later, Google said it was considering buying the company for a price "in the high $20s or low $30s". On 1 August, Google made its first formal bid, of $30 per share – valuing MMI at $9.4bn.But Jha held out, and by 7 August had Nikesh Arora, Google's lead negotiator - who is now tipped to take over from Jha in the merged company - calling him to offer a raised bid of $37.On the same day. Jha made a speech in which he mused very publicly about suing the other makes of Android handsets for infringing Motorola's patent portfolio, and raised the possibility of teaming up with Microsoft, rather than Google, and adopting its new Windows Phone software and dropping Android.It did the trick: by the end of the day Google had raised its price to $40 per share - which was good enough for Jha and the MMI board. They had squeezed Google to a $12.5bn offering; Icahn's stake had risen in value from $750m when Google first approached MMI, to $1.34bn when the deal was done. Icahn owes Jha a big favour - and if, as some expect, the chief executive is pushed aside in favour of Arora when the merger is complete, Icahn may be in a position to repay him.Note: this article was edited at 0640GMT on 14 February to add details about the US DOJ approval.
Apple has reacted to growing criticism over alleged abuses of workers at its suppliers by asking an independent group, the Fair Labor Association (FLA), to conduct audits of several of its factories in China.The inspections will include Foxconn, which employs about 1 million people, with plants in Shenzhen and Chengdu, and where there has been focus on the number of employee suicides and claims of overwork.The first inspections began on Monday morning at Foxconn City, the Shenzhen facility, with a visit by experts led by the FLA president, Auret van Heerden.The FLA will speak to thousands of staff about working and living conditions, payments, health and safety and management style. The inspections will cover manufacturing areas, dormitories and other facilities."We believe that workers everywhere have the right to a safe and fair work environment, which is why we've asked the FLA to independently assess the performance of our largest suppliers," said Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive."The inspections now under way are unprecedented in the electronics industry, both in scale and scope, and we appreciate the FLA agreeing to take the unusual step of identifying the factories in their reports."The move follows increased focus on Apple, whose share price on Monday briefly passed $500 on the US stock market, where it is the most valuable company by market capitalisation, ahead of oil company Exxon.Last week Apple faced twin petitions signed online by more than 250,000 people seeking assurances the company would use "ethical, fair and safe" suppliers for the production of its computers, phones and tablets.Foxconn, which makes equipment for a large number of American and Asian companies, including Apple, Amazon, Acer, Asus, Dell, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, Microsoft, Motorola, Netgear, Nokia, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba, has generated huge amounts of attention following claims of poor working conditions in gigantic factories that function like self-contained towns.In July 2009 a 25-year-old worker committed suicide, reportedly after losing an iPhone prototype, and in 2010 there was a spate of suicides – prompting Foxconn to install nets around the edges of some buildings to prevent people jumping off roofs.Cook reacted in January to aNew York Times articlethat documented problems inside its many supplier factories by emailing staff worldwide to say "we care about every worker in our worldwide supply chain. Any accident is deeply troubling, and any issue with working conditions is cause for concern. Any suggestion that we don't care is patently false and offensive to us."The company's travails over the image of its suppliers have grown in line with the success of its iPhone and iPad tablet, which both saw record sales in the Christmas quarter – and led to renewed calls for better treatment of workers.Ronan McNern, a spokesman for the Occupy movement in London, which is releasing a number of songs by artists including Billy Bragg but declining to distribute them through Apple's iTunes and Amazon's store, in protest at what it sees as "labour and human rights violations" by the companies, said: "we would like to know what the criteria are that this analysis will be based on. But if Apple is taking steps then maybe we will see real action." The Occupy movement wants to reduce inequality, McNern said: "Apple is the real dominant player, and they can use that power that they wield for good, globally."Rosey Hurst, director ofImpactt, a 15-year-old company that audits supply chains of companiesincludingBritish Telecom, Tesco, Marks &amp; Spencer, New Look and Apple, commented that "it is counterproductive to attack companies who are open about issues they identify in their supply chain … Apple has been rather more transparent about the problems they find and their remediation work than many others in the field. The reality is that while working conditions in many places around the world are grim, change will not happen without encouraging greater transparency and a willingness to engage."Apple said its suppliers have offered the FLA full co-operation and unrestricted access to their operations. The FLA's findings and recommendations from the first assessments will be posted in early Marchon its website. Similar inspections will be conducted later this spring at the Quanta and Pegatron facilities that make its computers. When complete, the FLA's assessment will cover facilities where more than 90% of Apple products are assembled.Apple said that it has audited each of its "final assembly" factories, where parts are assembled into finished products, every year since 2006, with more than 40 audits of Foxconn manufacturing and final assembly facilities. Details of Apple's supplier responsibility programe, including the results of more than 500 factory audits throughout its supply chain over the past five years, are availableon its website.In January, Apple became the first technology company admitted to the Fair Labor Association. The FLA conducts independent monitoring and verification to ensure that its workplace standards are upheld wherever FLA company products are made.
There were concerns, of course, that no one would turn up. With London's temprature hovering icily at -3C and below, it may have been easier for the 200-or-so people who signed up for our Bafta event to stay in bed and play indie games there. But we had a full house, we had a bunch of amazingly talented indie developers, and later that night we had the raucous Gamesblog Chatterbox Awards. Everything seemed to go fine.As well as developers, we hadIndieCityshowing of its unique indie game shopping service. We also had three Sony PS Vita demo units and of course Capcom was present, providing very popular demos of Asura's Wrath and Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City. Capcom also kindly provided lots of drinks, crisps and sandwiches – thank you, guys.Here are some more of the interesting games we got to play...On the "showfloor", Andrew Smith, founder of Spilt Milk Studios, was showing off early code of two new iPhone titles. With his first iOS game, Hard Lines, he effectively took Snake, updated the visuals, added jokes and crafted it into a modern pick-up-and-play experience. With the forthcoming Smash The Block, he's doing the same to the Breakout genre. Yep, it's effectively a brick-bashing title, but here, you need to protect little creatures called chumps, who'll leg it along the bottom of the screen, trying to make it to the exit without being hit by stray balls. Certain bricks reveal power-ups such as bombs, and you can customise your chumps with a range of outfits. Sort of Arkanoid meets Lemmings, with a bit of The Sims. Intriguing stuff.Smith also had an early version of Numbugs, a Tetris-esque maths game. Little insects with different numbers on them fall down the screen, and on the right a monster reveals a target figure you have to aim for. You then simply touch the number bugs to reach the required total; your monster can then gobble them up, clearing space on the main game screen. Later levels add mathematical symbols, so you can create quite complex equations to reach the required figure. And again, you can personalise and share your monster design with friends. There are, of course, plenty of maths games and plenty that use the falling blocks of Tetris as a structure, but this is shaping up to be slick implementation with some neat innovations.Beside Smith, we had Stephen Lavelle ofIncrepare Games, showing off his IGF award-nominated PC, Mac and iOS title,English Country Tune. It's a difficult game to describe – a sort of spatial puzzler, with sparse, gorgeous geometric visuals. Here's a trailer:"Originally, it started out as a GameJam prototype that I was really unhappy with," explains Lavelle. "I made some levels for it and really hated them. So I thought, I'll just add more and more mechanics until things work well together! I needed to create an acceptable ecosystem."Well, it's worked, and Lavelle is now in the process of getting the game onto Steam, where it should absolutely flourish.While I was talking to Stephen, Paul Taylor from Mode 7 games was desperately trying to solve one of the English Country Tune levels. "You've made a game that is incompatible with my brain," he complains loudly as he fails to complete the section for the fourth time. "You've blown my mind." Which sounds like a ringing endorsement to me.Taylor was at the event, showing off the awesomeFrozen Synapse, a critically acclaimed simultaneous turn-based strategy title based in a dark cyberpunk future. It's been out on PC and Mac for a year, but the studio is currently working on an iOS version, due out in the first half of 2012."We're just working on the iPad user interface," explains Taylor. "We've got a bunch of ideas, but it's a case of refining and testing them over the next few weeks. It's a very mouse-driven game so whittling that complexity down to a few intuitive touch-base controls is the main challenge. We're inventing a few new UI systems that I've not seen in games before to achieve that."Taylor also mentioned that the team is releasing some Frozen Synapse DLC, introducing a new unit to the battlefield as well as fresh single- and multiplayer modes. Furthermore, they have a new game at prototype stage, which they plan to announce later this year. "We're just getting some tech together and tinkering with ideas," he says, coquettishly.Veteran London studioPlayniacwere also on hand, showing off their fascinating motorsports management sim,International Racings Squirrels. Yes, that is the actual name. Commissioned by the ever-imaginative Channel 4 Education, it allows players to recruit and manage a team of, yes, racing squirrels as they compete in an anthropomorphisised motor sports season.Here's a trailer:Brilliantly, the title combines two challenges: budgeting and behaviour management. "We've actually modelled a whole banking system," says Playniac director, Rob Davis. "We worked with the FSA and the Money Advice Service to simulate cash, credit cards and current accounts, and also the dark side of banking – overdrafts, interest, those kinds of things. In this game you can spiral out of control and get into total debt – lose your home, your team. This is the educational part."Players can send their squirrels off to train and compete, but the critters must also be managed while off duty, too. "We worked with digital fiction companyFailbetterto create a story for the game, so as you play one of your squirrels might go and get a tattoo, or trash their hotel room, or snog a soap star, and all of this will create controversy in the press. You have to decide how to deal with that."An educational game that involves taking risks on abhorent squirrel behaviour while managing your overdraft? Modern schoolkids are sospoiled.In the middle of the room, there wasHoneySlug, creator of funky Vita launch title, Frobisher Says. They had two titles on display: the beautiful serpent (sort-of)platformer,Hohokum(another finalist at the IGF awards this year), and the PC/iPad advernture,Happily Ever After. Here's a trailer of that:"It's got point-and-click aspects, and hidden objects and logic puzzles, and it's set in a twisted fairy tale kingdom," says Honeyslug co-founder Nat Marco. "You're a blogger in the real world and you start getting these weird emails coming through. When you check them out, you end up in this weird environment. The only way out is to find some spell ingredients for the wicked witch."Interestingly, Marco is a huge fan of board games, and started prototyping Happily Ever After on paper as a traditional game, before coding it up. "I design all my games that way," she says. "I just did a design workshop at the indie event Bit of Alright, where I got everyone to create games using rocks. I'm very interested in the traditional side of games." So where should wannabe video game designers look if they too want to be inspired by traditional games? "Magic the Gathering!" she says. "I know it's a card game but it's an amazing piece of design. Another good place to start would be Settlers of Catan; it's got some great rules, it's quick and it's really simple."I'll cover the rest of the guys soon, but Charlie Knight brought the absolutely essential shooterScoregasm, while Omni Labs had the well-reviewedEufloria, which is currently Game of the Week on the App Store. Elsewhere,Alistair Aitcheson drew crowds (and caused some minor scuffles) with his iPhone and iPad puzzler,Greedy Bankers. The two-player iPad version has a great game mechanic where you're able to steal items from your opponent's half of the screen. Hence, some small good-natured skirmishes...And what indie social event would be complete without a few of those?
WipeOut 2048 ★★★★PS Vita; £29.99; cert 7+; SonyIt's a testament to the The Designer's Republic creative vision that WipeOut 2048's design flourishes still feel fresh and relevant some 17 years after the series first debuted on PlayStation. The now defunct graphic design studio established the tone not only of this futuristic racer series, but also of PlayStation itself, the futuristic fonts, stylish menus and pantone patch colour schemes lending an edge of cultural consciousness that no video game system had enjoyed before.And once again, the launch of Sony's brave new handheld the Vita – designed by the man behind the Japanese tech behemoth's Walkman – is lent an edge of much needed Helvetica-through-a-Tokyo-lens elegance by the studio's graphical legacy. The classic racing team logos and liveries of Feisar, AG Systems, Quirex, Auricom and Pir-hana remain just as sharp and iconic as when they debuted all those years ago, while the unlock structure and menus enjoy purity, clarity and class.On the track, however, SCE Studio Liverpool's latest fizzes with particle explosion, light trails and graphical details that are wholly contemporary. As a showcase for what the handheld is capable of, WipeOut 2048 is unrivalled in the launch line-up, ably handling eight vehicle scrambles through a variety of richly detailed futuristic New York vistas. Clasping such a volatile kinetic display in your hands feels new and unusual, a feat of technology that nobody would have dared dream of when first dreaming up the original WipeOut's vision of the future.That original vision – at least in terms of the world – has been revisited and amended for WipeOut 2048, a prequel of sorts that chooses a new New York half-imagined, half-recreated for its clutch of tracks. The result is a racing game world that dials up the detail with suspension bridges, skyscrapers, and cat's cradles of overhead electrical wires, introducing a strain of realism that is at odds with the spotlessness of WipeOut games past.In practical racing terms the shift has two consequences: it becomes harder to distinguish what's happening in the squall of detail on screen while screaming around bends and down straights, and loading times multiply. For all the understated cool of WipeOut 2048's menus – and make no mistake: the clean, honeycomb stage selection screen enjoys wonderful form and function – in play, the game is more fussy than previous entries.While trailing the pack it can be hard to pick out rivals, intelligibility a victim of the studio's creative flair in detailing the world. Meanwhile, protracted load times can take upwards of 40 seconds to load each race, a pause at least 20 seconds too long in the era of insta-fix mobile gaming on the rival platforms.The additional track detail ramps up the difficulty in ways the developer perhaps didn't intend, and likewise the reduced travel-distance of the Vita's analogue stick slightly reduces the sense of taut control by comparison to the PS3's WipeOut HD. Beyond these technical impediments, the game has been designed with something of a steep learning curve (although you'll be asked if you want to skip an event if you fail at it too many times) and once you make it through the first season's worth of races, you'll need to switch off the pilot assist and knuckle down to properly learn the intricacies and short cuts of each track.Structurally, the game draws you in with interspersed event types that favour ships according to their defensive capabilities, weaponry or raw speed and acceleration depending on the race criteria. As well as straight eight-man races there are combat-focused events, which even allow you to drive the wrong way around the track as you seek to score hits on your rivals.Arguably the best of the set is Zone, a neon-trail dream-like endless race in which your ship auto-accelerates, your only task to steer it from the sides that chip away at your health till it's depleted. The range of events feels a little lean in the latter stages of the game, but the increased demands on your skills as a driver ensure interest derives from the on-going mounting challenge.The multiplayer directly mirrors the unlock structure of the single player campaign, layering overarching objectives over the main races themselves. Each race presents you with a particular objective – not necessarily finishing in pole position – and as you earn gold stars for completing these tasks so you make progress across the main map. Switching between the single and multiplayer campaigns is done at the tap of a persistent icon on the map screen, and the structure threads both halves into a cohesive whole.Despite its visual consistency with the previous titles that share the family name WipeOut 2048 represents a concerted attempt to evolve the series in interesting ways, while making shrewd, restrained use of the new handheld's features. In this aim it finds mixed success, often sacrificing finesse in exchange for novelty, but in that creativity a new energy and revived sense of character can be found.Simon ParkinUncharted: The Golden Abyss ★★★★PS Vita; £39.99; cert 16+; SCE Bend Studio/SonyIt's fair to say that Sony has a lot riding on Uncharted: The Golden Abyss. This game, after all, is an example of the sort of deeper and richer experience Sony is hoping will attract mobile phone gamers to their new portable console. To be frank, its success or failure is probably the best litmus test one could have for the fortunes of the PS Vita.So it helps Sony's cause immensely that, like all the other entries in the Uncharted series, The Golden Abyss is a well-written, deeply immersive and visually gorgeous game. Set before the first entry in the Uncharted series, it sees cocksure adventurer Nathan Drake on the trail of some Spanish gold in the jungles of Central America. Before the first half-an-hour is up, he's been betrayed, shot at, and partnered up with a sassy female archaeologist (is there any other type in these games?). The pair of them set out to find her lost grandfather and hilarity inevitably ensues.The folks at Sony's Bend Studio have made sure The Golden Abyss remains true to the series' fantastic production values. They've also not deviated much from the overall gameplay, which is still a mix of platforming, puzzle solving, combat and the odd instance of stealth. Players use the game's dual-sticks to move Drake and the camera view and the buttons cover his range of movements. For the most part, the controls feel comfortable and intuitive.However, players will experience the odd instance where they'll have to use the game's touch-surface interfaces and while some of these added extras are quite fun – such as using the front and back touch-surfaces to clean off a newly discovered clue, others are incredibly irritating, such as the QTE swipes required to beat enemies in hand-to-hand combat. One can't help but feel that a lot of these functions could have – and should have – been mapped to the console's more traditional controls. It seems the only reason they haven't is because Sony has spent an awful lot of money ensuring that the PSVita has a ton of extra features, so it's determined that you, the player, are going to jolly well use them.These new controls, however, aren't exactly deal-breakers, and they don't detract from the key strength of The Golden Abyss; it's a solidly entertaining romp.It doesn't stray too far from the series' basic blueprint, either in terms of its mechanics or its story, but then, that's half of Uncharted's charm. Players don't sign up to these games for innovative new features as much as they do to see what trouble Nathan's managed to land in this week, and how he'll get himself out of it. The Golden Abyss is a solid entry in the Uncharted canon, and if the world's a smarter place than it looks, it should be enough to win over the Angry Birds crowd. Watch this space …Nick CowenFrobisher Says ★★★★ / Little Deviants ★★Little Deviants: PS Vita; £17.99; cert 7+; SonyFrobisher Says: PS Vita; Free;  SonyFrobisher Says and Little Deviants have a lot in common. Minigame collections with cutesy cartoon looks, they share the piled-high feeling of developers having a mess around with everything Vita's got to offer: they have you frantically switching between waving the handheld, swiping the touchscreen, stroking the back and sometimes yelling at it. Here's the difference: only one of them turns all that clever stuff into something fun, and it's the really stupid one that wins out.So which game is triumphantly dumb? It's Frobisher Says – a quickfire compendium of daftness, in the style of Wario Ware and the sacred Bishi Bashi. Kevin Eldon puts in the vocals, commanding you to "open my clams" or "rain on this parade", at which you're slung into a game with no warning at all of what it wants you to do. There's a different gesture system or control scheme in every game, leading to plenty of insta-fails.This isn't ruinously annoying, because the payoff for flunking is nearly as good as the one for winning: either way, you get a funny animation and a delightful bit of Eldon-sneer, and then you're on to the next thing before you can say "Frobisher". Everything gets a laugh at least first time, followed by the satisfaction of figuring out how to do whatever you've been tasked with. The really stupid thing? This brilliant piece of idiocy is a freebie, available as a launch title for the pre-order crowd and then to everyone (for nothing) come May.Everything Frobisher does well, Deviants does too – just a bit worse. For one thing, it goes for a loose story (aliens vs zombies and robots) that just slows the whole thing down. Then it sticks a pass/fail structure on all the minigames, which range from racers to shooters to something that's basically a very expensive version of those plastic pinball mazes that come in party bags and make you want to chew your hand off. (You can move on to something else without defeating the current game, but you'll be stuck shaking that alien in the maze for long minutes till you die, and you need wins to open up new challenges.)That's fine when the games are entertaining, but too often, they're not. A clever little shooter that uses the camera to put attacking robots in your own surroundings is neat; but a game that has you launching a hot air balloon by tickling the back screen while jabbing the front screen to pop enemies while swiping holes in your balloon to patch it up while swerving the Vita around to steer ... well, that's exactly as enjoyable as you'd expect doing four puny manual tasks at once for no particular reason to be. Trying to do more isn't always rewarding. Frobisher says: keep it stupid, stupid.Sarah DitumGravity Rush ★★★★PS Vita; £34.99; SonyGravity Rush instantly stands out among the roster of launch games for the PS Vita: more because of what it isn't than what it is. The practicalities of readying games for new consoles invariably lead to over-familiarity, as it's much simpler for publishers to port existing games to the new platform. But Gravity Rush is one of the few completely original games for the Vita.That's because it was originally planned to be a PS3 game, but its design team at Sony's Japan Studio had a handy inside line to the Vita, and took the executive decision to bring it out on the handheld console instead. That would all count for much less if Gravity Rush bore any sort of close resemblance to any existing games but, happily, it feels quite unlike anything that has gone before.In terms of general feel, it adheres to the school of bonkersness which often gives Japanese games much of their appeal. Graphically, it takes an anime, comic-book-influenced approach, with outlined, stylised characters. But unlike the average Japanese game, it has been endowed with thoroughly original gameplay, too, to accompany its seductive visuals.It's best described as a third-person action-adventure game. You control Kat, a kick-ass blonde who starts the game suffering from amnesia. The game world is a large town which has recently become beset with anomalous shifts in gravity, which bring ugly, apparently alien monsters with them. Kat hooks up with a black cat, which turns out to have the ability to shift the way in which gravity affects her. Thus, you can point somewhere (either using the right stick or the Vita's motion-sensor) and float to it, even if it is on the side of a building; the direction in which gravity affects you will adjust itself accordingly so that, for example, you can then run up or down that building.Kat can also initiate a plummet to the ground, by reverting gravity to its normal state, then arrest it by gravity-shifting once more. And she has a neat set of kicks and punches,  that improve as you progress through the game. Plus, importantly, a gravity-kick, the power of which is proportionate to the distance from which it is being executed. The gameplay mixes gravity-shifting pursuits (other gravity-shifting characters with less scrupulous intentions enter the equation early in the game), monster and boss-bashing and spatial awareness puzzles. Semi-interactive inter-chapter interludes, presented in the style of a comic strip, add an extra level of interest.Gravity Rush is pleasantly distinctive and great fun to play, making decent use of the Vita's attributes without ever giving you the impression that they have been shoehorned in. If you're a devotee of Japanese anime, or just enjoy third-person action-adventure games with unusual gameplay and bags of character, you should find it pretty satisfying. The PS Vita needs more games like it.Steve Boxer
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 11 FebruaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Kingdoms Of Amalur: Reckoning(15+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (28)PC (9)12 (1)Final Fantasy XIII-2(16+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (47)23 (–)The Darkness II(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (32)PC (3)14 (2)Metal Gear Solid HD Collection(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)25 (4)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (33)Wii (10)PSP (5)206 (3)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (38)PC (7)167 (7)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (43)Wii (4)PC (2)148 (6)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (1)139 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (37)PC (13)1410 (–)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (55)3DS (46)1111 (5)SoulCalibur V(16+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)212 (9)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (83)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (2)1813 (11)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (76)Xbox 360 (20)PS3 (5)4614 (–)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (42)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (16)3DS (10)1115 (10)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (33)1316 (12)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (37)1317 (15)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (11)3DS (5)1218 (13)Zumba Fitness 2(PG)Wii (100)719 (17)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)1120 (–)Catherine(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (49)1UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Google is releasing an updated version of its YouTube app for Google TV, which the company says will make it easier for viewers to find videos and channels to watch on their big-screen TVs.The app is available on Google's Android Market store, and according to Google'sblog poston 12 February, the update was due to roll out at some point during the next few days."First you'll notice the app works faster with smoother navigation for a better experience," explained product manager Jurek Foryciarz."Next, we've added a new feature called Discover, which lets you browse YouTube channels by categories. Whether you're looking for hilarious comedy, delectable cooking content, or the latest news, you can find great channels for any of your interests."The Discover feature is likely to be an important factor in making YouTube a better service for people leaning back on their sofas, as opposed to leaning forward over a desktop or laptop computer.Google has also added new channel pages to Google TV's YouTube app to help users navigate through playlists and videos in their favourite channels, while subscribing to new ones within the app itself.The app update builds on a separate initiative within YouTube called "Original Channels". The company has been courting celebrities, media companies and  producers to launch channels of original content on YouTube, making it a much more appealing proposition for the living room.In October 2011, YouTubeannounceda significant expansion of itsoriginal channels, promising "something for everyone, whether you're a mom, a comedy fan, a sports nut, a music lover or a pop-culture maven".Participantsincluded Madonna, Ashton Kutcher, Shaquille O'Neal, as well as established media companies including Lionsgate, Reuters and Electus. At the time, it was reported that Google was investing more than $100m to fund the new channels.Many of those channels will be launching later in 2012, with the updated Google TV YouTube app – not to mention a second generation of televisions and set-top boxes running the Google TV software – a key way for this original content to be discovered by sofa surfers.
A selection of 15 apps for you today:AdeleFresh from winning six Grammy awards, Adele sees her official iPhone app ported to Android. As in the other version, there is news, videos, tour dates, track previews and social features, as well as the option to check in to gigs via Foursquare and Facebook.AndroidThe Illustrated COr The Illustrated Clitoris, to give this its full can't-be-shown-on-the-App-Store name. This is a serious educational app from Brightfire Press for anyone "who wants to understand women's sexuality", with diagrams, tips and quizzes.iPhoneZenonia 4Gamevil's rich and rewarding RPG franchise is into its fourth episode now, with an Android release joining the existing iOS version. Beefed-up visuals and online player-versus-player battles make it the best one yet.AndroidLive Score AddictsThis iPhone app promises live score updates from more than 300 football leagues and cup tournaments around the world, using customisable push notifications to ensure fans stay in touch with their favourite team(s).iPhoneStreamGlider+News aggregation app StreamGlider's Pro edition has gone free for iPad, helping people mash up RSS feeds with content from Flickr, YouTube, Twitter and Faceboom into streams, complete with a Flipboard-style "Magazine Mode".iPadPorkchop &amp; MouseThis stylish book-app for kids is the work of children's author Fiona Roberton and developer Ant Hive Games, blending mini-games and interactivity with a storyline focused on an adventuring cat and mouse.iPhone / iPadWarden SpotterWarden Spotter aims to crowdsource the art of avoiding traffic wardens: users mark on a map where they've parked a car, then get an alert if another user reports a warden wandering nearby. The link above is for Android, buthere's the Windows Phone version.Android / Windows PhoneBouncityIt's been available on Android for a while, but "social location based gaming platform" Bouncity now has an app for iPhone too. The idea: earn points and badges for check-ins and challenges, which can then be redeemed for rewards in real-world businesses.iPhoneTiny Farm by Com2uSKorean publisher Com2uS' first mobile social game is Tiny Farm, which has just got a release on Android. FarmVille provides the inspiration, as players raise animals, scatter seeds and visit the farms of friends.AndroidNYTimes CrosswordsUS newspaper's crossword gets official Android app for smartphones and tablets, offering more than 5,000 puzzles from the archives, and a daily new one to complete. Social features are included to compare times with friends. The app uses a subscription-based model to get the daily updates: $2.99 a month, $9.99 for six months or $16.99 a year.AndroidARBallThe latest augmented reality game involves playing "real-time soccer against your friends using invisible balls". Getting back to the days of location-based games like BotFighters, where people gathered in one place to play.iPhoneDubstep UniverseWant a bit of WUB-WUB-WUB on your Android device? Dubstep Universe may be the answer. It runs across smartphones and tablets, and lets you string samples and beats together – complete with a Wobbleometer feature to "modulate your wobble base by just tilting your phone".AndroidDojo MadnessAction game for Android that focuses on kung fu and animals: you play a raccoon kicking seven bells out of similarly martial-arts-enabled wolves, gorillas and turtles.AndroidSkirt AlertIt's not available in the UK yet, but Skirt Alert claims to be "the only app that sends you a Push Notification when the weather is right for skirts!" Based on current weather data and "sophisticated math" apparently.iPhoneBromanceSubtitled "The location-based network for dudes that do", this aims to connect men with "like-minded" men: "Attend events, meet other bro's, and get out and be active..."iPhone
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat the Path privacy breach shows us about real privacy online &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comNick Bilton:The big deal is that privacy and security is not a big deal in Silicon Valley. While technorati tripped over themselves to congratulate Mr. Morin on finessing the bad publicity, a number of concerned engineers e-mailed me noting that the data collectionwas not an accident. It would have taken programmers weeks to write the code necessary to copy and organize someone's address book. Many said Apple was at fault, too, for approving Path for its App Store when it appears to violate its rules.As Bilton points out, dissidents are often approached by state security in disguise; getting access to their address books puts them at risk. These need better protection.Google's path is the right one. It's just going to hurt &gt;&gt; TechnoviaIan Betteridge:In other words, Google is going to start controlling Android more tightly by stealth: it will sell the best phones, with rapid, regular updates that its erstwhile-partners can't match. Within a few years, I fully expect Motorola to have overtaken Samsung as the number one Android vendor. And, what's more, I wouldn't be surprised if Samsung hadn't forked Android and ended up producing its own Samsung-only variant, with its own App Store.Platform wars, app stores and ecosystems &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansA set of 16 slides looking at the principal mobile ecosystems in play right now - and how they break down in various ways.The 9X Email Problem &gt;&gt; Andrew McAfeeBroad-ranging and intriguing:Gourville talks about the '9X problem' —  "a mismatch of 9 to 1 between what innovators think consumers want and what consumers actually want."1  The 9X problem goes a long way to explaining the tech industry folk wisdom that to spread like wildfire a new product has to offer a tenfold improvement over  what's currently out there.Still Fucking Hate Email &gt;&gt; MG SieglerOn the persistent problem, and why it should be thought of more like tweets - not necessary to read - than must-read:there's a problem with changing the mentality about email because most people don't get as much email as [venture capitalist Fred] Wilson or I do. So it just looks like we're complaining for being popular or something. BUT the fact of the matter is that as more and more of the world spends more time online, more and more people will feel email overload.The Perpetual, Invisible Window Into Your Gmail Inbox &gt;&gt; Andy Baio at WiredAndy Baio:since Gmail added OAuth support in March 2010, an increasing number of startups are asking for a perpetual, silent window into your inbox.I'm concerned OAuth, while hugely convenient for both developers and users, may be paving the way for an inevitable privacy meltdown.Will make you think twice about giving your approval to apps you haven't researched.Does Android fragmentation matter to Google? Not much &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansWriting for Enders Analysis:Even the most fragmented, forked, customised and mangled 'Android' device has an open web browser and data connectivity and can drive mobile use of Google Search. Indeed, saying that an Android device like the Kindle Fire 'has no Google services' might be true in one sense but misses the underlying point – the browser itself is by far the most important Google Service on any device.It's sometimes easy to forget that what Google wants is everyone using the net, because its gravity well there is so powerful.US's NOAA to drop BlackBerry for iPhone &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThis is very bad for RIM:Joining the large crop of businesses and organizations dropping the BlackBerry, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration plans to provide employees with Apple's iPhones and iPads instead.The government agency, based in Washington, cited the steep cost of Research in Motion's software, which is used to secure and manage BlackBerry devices, as the primary reason for the switch, which was first reported Thursday by The Loop. The agency has distributed about 3,000 BlackBerry devices among 20,000 workers, and plans to move to the Apple devices beginning in May.If many more decide that BES is too expensive (as happened here), that becomes a serious risk for RIM's future business. Also: the NOAA is shifting to Google Apps; it tried Android but decided the Apple products were a better fit.MacBook Air with Windows 7 review: the ultrabook to rule them all? &gt;&gt; The VergeJoanna Stern has really smart idea: run Windows 7 on a MacBook Air via Parallels and Boot Camp.The MacBook Air is simply best in class when it comes to hardware. The build is outstanding, the touchpad works better with Microsoft's operating system than any other laptop trackpad out there, and the display makes Windows look better than ever. All that combined with very snappy performance makes the Air more enjoyable to use than many of the other ultrabooks on the market, including the higher end $1,110 Asus Zenbook and the $1,200 Lenovo IdeaPad U300s.It's expensive, and the battery life is worse. But it kicks all the others in the display and trackpad, Stern says.Social networks explained in one picture (includes 'donuts' &gt;&gt; Douglas WrayWe'd prefer to call them doughnuts, but this is very witty.Phone size comparison made easy! &gt;&gt; phone-size.comVery neat - even if you don't do it life-size, you can compare the relative size of a huge number of phones.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech"Update: corrected blockquote links. Apologies for the error.
The European Parliament's president has criticised the international copyright treaty Acta, arguing that it lacks sufficient balance, after protests in cities across the continent by tens of thousands of protesters.European Parliament president Martin Schulz, speaking to Germany's ARD television on Sunday about the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (Acta), said: "I don't find it good in its current form."He said the necessary balance between copyright protection and the individual rights of internet users was only very inadequately anchored in the agreement.But backers of the agreement say it is needed to harmonise international standards to protect the rights of those who produce music, movies, pharmaceuticals and other piracy-prone products.The European Publishers' Council, whose members include the major newspaper and magazine publishing groups on the continent and in the UK – including the Guardian Media Group, which owns the Guardian – called for a calm and reasoned assessment of the facts rather than taking decisions on the basis of hysterical misinformation."A considered reaction is more important than ever at a time when many outside of Europe doubt the ability of the European Union institutions and its member state governments to act together," it said. "Failure to ratify Acta would also jeopardise the future of secure copyright protection at EU level just at the moment when the European Commission is about to review the copyright directive."Acta opponents fear it will lead to censorship and a loss of privacy on the internet, and curb their freedom to download movies and music for free while encouraging internet surveillance.Thousands protested in several European countries on Saturday. In German cities more than 25,000 demonstrators marched in freezing temperatures, while 4,000 Bulgarians in Sofia rallied against the agreement, which is designed to strengthen the legal framework for intellectual property rights.Thousands more demonstrated at other high-spirited rallies, despite snow and freezing temperatures, in cities including Warsaw, Prague, Slovakia, Bucharest, Vilnius, Paris, Brussels and Dublin."We don't feel safe anymore. The internet was one of the few places where we could act freely," said Monica Tepelus, a 26-year-old programmer protesting with about 300 people in Bucharest.Opposition to Acta is especially strong in Eastern Europe and spreading rapidly. Protesters have compared it to the Big Brother-style surveillance used by former communist regimes. Downloading films and music is also a popular way for many young Eastern Europeans to obtain free entertainment."Stop Acta!" read a banner carried by one of the 2,000 marchers in central Berlin, where temperatures were -10C."It's not acceptable to sacrifice the rights of freedom for copyrights," said Thomas Pfeiffer, a leader of the Greens party in Munich where 16,000 people protested against Acta on Saturday.Governments of eight nations including Japan and the US signed an agreement in October aiming to cut copyright and trademark theft.The signing was hailed as a step toward bringing Acta into effect. However, it still has to be ratified by national parliaments.The UK has not yet signed officially, but its copyright and counterfeiting laws are already as strong as any suggested in Acta.Negotiations over Acta have been taking place for several years. Some European countries have signed Acta but it has not yet been signed or ratified in many countries.Acta aims to cut trademark theft and tackle other online piracy. But the accord has sparked concerns, especially in Eastern European countries as well as in Germany which is sensitive about its history with the Gestapo and Stasi secret police, over online censorship and increased surveillance."We want Acta stopped," Yanko Petrov, who attended a rally in Sofia, Bulgaria's capital, told state broadcaster BNT. "We have our own laws, we don't need international acts."The protesters are concerned that illicit downloading of movies and music might lead to prison sentences if the Acta was ratified by parliaments.They also fear that exchanging material online may become a crime and say the accord will allow for massive online surveillance.•Germany's Foreign Ministry said on Friday it would hold off on signing.•In the Bulgarian capitalSofia, most of the 4,000 demonstrators on Saturday were youths. Some wore the grinning, moustachioed Guy Fawkes masks that have become a symbol of the hacker group Anonymous and other global protest movements.•InWarsaw, some 500 protesters demonstrated, brandishing placards saying "No to Acta", "Down with censorship" and "Free internet". Several hundred turned out in the southwestern city of Wroclaw, the Baltic port of Szczecin and Poznan.•InParis, about 1,000 people marched against Acta. "It's a demonstration without precedent because it's taking place in all of Europe at the same time," said Jeremie Zimmermann, spokesman for internet freedom group Quadrature du Net.• InPrague, Czech Republic, about 1,500 people marched against Acta. Some waved black pirate flags with white skull and crossed bones, and others wore white masks of the Guy Fawkes character.Some carried banners against the Acta treaty such as "Freedom to the internet" and "Acta attacks Freedom", and chanted "Freedom, Freedom". Smaller gatherings took place in other Czech cities.The Czech government has held off on ratification of the Acta treaty, saying it needs to be analysed.•Romania'sstate news agency Agerpres said 2,000 people protested against Acta in the Transylvanian city of Cluj, carrying banners that said: "Paws off the internet."•InCroatia, protests were held in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, with demonstrators, some masked, carrying banners reading: "Stop internet censorship."A group identifying itself as Anonymous hacked into the webpage of Croatian president Ivo Josipovic, who has defended copyright measures. It remained unavailable for several hours.It also crashed the pages of ZAMP, a Croatian professional service that looks after the protection of composers' rights and copyright, and the Institute of Croatian Music.•InBratislava, hundreds of young Slovaks rallied, many also wearing Guy Fawkes masks. About 1,000 people demonstrated in Budapest.Local media reported about 600 people protested at the government building in Vilnius. Lithuania Justice Minister Remigijus Simasius said in his blog some of Acta's provisions could pose a threat to internet freedom."I don't know where it [Acta] comes from and how it originated, but I don't like that this treaty was signed skillfully avoiding discussions in the European Union and Lithuania," Simasius wrote.The EPC said: "Failure to ratify ACTA would also jeopardise the future of secure copyright protection at EU level just at the moment when the European Commission is about to review the copyright directive."• This article was amended on 17 February 2012. The original referred to Prague in Czechoslovakia. This has been corrected
Is everyone still with us? There should be some tales to tell after Saturday's Chatterbox awards! So tell them – and don't spare us the gruesome details. Also, Treble, I think you owe Bafta a new microphone...
David Weinberger has a new book out entitledToo Big to Knowin which he argues that one of the implications of a comprehensively networked society is that the nature of knowledge itself is changing. "As knowledge becomes networked," he writes, "the smartest person in the room isn't the person standing at the front lecturing us, and isn't the collective wisdom of those in the room. The smartest person in the room is the room itself: the network that joins the people and ideas in the room, and connects to those outside of it... Knowledge is becoming inextricable from – literally unthinkable without – the network that&nbsp;enables it."A few days ago he gave astimulating talkat the Berkman Centre in Harvard in which he set out his ideas. I was struck by one of his slides, which stated Weinberger's equivalent of Newton's first law: "For every fact on the internet, there is an equal and opposite fact." To those of us who were reared on Daniel Patrick Moynihan's famous dictum that "everyone is entitled to his own opinions, but not to his own facts" this came as a bit of a shock; and I distinctly heard a faint whirring sound as CP Scott rotated in his grave. But that seems to have been Weinberger's intention: to shock his audience into realising that the rules of the ontological game may be changing.The motto of theNews of the Worldused to be that "all human life is here". It was never true of that lamentable organ, but it does seem to be true of the internet. Every imaginable philosophy and opinion is being expressed out there, somewhere. In principle this is wonderful; but in practice it is unmanageable. So we have evolved a way of coping with the overload: filtering out what we don't want to hear and clustering in "digital echo-chambers" in which we only pay attention to those with whom we agree.Which is why we need contrarians such asEvgeny Morozov. He first came to prominence with a provocatively titled book,The Net Delusion: The Dark Side of Internet Freedom, in which he ridiculed digital utopianism and trashed the idea that the internet was inevitably a liberating technology. "To assume," he wrote, "that a government would be choosing between reading their citizens' emails or feeding them with cheap entertainment is to lose sight of the possibility that a smart regime may be doing both."The point of contrarians is that they come at things from left field, challenging received wisdom or puncturing bubbles just as they are beginning to overinflate.Which brings us to the question of the Facebook IPO. Morozov wrote afascinating essayfor theNew York Timesthat started out in belle époque Paris but wound up nailing the Facebook ideology. In the early days of the web, Morozov argued, before it was colonised by commerce, the internet was like a cabinet of curiosities and surfers were like the flâneurs of 19th-century Paris. "The flâneur," he writes, "would leisurely stroll through its streets and especially its arcades – those stylish, lively and bustling rows of shops covered by glass roofs – to cultivate what Honoré de Balzac called 'the gastronomy of the eye'. The flâneur wandered in the shopping arcades, but he did not give in to the temptations of consumerism; the arcade was primarily a pathway to a rich sensory experience – and only then a temple of consumption. His goal was to observe, to bathe in the crowd, taking in its noises, its chaos, its heterogeneity, its cosmopolitanism."Two developments, Morozov maintains, did away with the flâneur: the rise of department stores, which destroyed the arcades; and Baron Haussmann, whoremodelled the urban maze of medieval Parisinto a tidy metropolis of wide boulevards that facilitated troop movements and cannon fire.In Morozov's view, something similar has happened to the internet. It's no longer a place for strolling – it's a place for getting things done. "Hardly anyone 'surfs' the web any more." Mobile apps, which bypass most of the internet, make cyberflânerie less likely. And much of today's online activity revolves around shopping. "Strolling through Groupon isn't as much fun as strolling through an arcade, online or off."So Amazon is the equivalent ofLa Samaritaine– a place you go to buy stuff. And Facebook? Ah well, says Morozov, Zuckerberg wants to wipe out the individualism that was at the heart of flânerie. He wants everything to be "social". "Do you want to go to the movies by yourself," he asked recently, "or do you want to go to the movies with your friends?" His answer: "You want to go with your friends." My answer: I'll go by myself, thank you. But then I'm so 19th century.
As an expansive, high-fantasy RPG set in a sprawling world,Reckoningnaturally invites comparison withSkyrim, and even the game's developers have acknowledged Bethesda's epic as a threat. ButReckoningis by no means an open world – its series of hubs linked by fixed paths create a far less believable, complete world. It is, however, a more visually diverse one, with Skyrim's endless snowscapes replaced by a colourful land that's often strikingly pretty. But the combat system is whereReckoningreally sings. With three weapons, a shield and four magic spells to hand, which can be combined with dodges and charge moves, the fighting is both fluid and dynamic.
Re-releasing old titles as apps can be a boon for developers and gamers – if done sensibly. Pricing a 13-year-old title at £7.99 is going to appeal to nobody (the recentSoulCaliburfor example) – but a year-old underplayed gem can be given a new lease of life. Engaging puzzlerGhost Trick: Phantom Detective(iOS, Capcom) does just that, offering the first couple of chapters free, with the entire game just £6.99.Placing you in the ghostly shoes of detective Sissel, the task is to solve a series of murders, linked by one entertaining narrative. When Sissel interacts with the deceased he travels four minutes into their past, whence he can possess inanimate objects, using them to save the victims' lives. Those four minutes can be replayed over and over until the solution becomes apparent. It's surprisingly linear – with a single correct answer per case – yet absorbingly inventive, and packed full of interesting characters to keep you glued to the screen.
Grand Slam Tennis 2is the latest sim to incorporate EA's now familiar analogue-stick controls (also recreated on PlayStation Move), as used inFight NightandMMA. "Total racket control", as it's called inGST2, aims to offer precise command over shot power and accuracy. And indeed, once mastered, the benefits are clear: it enables deliberate placement of shots around the court, creating competitive and exciting rallies and winners that rival the slick control seen in last year'sacclaimedTop Spin 4.As you'd expect, there's a full roster of players, including legends of yesteryear such as Becker, Sampras and Edberg, enabling classic past/present match-ups. But what really setsGST2apart from the original release on the Nintendo Wii is its responsive control system, which combines with comprehensive online gameplay to make it, for now, the tennis title to beat.
Fair warning – there is little room for levity in the appropriately titledThe Darkness II. Lead character Jackie Estacado is a mafia don possessed by a demon, his condition taking the form of snake-like tendrils and an aversion to light, and he is capable of doing some extremely reprehensible things. Just as well, it turns out, because he's not only in mourning for the woman he loves but under attack from a gang of religious fanatics who want control of his powers.As a first-person shooter, the control mechanism isn't as precise or as focused as theCall of Dutygames. Here things are much messier and more visceral: Jackie uses both guns and magic tentacles to tear his way through the New York underworld. The star of the show, however, is his sidekick, a poisonous goblin who wears a Union Jack shirt. Both pointer and attack dog, he also provides his own cockney commentary on the action.The Darkness IIis beautiful and stylish, akin to an animated graphic novel (hardly surprising given its comic book origins), and its story veers between horror and tragedy – Orpheus and Eurydice retold by George Romero or Abel Ferrara – with real skill. It's just a little lean on the laughs.
Price £11,150MPG 68.9Top speed 112mphWhy would a pedestrian dress their dog in a yellow or burgundy coat? Are they: A) dog training, B) colour blind, C) deaf or D) elderly? Any idea? No, me neither. It's just one of the 650 questions that students taking their driving theory test are expected to know. A survey by Haynes, which has just publishedThe Highway Code for Drivers(£2.50), finds one in three of us believe we'd fail the theory test if we had to take it now.It's 28 years since I passed my test (first time, and I still feel improbably chuffed about that). I&nbsp;don't remember the test, but I do recall my driving instructor, Gary, very clearly. He had constant catarrh, a nasal Glaswegian accent and whined incessantly about Rangers, and his car, a Nissan Micra, always smelled overpoweringly of apricot air freshener and chips.Gary and his car have been on my mind for two reasons this week. First,&nbsp;my teenage daughter has just had her&nbsp;first driving lesson (with Kevin in&nbsp;a&nbsp;Ford Fiesta, no detectable smell, though) and, secondly, I've been driving the latest incarnation of Nissan's Micra.Before getting into the car I&nbsp;decided to recreate some of my heady teenage days at the wheel of a car for the first time. Not by spritzing the car with apricot juice and stretching into a Rangers shirt, but by taking an online UK Driving Theory Test (DTT). You are posed 50 questions in a 57-minute test. To pass you must score 43&nbsp;or more. I&nbsp;decided to approach the exam as I would any other – so, no revision. The results? Well, it went the same way as so many of my other exams – a narrow fail – 42. But it did only take me 19 minutes.Having taken the theory, it was time for the practical part of this car test. For anyone who has been a&nbsp;fan of the bug-eyed bubble-backed Noddy Nissan, this all-new version is a disappointment to look at. Whereas the previous model had a mischievous smile and packed a&nbsp;petite punch when it came to style, this one looks a little joyless despite the Starburst colours, its charisma bypassed in favour of middle-of-the-road blandness. It's not surprising it's looking a little wan. Nissan's award-winning Sunderland factory used to pop out Micras with such efficiency the Tyne-and-Wear plant became the most productive in Europe. But now the Micra is being produced in India, from where it will&nbsp;be reimported back to Blighty, leaving the Geordie workers to concentrate on the Micra's funkier sisters – Juke, Note, Qashqai and Leaf. It's hard not to feel that the&nbsp;Micra has been parked up in Miss Havisham's garage.But the little car won't give up quite so easily. It has a reputation stretching back three decades for economy, efficiency and a no-nonsense can-do attitude. It's grown a little – middle-aged spread, you might say – and now only comes as a five-door model. There's only one engine available – a&nbsp;1.2-litre three-cylinder producing 79bhp, but the supercharged DIG-S version with 97bhp is a much more interesting alternative. Not least because it's claimed that it will do almost 70 miles to the gallon when driven frugally and produce an odour-free 95g/km.The answer to the opening question is C – they're deaf – the pedestrian, that is, not the dog.
The Manchester City defender Micah Richards has left Twitter after receiving sustained racist abuse over the past three months. A spokesman for Richards told theObserverthat the England full-back had reluctantly decided to ditch his account on Friday after being attacked on at least 20 occasions."He was getting loads of racist abuse, two or three incidents a week since it peaked in November. It's a shame because he really enjoyed the interaction with the fans," he added.The spokesman, who monitored Richards's social network account and had also grown alarmed at the frequency of the abuse, said the race rows involving the former England captain John Terry and Liverpool's Luis Suárez in October may have played a part in stoking the abuse.Although police in Lincolnshire investigated the posting of offensive comments on Richards's official Twitter page in November, the 23-year-old had initially decided to carry on tweeting."But the messages kept on coming and he just thought enough was enough," said his spokesman. "He, like other players at the moment, had to face a lot of comments on a frequent basis and it's another timely reminder that racist abuse in football exists."One of the most depressing aspects, he admitted, was that Richards – who has not contacted Greater Manchester police over the abuse – felt that making an issue of it would only aggravate the situation.The spokesman added: "Micah doesn't want to stir the nest. You can try to dismiss these as young guys who are idiots but that's depressing in itself."The debate on racism in football gathered fresh impetus on Saturday when Suárez refused to shake the hand of Manchester United captain Patrice Evra in their first meeting since the Liverpool striker was found guilty of racially abusing the French defender.The feud deepened when Rio Ferdinand then appeared deliberately to avoid Suárez's handshake before the kick-off. Ferdinand's brother, Anton, is also at the centre of a bitter race row. Chelsea defender John Terry is to stand trial in July to deny a charge that he racially abused the Queens Park Rangers defender.Terry's impending court appearance moved the Football Association to strip the 31-year-old of the England captaincy, a decision that contributed to Fabio Capello's resignation on Thursday.The move by Richards, who may now be in contention for a regular place in the England team following the departure of Capello – the Italian had largely overlooked the right-back – has again brought concerns over football and racism to the fore.Saturday's developments follow a series of incidents that have increased scrutiny of the extent of racism in football. Several fans have been arrested recently after allegations they racially abused players, including one Liverpool supporter who last month allegedly abused an Oldham player at Anfield, causing him to break down in tears.Last week the Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson called for the authorities to crack down hard on racism in football. Meanwhile, a committee of MPs is to hold an inquiry into racism in sport following the Suárez case and allegations against Terry.Scotland Yard admitted it was dealing with more complaints of abuse via Twitter, though it could not produce figures. However, it said it had no plans to create a special unit dealing with abuse sent via social media websites. A Met spokesman said the Malicious Communications Act 2003 provided it with the legislation to deal with perpetrators properly."If someone is abusing someone then there is the legislation to deal with it in the same way as someone abusing someone by email or text message."
Catherine, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Just in time for Valentine's Day, Catherine is a puzzle game about cheating on your pregnant girlfriend.You control Vincent, a thirtysomething sap whose panic when long-term girlfriend, Katherine, starts talking about settling down leads him into the arms of Catherine, the veritable antithesis of his straitlaced missus. The game's days are spent predominantly at Vincent's local, chatting to helpful characters and commiserating lamely with his friends. By night things take on a more urgent tone in his dreams as he grows ram's horns and joins other cheating stray sheep trapped in a series of nightmarish crumbling block puzzles, from which failure to escape means death in real life. Control issues hamper the puzzle sections, adding inadvertently to the feeling of terror but also causing unnecessary crushings and impalements. Taken alongside its mellower roleplaying game-styled daytimes, Catherine is an unusual and gripping game with later puzzles that are certainly not for the faint-hearted.Deep Silver, £44.99The Darkness II, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360The Darkness II … a world of prostitution, drugs and mobsters. Photograph: GuardianJackie Estacado is an unlikely hero. A brutal mob boss, he's also host to The Darkness, an evil entity manifesting itself as a giant pair of serpent-like tentacles that destroy doors and hurl props and enemies about, leaving Jackie's hands free to hold a couple of guns to add to the ensuing carnage. The Darkness also feasts on enemies' hearts and cheerfully eviscerates the unwary in imaginative ways, all in the name of dark essence, a substance that's earned for kills and can be traded to upgrade your fearsome set of skills. Jackie's accompanied on his bloody crusade by supernatural sidekick Darkling, whose frequent tendency to relieve himself on the corpses of enemies suggests a serious bladder complaint. The game's graphic novel-style cel-shading softens the utterly extreme levels of violence, and the unusually coherent plot is brought to life by a superb voice cast. Sadly, its rough-and-ready action doesn't live up to otherwise rigorous production values.2K Games, £39.99-£49.99Games newsFallout New VegasThe American state of Oklahoma is proposing a tax on violent games, the proceeds of which would be split between a charity that encourages children to go and play outside and an anti-bullying campaign …Pokémon trainers rejoice! The countdown to thePokémon World Championships, to be held in Hawaii this August, has begun. To qualify you only need to travel as far as Birmingham on 3 March for the UK heats …Also out this week areFallout New Vegas: Ultimate Edition, which pulls together the game and every single piece of downloadable content;Mario &amp; Sonic At London 2012 Olympic Games, clearly not taking any chances about being late to the party;Kingdoms Of Amalur: Reckoningbrings more orc-battering in case you've finally finished Skyrim andAirport Firefighter SimulatorandStone Quarry Simulatorfight it out for the title of most unprepossessing title for a video game.
The European Commission's antitrust chief has threatened sanctions against companies that use "essential" patents for standards as weapons in courtroom litigation - a reflection of current cases going on between Apple, Motorola and Samsung.Speaking in Paris on Friday, Joaquin Almunia, who is in charge of competition policy at the EC, warned companies that have "essential" patents in particular fields that he would ensure they were obliged to license them on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory [FRAND] terms".The EC can impose swingeing fines of up to 10% of the company's global turnover. In the past the EC's competition arm has fined Microsoft and Intel. At the end of January itbegan an antitrust investigation of Samsung's use of standards-essential 3G patents in lawsuits, notably against Apple in Europe. Such lawsuits, because they exploited essential patents, might constitute an abuse of a dominant position."FRAND" licensing has been an accepted part of patent pooling where such patents are accepted as essential standards. The companies which own the patents are rewarded as the market expands.But in the mobile field, a blizzard of lawsuits between a number of companies has seen Samsung and Motorola using their ownership of "essential" patents in wireless and mobile technologies in lawsuits against Apple and other companies."It is a major task of competition control to ensure that new generations of businesses are given a fair chance. I am notably thinking of the surge in the strategic use of patents that confer market power to their holders," Almunia said. "The potential abuses around standard-essential patents are a specific illustration of this concern."Standards are the best tool to promote interoperability of devices or to define safety or quality benchmarks. In the communications technologies, standards are key for a universal interconnection and seamless communication."Once a standard is adopted, it becomes the norm and the underlying patents are indispensable. Owners of such standard essential patents are conferred a power on the market that they cannot be allowed to misuse.""Standardisation processes must be fair and transparent, so that they are not in the hands of established firms willing to impose their technologies. But it is not enough. We must also ensure that, once they hold standard essential patents, companies give effective access on fair, reasonable and non discriminatory terms."This is crucial if we want industries and businesses relying on such patents to develop freely to their utmost potential."I am determined to use antitrust enforcement to prevent the misuse of patent rights to the detriment of a vigorous and accessible market. I have initiated investigations on this issue in several sectors and we will see the results in due time."No date has been given for a decision on the Samsung investigation. Motorola, which owns a number of essential mobile patents, is also locked in battle with Apple over patents; on the same day that Almunia spoke,Motorola lost a case in Mannheim, Germany, where it had been accusing Apple of infringing a patent that Motorola says is essential to 3G technology - though no standards body has agreed. The judge decided that Motorola had failed to prove infringement. Motorola has previously won two cases against Apple, one of which involves a standards-essential patent.• Almunia also said that he would intervene to prevent a merger if it "threatens the competitive condition of a market and the interests of businesses and consumers". He cited the blocking of the proposed merger between DB and NYSE Euronext. But watchers at Google and Motorola may be anxious about whether the context of his speech - including the mention of  essential patents, where Motorola is strong - may be wondering whether it refers to the proposed Google takeover of Motorola, which theEuropean Commissionhas asked for more time to examine.
I can't believe I forgot about&nbsp;the Kia Soul when I&nbsp;was recently playingCars&nbsp;Named After Music Genreswith my girlfriend. To be honest, it's not a great game; it tends to peter out when you've done the Honda Jazz and the Ford Fusion, and so always ends in a rather unsatisfying 1-1 draw. But at least the Kia Soul will now prolong future games by 50% and mean there'll be a winner. It's going to be very important to start.Actually, I'm not sure soul is the&nbsp;right musical genre to name this&nbsp;car after. There's too&nbsp;much&nbsp;intensity and spirituality in soul. Look at the car; that hasn't been born out of years of anguish and pain. More of a Kia Funk, I&nbsp;reckon. Or a Kia Disco. It's&nbsp;basically&nbsp;a toy car, a kid's drawing of a car turned into a real one.Al&nbsp;Green's not going to be stepping out of one of those, is he?Tinky Winkyoff the Teletubbies more like.I like it, though. As other cars all&nbsp;start to look the same, at least Kia is having a bit of fun. The cheerfulness continues inside. The&nbsp;higher driving position gives you some of the cachet – smugness, even – for which you normally have to pay considerably more. It's functional rather than luxurious, there's plenty of legroom and headroom in the back for tall people, and luggage space behind. It's a big box, basically. A big box of fun. Or funk.This is a retweaking of the original&nbsp;model that came out a&nbsp;couple of years ago, with some minor cosmetic alterations and improved engines. My main problem&nbsp;with the model I'm testing&nbsp;is that it's an automatic. A&nbsp;car&nbsp;such as this, a fun car, doesn't need to be an automatic, shouldn't be an automatic, it's out of character. And it also shouldn't be&nbsp;an automatic because the automatic does 10 fewer miles per gallon than the manual version, while&nbsp;spewing out an extra 36&nbsp;grams&nbsp;of CO2 per kilometre. (God, that's crazy,&nbsp;isn't it, how car performance and economy figures are a right old mess of miles and kilometres, gallons and grams, imperial and metric?) Anyway,  155g/km is frankly piss-poor for a&nbsp;diesel car like this.Get the manual instead, drive around town with a smile on your&nbsp;face,play that funky music (white boy). That's where this car&nbsp;makes sense. On the open road?&nbsp;Yeah, it's fine, too, though a&nbsp;car that looks like a box is clearly&nbsp;not going to be a brilliant one to drive. Quite noisy at higher speeds, too, though that can rule out stupid word games with one's&nbsp;girlfriend, so maybe it's not such a bad thing.Kia Soul 1.6 CRDi autoPrice£17,295Top speed110mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.3secondsCombined mpg47.9CO2 emissions155g/kmEco rating5/10Cool rating7/10• Sam Wollaston will be appearing at Guardian Open Weekend on 24 and 25 March. Festival passes are now on sale atguardian.co.uk/open-weekend. Buy your pass before 1 March to ensure the best chance of booking reservations for individual sessions.
The pixelated cows so many people now spend their lunch breaks playing with online will soon morph into figurines for their desks.Zynga, the San Francisco-based firm behind the popular Facebook games FarmVille and Mafia Wars, has signed a deal with Hasbro that will allow the 89-year-old board-game company to create real-life versions of the hit online games.Mark Pincus, the founder and chief executive of Zynga, said the partnership was an "exciting leap forward" that will allow people to "connect their virtual and real worlds". He added: "It's exciting to partner with Hasbro as we share a common vision for play and a mission to connect the world through games."Pincus, 45, created Zynga, which was named after his dead American bulldog, in 2007. The company, which was floated on the Nasdaq in New York last year, now has a market value of $9.7bn (£6bn), making it worth more than Sainsbury's or Marks &amp; Spencer. Forbes magazine estimates Pincus has a paper fortune of more than $2bn.Hasbro, which makes traditional favourites including Monopoly and Scrabble, said the first toys based on Zynga's virtual creations would be on the shelves later this year. Last year, rival Mattel created a board-game version of the iPhone game Angry Birds.Brian Goldner, chief executive of Hasbro, said the deal was part of the company's plan to expand "from digital to analogue and back again"."Zynga is redefining how people play. This strategic alliance plays off both Hasbro's and Zynga's proven strengths and is emblematic of the new innovations and new platforms we are creating across our entire gaming portfolio."Sales of traditional board games are plummeting as consumers turn to colourful games on smartphones and touchscreen computers. Hasbro's game and puzzle sales dropped 7% in the last three months of last year, following a 22% drop the year before. The number of people playing video games for at least an hour a month in the US has jumped by 141% to 135 million since 2008, according to the market research firm Parks Associates.FarmVille, which is one of the most popular games on Facebook, allows users to harvest a virtual farm by planting and growing crops, trees and livestock. New gamers are given virtual coins to set up their farm, and revenue from matured crops can be used to maintain it. But gamers who are eager to progress can buy extra virtual coins using real cash.Virtual goods, bought through hugely  popular Zynga games such as CityVille and FarmVille, accounted for 12% ($445m) of Facebook's $3.71bn revenue for 2011, according to documents filed by the ompany with the US financial regulator, the securities and exchange commission, earlier this month.Facebook said social gaming apps built by developers – "particularly Zynga" – generated most of its revenue from its payments platform.The four-year-old company, which claims 60 million people a day play its games, reported a net income of $31m in the first nine months of last year.The Hasbro deal is expected to be expanded to allow Zynga to create virtual versions of Hasbro's games, which also include Nerf guns and water pistols, My Little Pony and war board game Risk. At present Electronic Arts holds the digital rights to Zynga's games.
The other day, Steven Vaughn-Nichols published a piece on ZDNet giving"five reasons why Windows 8 will be dead on arrival". I read the piece and thought he was spot on – not so much that Windows 8 will be DOA, but that he does a great job of enumerating the challenges that Microsoft has with Windows 8.Vaughn-Nichols is a Linux guy. My Twitter feed, lit with the light given off by the flames-o-war, told me this was a man under heavy attack from the Windows lobby. (And he was. "I stopped reading when I got to the paragraph on Linux", for example. "Oh, Linux desktop? That's mainstream!") But was he right?Truth is, likeSchrödingers cat, Windows 8 will be both dead on arrivalandalive on arrival until we observe it directly. For now, let's have a (calmer) look at what he got right.Full-on fanboy modeI'm going to go in full-on Windows fanboy mode on this article, just so we're all sure this isn't about the platform. I'm writing a book on Windows 8 this year, giving thekeynote at a one-day conference on Windows 8, I've got theonly book on WinRT published up on Amazon, and I've recently launched a new site onWinRT. Ignore the fact I'm writing this on a Mac though …Actually, don't ignore that fact. That's rather the point. Windows 8's challenge is not that it just had to be better than anything else; rather that it just has to be a natural, workable choice in a world where there's no clear leader. I really like Mac OS X, but I love Visual Studio, and have an "it's complicated" relationship with Eclipse. I don't use an iPad because it's made by Apple; I use it because I find it's good. Likewise, although at a time in my life if you had cut me in half you'd have found "Microsoft" written all the way through me, nowadays give me a Lumia running Windows Phone andI can't stand the thing.Anyway, on with dissecting Vaughn-Nichols's article.Point 1 – No one needs Windows 8 on the desktop (or laptop)If it wasn't for the Metro-style shell and touch capabilities targeted at the iPad, Windows 8 would be Windows 7.1, so he's essentially correct here. Enterprises that are on Windows 7 won't upgrade to Windows 8, they'll wait for Windows 9. Enterprises on XP will probably move to Windows 8, but seeing as they're currently on XP, they're probably on the conservative end of the spectrum. So they'll most likely wait for Service Pack 1 (SP1) – many months down the road.Would I upgrade to Windows 8 from Windows 7 if I didn't have to? Unlikely. There's some interesting bits and pieces in it, but apart from having to click through the Metro-style shell to get to the desktop proper, there aren't any major wins for businesses or consumers. (Seriously – areyougoing to use Metro-style apps on the desktop? I thought not …)For clarity, by major, I mean "OMG?! I CAN HAZ A RESTORE FEATURE PLZ! &lt;brain explodes!&gt;" type major.Point 2 – Metro: An ugly, useless interfaceOK, so this one is really interesting.I have tried on three occasions to write a piece on how broken Metro is, and I have failed each time to come up with something presentable. But I'm treading carefully here – people seem to like it. (Although, I would counter that hardly anyone has really used it in anger, and won't while Windows Phone is sitting on the low end of market share and before Windows 8 comes out. Geeks liking it and "normal" people liking it ain't the same thing.)Vaughn-Nichols targets Metro on its similarity to Windows 1.0 with its "applications that can either run as a small tile or as full screen with no way to resize or move windows". He also calls out its "gaudy colours [and] boxy designs". My counter: iPad sells a bajillion units a month and doesn't have an overlapping windowing system. Moreover, I didn't even realise it didn't have one until I wrote this.Personally, I think there issomethingwrong with Metro, but as I alluded to above, I've failed so far to put my finger on it exactly. In the meantime, I'll re-representthis articlelamenting the poor level ofinformation densityin Metro.I'll also add that I think there's something broken with discoverability in Metro, which is all about stripping away clutter to give you the information that you want. That's fine if you ignore the fact that the computing industry is quite old now. Talk to anyone in their mid-20s and they're likely to have used a computer for most of their lives. We're trained, and we have a natural psychological bent, to filter out clutter and discover information. Metro is like staring at a blank sheet of paper on which someone has artfully written a few words. For me (and I appear to be in a massive minority) Metro makes me work too hard.Point 3 – Where are the Windows 8 applications?My last piece looked at thelack of discussion around developing for Windows 8. Vaughn-Nichols is spot on here – developers need to be cranking out Windows 8 apps and they're not.And they're not because we're all sitting here, waiting …The Consumer Preview beta will hit at the end of February (on the 29th, to be precise). Practically no one can do anything until that comes out. That version will be more or less feature complete.The other reason is the one that's got me vexed and perplexed: how does one write a Metro-style, touch-based, Windows on ARM (WOA) app without having a touch-based, WOA tablet? As I said before, 500 Internets to the person who gets the Consumer Preview running on iPad. Either that, or every Windows developer in the world needs to find the spare grand or so they need to buy a tablet that they can use for development. Good luck with that.Just to round this off, Vaughn-Nicols's point is worrying because of the ramp-up time. We're looking at late 2013 before we get anything like a critical mass of WOA-optimised tablet apps. That's not Microsoft's fault, though: everything is compressed because the post-PC market consolidation is pushing everything to move too fast.Point 4 – Vexed Windows developersOn Thursday, Steven Sinofsky publisheda mammoth post about Windows on ARM – which he calls WOA– clearing up a lot of the questions about what sorts of applications can run on that class of tablet. (The simple answer is, write it from scratch as a Metro-style app using WinRT.)Yet a lot of questions remain, notably around an implied deprecation of .NET technologies in favour of WinRT. Building Metro-style apps for these new devices should have been billed as a "Got .NET? Come and join the party!" approach, whereas actually what we as developers received were messages about how the future was actually WinRT. (Watch out for a future piece by me on this topic.)One thing that's not been discussed is whether or not Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) will be supported on the variant of Office that runs on these new tablets. Now, "real" developers will scoff – who needs VBA? – but the reality is that a lot of businesses, from very small to very large, use Excel macros to run their business. Excel macros also feature prominently with software used by front-line, mobile workers – a key audience for WOA tablets. Imagine having a group of mobile salespeople who use an Excel workbook to capture orders. That workbook will likely need to run some code over and above basic calculations in Excel. (For example, validation, submission back to a system at head office, data lookups, etc.)If VBA is not supported on tablets that could vex a huge audience of people who, while not professional developers first and foremost, are nonetheless developers. Back in August, Mary Jo Foley dropped a hint on this with ajob posting for Office developers to add HTML5 and JavaScript capability. HTML5 and JavaScript is one of the tracks in WinRT development, so there's a strong hint there that Office 15 programmability will come in that form, as opposed to VBA.Point 5 – Too little, too late for the smartphone/tablet marketWell, that's for the market to decide. And we know Microsoft is trying to disprove this point through everything that it's doingConclusionI'm banking on Windows 8 being absolutely massive this year, but even I'm worried about what we're going to get. One thing's for sure though – give Vaughn-Nichols a break. Even though he's a Linux guy, he's done a fine job of calling out some of the key challenges that Microsoft has to solve if people like you and me are going to make the most of the opportunity.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit. He is the keynote speaker at the firstWindows 8 Conflabbeing held in London on 18 April
I feel a bit left out sometimes when playingCatherine. Not because it's about a 32-year-old man, Vincent, trying to decide whether or not to shoulder the responsibility of marrying his long-term girlfriend – a situation which, as a 20-something-year-old woman, I can't relate to in the obvious ways – but because it has so many DAMNABLE block puzzles.They're my gaming blind spot, block puzzles. My spatially incompetent brain has no problem with mini-maps, weapon stats, dragon-killing and the other skills you usually need to save the universe, but it can't compute the ramifications of pushing and pulling blocks. Struggling through Catherine's nightmare sections, which see a pillow-clutching Vincent desperately scrambling up a slowly-disintegrating block-tower in his boxer shorts, has been a howlingly painful experience that's made me contemplate snapping the disc more often than even Dark Souls.It's tragic that one of my favourite games in years makes me suffer so. Catherine has done something that I didn't think was possible: it's made me think about relationships in a way that hundreds of memorable books and films about love (or the death of love) have not. If you were being cruel about Catherine, you could say it was a series of block puzzles interspersed with cutscenes. But I see it as a uniquely modern take on the relationship paralysis that afflicts a vast swathe of the gaming generation, male and female. Stay with me here: Catherine isn't the greatest story ever told about relationships, but it's one that uses the tools of video games to express something unique.The semi-permanent state of existential crisis and indecision that often characterises young adulthood was, until recently, seen as a generation-specific thing localised to Generation X, the post-baby-boomer generation born from the late sixties through the seventies. When it didn't go away, though, and the young adults of the eighties, nineties and noughties started to show the same reluctance to grow up, get married and start spawning, developmental psychology started paying attention.Jeffrey Jensen Arnettwas the first to coin the term "emerging adult" for this new phase of life between adolescence and maturity, which sees young people in developed countries embark on a protracted period of identity-exploration that extends far beyond the end of the university years. It's one of the main reasons why the median marriage age in the UK (and US, to a slightly smaller extent) has risen so dramatically decade on decade. It's the state written about by Douglas Coupland in the nineties and in the Bildungsromane of the 19th Century, and it's emerging adulthood – not sexual ethics – that I see as Catherine's main theme.Vincent and his drinking buddies at the Stray Sheep – the understatedly trendy, smoky bar that forms the backdrop for their long chats about life and love – are all classically useless emerging adults (with the exception of young, lovestruck Toby, who still seems to be cheerfully making his way through the later stages of adolescence). They're dudes who have no idea what they're doing with their lives, and who often seem so paralysed by choice that they can't make decisions about what they want and how to get it. Their attitude to relationships – Jonathan's reluctance to settle on a girlfriend because he's searching for a soulmate, Vincent's total inability to make a decision about Katherine or Catherine – is just one aspect of their directionlessness.I might not be able to relate to Vincent's relationship situation, but like any young person, I can sure as hell relate to THAT. I can't even go to Ikea without ending up in a miserable sense of existential crisis, looking at all the baffling homely items around me and wondering if there's something wrong with me for not wanting any of it. Like Vincent, I have spent countless evenings in understatedly trendy, smoky bars with other young adults thinking about how rubbish we are at life and wondering if it's ever going to change. Vincent and his friends are the most relatable characters I've ever come across in games.In this context, Vincent's struggles to escape his dreams, those vast towers of seemingly impossible logical conundrums, aren't just block puzzles. It makes sense that I'm so obsessed with getting him through them. I'm rooting for Vincent to get ahold of himself and start being an active participant in his own life, rather than just being tossed around by circumstance and habit and indecision. Grow up, Vincent!, I'm thinking. If there's hope for you, there's hope for all of us.There are books and films about emerging adulthood. Most of them are rubbish, and star amazingly unsympathetic, navel-gazing, egocentric protagonists. Vincent isn't like those characters; he's hopeless in a much more likeable way. The fact that you're physically guiding him through his problems, either in the block puzzles of his dreams or in the bar during his waking hours, immediately makes you much more involved in his story. If he's a better person at the end of it, it's because of you.Catherine isn't a game about a guy deciding whether or not to cheat on his girlfriend, it's a game about a stage of life that a lot of people who play video games can relate to. It's also a game with a brilliantly surreal aesthetic, an addictive and gratifyingly complex puzzle mechanic and at least one hot chick. Whichever way you look at it, it's worth playing.
And just like that, Windows Phone has gained another 100,000 users. Apparently, there are now 1.4m devices out there whose users have activated the embedded Facebook app - and so been added to the count of "users" on itsofficial Facebook page.Facebook confirms that that page is the one which links to the embedded app - and I had been wondering when it would update, or whether Windows Phone devices aren't shifting. Orwhat.But now, it has ticked over - showing that worldwide, more people have activated the embedded Facebook app that is found in the People Hub of the phone. (Facebook confirmed: "These are the core integrations for the Windows Phone 7 application. I.e.Address book, people, photos." A downloadable app or the embedded one, I asked? "To your question, embedded.")Windows Phone: 1.4m people have now activated the embedded Facebook app, up from 1m in NovemberThat's significant because for a very long time the counter on that page has been stuck at 1.3m users - a figure that was first remarked on by Benedict Evans, an analyst with Enders Analysis,back on January 23. At the time, he saidThis number has gone up by 300,000 since mid-November. I would suggest that this means it is very unlikely that more than, say, 3-400,000 Nokia Windows Phones have been sold in the last two months.It seems that the number only advances in increments of 100,000. Unfortunately theWayback Machinedoesn't provide archives of how that page changes (it's forbidden by Facebook's robots.txt file).So: 1m in mid-November, 1.3m in January, 1.4m in mid-February. How long will it take to reach 1.5m? That's a key question. At least now we have a marker. As Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop said, the company has a beachhead - and it's likely many of this latest 100,000 has come from Lumia activations. Now let's watch as Nokia launches the Lumia 710 in Europe, and theLumia 900 in the US.Put into context, though, it's scarily slow. Android activations were running at 700,000per dayin December; there's no reason to think that will have slowed significantly. Applesold 37m iPhones in the fourth quarter- more than 400,000 per day. Set against that, taking weeks to add 100,000 confirmed activations where people are using the central embedded app - the People Hub - isn't quite the dramatic creation of a third ecosystem that Elop might have hoped for. Nearly 18 months after its launch, Windows Phone has yet to hit even the medium time, it seems.Update:WMPowerUser has beenfollowing the graph more closely(thanks @Scoob1011 for the link). It reckons that the ratio of "Facebook embedded app" activators to actual users of the phones is 1 in 5.Though it's not explicit in that article, I think that ratio's based on the fact that there were 400,000 activations in January 2011, when Microsoft said it had shipped - note that,shipped- 2m handsets. But shipped isn't the same as sold. We can certainly agree that not all users of Windows Phone handsets will necessarily have a Facebook account (I'd suspect that's a small proportion), and that not all users of WPhone handsets will use the embedded Facebook app if they do have them. But I don't think it will be as big as a 1 in 5 gap. Likely Windows Phone has done better than 100,000 activations - but I feel wary of the 500,000 new users calculation if the Facebook embedded app grows by 100,000. Apart from anything, you're encouraged to put those details in as soon as you fire up the phone. You'd be really likely to if you had them.And for those calling for the comparative figures for iOS and Android: apparently they're not available any more (Evans tells me). And as hesuggests, while the figures for Android and iOS were about half of the (estimated) installed base, you'd expect that for the embedded app to be higher. Certainly WMPowerUser's 1-in-5 looks like a hopeful rather than empirical metric.Perhaps Microsoft will start releasing some activation figures soon. That would help a lot.
Apps including Skype, Tango and Apple's FaceTime have brought the buzz back to live video-chatting, with the availability of fast Wi-Fi networks making the idea much more appealing than the early days of 3G-powered video calls. But how about mobile video communication that's less, well, live?British startupSix3is one of the companies working on the idea, with its first apps – for iPhone and PC/Mac desktops – are available in beta. The idea: asynchronous video messaging, where people ping videos up to 63 seconds long to one another.Co-founder Tim Grimsditch says the idea came about during a stag weekend, as friends discussed how they'd be keeping in touch with their young children."Skype calls are great when you're on them, but you have to prearrange them, and they don't work that well on most of the mobile networks," says Grimsditch."Meanwhile, on an iPhone it's very easy to shoot a video and email it to somebody, but they have to download it before watching it, and there's no easy way to reply using their own webcam or smartphone."Grimsditch says MMS is another alternative, but points out that it's expensive in many countries, and often doesn't play nice with non-mobile devices. Hence Six3, which is designed to be truly cross-platform after its initial beta test."It's about using video to communicate in a quick and spontaneous way between any devices with video cameras and internet connections," he says."We're starting with iPhone and a Flash-based browser version for Macs and PCs, but ultimately we want you to be able to send to anything: from connected TVs, Xbox consoles, and even the cutting-edge telematics systems in cars. There are going to be billions of video-capable devices with internet connections, and that's the pool we want to play in."Six3 is initially eyeing three groups of potential users for its service. The first is young families, the second is business travellers, and the third is what Grimsditch describes as "digital nomads" – young people travelling the world and looking for interesting ways to keep in touch with friends and family.Grimsditch left his job in Nokia's music team to launch Six3 in 2011 with his two co-founders: Leigh Middleton, previously at agency OgilvyOne, and Simon Frost, the former technical architect of the BBC's iPlayer service.Grimsditch says companies like Twitter and Instagram have served as inspiration for Six3 in the startup's determination to keep things simple at first, refinining its core feature before branching out too widely."That's why we're not a mixed-format messaging service at the moment," he says. "We could have added text and all kinds of different aspects, but we tried to focus down onto video messaging. By keeping it simple, you have a better chance of managing to shape new behaviour."Is video messaging a problem in search of a solution? There are a few other startups working on the idea too. iPhone appVimessalaunched in August 2011, whileRavid Video Messengeroffers a similar idea for Android and iPhone.Grimsditch is hoping that Six3 will rise above the competition through its strong cross-platform focus, but he admits that consumer demand for video messaging is untested."People are hardly hammering the tables demanding video messaging apps, but they are encountering the problems to which video messaging is a solution," he says.Six3 is looking at rolling out more apps for Android, Windows Phone and BlackBerry in the months ahead, but Grimsditch says the Xbox and Samsung's next generation of connected TVs with cameras built in are also hugely interesting for the startup.One obvious question: Six3 is free to use, yet bandwidth for hosting and serving video will come with significant costs if the service catches on. How is the company planning to make money?In the short term: selling "value-added services", whether those be Instagram-style filters, HD messaging options and access to archives. Some of these ideas will be tested in the coming months."As a second revenue stream, we're looking at brands," says Grimsditch. "You can subscribe to brand channels on YouTube, but very few people do. And while we'd never force an advertiser onto a consumer, we would let them follow brands. You can imagine that you might follow Audi for video updates on their new models, or Burton for updates on their latest snowboards."Six3 is already talking to a few brands about launching their own channels on its service. Grimsditch adds that Six3 may have potential for internal corporate communications too: think chief executives sending video messages to their staff.
Google is planning a major push into home entertainment with a new music streaming system controlled by Android smartphones.The internet giant will make its first move into consumer electronics later this year, unveiling a Google-branded product that can wirelessly play music on other devices in the home,according to the Wall Street Journal.Google indicated a push into home entertainment at itsI/O developer conference in May 2011, briefly showing off a music system dubbed Project Tungsten that could be controlled by Android-based handsets.The company recently fileda request with the US Federal Communications Commissionfor permission to test what it called an entertainment device.The ambitious plans would intensify its rivalry with Apple, whose Apple TV product allows users to play music and YouTube videos through television sets, and bring the internet company into competition with consumer electronics firms such as Sony and Panasonic.Google's new system would play songs from its recently-launched music player on Google-designed speakers and other devices, reports the Wall Street Journal. The paper says that Google hopes to undercut the high-end home music retailer Sonos, which sells wireless systems.The Google engineering director, Joe Britt, hinted at the company's home music plans at the company's I/O conference last year.Brittshowed off an "Android at home hub"at the San Francisco-based conference, featuring a Project Tungsten device running Android software."A Tungsten device runs the Android OS and the Android at Home software framework. It's always powered on and always connected to the cloud," Britt said."It has audio out [meaning it can play music] and these examples can connect to either speakers or my home stereo system."Britt said the devices would operate its music storage system launched last year. "You can imagine that this device is playing music in your living room," Britt said, before demonstrating the device being operated by someone using an Android-powered tablet computer."You can enjoy your music synchronised throughout your house, all streaming Music Beta ... since the boxes are running Android, they just pull the music directly from the music library in the cloud."Google alsoconfirmed this weekit had hired Simon Prakash, the senior director of product integrity at Apple, ramping up talk of a major move by the internet firm into home entertainment.Google declined to comment.
It is, of course, the feel-good story of the year so far. Veteran developer Tim Schafer didn't think he'd get any publisher support to create an old skool point-and-click adventure, even though fans had been requesting one for years. So he set upa Kickstarter fundand asked for $400,000 within 32 days. What actually happened was this – he hit the target within a couple of hours, and the total is now over a million dollars.To celebrate this immense story of talent, philanthropy and the power of crowd-sourcing, today's friday question is a simple one: which developer would YOU fund to create a new game, and what title would you want to see?I've put three of my own below:Matthew Smith – MegaTreeBack in the eighties, Matthew Smith programmed two of the most important games of the era: Manic Miner and Jet Set Willy. However, his third project, the mysterious MegaTree, was cancelled by his publisher and later, Smith went AWOL, moving to a commune in Holland to fix bicycles. He's back in the UK now, but I believe the source code to MegaTree was auctioned off in aid of charity eight years ago. Still, $1m in funding might spur the idiosyncratic bedroom coding genius back into action.Yu Suzuki – Shenmue 3Oh, okay, I know we'd need alotmore than $1m dollars, but what the heck – this would be the crowd-sourcing motherlode. Sega spent an absolute fortune on the first two Shenmue titles and as astonishing as this seamless action adventure series was, it never got close to recouping the investment. There is, at least, a large community of fans who want to see a third and final title in the proposed trilogy, so that's a start. And perhaps Suzuki could scale down his ambition a little. Maybe form a ragtag indie studio and make it with the Unity3D engine?Ninja Theory – Enslaved 2This beautiful post-apocalyptic shooter tanked when it was released in 2010, despite co-direction from Andy Serkis, a script from Alex Garland and a haunting score by Nitin Sawhney. Some suggested that the enemies lacked variety and that the action was muted. I just thought it was a beautifully imagined world, with appealing characters and smart dialogue. I guess there's always a chance Ninja Theory will do another, but a Kickstarter fund of a million dollars or so won't do any harm.Over to you...
TiëstoDJ and musician Tiësto has launched his official iPhone app, offering news, tour dates, music and social features for fans. However, if they stump up an additional £3.99 through in-app purchase, they get membership of his InTheBooth subscription scheme, and can create playlist, stream Tiësto's podcast archive and get exclusive content.iPhoneOfficial Celtic FCHere's another example of a paid app with an additional subscription tier. Scottish football club Celtic's app costs £2.99, for which fans get news, player profiles, live text and stat updates on match-days, and other content. But if they pay an additional £2.49 a month, they get match highlights and other videos.iPhoneFacejackerThe app for Channel 4's new prank show includes character soundboards and a photo-booth feature, as well as exclusive videos. However, its second-screen aspects are more interesting: "Collect a variety of exclusive content by enabling your phone to listen in on the TV episodes, unlocking soundboards, ring tones, videos and more". Developer Widebeam says it's the first time a TV show has unlocked app content in this way in the UK.iPhoneDomino's PizzaDomino's Pizza is spreading its crusty baked love onto another smartphone platform: Windows Phone. Its official app enables people in the UK and Ireland to browse the menu, customise pizzas with toppings, and then order from their device. Vouchers will be added in a future update.Windows PhoneMontessori Letter Sounds HDBased on the Montessori teaching method, this iPad app aims to help children learn the alphabet through four mini-games, as well as a toolbox with a phonetic alphabet and sandbox to practice tracing letters. It's the work of developer Les Trois Elles.iPadSpeaktoit AssistantAfter 1.4m downloads on Android, voice-activated personal assistant app Speaktoit is training its sights on Siri for iOS. It works on older iPhones, and uses natural language to respond to questions and find information.iPhoneInotia 3: EternityLooking for a meaty RPG to get your teeth into on iOS? Korean firm Com2uS' Chronicles of Inotia series may be just the thing. It's just reached its third incarnation with a universal iOS app, with a deep storyline, bags of quests and a party battling system.iPhone / iPadMy Magic SongsAndroid app My Magic Songs won an award at the AppCircus Lisbon event in 2011, and now it's available to download. It's a marvellous idea too: music mini-games for children that a.) sing the child's name (if it's in the app's 10,000-strong database) and b.) put their photo into the action.AndroidRollingNoteRollingNote is the latest music education app to be launched for iPad. The idea: "a game that uses scrolling notes to help you learn piano". You follow what's happening on the iPad screen while playing along on an external keyboard or piano. An in-app song store sells additional tracks.iPadDJPadAndroid tablets get their own MP3 DJing app, enabling music files stored on the device to be mixed and scratched at will. Developer Burns Modular promises more features will be added regularly, too.AndroidGameStop MobileThis is only relevant for the US, obviously, but it's interesting to see what games retailer GameStop is up to in apps. It enables people to scan game barcodes in-store to get videos, reviews and screenshots, while also checking store availability and ordering online. The chain's PowerUp Rewards scheme is also built in.AndroidThe Tiny Bang Story HDColibri Games' The Tiny Bang Story is an iPad adventure that focuses on puzzles spread over five chapters, with beautiful hand-drawn visuals and "no text" at all.iPadThe Week Magazine USThere's already an app for The Week magazine in the UK, but now there's also a US version for iPad. It makes a new issue available every Friday via Apple's Newsstand service, charging people $3.99 per issue, or a $4.99 monthly subscription.iPadDoodle.lyDoodle.ly claims to be "a social sketchpad for self-expression, creativity and inspiration" – a nifty way to scribble on an iPad and then share the results with friends on Facebook and Twitter.iPad
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle at Work on an 'Entertainment Device' - NYTimes.comMore:The device, which exists as a prototype and will eventually be sold as a branded item to consumers, is the company's most significant venture into hardware. While the initial purpose of the device will be for streaming music, the eventual use could be much wider.Google's Foray Into Hardware Will Be A Total Disaster -- Here's WhyMatt Rosoff writes:Google has never shown that it has any of the characteristics necessary to build, market, and sell consumer goods.Urgent Call to Inaction from the W3C &gt;&gt; Webkit DevelopmentsDeveloper Dave Balmer is not pleased:Rarely do I find a need to call out the W3C folks (or anyone, for that matter), but the recent post by Daniel Glazman (@glazou), co-chair of the W3C CSS working group, pushed me over the edge. In his article, he calls for everyone to, get this, stop using -webkit in their sites. He equates webkit, now a popular engine for most new mobile browsers, to IE6. Moreover, he calls it a "threat to the open web".Seriously?Google says it won't support fair licensing in open standards as Apple, Microsoft, Cisco have &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderDon't be... anyway:In a distinct departure from the agreement voiced between Apple, Cisco and Microsoft regarding the need for fair, transparent, understandable and consistent licensing policy for open standards, Google has promised to continue to wage Motorola's increasingly hostile patent wars.The letter from Google is included here. It's deeply complex legalese, where you need legal training to spot the loopholes. But the key thing is that Motorola says it will claim up to 2.25% of thesaleprice of a device that uses itsessentialpatents. It would only take 45 of those and your profit is zero, no matter what the price. Does the 2.25% cover every patent owned by MMI and used in a device? Would it injunct over an essential patent? Deeply complex. But Google's language is ambiguous where it doesn't need to be.Google developing home entertainment system &gt;&gt; WSJ.comWould you buy one?Google Inc. is developing a home-entertainment system that streams music wirelessly throughout the home and would be marketed under the company's own brand, according to people briefed on the company's plans. The effort marks a sharp shift in strategy for Google, which for the first would time would design and market consumer electronic devices under the Google brand. The company has up to now mainly focused on developing the operating system that powers devices such as smartphones, tablets and televisions and allowing other companies to build and brand the hardware that uses it. Google's Android unit has led a multi-year effort to develop the new entertainment device, which is expected to be unveiled later this year, people familiar with the matter said.Note that it's from inside the Android team - not a Motorola tieup. (Yet.) And: how big is the market for music-streaming devices? Isn't that what Sonos does at the high end and things like Logitech and others at the low end?Windows on ARM, With Next Version of Office, to Arrive With Windows 8 &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThis is colossal:Sinofsky also said that the Windows-on-ARM machines will come with several Office apps -- Word, PowerPoint, Excel and OneNote -- that have been tuned to run in a very battery-efficient manner. But Sinofsky said that, although those applications will run in the traditional Windows desktop, they will be the only programs allowed to do so, other than components of Windows itself. "There are no other compiled dekstop apps that are available," Sinofsky told AllThingsD. All of the other apps for Windows on ARM will be the new-style "Metro" apps. Windows 8 for Intel and AMD chips, by contrast, will be able to run all of the kinds of programs that have traditionally run on Windows, inside a Windows 7-like desktop environment.Let's just repeat that: "There are no other compiled dekstop apps that are available". It's going to be a totally new world on those tablets. Can it still be called "Windows"?$1 million to build a data platform &gt;&gt; ScraperWiki Data BlogAmazingly impressive: Liverpool's ScraperWiki goes from strength to strength (financially):Today we closed our round of investment from Enterprise Ventures and Blue Fountain. In total, provided we hit certain milestones next August, and with the Knight Foundation money, this means we have a cool $1,000,000 of capital.And also now has the Canonical CEO joining to chair the board. Bonus points: she's female, improving the gender ratio.Twitter statistics for the Superbowl as an infographic &gt;&gt; Exact TargetIt's an infographic, so don't blame us when it offends your tolerance for bright orange.Nokia Belle update goes live: no laser gun &gt;&gt; Nokia ConnectsSymbian users, behold:This widely anticipated update for Symbian brings a load of new features. Instead of three home screens, you now will have six. This will let you personalise even more and keep all of your favourite things a press away. The improved Nokia Belle interface also adds HD video recording capabilities at 30 frames per second, a new notification bar which lets you see if you have any missed calls, messages emails or reminders etc, as well as the ability to turn on and off processes like Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.Requires connection to a PC. Seems to be available widely in the UK. (Thanks @rquick for the link)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday! What gaming treats do you have lined up for the weekend?
No one listening to Activision's investor call on Thursday will have been surprised to hear that a new Call of Duty title is coming in 2012. And with the development reins passed to LA-based developer Treyarch after Infinity Ward's Modern Warfare 3 last year, the smart money is very much on a sequel to 2010's enormously successful Call of Duty: Black Ops.So can we expect another somewhat familiar helping of linear action amid the Cold War paranoia of the '60s and '70s? Activision Publishing chief Eric Hirshberg thinks not. During Thursday's phone call he promised that, "the next Call of Duty will bring meaningful innovation to the series."Hmmm, what can he mean? Sadly, he didn't elaborate.The company also seemed particularly pleased with the performance of Call of Duty: Elite, the subscription service that offers extra maps and other social content to CoD players."Elite has been a great success," said Activision CEO Bobby Kotick to the Guardian earlier on Thursday. "It has generated seven million subscribers and 1.5 million premium members. That's very important to us – there was a lot of risk in establishing it. So now we're thinking about how we further pursue those kinds of opportunities." Interestingly, there was a brief mention during the investor call of monetising the online element of surprise children's RPG hit Skylanders. Expect Spyro: Elite to crop up at some point soon.Also during the call, we were promised updates to the Elite service, with the phrase Call of Duty Elite 2.0 mentioned at one point.Finally, the company didn't saymuchabout the next game from Halo creator, Bungie. The developer penned a ten-year publishing deal with Activision in 2010 and the first title to emerge from that contract is likely to be announced at this year's E3. Kotick told us that, "We're very excited about it – they are a superb developer; they're going to deliver something exceptional."
Activision CEO Bobby Kotick has announced that Diablo III will launch in the second quarter of 2012. Speaking to the Guardian ahead of an investor call to discuss the company's 2011 earnings, he confirmed that the action RPG favourite will be coming to PCs sometime between March and June.The game, which revolves around fantasy-themed dungeon combat, is one of the most keenly awaited titles of the last decade. First announced in 2001, it has been through several major revisions, and now features a brand new character progression system, as well as fresh multiplayer modes and a destructible environment. The title also boasts a controversial Auction House which will allow players to buy and sell in-game items for real cash.This is one of two major Blizzard Entertainment releases due in 2012: new World of Warcraft expansion pack Mists of Pandaria is expected to release this year. During the investor call, Blizzard co-founder Mike Morhaime also told gamers to expect more news on the real-time multiplayer strategy title currently codenamed Blizzard DOTA. Morhaime said the title would bring "unique design elements" to the burgeoning DOTA genre, as well as well-known characters from all of Blizzard franchises. Details on the company's new and as yet unnamed MMO title are also due to be announced in the coming months.
Video game giant Activision Blizzard unveiled a 7% increase in revenues to a record $4.76bn (£3bn) in 2011, up from 2010's $4.45bn thanks in part to the sales success of the latest Call of Duty game.The seemingly unstoppable Call of Duty series remains the publisher's biggest asset. Last November, the latest title in the franchise – Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 – broke records with $775m in retail sales within five days of its release. It later went on to reach the $1bn mark faster than any other entertainment franchise, including movies such as Avatar.The subscription service, Call of Duty: Elite – which launched alongside Modern Warfare 3 to offer extra maps and other content to gamers – has also proved successful, attracting more than 7 million subscribers with 1.5 million choosing the paid-for premium membership.The company's online fantasy game World of Warcraft retained its position as the biggest subscription-based title in the world. However, subscription rates are falling from a peak of 12m in 2010 to 10.2m at the close of 2011.But as retail game sales stutter, digital titles such as World of Warcraft, as well as downloadable content such as Call of Duty map packs, are becoming increasingly important to the publisher.Digital revenues were $1.6b in 2011, more than 34% of the total revenue. This is now an established industry phenomenon, with close rival Electronic Arts also attributing 40% of its annual revenues to digital content.The big surprise has been the success of children's title Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure, which represents a whole new market for the games industry. Released last October, the software product itself is accompanied by a range of collectible action figures, which can share data with the virtual game world via a 'portal of power' peripheral.Sales of the games and toys together stand at more than 20m, and Activision has just announced a sequel called Skylanders Giants.The challenge for Activision will be to maintain this momentum in 2012, which is set to be a landmark year for the industry.Two new pieces of hardware – the PlayStation Vita handheld games console and the Nintendo Wii U – will be launching, while a new Xbox is expected to be announced at the E3 event in Los Angeles in the summer.Meanwhile, the market for subscription-based games such as WoW is being eroded by free-to-play fantasy titles, which earn money from in-game purchases.
