43folders has some good advice onWriting sensible email messages, which follows on from the excellentFive fast email productivity tips. (If you have an email problem, you may also want to readthis paperabout keeping your inbox empty.)
Arrived here in Paris yesterday afternoon for Apple's autumn show in France,Apple Expo. And so far, things are going well: the floor has only just opened, and I'm going to be taking a tour around - and blogging - later on.And, despite the fact that there's no keynote speech, this morning I was invited along to a Q&amp;A session with Steve Jobs and a selection of top Apple execs. More soon...
ISSUE DATE: September 26, 2005: BusinessWeek has alist of top sites. Sure, some of these "editors' picks" are odd, but there are plenty of good sites you may not know about..
Regular Guardian readers know that we have something of a reputation for, erm, "creative" spelling and typos. So it's good to see we're not always the ones getting it wrong.In a round up of the best websites in the Independent newspaper yesterday, they were cunning enough to mention the hugely popular weblogBoingBoing. Except they didn't - thanks to a missing "g", the whole thing referred toBoinboing.net.And, to make things worse, they included a screenshot of the wrong site too.Check out a grab over at theReal BoingBoing.
Grokster, the file-sharing service used by tens of millions of people worldwide to illegally swap music and films, could be about to become legitimate. The business is said to be in takeover talks with Mashboxx, a young company trying to establish a legal peer-to-peer service. The talks, reported in the Wall Street Journal, follow a US supreme court ruling in June that suppliers of file sharing software could be liable for its misuse. The case was seen as a landmark in the music industry's fight against piracy. Mashboxx, based in Virginia, is run by former Grokster president Wayne Rosso.
"FilmLoop, Inc. today unveiled a Visual Communications Network that enables people to broadcast, find, and communicate using digital content. For businesses,FilmLoopis a real-time connection that extends brands direct to consumers' PC desktops. For individuals, it's a unique way to instantly express oneself, voice a perspective, or share images with friends, family, or the general public," says today'spress release."Our goal is to establish a new method of communicating via the Internet," said Prescott Lee, CEO and co-founder of FilmLoop. "We have developed a technology that is free for consumers, instantly gratifying, and very cool. This is an exciting new frontier for consumers and businesses alike, and we're very lucky to be leading the way."A loop is a dynamic string of images that scrolls across a user's desktop.Comment:Windows only, and sounds really annoying....
Today isTalk Like A Pirate Day.Also,Marie Curie Cancer Care"wants ye as a pirate for the day to help raise loads of loot so more cancer patients can be cared for at home".
"David Pienknagura recently paid $350 for an Intel microprocessor, and he's not even sure if it works. Whether he got a bargain depends on your perspective. He bought the computer chip -- the Intel 4004, the first microprocessor the company debuted in 1971 -- on eBay from another collector," reports theMercury News."One of his comrade collectors is Gennadiy Shvets, a 40-year-old programmer in Fairfax, Va. He runs a vintage chip collector's Web site,www.cpu-world.com. Shvets said he gets several thousand visitors a day to his Web site, and they're interested in all sorts of chips, not just the original one from Intel."
I've had a busy weekend. While friends have supposedly come round to "meet the baby" their real reason for visiting became clear once the cooing was over - grabbing a go on my just-received review code of Pro Evolution Soccer 5. It won't surprise Pro Evo veterans to hear that the latest version is an absolute treat, and a real step up from 4. Be warned though, most of the simpler pick up and pay elements that may have lured FIFA fans in the past have been put on the transfer list. Scoring is harder, though more satisfying than ever, with real patience and probing needed to succeed. But it is passing and retaining possession that are the real difference...Even seemingly simple passes are not guaranteed to find their man, with the ball bouncing around realistically off shins and turf. Keeping the ball is more important than ever, as even the slightest error in tackling is punished by the ref. Yup, Pro Evo 5 is realistic, possibly too much so for those who want a quick post-pub kickabout.Also the presentation is as shocking as ever. The "music" is so bad it must be a parody while the in-game text is even more atrociously written/translated than before. The latter is a real issue as the Master League has new features that the text makes appear ridiculously complex. Your average FIFA fan will be put off before they even get started.Of course, on the pitch is where it matters, and while it is early days (it usually takes a few weeks before all the new features get noticed) Pro Evo 5 does look the business. I'll be reviewing the game when released in October, so expect more PES5 bloggery over the coming weeks...
Alice at Wonderlandhas a great series of notes from Maxis/EA studio boss Neil Young from last week's Tokyo Game Show. The thesis put forward by Mr. Young was that games, in order to become truly mainstream media, must succeed in making players cry - and not out of frustration from trying to leap over that final impossible jump in Super Mario Bros or out of pain from doing one too many crunches in EyeToy Kinetic. Real emotional involvement; that's what we're talking about here.From the article:Here's where we are – we are pre-Citizen Kane in our industry. We're before the moment where we understand it all. Before the moment where we can effectively tell a story. CK was the first where the camera was an actor, where there were sfx, where relationships were complete. It's the first example of a great film. In a film we have places. In a game we have spaces. In a film we have the protagonist and in a game we have player character.Among some of the innovative features he mentions which are currently present in games and may eventually move players to tears include the Game Face customisation in Tiger Woods 2004, the 3D open world design in the GTA series since GTA3 and the dual-wielding in cooperative games like Halo and Perfect Dark. So by giving the player control over the game spaces, and allowing him or her to personalise the game experience, the player becomes involved as anactorand thereforecares.Great stuff.
"The number of mobile phone subscribers in the world has surpassed the 2 billion milestone Wireless Intelligence, an information service set up by industry body GSM Association and consulting firm Ovum," reportsReuters."'The bulk of the new growth now is coming from large, less well-developed markets such as China, India, Eastern Europe, Latin America and Africa,' Wireless Intelligence said in a statement."
"Last week's premature disclosure of a zero-day Firefox exploit came a few weeks after a zero-day exploit for Internet Explorer appeared on the Internet. Firefox not only has more vulnerabilities per month than Internet Explorer, but it is now surpassing Internet Explorer for the number of exploits available for public download in recent months," saysGeorge Ouat ZD Net.From Septemer to March, he reckons Firefox 1.x had 40 vulnerabilities compared with 10 in IE6.x. And from September to April, there were 11 published exploits for Firefox compared with 6 for IE6. He says:"As you can see, the facade that Firefox is the cure to the Internet Explorer security blues is quickly fading. It just goes to prove that any popular software worth hacking that has security vulnerabilities will eventually have to deal with live working exploits. Firefox mostly managed to stay under the radar from hackers before April of 2005. Since that time, new exploits are being released almost on a monthly basis."Comment:As a known Firefox supporter (I've been recommending it since the beta, and been quoted in a Firefox press release), I have to admit to some disappointment. I wasn't naive enough to think Firefox would cure all IE's security ailments, and I'm not stupid enough to think open source software has no security problems, but even taking George's numbers with a kilo of salt, I expected better.For the record, I still recommend Firefox, and I still think it's more secure than IE, but it's hard to tell how much more secure it is. I haven't suffered from any Firefox vulnerabilities, but again, I haven't suffered from any IE6 vunlerabilities on PCs upgraded to XP Pro SP2 with auto-update turned on.But if you are not on SP2 and have auto-update turned off, you are more vulnerable, and in that case I'd definitely recommend Firefox.The main problems I have with Firefox are that it's noticeably slower than IE6 (it used to be faster), and if you are not going to use it for a while, it's best to close it down. I find that, unlike IE, Firefox takes ages to "wake up", and "asleep" may as well be "crashed". Also, reduced functionality with some sites means there are times when I still prefer IE....What do you think?
The boom era of the internet - symbolised by the likes of Amazon, eBay and Lastminute.com - will soon be a thing of the past unless coordinated action is taken to improve security, Microsoft has warned.An estimated &pound;1.4 trillion was spent on e-commerce last year, and in Britain more than 11,000 new users come online every day. But the information superhighway is becoming so choked by spam, viruses and fraud that some experts believe it could become 'unusable', with trust in online retailers destroyed.Ed Gibson, a former FBI special agent recruited to bolster Microsoft's security work, warned: 'In five years, if Microsoft and other major players in this arena do not make a concerted effort to make the products more secure, the thing we call the world wide web and the internet will not be as it is today.'An estimated 136 billion emails are sent around the world every day, of which 65 per cent are thought to be unsolicited, or spam. A large proportion of spam now contains viruses that use computers to distribute more spam without the owner's knowledge. In 2000 an estimated one in 2,500 emails sent to businesses contained a virus; now it is one in 43. British businesses lost an estimated &pound;2.4bn last year to cyber-crime.Even Gibson, an expert in investigating international money laundering during his 20 years at the FBI, recently fell victim to an internet scam. He said: 'All of us in the industry have to get the message across that as soon as we log onto this thing called the internet, whether we are a business person or simply a four-year-old or a 94-year-old, we have opened up every window in the universe to our home.' He was speaking at the Westminster eForum in London as chief security adviser to Microsoft in the UK.Other internet security specialists believe the crisis is urgent. Richard Cox, chief information officer of anti-spam campaigner Spamhaus, said: 'If you can't go to a website without risking your computer being compromised, if you can't open your e-mail box because so much of it is junk, what's left? In three years the internet could be unusable.'Cox gave the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit zero out of 10 for its performance in the fight against spammers. 'They have done absolutely nothing. We don't see that as acceptable. We believe the NHTCU has got to be targeted on what is a very serious crime.'Sharon Lemon, head of the NHTCU, responded: 'Spam circulated for the purposes of marketing or advertising can be annoying to some, but does not fall within our remit. Resources within the NHTCU are focused upon the types of hi-tech crime which cause the most harm to the public and business.'Next month the NHTCU and the government will launch Get Safe Online, an awareness campaign aimed at consumers.
We're back to telephone-number valuations, folks. But at least this time telephony is involved. Last week eBay announced it was to acquire Skype, the leading VoIP outfit, for $2.6 billion in cash and stock, plus what is enigmatically described as 'a potential performance-based consideration'. Industry sources put this little extra at $1.5bn.That's up to $4.1bn for a three-year-old start-up. Skype was founded by two Luxembourg entrepreneurs who saw the opening for 'Voice over IP' (pronounced Voy-p) and went for it. It's essentially a peer-to-peer system that enables internet users with broadband connections to make free phone calls to friends who are similarly equipped. You sign up, download and install a smallish program, tell your friends, and bingo - you can chat to your heart's content.Kids love it: the other week one of mine used Skype to set up a three-way conversation with two of his friends, one of whom happened to be in Australia, the other in the US.Grown-ups are catching on to VoIP too (especially now Google is offering a similar service). They are the ones, presumably, who are willing to pay for 'Skype Out' services that enable one to make Skype calls to conventional telephones. But it was the kids who initially drove the explosive growth.As a result, Skype became one of the fastest-growing companies on the internet; it now claims to have 54 million members worldwide, is currently adding new ones at a rate of 150,000 a day and its software has been downloaded more than 160 million times.Even so, $2.6bn is a lot of money, especially when half of it is payable in used $100 bills and not just in company paper. So why did eBay do it? The official answer is that adding a free voice channel will facilitate trading, especially on more complex or valuable items (such as cars). So - it is claimed - buying Skype will enhance eBay's core.The deal is thus represented in the same terms as the one by which eBay acquired PayPal, an online payment system, in 2002, thereby providing a speedy, secure method for successful bidders to pay for items (and for sellers to collect their takings).Integrating PayPal into the eBay system has definitely had the desired effect - to the extent that many users now have a preference for auctions where the seller indicates willingness to be paid via that method.Whether integrating Skype into the process will have an analogous impact remains to be seen. My guess is that it won't - the existing email channel is good enough. Adding Skype certainly won't do it any harm; but I can't see it doing $2.6bn-worth of good.So why did eBay splash out? Here's an heretical thought: it is a symptom of a midlife crisis. Remember that eBay was one of the poster children of the original internet boom. Unlike most of its contemporaries, it was profitable almost from day one, has seen 10 years of explosive growth and now boasts 157 million users in 34 countries, with annual profits touching $1bn a year.Now, this is great, but it can't go on for ever. So if you were eBay's management, sitting on a mountain of cash and nursing a buoyant share price, you'd be looking beyond the point where the auction business begins to plateau. You'd be looking for something with even bigger growth potential than online trading. Which would lead you to VoIP, the Next Big Thing.On this reading, eBay is taking a punt on the future. Or, in business-speak, making a 'strategic acquisition'. The gamble is that in 10 years eBay will be known as an internet telephony company that also does auctions, rather than an auction house that offers VoIP.It might just be a smart bet. A colleague recently embarked on a long car journey through America. Being a geek, he had his laptop by his side all the way running Macstumbler - a lovely program that detects wireless networks. He was astonished by what he found - wi-fi everywhere. More interestingly, he sometimes found there was wireless broadband where there was no mobile phone signal. 'It would,' he reported, 'often have been easier to make a Skype call than a mobile one.'Welcome to the future. By buying Skype, eBay has just staked a claim to it.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Meet Teresa Orange and Louise O'Flynn, two women with a plan to save society - or at least to save children from too much television. For them it amounts to the same thing.The former media executives - Orange worked as a children's researcher at an advertising agency and O'Flynn was a public relations director for Camelot - are on a mission to stop British youth turning into a generation of slack-jawed couch potatoes. Their book, The Media Diet For Kids, has sparked a debate even before it has hit the shops.The premise behind the book is simple: children are spending too long in front of the television, which is storing up a host of attendant ills, ranging from depression to obesity to violent behaviour.The pair argue that parents should restrict children to two hours a day of television or internet, not easy given that the average child watches 53 hours a week, up from 38 hours a decade ago.'The American Academy of Pediatrics recommend that children should watch no more than two hours of television a day,' the book states. 'It's low enough to protect children. But it's not high enough to stop kids benefiting from everything the modern media world has to offer.'The authors originally compiled diaries revealing how much time their own children spent in front of the small screen. 'People are almost in self-denial about how much they use the screen for kids,' Orange says. 'We were shocked when we realised the amount of time our kids ended up watching television.''We went through different phases with the book. It started off as a kind of health guide to the dangers of screen bingeing,' O'Flynn says. 'Then we realised we needed to provide the solutions as well. The first bit is the shock horror and the second part is what they can do about it.'Having conducted group interviews with parents and children, Orange and O'Flynn unearthed a welter of advice on how to break the link between the small screen and children. 'It was like being in Alcoholics Anonymous. The screen is one of the hardest things for parents to control. Getting that right balance is a desperately hot issue,' Orange says.With 19 dedicated children's channels in the UK and a host of internet sites, today's young media consumer is spoilt for choice. But this brings a new set of problems. 'Yes, we're in the midst of a media revolution. Everyone wants to gobble it up, but after a revolution there has to be a settling in to a new phase. The balance has got out of control,' Orange says.Alarming information leaps off the pages: the Washington University study suggesting children suffer attention problems if they are exposed to television during early childhood; the research which finds men who watch more than 21 hours of TV a week double their risk of diabetes; the fact that, by the age of 18, the average child in the US has witnessed 200,000 acts of violence on TV.'We're not trying to say you've got to do it all. People can pick and choose. There's a lot of talk about people being media savvy, but what does it really mean? This book helps you become a media planner,' Orange says.One particular area of concern is on-line meeting places, such as those provided by Microsoft Network, MSN.'In some homes it has become an enormous drain on kids' time. It's easy for it to become an obsession - kids like to feel part of the crowd - and if you know your friends are chatting online it's hard not to join them,' the book suggests. Research undertaken for the book reveals young girls in particular spending up to five hours a night using MSN.The pair suggest parents stick to seven 'Golden Rules' when it comes to restricting children's media consumption. Fundamental to the approach are rationing and the idea that children should always ask permission before accessing media. By following these golden rules, parents can protect their children from a host of media-induced ills. Is your child prone to impulsive outbursts? It might be a result of bottled-up energy from too long in front of the screen. Does he or she always turn to adults to be entertained? The television hinders a child's ability to play imaginatively. Are they depressed or suffering from low self-esteem? 'Long periods in front of the screen lead to frustration,' the book observes.'Being firm takes time and energy. A lot of children get away with what they want,' Orange concedes.But the pair argue the risks of raising a generation of children given unlimited access to the media are enormous. For a start, it would spawn a generation unable to comprehend life unless it is through the prism of the media. As O'Flynn observes: 'Children think if you've not been a Big Brother contestant life isn't worth living.'Golden rules1 Parents should always stay in control of television and computer use.2 Children should only watch TV or play on computers for short lengths of time.3 Don't allow televisions into bedrooms.4 Watching television during meals should be a treat, not the norm.5 Limit TV or computer time early in the morning; avoid if possible.6 Don't allow any screen activity in the run-up to - or after - bedtime.7 Create periods of time without the computer or television.
The world's telephone system is being systematically destroyed by upstart hi-tech companies - led by Skype - who are routing calls through the internet free of charge to anyone who signs up. It is a beautiful technology. It uses the existing infrastructure of the internet so it can scale its business ad infinitum without much fresh investment. New subscribers (signing up at 150,000 a day) don't cost anything, so Skype can afford to charge nothing for calls in the hope of selling other services later. Traditional (monopolistic) telephone operators must either embrace the new technology (as BT is doing), or get out of town.Skype was cannily taken over by eBay, the world's biggest online market, this week. Many analysts thought a price tag of over $2.6bn for a company with sales - not profits - of less than $70m had a hint of dot.com madness about it. Maybe, but buying the market leader (with almost 50% of net voice traffic) in the world's fastest-growing industry will not only enhance eBay's own business but could turn it into a giant phone company. Skype, only two years old, has been praised by the OECD for undercutting fixed carriers by 80%. Unusually, in the internet age, Skype was, until this week, a European company, set up by a Swede and a Dane with its HQ in Luxembourg and employees in Estonia and London. The founders have made a mint for themselves, but if they help cut the world's phone bills by 80% there won't be many people complaining.
FahrenheitPC, PS2, XBOXYou wake up astride the freshly murdered corpse of a stranger in a dingy diner lavatory - what do you do? After the game's fascinatingly straightforward introduction, this is the first puzzle you face, and once you escape you're immediately dumped into the shoes of the detectives on your trail. Switching between hunter and quarry, the game plays out in a series of cinematic set pieces incorporating (genuinely) exhausting simulations of physical exercise and some wonderfully inventive uses of the joypad in each scenario. No scores, no health bar and too little time to think in the game's conversations - which demand a response within seconds - make this a unique experience. Despite occasionally clumsy controls, this is a thriller told with panache and real invention.&#183;Atari, &pound;40Virtua Tennis World TourPSPThere's a moment that arrives in Virtua Tennis, when it ceases to be a series of hastily pressed lob and topspin buttons and becomes a fascinating, tactical game of tennis. In practice it's a transition you hardly notice, but one that sets this well apart from half-baked nonsense like Perfect Ace 2, and its monotonous ilk or even the faded glory of the Mario Tennis franchise. Featuring the capacity to start tournaments with up to 16 players using the PSP's Wi-Fi capability and the usual range of player customisation options (all of which, naturally, results in tennis stars fit for the set of Freaks), Virtua Tennis World Tour is the finest simulation of ball-and-net fun you're likely to find.&#183;SEGA, &pound;30World Snooker Challenge 2005PSPDespite the volume of TV coverage it receives, snooker is a defiantly unglamorous sport played by men who rarely marry pop stars or go on to get parts in soap operas. But, as a sport, it relies heavily on the physics of wooden sticks and carefully weighted balls, which makes it a ripe target for conversion to a video game. World Snooker Challenge 2005 is virtually identical to its highly competent PS2 forebear, and shares the same interface and commentary, adding a neat analogue cueing technique that lets you pull back the stick to define the strength of shots. This takes some getting used to, but works. Various single and multiplayer rules of snooker and pool are available.&#183;Codemasters, &pound;30
To celebrate Kanye West's (Kanyewest.com) new album Late Registration, a few hip-hop diversions. Kanye's not featured atHiphophunks.com(the place to find the cutest guys in underground hip-hop), but the brilliant Bastard Artist (hairy chest, evil heart), Awol One (burned tongue while on drugs) and Adlib are - form a queue ladies.For UK hip-hop news and reviews,Ukhh.comis your reliable daily source, whileHiphopmusic.comanddifferentkitchen.blogspot.comare by far the greatest blogs on the block.Anyone confusing their rizzle with their shizzle will be enlightened at The Rap Dictionary (Rapdict.org), graffiti enthusiasts should visitGraffiti.org/dj, old school fans will enjoy the tales of breakdancing battles atmrwiggleshiphop.net, whileHiphopdentistry.comis the rapper's choice for blinging fillings.
Writelyis described as a "Web word processor". You can upload a Word document (which is then converted to HTML), or paste in an HTML document (such as a Web page) and edit it online. You can also enter other people's e-mail addresses so they can edit it, too ... and you can post the result to Blogger. The site suggests you can use it for "meeting notes, team calendars, technical specs, sign-up sheets, proposals and much more... "It works with IE 5.5+ (Windows), Mozilla 1.4+ (Mac &amp; Windows) and Firefox 0.8+ (Mac and Windows), but not Safari.
Good piece in Forbes onMicrosoft's Midlife Crisis.What has gone wrong? Microsoft, with $40 billion in sales and 60,000 employees, has grown musclebound and bureaucratic. Some current and former employees describe a stultifying world of 14-hour strategy sessions, endless business reviews and a preoccupation with PowerPoint slides; of laborious job evaluations, hundreds of e-mails a day and infighting among divisions so fierce that it hobbles design and delays product releases. In short, they describe precisely the behavior that humbled another tech giant: IBM in the late 1980s. Tellingly, IBM reached a point of crisis just over three decades after it started selling computers to commercial users."Microsoft has become what it used to mock," says Gabe Newell, a developer on the first three versions of Windows. At late-night rounds of poker with "Bill and Steve" in the mid-1980s, he says, "we laughed at IBM. They had all this process for monitoring productivity, and yet we knew they had spectacularly bad productivity. That's Microsoft now."
"MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. – September 15, 2005 – Google Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG) announced today its plans to enter the lucrative adult content market with a new search engine that will be kept separate from its main line of search services," says thepress release."Called Grotica, the new service uses sophisticated image processing tools to automatically categorize still photos and movies according to subject matter and degree of explicitness. Google's powerful keyword search functions have been further enhanced for this application with over 3000 synonyms for anatomical terms and erotic activities."Comment: It's a fake, but the advertising take from http://porn.google.com/ would be phenomenal.....
One of the more challenging aspects of working as an editor on the internet is predicting with any certainty what will work and what won't. When just about anything is possible, picking where to deploy people and cash can be a risky and perplexing business.But sometimes it is not the new or the most sophisticated piece of technology which gives you the best results, but an inspired editorial idea. One such came out of our sports desk at Guardian Unlimited four years ago and has become one of the most frequently cited favourite items on the site - the minute-by-minute coverage of football, rugby, cricket and sometimes even tennis or horse racing.Essentially the over-by-over should not work. It consists of one or two of our team sitting in the office watching a sporting event on a television set and describing it to the outside world on a rolling report. When audio streaming is now available on most computers, when televisions are increasingly apparent in public places, the idea that anyone would sit and refresh a computer screen as the best way to absorb a commentary just seems a bit daft. But it isn't. Rather like that other surreal sporting triumph - Gillette Soccer Special on Sky Sports, where four men in suits sit and describe what they are seeing on televisions you can't see - the chemistry between the commentators and the audience transcends the action they describe.This summer our ashes over-by-over coverage reached extraordinary heights - on the busiest days the traffic it attracted was higher than the traffic to the front page of our network which, it has to be said, is unheard of for cricket and rare even for the biggest football matches. The commentaries of Rob Smyth, Sean Ingle, Mike Adamson and James Dart spanned all 61 sessions played in the five tests, and gathered our own barmy army of readers.The key to its success is the fact that the written word can deliver more than a linear commentary on television or radio. You can visit a report in the afternoon and scan the morning's play to find the "WICKET!" references without waiting for highlights and scoreboards and what's more you can read what it feels like to watch England squeak a crucial test by two runs. And it is of course in the writing. "Four tests and more snakish twists and turns than Peter Mandelson on the Pepsi Max Big One" is how Sean Ingle opened his report for the final day of the fifth Test.And then there is the audience. In the spirit of radio's Test Match Special where the sound of Johnners, Aggers, Blowers et al discussing the merits of a listener's fruit cake became as much part of the commentary as the thwack of leather on willow, once the sports team had started minute-by-minute coverage for football the emails started to roll in, and therefore it seemed sensible to roll them into the coverage. Now the erudite discussions of our users - from the migration of all cricket coverage to satellite TV to the rather alarming regularity of Rob Smyth's morning headaches - are a central part of the unfolding narrative.The truth is that the over-by-over is a godsend for the deskbound, and reaches peak popularity during the working day. But it's also clear from our statistics that readers return after a match is long over to relive and savour or check what really happened.With video and audio increasingly available it is tempting to add bells and whistles, but there is something about the simplicity of a sports writer, a television set, a keyboard and a lot of strange people hanging on their every word which has a stripped down simplicity - and I can't imagine us changing that.&#183;Emily Bell is editor-in-chief of Guardian UnlimitedGuardian.co.uk top 51. Fifth Ashes Test, over by overNo audio, no video, but utterly, utterly gripping2. Why the iPhone won't rock your worldThe Observer's John Naughton is underwhelmed by the Apple/Motorola offering3. Bad Science: Don't dumb me downBen Goldacre bemoans the shabby coverage of science in the media4. Beauty products from the skin of Chinese prisonersStartling revelations about cosmetic sources5. Sorry, Mr President, Katrina is not 9/11The two disasters, says Simon Schama, revealed very different faces of the USHow the bloggers saw it ..."Why is science in the media so often pointless, simplistic, boring, or just plain wrong?" asked Bad Science columnist Ben Goldacre last weekThe main reason for this kind of thing happening is perhaps a more general problem with the media: they must entertain or shock their audience. Well-reasoned, balanced arguments, which most science consists of, isn't exciting.Simon Grimshawatwww.funkysimon.comI think the problem is much wider than reporting on science, or even the prevalence of humanities graduates in the broadsheet press. Surely it's also about the pressure in all daily print media to shoehorn the facts into too little space - the better to fit in lifestyle stories and entertainment news - and to file off the rough edges to make the report more accessible at the expense of accuracy and depth.John RobinsonatSoreeyes.orgReally &#91;the article&#93; ought to be compulsory reading for every news editor and executive editor and editor. And then framed and put over their desks, and re-read occasionally.www.charlesarthur.comAny claim to being correct is seen as merely a means to exercise power over those who claim another truth. Thus it follows that science is a tool of oppressing the have-nots and must therefore be destroyed. There's a huge problem with that project: the pursuit of scientific knowledge, and the technology that derives from it, is creating power. By focusing only on mocking the pursuit of science, the media are denying the knowledge to those who do not make it their living. By limiting the spread of knowledge, the postmodern attack on science in the name of social justice defeats itself.Ted Wadeatgametheworld.blogspot.comTuesday's paper revealed that a Chinese company is using skin harvested from the corpses of executed convicts to develop cosmeticsThis reminds me of the scene in Fight Club where the two fellas make a run to the plastic surgery clinic to get human fat to make soap with. To me, knowing that there's anything animaly in cosmetics makes me gag. But somehow it's more disgusting to have human in cosmetics than the usual widely used animal ingredients.Triddleatwww.veganporn.comThe mainland Chinese have a fairly hardnosed "waste not, want not" approach to "bad social elements". Amnesty International believes around 3,400 people were executed last year, with a further 6,000 on death row. Collagen? Apparently, it is injected to plump up people's lips and flatten out their wrinkles. Very popular in Britain, so they say.misterbijou.blogspot.comSo the next time your missus comes home from the clinic and announces that she's had her "lips done", don't be quite so quick to jump in there and try them out.chriswheatley.typepad.comBest of the webOver by overAfter four Tests and more snakish twists and turns than Peter Mandelson on the Pepsi Max Big One, England are 98 overs from winning the Ashes. What price the Aussies chasing 240 off 30 overs to win?22nd over: WICKET!Vaughan c Gilchrist b McGrath 45 (England 67-2) McGrath gets the tiniest amount of outswing, Vaughan gets the nick and Gilchrist takes a diving catch. Game on!WICKET!Bell c Warne b McGrath 0 Bell goes first ball! McGrath produces an identikit delivery and Bell edges it behind to Warne at first slip. This is squeaky bum time for England.24th over:England 67-3 (Trescothick 21, Pietersen 0) Pietersen is dropped! Gilchrist gets a touch and it hits Hayden on the knee.33rd over: WICKET!Trescothick lbw Warne 33 (England 109-4) Warne gets prodigious turn, it stays low and Trescothick is hit in front of off-stump.37th over:England 122-4 (Pietersen 34, Flintoff 4) More easy singles than Magaluf high street.38th over: WICKET!Flintoff c and b Warne 8 (England 122-5) Warne takes an excellent catch at ankle height.51st over:England 182-5 (Pietersen 78, Collingwood 5) That's drinks, and England have one hand on the Ashes.52nd over: WICKET!Collingwood c Ponting b Warne 10 (England 186-6) Just when England look home and hosed, Collingwood dabs one to Ponting, who takes a desperate catch at silly point. Game on!57th over: WICKET!Jones b Tait 1 (England 199-7) Tait produces an absolute Exocet which rips out Jones's off stump and sends it tumbling 10 yards behind the wicket. Game on!63rd over:England 219-7 (Pietersen 104, Giles 5) Pietersen reaches his maiden Test hundred. But Joshua Davis writes: "You don't need to remind us after each wicket that it's game on. From the burning in our stomachs and the residual taste of vomit in our throats, I think we all know!"72nd overEngland 257-7 (add 6 for their lead; Pietersen 130, Giles 17) Pietersen drives sweet and straight for a regal six, his sixth of the innings. "Is Pietersen the first person ever to score a Test century with a dead raccoon under his helmet?" asks Rick Eyre. He's the first South African-born one, for sure.80th over:England 298-7 (Pietersen 153, Giles 35) Make that an Ashes-record seven sixes in an innings for Pietersen.82nd over: WICKET!England 308-8 (Pietersen b McGrath 158) "So let's get this right," begins Paul Store. "After 16 years we have finally defeated a country with only a third of our population, with the help of bad weather. Why is this worth a celebration? Am I missing something?" Serotonin?91st over: WICKET!England 335-9 (Giles b Warne 59) How's that for a parting gesture from Shane Warne? For the umpteenth and last time on English soil, he bowls a Pom around his legs with a jaffa that drifted out and ripped back in.WICKET!England 335 all out (Harmison c Hayden b Warne 0) Hayden at slip takes a wonderful catch to give Warne his sixth wicket (40 for the series). He and Glenn McGrath embrace warmly. For the incessant torture of the last 12 years, cheers fellas.ENGLAND HAVE WON THE ASHES!Australia are offered the light.Two minutes later, England are waiting for confirmation the game has been called off, but before that happens some nugget has to leaf through 742,013 pages of the laws of cricket.Umpire Bowden marches out with that other umpire and symbolically removes the bails. We've effing done it!&#183;sport.guardian.co.uk/ashes2005Blog watchThe Berliner is bornSunday 11.09.05, 10:18amThe Berliner has been the most heavily planned operation in the Guardian's history, but the vast majority of tomorrow's paper is yet to be written.10:59News conference is delayed. The City section are angry that a tale about the Premier League they were working on was published in the Observer (it's our sister paper, but this is war).11:25The deputy editor (news), Paul Johnson, is relieved that it's a fairly good news day for a Sunday. I have a feeling that he has got something he is not telling me. I wouldn't blurt, blogger's honour ...1:20pmThe G2 cover story has just been switched from something that was in place on Friday to a newsy piece. Star feature writer Oliver Burkeman looks deceptively unpanicked by the fact that he has to write 2,000 words in three hours.1:46Caught up with Richard Norton-Taylor, our veteran security affairs editor, between his 11am deadline ("the earliest in over 30 years") on the deployment of UK troops in Afghanistan, and a 2pm deadline on the hosting of one of the world's biggest arms fairs in London tomorrow.2:08Foreign editor Harriet Sherwood is worried that the main story, the Palestinian reoccupation of Gaza, is not turning out to be very clear-cut and one on President Bush's visit to New Orleans won't happen until 10pm, way after her first edition deadline of 5pm.3:10Brief working lunch with John Carvel, social affairs editor. He's just been doing a tale about happiness (there'll be a lot of that in the new Berliner Guardian).5:34G2 dispatched its 36 pages to the printers to a spontaneous round of applause. At the last moment the editor noticed that three huge standing caps (that start each paragraph) read T I T. Meanwhile, foul play is afoot. I apparently gave too much information away about a story Richard Norton-Taylor was working on and the Times has picked it up (is there no honour?).7:39The front page has been sent to the printers amid a round of applause.9:41The first edition is delivered by the country's highest paid paper girl: Carolyn McCall, chief executive of the Guardian.10:08The real inquest begins ... in the Coach and Horses situated almost in the Guardian's backyard beside which the Fleet river - icon of newspapers - still runs (it's underground but you can see and hear it from a drain outside the Coach). Guardian journos as far as you can see.&#183;blogs.guardian.co.uk/editors
As with Bell's fuzzy phone call to Watson, and Edison's inaugural wax- cylinder recording, it is the very first utterance that people remember. Let the record show that in the case of the world's first virtual intercontinental tea party, the honour goes to Lib&eacute;ration correspondent Agn&egrave;s Poirier, her voice crackling over a laptop speaker from Paris. "It's like being underwater," she says.It is obvious now that such gatherings are the future. With the proliferation of broadband and the increasing availability of free internet telephony, it is possible to plonk a computer on your dinner table and enjoy a virtual meal with a distant friend. Soon, when everyone has an internet telephone service, it should be possible to have a room full of virtual guests. But why wait? With a little ingenuity, we decided to attempt the future today. Well, the day before yesterday.We conduct the experiment usingSkypethe pioneering internet telephone service provider purchased recently by eBay, mainly because it works on our Guardian-issue iBooks and connects to landlines. If we limited ourselves to other Skype clients we could not assemble such a stellar guest list. Along with Agn&egrave;s, novelist Rick Moody (New York), gossip columnist Paula Froelich (also New York), comedians Wil Hodgson (Chippenham) and Lucy Porter (London) and lottery winner Elaine Thompson (Lyme Regis) have all agreed to take part in the groundbreaking tea party experiment.Downloading Skype's software on to six laptops, opening an account and logging on six times proves straightforward, if time-consuming. My humble domestic broadband connection copes surprisingly well. We begin to enter phone numbers. We hear ringing. It's working!After Agn&egrave;s utters her soon-to-be-famous words, Elaine's voice suddenly materialises. Then Wil, after a failed attempt, is back with us. "That's better. I can hear you now," he says, his broad West Country tones filling the room. The real test is whether you can hear Elaine, I say."Hi Wil," says Elaine."Just about, yeah," says Wil.Agn&egrave;s asks what it is like in the room. Five laptops facing each other across a table, I tell her. With tea."Have you got our picture on the laptop?" No, just Post-it notes.Paula crackles through from New York. "I can't hear Elaine," she says. "Is that Elaine speaking?""No, that was Agn&egrave;s.""Ann-yezz. Hi Agn&egrave;s. I can barely hear ya, honey."Rick is last to come online. I introduce him to everyone around the table and they each say hello. There is a slight technical problem that seems to stem from the inadequacy of the laptops' built-in microphones and speakers, especially where several laptops are gathered together for a teatime natter. The following transcript should give a flavour of those pioneering first moments:Me:And to the right of Wil is Agn&egrave;s, who is a French journalist.Agn&egrave;s:Hello.Me:Who speaks English?Rick:Tim, the only person I can hear is you. If anyone asks me a question, you can translate.Me:OK. Does anyone have a question for Rick? He wrote The Ice Storm.Paula:I can't hear anything.Me:Has anyone seen the film?Elaine:I haven't.Paula:I think we've all seen it, haven't we? Hasn't it been out for like, eight years?Me:Wil, did you hear any of that?Wil:I can't hear anything to be honest.Paula:&#91;unintelligible&#93;Agn&egrave;s:I can hear every other word.Elaine:What?Me:This is a sort of miracle, isn't it?Heady moments, indeed, with an atmosphere somewhere between a seance and the first public demonstration of the telegraph. But, like the Wright brothers, we were not content to rest on our laurels. Sure, we had made mistakes. For instance, we had forgotten to call Lucy. We decide to use Skype's conference facility to consolidate our guests on to two laptops (conferences are limited to four people plus host). We hang up and, with a bit of fiddling, reconnect, adding Lucy. Most people are immediately happier, but not everybody. "You're all sounding like just a bunch of jumbled sounds," says Paula."I'm here," says Rick."I can hear you very well Rick," says Agn&egrave;s."The feedback off my own voice is terrifying," says Paula. She loses patience and rings off.We've got it down to five people on two laptops, but cross-laptop communication is still difficult. While laptop B struggles with an awkward silence, on laptop A Lucy and Wil quickly retreat into a virtual corner:Lucy:I can hear you.Wil:I can't hear Elaine. I can't hear Rick.Lucy:But then you've got a funny sort of delay.Wil:Yeah.Lucy:It's an internet-based thing is it?Wil:Something like that, yeah.Lucy:I don't understand much technology.Wil:I'm not very computer literate, really.For congeniality's sake we try to shift the party to a single laptop but, inevitably, someone is lost in the shuffle. Elaine's part in this historic occasion ends here. With four remaining guests, a halting conversation begins to take shape. We discuss the cricket, the weather. and the technological marvel that has united us."What's the concept?" asks Rick. "What are we meant to be doing?""It's very exciting," says Lucy. "I've got a can of condensed milk on the stove at the moment, if anyone's interested."Perhaps when the real scope of a new communications paradigm is first demonstrated, however primitively, it doesn't matter so much what is said, as long as the old boundaries are breached. Edison famously recited Mary had a Little Lamb into his phonograph. And during the world's first virtual intercontinental tea party, comedian Lucy Porter heated up some condensed milk for a banoffee pie."I've got to go now. It's been lovely to meet you all," she says."So we're down to three?" asks Agn&egrave;s.Three plus host, I say, consulting my screen. "It's like Agatha Christie."Part of the problem with intercontinental chat is a lack of common ground: Chirac's stroke, supreme court nominees, the Edinburgh festival - every topic seems to leave someone out. Agn&egrave;s mentions binge-drinking and the forthcoming liberalisation of British licensing laws."It's a good thing," says Wil. "If there's all these arrogant, small 'c' conservative yobbos drinking themselves to death, I say give 'em enough rope.""I really am digging on Wil's accent," says Rick. "It's really beautiful. I like listening to it."And so we go on, talking about everything and nothing, until the time comes to say good-bye, more than acquaintances now, more than friends. We are fellow players in a historical drama, the ending of which has yet to be written. We vowed to repeat the experiment one day when technology has caught up with us. Next time, there will be shortbread.The guest listPaula FroelichNew York's leading gossip columnist. Says she has "a hide like a rhino" and can get a brick in a wall to give up its secretsRick MoodyNew York novelist, best known for The Ice Storm, filmed by Ang Lee. Recently branched out into musicLucy PorterOne of Britain's most hotly tipped comics. Her shows tread a fine line between depravity and innocenceElaine ThompsonWon the lottery in 1995. Now owns a restaurant and ice cream parlour on the sea front in Lyme Regis, DorsetAgn&egrave;s PoirierJournalist with the French daily paper Lib&eacute;ration. Describes herself as "a true European and citizen of the world"Wil HodgsonWiltshire-based comedian and former professional wrestler. Loves the Care Bears; hates lads' mags
You can bet that Google, the behemoth of internet search engines, was not thinking about the implications for global terrorism when it launched Google Earth in July. This jaw-dropping overview of the world uses a patchwork of satellite photographs to construct a virtual globe, enabling users to type in a name and visit the place. Now, however, governments and officials around the world are saying state security has been endangered by the site.Are they right? The South Korean government wants answers from its US counterpart about why South Korean military facilities are on plain view to any North Korean spies. A Thai military spokesman said: "We are looking for possible restrictions on these detailed pictures ... I think pictures of tourist attractions should do." A source in the Russian secret services told the MosNews website: "On these pictures, terrorists will see all they need to carry out an attack in any part of the world."So would it be possible, given access to the basic Google Earth package (you get better pictures if you pay) and a list of targets, to uncover the secrets of the military industrial complex? It took five minutes to find our first potential secret, at Thailand's Korat air base, where close inspection revealed a runway lined with expensive military hardware, including fighter jets and an Awacs-equipped surveillance aircraft. Airfields, however, are the easiest military installation to spot - those vast runways are a giveaway. So it was simple to uncover the Kunsun air base in South Korea, though zooming in to try to pick out individual aircraft just gives a dizzying blur.So surely the South could also use Google to spy on the North? Of course. In fact, the home of North Korea's nuclear programme at Yongbyon is there in high-resolution colour. Which is more than can be said for the centre of the Israeli nuclear programme at Dimona, the images of which are blurred to the point of uselessness - it's impossible to tell if one is looking at a town or what is known euphemistically as a "facility". That's no surprise: the Israelis are so paranoid about Dimona's secrets that they once shot down one of their own fighter planes when it strayed too close.Quite a few American bases, too, are present in perfect detail. Khanabad, the US outpost in Uzbekistan, is shown stacked with large jets. But it used to be a civilian airport, and Google Earth uses images a few years old (the world's intelligence agencies don't want to upload their latest images. Shame). So are these civilian planes or US transports? We're betting on the latter, if only because it is hard to believe Uzbekistan ever had an airport this busy.There is one difficulty in becoming an UNCLE-style intelligence network -you really need to know what you're looking for. Google Earth, irritatingly, won't allow you to type in "top secret military installation" and then provide a handy list of sites to look at. And even if you do find them, the temptation is to play with the fancy zoom facility, before popping over to check your house is still where it ought to be.
MondayIs videogame legislation a vote winner?Literary gamesI can't help myself...A 'Far Cry' from the usual marketingTuesdayGames = social pariah or saviour?Novel treatmentA special hour with a "hawt" Night ElfXbox Live pricing announcedWednesdayHappy belated birthday Mario!Taito memoriesMicro is reasonably-sized successXbox 360: big in Japan?ThursdayBabies and gamingEuropean Xbox 360-fanciers have to wait until US players get their gameNew look TechnologyPSP: what now?FridayRevolution-ising the controllerBraben unveils Outsider
MSNBC has published aKatrina Flyoverbased on Microsoft's Virtual Earth, with many "before and after" shots.MSNBC is also trying a"news on a map"idea with Virtual Earth. Remember you can view with labels (names of cities and countries etc), scroll around and zoom in or out.
Frontier Developments, the UK studio founded by Elite programmer David Braben, has announced an ambitious next-gen project entitled, The Outsider. Enticingly, the press release asserts that the game, "brings the sort of freedom of action first seen in "Elite" bang up to date". Sensing it has your undivided attention it continues:"The game radically enriches the player's experience by abandoning the traditional, prescriptive, mostly linear story of current generation games, and replaces it by simulating characters' motivations and aims. This gives the player genuine freedom to change the story outcomes in a way that has not been seen before - each player will get a truly unique, sophisticated, visceral experience rather than simply switching between 'good' or 'evil'. The techniques used are enabled by the greatly increased processing power available to the imminent new consoles including the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360."The Outsider is a gripping, high-tech thriller played out against the backdrop of a living, crowded city based on present-day Washington DC and its environs including the CIA HQ at Langley, Andrews Air Force Base and Newport News Naval Dockyard. As a CIA operative the player has a mouth-watering arsenal of technology, combat talents and weaponry available to him. A shocking opening scenario wrongly makes him Public Enemy Number One in the eyes of the media and the public at large, but leaves many different ways to proceed: to wreak ultra-violent revenge, to turn the tables and exploit the shady organisations he is mixed up with for his own ends or crusading to clear his name."Okay, the plot sounds a bit 'Max Payne meets Deus Ex', but the emphasis on aims and motiviations is interesting. Plus, talk of 'several key proprietary technologies' will pique the interest of Edge-reading types. As for the early screenshot above, well, frankly I wouldn't open the door to either of those two...
I'm considering buying a USB hub. Is it necessary for it to have an independent power source? Bob TuckerIt's not, strictly speaking, necessary to have a powered USB hub, but I'd definitely recommend it. One of the problems with USB is that a device is only allowed to draw up to 500mA of power (100mA on first connection). So, if you buy a non-powered hub, it will only support one high-power (500mA) peripheral, and the other ports on that hub may be useless. What you have bought is, in effect, a high-priced USB extender cable. Plug a mixture of devices into a non-powered hub and some might work while others might not, and you probably won't get much help from Windows as to why they aren't working. Since people expect to be able to plug any USB device into any USB port, I think this is really bad. Using a powered USB hub generally eliminates the problem.Comment:This item is being considered for publication: additions and improvements welcome!
Reuters "She may be a bit odd looking, what with a bright yellow face, silver arms and a positioning sensor on her head, but this tiny gal's got charm -- even if it is chip-induced. Japan's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd say their new Internet-linked robot Wakamaru, unveiled on Thursday, has a friendly personality that could make her a much-loved member of the family," reportsReuters."We have tried to create a robot you can have a relationship with, just like a human," said technical team leader Ken Onishi, who said that while none of her individual features are revolutionary, putting them together in one cute package was a mammoth task.Comment:Mitsubishi is offering 100 robots for sale in Tokyo for a limited time, starting today. The price is 1.575 million yen ($14,260 or £7,900) plus 10,000 yen per month maintenance. That's a hefty price for what amounts to a mobile PDA that doesn't have any legs. (But not nearly as expensive asThe Independentthinks: it has translated the price into £790,000.)Related:We first reported this in briefa couple of weeks ago- and got the price right!
"Researchers at the University of California, Berkeley have discovered that a simple audio recording of keyboard clicks can betray what users have typed, possibly leading users to betray intimate details about their lives to virus writers and fraudsters," reportsENN."In an experiment carried out at the university, computer scientists were able to take several 10-minute sound recordings of users typing, feed the audio into a computer and use an algorithm to recover up to 96% of the characters entered on a keyboard."What was particularly striking about this study, the researchers said, was the ease with which the text could be recovered using off-the-shelf equipment. "We didn't need high-quality audio to accomplish this," said Feng Zhou, co-author of the study. "We just used a $10 microphone that can be easily purchased in almost any computer supply store."
No, it's not a remote control; the picture on the left is the Nintendo Revolution's game controller. Yowza - breaking free from the PlayStation benchmark or what?!IGN has in-depth coverage of their time with the new-style games controller, including photos and a video. If you want to know anything and everything about the newfangled device which is* 3D Pointing. Sensors understand up, down, left, right, forward and backward.* Tilt Sensitive. Controller can be rotated or rolled from side-to-side.* Buttons Included. Has a trigger on its backside, face buttons, and a D-Pad.* Multifunctional. Has an expansion port which can be used with different types of controller peripherals. Analog stick with two trigger buttons planned for left hand.* Wireless. Totally wire-free. Currently there are no details on the max distance, source or power, or otherwise.* Rumble Built-in. Included as a standard in all the controllers....including hands-on tests with game demos, I recommend you head overthere. More coverage ishere. You can see it all from the proverbial horse's mouthhere, the webcast of Nintendo President Satoru Iwata's keynote speech from the Tokyo Game Show.Leave it to Nintendo to do something truly creative with their hardware. 3D pointing?! Dear sweer Jehosephat. Now THAT is a revolution. As the tag on their controllerpress releasesays, "Innovation Key To Broadening Games Audience".
Simple: Nintendo president Satoru Iwata at the unveiling. Photograph: Koji Sasahara/APAll the buzz about Nintendo's forthcomingRevolutionconsole has been focused on its most closely guarded secret: its controller. Earlier in the year the company's overlord, Satoru Iwata, promised something new and exciting - and whenwe interviewed him, he gave a hint of what was to come by saying "there are too many buttons and sticks on controllers for novice players, which is likely to discourage them from ever playing games at all".Now the truth is out there: it's a mixture of old-school controller and TV style remote control. And it's motion-sensitive. That means players can also choose to wave it around like a sword, or swing it like a bat. According to Reuters, Iwatahad this to say:"It's designed like a TV remote because that's familiar to everyone including those who are intimidated by a two-handed controller," said Iwata. "Its intuitive form allows both experienced and new gamers to stand on the same starting line."It's interesting development, and one that's clearly intended to bring gaming even further into the mainstream.Related:Aleks Krotoski's columnin this week's relaunched Technology Guardian poses questions about the strategies of going super-mainstream with gaming.
An internet entrepreneur's theft of emails from a business rival set off a chain of events that led to the taxpayer recovering &pound;12m from a disgraced Tory politician, it emerged yesterday.Clifford Stanford, the founder of Demon internet, intercepted the emails during a bitter boardroom battle with John Porter, the son of Dame Shirley Porter, the former leader of Westminster city council. The two men were battling over control of a company Stanford had set up after selling Demon for &pound;29m.Stanford hired a private investigator who installed a "mirror wall" into his rival's computer system, which made a copy of every email going to Mr Porter and sent it to an account that could be accessed by Stanford.The emails they obtained illegally revealed that Dame Shirley was far wealthier than she had claimed after she was fined for her role in the homes- for-votes scandal. She ended up paying &pound;12.3m in full and final settlement for the scandal, which saw council homes sold off in marginal wards to people thought to be Conservative voters, while Labour-voting council tenants were placed in asbestos-ridden towerblocks in safe Labour wards.Yesterday at Southwark crown court Stanford, 50, and private investigator George Liddell, 46, from Nether Winchendon, Buckinghamshire, admitted one count of unlawful and unauthorised interception of electronic communications at Redbus Interhouse, a storage company. Both were formally cleared of conspiring to blackmail Dame Shirley and her son after the crown offered no evidence. Stanford was fined &pound;20,000 and both men were given six-month suspended sentences.The court heard that Stanford and Liddell gave the information to the media.Passing sentence Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC, said the crown's case was that Stanford had arranged to intercept emails "in the hope that by gaining knowledge of the contact of John Porter and Shirley Porter that might be disadvantageous to them ... you could use that information in furthering your ambitions in relation to Redbus".The judge said the plan was to get information that would pressure John Porter into standing down and added: "Whatever the outcome of your later going with this material to the press, both of you know that at the time when you actually committed this offence it was not then your intention to affect the outcome of any proceedings between Westminster council and Dame Shirley Porter."It was your intention, Mr Stanford, to take over this company."Tim Owen QC, defending Stanford, said: "Some of the material eventually went to the BBC without any approach or threat or anything. That triggered a series of events which led to the settlement to Westminster council of the claim."Mr Owen said Stanford sold Demon for &pound;66m in 1998, personally pocketing some &pound;29m, a "huge amount" of which was channelled into Redbus.
To be afraid of speaking on the phone seems now to be comical. Yet the narrator of Proust's In Search of Lost Time records his maid's mistrust of the new technology and her refusal, "however important, however urgent the occasion might be, to make use of the telephone. She would manage to disappear whenever anyone tried to teach her how to use it, as people disappear when it is time for them to be vaccinated."More than 80 years on and the telephone has long since passed into the realm of the everyday. But to recapture the reaction of Proust's maid, we only have to look back a few years for an example of new technology being met with suspicion and hostility.It was as recently as 1991 that a chancellor of the exchequer, Norman Lamont, could announce a tax on company mobile phones - and be cheered by MPs in the House of Commons after boasting that this would mean quieter dining in restaurants. Any contemporary chancellor suggesting a tax on mobiles would face a riot.Mobile maniaAt the same time, a writer as clever as Umberto Eco could claim that mobile phone users on trains were merely showing off, and that no one truly important would ever need a mobile phone. Like Proust's maid, Lamont and Eco found their attitudes submerged in a popular stampede. When both the Queen and the president of the United States have iPods, then personal digital technology has passed out of the unusual to the ordinary.Yet the pace of a technological shift can also mask the depth and profundity of the change as it percolates through society. Mobile phones are a stunning example: just 10 years ago they were luxuries. By the end of last year there were 60m active mobile phone accounts in the UK, a 50% increase from just four years before. At the same time a significant, although almost entirely unremarked, watershed was passed: in 2004 the average UK household spent more on its monthly mobile phone bill (&pound;28.45) than on its landline (&pound;24.67). Nine out of 10 households now have a mobile phone.While we can see and hear the spread of the mobile, other forms of personal technology have invaded our lives almost as rapidly. According to sales figures, there are more than 20m videogames consoles in the UK, while last year sales of games software totalled &pound;1.2bn. To put that into context, total cinema ticket sales in 2004 was just &pound;770m. The UK's videogames industry now employs more than 22,000 people, and adds a net &pound;200m a year to the economy's trade balance.Digital dominationThe internet, too, has passed out of the domain of the geeks. Nearly two-thirds of the population has internet access at home, while the same proportion has digital TV. More households possess DVD players than have dishwashers. Sales of 35mm film cameras almost halved in the space of 12 months by July this year, while digital camera sales bound ahead - not including the one-in-three mobile phones that have built-in cameras.This wave of change is happening underneath our noses, shaping society. For example, take the phenomenal growth in the online auction site eBay: its combined UK transactions this year are expected to reach &pound;4bn, spent by more than 10 million individual users. Another example is the iPod, replacing the Walkman as the icon of its era and helping to create a nation where people buy their music over the internet.The increasing sophistication of internet retailing means that those aged 25 to 44 now spend 20% of their shopping time online. After the dotcom boom in 2000, the outlandish claims that had been made for the growth of internet commerce sounded risible. Now it seems those claims were right - just a few years early.In the short time that has passed, it has become almost impossible to remember what office work was like before the arrival of the desktop PC, email and the internet. Life without Google, the ubiquitous search engine, hardly bears thinking about.Yet as Proust observed: "The advance of civilisation enables people to display unsuspected qualities or fresh defects which make them dearer or more insupportable to their friends." These new technologies not only change our world, they also change ourselves. The complexity and variety of modern personal technology is such that it enters our lives in ways we cannot anticipate.It is comforting to learn, then, that the most popular use of a mobile phone, after talking and texting, is its most humble: the alarm clock. Because new technology is always being used, in ways we don't expect, as a wakeup call.In numberseBayIn 2000 there were &#163;43m worth of transactions on eBay in Britain, predicted to rise to &#163;4bn during 2005.Digital TVThe percentage of households with digital TV grew from 15.5% in 2000 to 61.9% in 2005.HoursOne hour out of every five spent shopping in the UK now takes place on the internet.Games&#163;350m worth of videogames were sold in 1996, rising to &#163;1.2bn by 2004.Players56% of all UK videogame players are aged between 24 and 44.BroadbandNew broadband connections grew from 1.4m in 2001 to 6.2m in 2004.Mobile phonesThere were 40 million UK mobile phone customers in 2000; by 2004 this had risen to 60 million, almost the entire population.Digital camerasThere were 935,000 digital cameras shipped in 2001, which is forecast to rise to 5,964,348 this year.&#183;Additional research by Matt Keating
An internet pioneer today avoided jail after poaching sensitive emails said to have "triggered" Dame Shirley Porter's decision to settle the multi-million pound "homes-for-votes" charge against her.The Demon Internet founder Clifford Stanford was given a six-month prison sentence, suspended for two years, and fined &#163;20,000 at Southwark crown court, in London.He had hoped to use the "confidential" material in a boardroom battle with John Porter, the son of the former Westminster council leader and the chairman of Redbus Interhouse, another company founded by Mr Stanford.However, once he and a private investigator realised the significance of what had been obtained, it was handed to lawyers for Westminster council.The court heard some of the information was also given to the press. As a result Dame Shirley - who had claimed to have assets of only &#163;300,000 - agreed to settle the 15-year dispute.As the Tory leader in Westminster, she oversaw the selling of council homes in marginal wards to people thought likely to vote Conservative.The dispute that followed continued until interest and legal fees caused the surcharge to balloon to &#163;42m. In the event, however, a "final settlement" of &#163;12.3m was agreed.Belgium-based Mr Stanford, 50, and George Liddell, 46, of Nether Winchendon, Buckinghamshire, a probationary policeman turned private investigator, admitted one count of "unlawful and unauthorised interception of electronic communications" at Redbus Interhouse plc between June 22 2002 and March 18 the following year.Both were formally cleared of conspiring to blackmail Dame Shirley and her son after the Crown decided to offer no evidence.Passing sentence, Judge Geoffrey Rivlin, QC, said the trail of events that had put the pair in the dock had started with a boardroom disagreement at Redbus."At the time with which we are concerned, John Porter, the son of Dame Shirley, was chairman ... and you &#91;Stanford&#93; deputy chairman of the company, whose business was the safe storage for clients worldwide of vast quantities of computer information."You then left the company, but desired to have Mr Porter removed from his position in the hope you would be able to replace him and then choose your own people to run it."He said the Crown's case was that Stanford had then arranged to intercept emails "in the hope that by gaining knowledge of the contact of John Porter and Shirley Porter that might be disadvantageous to them so that you could use that information in furthering your ambitions in relation to Redbus"."You, Mr Stanford, and you, Mr Liddell, then working as a private investigator, decided to work together in this enterprise, that is to persuade the Porter family that John Porter should step down," he added.A "vast amount" of private information about Mr Porter, including details of his bank accounts, privileged legal documents and other material, ended up in the defendants' hands, said Sarah Whitehouse, prosecuting.The "high watermark" of the case against them had been an email from the businessman to his co-defendant in September 2002.In it, Stanford wrote: "Where do we go from here? Do we try to blackmail him into resigning from the board or do we go to the institutional shareholders or the press with it."The judge said that while he fully accepted the blackmail option was never pursued, the fact remained that "both of you know that at the time when you actually committed this offence it was not then your intention to affect the outcome of any proceedings between Westminster council and Dame Shirley Porter. It was your intention, Mr Stanford, to take over this company."He continued: "It is essential people ... should know that the integrity of their confidential communication should be respected."However, he said in the circumstances he was "satisfied" it "cannot be in anyone's interest" that Stanford be sent to prison.He ordered him to pay a &#163;20,000 fine and &#163;7,000 towards prosecution costs. If both amounts were not handed over within 28 days, he would face an immediate prison sentence of six months in default.Turning to Mr Liddell, the judge said: "You knew full well this was not just an undercover operation but a discreditable underhand operation upon which you should have never have engaged."You were to have received a success fee of &#163;100,000, a measure of your joint knowledge of just how wrong all of this was."
Over the past few weeks you could be forgiven for thinking that everyone with a computer has started making free phone calls over the internet. The high-profile arrival of Google's new service, Google Talk, the $4bn takeover of pioneer Skype coupled with a massive advertising campaign by US arrival Vonage have pushed internet telephony into the headlines. So how easy is it to get to grips with what is known technically as Voice over Internet Protocol - and should you bother?Voice over Internet Protocol - VoIP, pronounced Voy-p - works by using the internet to carry a voice call, rather than the traditional telephone network. But unless you like dabbling with new technology, you are going to need a reason to start using it. There are many reasons because there are many different "types" of VoIP. These range from downloadable software that converts a computer into a phone, to kits that allow a handset to be plugged into a broadband connection to create a phone line.All VoIP services allow users of the same service to talk to each other for free; some allow calls to standard phone numbers for a fee; some provide users with a phone number that anyone with a traditional landline or mobile phone can ring; some services will only work through a computer; some do not work with Apple Macs or Linux operating systems; some need an Ethernet connection and will not work with the basic modem most ISPs provide.So what do you need and how do you get VoIPed up? We look at packages from three of the best-known names in VoIP as well as two services offered by BT.Skypewww.skype.comMore than 54 million people are using Skype. So successful has the company been that this week it was bought for $4.1bn by eBay. Skype's new owners haven't made clear their long-term plans, but at present users can download the basic service for free. Skype works by turning your computer into a telephone. It is a simple download that works on PCs using Windows or Linux, as well as Macs and handheld devices running Pocket PC. A major drawback is that if your computer is switched off, so is your phone.Anyone who has used an instant messaging (IM) program will understandSkype. For everyone else, it allows you to use the internet to make free calls to anyone who has Skype on their computer. It uses your computer's built-in microphone and speaker or you can buy a headset that plugs into your machine.Rather than having a phone number to call, you choose a Skype username, the equivalent of a phone number. When you are online and have Skype running, other Skype users that you are willing to talk to can see you are available to take calls.Once you have a Skype username you will be able to log on anywhere at a computer with Skype software and a reasonably fast internet connection, and make calls as if you were at home.But if you want to start calling people who have a traditional phone number and are not on Skype, then you have to pay for an additional service called Skype Out, a prepay service using your credit card.If you want non-Skype users to be able to call you, you also need Skype In, another paid-for service that allots you an actual phone number with voicemail. Because it uses internet technology rather than a phone line, you can request Skype In numbers from several countries even if you are based elsewhere. This can be useful for people who have friends or associates overseas but do not want them to have to pay international rates when they call. You can get up to 10 Skype In numbers for &euro;10 (&pound;6.70) for three months.Upside:Free and easy to install (unless you want to deal with callers who are not on Skype).Downside:You can only talk to other Skype users for free and you must have your computer switched on to make calls.Best for:People whose children make mobile calls while online. Anyone who uses IM services and wants to make calls as well.Vonagewww.vonage.co.ukUnlike Skype, Vonage is not a software-based service so it does not matter what computer or operating system you use. Once you have gone through the online signup process you are sent an adaptor that plugs into your broadband connection, you plug your existing phone into it and you are ready to call.The trouble is that you need an Ethernet router. Most ISPs send their broadband customers a modem that plugs into a computer's USB port. This will not work with Vonage. Ethernet routers are easy to find and relatively cheap, with D-Link and Netgear being two popular brands. NTL and Telewest customers who use their cable provider to access the internet may already have an Ethernet modem (if you are unsure, ask your service provider).Vonage's basic package costs &pound;9.99 a month, for which you can make unlimited calls to any landline in the UK and Ireland. You can choose a phone number that corresponds to your location or country, and for a further &pound;2.99 per month you can pick numbers from a host of international locations, including New York. If you have friends overseas you can choose an area code local to them and they can call you for the price of a local call.Vonage's residential service comes with all the features you would expect from traditional telephony such as call waiting, forwarding, diverting and voicemail. It allows up to four callers to be placed on a conference call, there are no long-term contracts and it has an online billing service that makes it easy to work out who made which call.Upside:Works when your computer is not switched on, and allows you to call anyone and anyone to call you without having to sign up to a long-term contract.Downside:It costs &pound;9.99 and you need an Ethernet connection, which most ISPs do not supply.Best for:Anyone who wants a second phone line. People in shared accommodation with a broadband connection.Google Talktalk.google.comGoogle Talk is similar to Skype but it has two major drawbacks. It will only work with computers running Windows 2000 or Windows XP. And it can only be accessed by people who have a Gmail account. According to Mike Jazayeri, product manager for Google Talk, existing Gmail users will be able to invite friends who are not on Gmail to download Google Talk.Google Talk turns your computer into a telephone with which you can communicate with other Google Talk users. Like Skype, there is a list of recommended headsets and accessories on the Google websiteOn the plus side, unlike Skype, Google Talk supports standards-based communication clients, which means users can access the Google Talk service for instant messaging from all major platforms, including Apple Macs, Linux and Windows.Upside:Free.Downside:You can't use it unless you already have a Gmail account but anyone who has one can invite you to join. At the moment, there is no way of calling anyone who is not on Google Talk.Best for:People with a Gmail account who want to integrate their IM accounts with Google Talk and talk to other Gmail users.BT Broadband Voicewww.btbroadbandvoice.comLike the Vonage service, BT's Broadband Voice package uses an adaptor that plugs into your broadband connection, which means it works even if your computer is off. You do not have to be a BT broadband customer, but if you are, the rates are lower. But it involves a software installation that works easiest with computers running Windows - although with help it is apparently possible to get it running on a Mac.There are two call plans: an evening and weekend plan that gives unlimited UK evening and weekend landline calls up to an hour per call for &pound;4.99 a month (&pound;4 for BT broadband customers); and an Anytime Plan that offers unlimited UK landline calls up to an hour per call at anytime for &pound;10.99 a month (&pound;10 for BT broadband users). You get an 05 number so non-VoIP users can call you, and there are savings on international destinations.Upside:It's a BT product so there is customer support.Downside:It's a BT product so the rate card is baffling.Best for:People wanting a second phone line but unsure about Vonage.BT Communicatorwww.bt.com/communicatorBT's take on the free VoIP phenomenon is easy to install and use. As with Skype, it turns your computer into a phone, although you can buy headsets that plug into your computer's USB port. It only works with PCs running Windows 98 or above (not Macs), and while it is free to download and talk with other BT Yahoo Messenger users, once you start making calls to people using traditional landlines or mobiles it costs money. To make calls to non-users you need an existing billing relationship with BT.Upside:Customer support and good international rates.Downside:When your computer is switched off, so is your phone. Only works with PCs with Windows 98 or above.Best for:People whose children make mobile calls while online. Anyone considering Skype who is already a BT customer and wants to call people overseas who do not have a broadband connection.Should I get VoIP?Making phone calls over the net will be right for you if you have broadband - or are about to get it - and can answer yes to one of the following questions:&#183;Do you want a second phone line or want to stop your children running up massive mobile bills when they are on the internet but still talking to their friends or texting them?&#183;Do you spend a lot of time on the internet, perhaps as a home worker or running a small business, and want to reduce the cost of calling friends, colleagues or staff?&#183;Do you have friends, family or work colleagues abroad?&#183;Do you live in a shared flat and find dividing the phone bill a pain and would rather have a real-time update of your bill?&#183;Do you already use an online instant messenging program such as MSN Messenger, Yahoo Messenger, or AOL's AIM and want to talk to people rather than just texting them?&#183;Do you have a broadband connection and a sense of adventure?
So, for those who held out til the UK release, the initial buzz of PSP ownership is probably over. Two weeks after the launch and you've no doubt played Lumines and Ridge Racer to death, watched the demo UMD a few hundred times, bought a movie and stuffed a few MP3s onto your 64MB memory Stick. So what next? What will PSP become to you?It's an interesting time. The machine is now available globally with plenty of support from publishers and movie studios, as well as a sizeable audience of both hardcore and casual gamers. There it is in our hands – a console that can play games, movies and music, that can surf the web, that may one day take pictures and act as a GPS device. Will mainstream users get the most out of it? And what does 'getting the most out of it' actually mean?This is the thing about convergence – humans aren't very good at it. At least not yet. Most consumers like to have a music player, a phone and a handheld games console, with only a fraction willing or able to mix it up a little. But now convergence is really being pushed on us, with iTunes phones, and photo iPods and, at the zenith of the contemporary convergence experience, PSP. It'll be really fascinating to see how daily use of Sony's portable entertainment centre evolves. Will peoplereallystart ad hoc network games with strangers? Will they really spend hours every week converting their DVDs to MPEG4s?I wanted to find out how experienced users, those who've had Japanese machines for months, were using theirs. I also wanted to see if they had any advice for those of us still marveling at that lovely big screen. So I sent a few emails to industry people – classic early adopters. And this is some of what came back…Ben Cousins at Sony Computer Entertainment weighs in with a very simple suggestion. "With the prices of Memory Sticks dropping dramatically, now couldn't be a better time to load up your PSP with your favourite tracks. The PSP's sound hardware is excellent, and the standard headphones are fantastic quality." And, at the risk of annoying Ben, I'd add that it may be worth checking out third-party memory options. Lexar, for example, has a range of three Gamer Edition sticks that come with theXploder Media Centre Lite softwarewhich makes it easier to organise and navigate your music and video files."It sounds really dull, perhaps, but I've been catching up on TV with mine," admits David Braben of Frontier developments. "I watched the first couple of episodes of 'Lost' on the plane. If you have a DVD recorder, it is trivial to copy programmes across using a PC - though I think you'll want a GB or more memory stick to be worthwhile." And to make the process even more straightforward, Sony has just launched the RDR-AX75 DVD burner in Japan, which encodes directly into MPEG4. As Japanese tech siteAkihabaranews.comexplains:"Once the video is stored onto the HDD, you just need to stick your MS Duo in the slot and transfer the video onto the memory card. Depending on the type of encoding you use, you can put between 1h10 and 4h10 of cideo onto a 1Gb card. In order to play back the Mpeg-4 AVC content, you need to have the 2.0 firmware on your PSP."Back to Braben though, and the programming legend feels that the multiplayer side of PSP is not quite matching expectations just yet. "the wireless thing gives a new slant to multiplayer gaming, and works very well - if everyone has a copy of the game you want to play. Unfortunately, more often than not people don't have the same game UMD with them, and currently it is a real pain to get a multiplayer game working off a single UMD. So much so that it's not worth the bother. This is a real shame."Elsewhere, I've been amused at how many developers are using their PSPs to show off. "I can out-do any iPod user, when I show them I have MP4s and not MP3s - it's clear one-upmanship," says Andrew Oliver, co-founder of Blitz games and veteran handheld coder (What, you've never played Fantastic Dizzy on Game Gear?!). Oliver also highlights another interesting by-product of the machine's download and share capabilities, "you'll be able to get demos of movies and games which everyone loves, and this serves both the marketing departments and the consumer." It's something I hadn't really thought of before, but PSP is going to be the perfect medium for film trailers – they download quickly and they draw a crowd, the ultimate combination of convenience and kudos.In some ways (putting aside the games again), this is the exciting part, the way that new forms of entertainment will come about, through the merger of web access, ad hoc networking and the natural human instinct to share and show off. Possibly, when email was first invented, none of the clever people responsible realised that, one day, a massive percentage of traffic would be porn clips, amusing adverts and videos of people having serious accidents. A similar evolution may occur with PSP. As for viral marketing - with Sony's hardware it is finally going airborne. Where will this lead?Finally, Simon Byron, director of veteran videogame PR agency Barrington Harvey has one piece of advice for new PSP owners, and he's extremely adamant about it. "Buy a screen protector," he shouts. "No, really. Put it down now, head back to the shops and buy one. We all have this grand ambition of keeping the hardware in pristine condition; of playing it only in a sealed hyperbaric oxygen chamber, wearing soft, lint gloves. But the reality is harsher; leave your beautiful PSP anywhere for a second and all manner of natural disasters can befall it, and the tiniest scratch - visible only by tilting the screen and shining a light on it - will be on the back of your mind whenever you play. Genuinely, go out and buy one. Now."So, PSP, after the initial rush of actually, you know, playing the games, is all about showing off, and watching TV, and storing piccies of your kids. Hmmm, that doesn't seem right. One thing's for sure, like any gadget with a hard drive, PSP will become an extension of individuality.So what does your Memory Stick Duo say about you?'As for games…Here are a couple of hidden gems from the launch line-up, as recommended by two interviewees…"World Snooker Championship is not the most obvious PSP launch title, but it's the one I've been playing the most. Maybe it's a sign of my age - Jimmy White's Whirlwind Snooker was a game I almost failed my GCSEs for - but the virtual green baize provides an enormous amount of depth. It's missing a free look mode, but aside from that it's pretty perfect, providing constant challenge. Mastering the potting is relatively easy, but the positional play required to establish significant breaks and keep your opponent from the table puts it on a par with the most in-depth strategy games, of which there are none currently on the PSP. Plus, you can play pool, billiards and do trick shots. And unlock stuff, like videos. Sadly, there doesn't appear to be that one of Peter Ebdon going mental at Stephen Lee from a few years back. I'll keep trying, mind." Simon Byron"The hidden gem is Fired Up by Sony London. It's a vehicle combat game where your jeep has massive guns mounted on it. Not amazing graphics but, wow, does it play well. The handling is excellent and it feels great. It's really a multiplayer blast-'em-up, but is good in single-player too. You can download extra maps and also Game Share a demo to your mates so you can have multiplayer battles even if they don't own the game..." Simon Smith, Business Development Manager, Blitz Games
While I wasat the European launch of Rokr, I took a few moments to chat with Greg Estell, a vice president of Motorola's European operation.He was upbeat - as you would be too, if you were unleashing a phone that will most likely sell by the bucketload. But, I asked him, why has it been such a long time in coming? His response: it wasn't - but people just placed more expectations on it than a normal phone, which meant it seemed like a long time. "The anticipation was very high," he said "but Rokr had a typical gestation period for one of our phones."One thing I'd noticed from talking to both Apple and Motorola was how they were keen to distance themselves from each other. Apple scooped the Rokr themselves by launching theiPod nano last week, and Greg even went as far as to announce that "this is not the iPhone". Why is that?"It's just a clarification," he said. "Steve [Jobs] wouldn't refer to this as an iPhone, and neither would Edward Zander [Motorola chief]. ""Our vision is not to have this device replace the iPod: eight hours of music does most people well - although if I'm on a long flight or something, I'd use my iPod instead - but on a daily basis. People carry their phones with them all the time."And then we talked about usability. Motorola's had a pretty bad track record on making phones usable - a complaint that's been made by our readers many times over. What did he think about that? He admitted that the Moto interface wasn't always great. "Frankly, from a user interface point of view, we've made a lot of progress." But, he said, it was partly the fact that the firm always struggled in the face of Nokia's reputation, particularly on the Finnish firm's home ground. Even though he thought Moto had a good interface now, they were having a tough time letting people know. "That's my job: I've got to get that message through across Europe."
Mylomoto: ROKR launch event in Kings Cross, LondonThis lunchtime I went along to the official launch party for the Motorola ROKR phone - you know, the one with iTunes built in. The event was hosted by Tess Daly, and featured a live set fromMylo(which I photographed badly, as you can see).The man himself, Myles MacInnes, took a few moments to let me know why he was there ("we're saving up for a yacht for our bass player") and his thoughts on technology. He famously hacked together his album, Destroy Rock &amp; Roll, on a low-level Mac... but is he a geek?"I never thought I'd be the kind of person who'd have a laptop and an iPod," he said. "But it's sort of crept up on me. Obviously I spend all day in front of the computer when I'm working, but I've never enjoyed technology for technology's sake."
Today's new-look Guardian features the new-lookTechnology section, emerging out of the ashes of the old Online section which had its home at the end of Life before the broadsheet version bit the dust. Well it's got its own front cover again, a new name and - along with the rest of the paper - a re-haul beyond the fabulousTechnicolorthat livens up its pages. Interested gamesblog readers will note that the games coverage in the Technology section is new too.No longer is there a page dedicated to lots of latest releases and industry news; instead, there's a page dedicated to one release, which may or may not be hot off the shelf. Newsy info will be elsewhere in the section. This week's game of the week is Greg'sfave of the year,Fahrenheit(akaIndigo Prophecyin North America). Doing the honours,Kieron Gillenbalancesthe pros and cons of "one of the most interesting games of the year". With both he and Greg breathing down my neck, perhaps it's time to put it back in my PlayStation 2 to really have a proper go at it.I admit, I was surprised when I heard about this shift in games coverage a few months ago, as surely a weekly conduit for games-related news should cover the whole range of new gaming on offer. One whole page of review seems excessive when there are so many other titles that could capture the imagination, but it works. It helps to maintain the focus of The Guardian's games coverage as in-depth, after-the-hype, real critical analysis in words that everyone - not just gamers - can understand. Only, it's longer.More games do end up on the page, but they dwell under the Back Story section, which places the reviewed game in its wider context.This weekKieron covers five games which have helped to define Fahrenheit's genre. I appreciate this kind of coverage, as it allows me to revisit old favourites and to discover ones I may have missed along the way.The editors promise that there will be more games in Technology than before, with more features and other elements liberally littered throughout the section. You can also catch specially-scribed gamesblogs entries, albeit in dead-tree format. This week I'm in there with my orange hair.Let us know what you think!
Giving up the ghostCould you elaborate on plasma versus LCD TVs? My old telly has just given up the ghost and I don't really know the difference between the two.Fergus M CrossenJack Schofield replies:Both plasma and LCD TVs are attempts to solve the same problem: how do you make a big, flat screen without forcing a very large and very heavy bit of glass - a cathode ray tube - into an unnatural shape? Of course, both solutions have their own problems.Plasma screens work by lighting up tiny cells of rare gases (xenon and neon) sandwiched between two plates of glass, so it is fairly straightforward to make large screens. These screens are very bright and have good contrast with deep blacks. They also have wide viewing angles, so you still get a good view from the side.LCD screens use columns of liquid crystal molecules controlled by a matrix of transistors (in TFT or thin-film transistor designs). Some of these transistors are likely to be defective, which leads to dead pixels, and the larger the screen, the harder it is to avoid them. LCD screens are lit from behind, so they are not as bright or as contrasty as plasma screens, and may look less bright if you are off to one side. Also, they don't react as quickly as plasma screens, and may smear fast action.However, LCD screens have made dramatic progress during two decades of laptop PC development, and these problems have largely been overcome.LCD screens also have some useful advantages over plasma screens. They are thinner, lighter and more robust, which makes them much easier to move around. For those with ecological concerns, LCDs use little power, whereas plasma screens use lots. Further, an LCD should last roughly twice as long as a plasma screen, which may have a "half life" of only 30,000 to 40,000 hours. (The "half life" is when the screen has degraded to half its brightness, and you may well throw it away.)As always, different buyers value different features. If you want a really big wall-mounted screen and money is no object, go for plasma. If you want a small or medium-sized screen that you can move around, go for LCD. Either way, look for a High Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) and an "HD ready" logo, so you will be ready for high-definition TV.Making musicLike everyone else, I have a big collection of music on my PC and I would like to route this through my amp to my big speakers, rather than through my little computer speakers.Gerry McArdleJS:Your PC probably has a soundcard with an audio jack to connect to your PC speakers, and your amp almost certainly has red and white phono plugs (RCA connectors). All you need to link the two is a cable with a stereo audio jack on one end (check the size) and phono plugs on the other. These cables are cheap and readily available at high street electrical stores. Plug the phono sockets into an AUX input and remember to turn the volume to zero before you try to play anything. There are, of course, much more sophisticated - and much more expensive - alternatives, such as Slim Devices' Squeezebox 2slimdevices.com/pi_overview.htmlModem speedsWith broadband connections of up to 24Mbps on the horizon (A need for speed, September 8), is there any likelihood of the standard 56k modem being improved?Richard FinchJS:Sorry, no: not in the near future, or ever. There is a theoretical limit to how much information can be sent over an analogue telephone line, and it is about 33.6 kilobits per second (kbps). So-called 56k modems depend on using a digital telephone exchange to achieve speeds of 48kbps to 52kbps, and hardly anyone ever gets the maximum speed of 56kbps. Essentially, the communication speed is limited by the amount of noise on the line, as shown by Claude Shannon, the father of information theory, in 1948.DAB phonesThe most useful feature on my mobile phone is the one least advertised - a built-in FM radio. When will we see phones with built-in DAB receivers?Eugene MillstopJS:In February 2004, Samsung Electro-Mechanics and Frontier Silicon announced a tiny DAB module that fitted in a mobile (sem.samsung.com). So far, I haven't noticed any on the market, but presumably they are on the way.
Could you elaborate on plasma versus LCD TVs? My old telly has just given up the ghost and I don't really know the difference between the two. Fergus M CrossenBoth plasma and LCD TVs are attempts to solve the same problem: how do you make a big, flat screen without forcing a very large and very heavy bit of glass - a cathode ray tube - into an unnatural shape? Of course, both solutions have their own problems.Plasma screens work by lighting up tiny cells of rare gases (xenon and neon) sandwiched between two plates of glass, so it is fairly straightforward to make large screens. These screens are very bright and have good contrast with deep blacks. They also have wide viewing angles, so you still get a good view from the side.LCD screens use columns of liquid crystal molecules controlled by a matrix of transistors (in TFT or thin-film transistor designs). Some of these transistors are likely to be defective, which leads to dead pixels, and the larger the screen, the harder it is to avoid them. LCD screens are lit from behind, so they are not as bright or as contrasty as plasma screens, and may look less bright if you are off to one side. Also, they don't react as quickly as plasma screens, and may smear fast action.However, LCD screens have made dramatic progress during two decades of laptop PC development, and these problems have largely been overcome.LCD screens also have some useful advantages over plasma screens. They are thinner, lighter and more robust, which makes them much easier to move around. For those with ecological concerns, LCDs use little power, whereas plasma screens use lots. Further, an LCD should last roughly twice as long as a plasma screen, which may have a "half life" of only 30,000 to 40,000 hours. (The "half life" is when the screen has degraded to half its brightness, and you may well throw it away.)As always, different buyers value different features. If you want a really big wall-mounted screen and money is no object, go for plasma. If you want a small or medium-sized screen that you can move around, go for LCD. Either way, look for a High Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) and an "HD ready" logo, so you will be ready for high-definition TV.
Like everyone else, I have a big collection of music on my PC and I would like to route this through my amp to my big speakers, rather than through my little computer speakers. Gerry McArdleYour PC probably has a soundcard with an audio jack to connect to your PC speakers, and your amp almost certainly has red and white phono plugs (RCA connectors). All you need to link the two is a cable with a stereo audio jack on one end (check the size) and phono plugs on the other. These cables are cheap and readily available at high street electrical stores. Plug the phono sockets into an AUX input and remember to turn the volume to zero before you try to play anything. There are, of course, much more sophisticated - and much more expensive - alternatives, such as Slim Devices'Squeezebox 2
With broadband connections of up to 24Mbps on the horizon (A need for speed, September 8), is there any likelihood of the standard 56k modem being improved? Richard FinchSorry, no: not in the near future, or ever. There is a theoretical limit to how much information can be sent over an analogue telephone line, and it is about 33.6 kilobits per second (kbps). So-called 56k modems depend on using a digital telephone exchange to achieve speeds of 48kbps to 52kbps, and hardly anyone ever gets the maximum speed of 56kbps. Essentially, the communication speed is limited by the amount of noise on the line, as shown by Claude Shannon, the father of information theory, in 1948.
The most useful feature on my mobile phone is the one least advertised - a built-in FM radio. When will we see phones with built-in DAB [Digital Audio Broadcasting] receivers? Eugene MillstopIn February 2004, Samsung Electro-Mechanics and Frontier Silicon announced atiny DAB modulethat fitted in a mobile. So far, I haven't noticed any on the market, but presumably they are on the way.
The past few weeks have seen some serious action from some of the web's biggest players. From Google's attempt to take on everybody and everything, to eBay's multibillion purchase of Skype, the heat is on.The way we're is more than a little reminiscent of the late 90s, when internet fever was something new, exciting and - perhaps - a little too much for some people to handle. But some say we're not in the same place now: the world has grown up, and technology has grown up with it.But what are your thoughts: are we in danger of seeing a repeat of the dotcom bubble? Are we older and wiser now, or will history repeat itself?Leave your opinions in the comments, please.
When auction site eBay decided to buy out internet phone company Skype earlier this week, the reaction was mixed."eBay has definitely overpaid for Skype," John Delaney, principal consultant at analysts Ovum, told the BBC. The cost of the merger could amount to $4.1bn. The deal gives eBay the leading brand in internet telephony, and technology that will let eBay users speak to each other about potential purchases. Next year, when the deal has gone through, Skype icons will appear on eBay, allowing users to call each directly."If you have lots of questions, wouldn't it be nice to click on a link?" explained eBay chief executive Meg Whitman.Calling by Skype would preserve the privacy and anonymity of eBay, but add to the level of trust in the system, she said, predicting that this would remove barriers to people buying on the site. Sales have ramped up since the company bought the PayPal technology in 2002, she added.eBay would also make money by offering direct connections to potential customers. Big companies would advertise on eBay and pay "from $2 to $12" for every Skype phone call they receive from potential buyers. Skype will also be able to introduce eBay to countries where it has little or no presence. "We have a presence in every country except North Korea, and we are the market leader in each," said Skype chief executive Nikas Zennstrom (pictured above with Whitman).Skype's core services will also be developed. "We believe Skype is a classic increasing-returns business," said Whitman. "Users come on board and invite others."eBay hopes to increase the company's tiny revenue - just $7m last year - by using the PayPal payment system to encourage people to make paying calls to landlines from their Skype accountseBay could have done a lot of this without buying Skype - perhaps with a cross-licensing deal, and allowing PayPal into Skype's service. But by buying the company, it has bought a popular brand, too.
For years mobile phone manufacturers have been encouraging us to swap our laptops for handheld devices. Yet the handsets they have been punting haven't quite been powerful or sophisticated enough - or have been dogged by poor keypads and weak connectivity. Only Nokia, with its excellent Communicator series, has got close.There is, however, a buzz around a new handset that networks say could be the first mobile to enable its owners to shed a bit of baggage. The device is the Universal and it will be offered by almost all the major UK networks. T-Mobile, however, looks to have won the race to offer it first and has given us a sneak preview of its version - the MDA Pro.Due at the end of the month, the Pro is a high-end smartphone that features cut-down versions of Microsoft applications such as Word, Excel and Outlook. It will cost up to &pound;400, depending on the contract - but what is exciting both the networks and buyers are its three key selling points.First, it boasts a flexible design incorporating a large Qwerty keyboard that is a world away from the mini thumbpads offered by its predecessors and the majority of its rivals. This is supported by an impressively large 3.6in VGA-quality screen that can be used like a laptop with a widescreen display or, if it is twisted round and laid flat, like many traditional PDA devices.The Pro is also the first top-end smartphone to offer 3G connectivity, so users can take advantage of the faster download and web surfing speeds if in one of T-Mobile 3G areas, opt for Wi-Fi if in a wireless hot spot, or use the fall-back GPRS option with its slower connection speeds everywhere else.Finally, the MDA Pro marks the debut of the latest version (5.0) of Windows Mobile. This has one massive enhancement in that it has persistent memory to prevent data loss if the battery dies, which was a weakness of earlier versions. It also has enhanced push email options and apparently includes improved synchronisation with corporate networks.Expect it to be taken in numbers by both corporates and gadget lovers.
Microsoft says the Xbox 36 will reach stores in North America on Tuesday, November 22; in Europe on Friday, December 2; and in Japan, on December 10. "The announcement, made on the eve of Tokyo Game Show 2005, marked the first time that a game console will be launched in three territories in the same time frame," says the company.There's also a list of the games being shown in Tokyo:eNCHANT-ar (FromSoftware Inc) Bomberman — Act Zero (Hudson Soft Co Ltd) Call of Duty 2 (Activision Inc) Chromehounds (Sega) Dead Rising (Capcom) Dynasty Warriors 5 Special (Koei Co Ltd) Everyparty (Microsoft Game Studios) Far East of Eden — Ziria (Hudson Soft) Final Fantasy XI (Square Enix Co Ltd) Frame City Killer (Namco) Gears of War (Microsoft Game Studios) Kameo: Elements of Power™ (Microsoft Game Studios) Mobile Suit Gundam (tentative title) (Bandai Co Ltd) Need for Speed Most Wanted (Electronic Arts) Ninety-Nine Nights (Microsoft Game Studios) The Outfit (THQ) Project Gotham Racing 3 (Microsoft Game Studios) Resident Evil 5 (Capcom) Ridge Racer 6 (Namco) Rumble Roses XX (tentative title) (Konami) Shutoku Battle (tentative title) (Genki Co Ltd) Sonic the Hedgehog (Sega) Saint's Row (THQ) Test Drive Unlimited (Atari Inc) Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft Entertainment) World Air Force (tentative title) (Taito Corp) Wrestle Kingdom (Yuke's Co Ltd)
I blame Dick Tracy. Since the comic book hero first sported his wrist walkie-talkie, generations of geeks have dreamed about watches that do far more than tell the time. Some models, such as the recent USB storage watches, have been relatively successful. Others, like NHJ's TV watch, have been just too bulky. One good idea is to integrate a personal organiser. If that sounds sensible, you are going to like the Fossil Abacus Wrist PDA, which has just gone on sale in the UK.Its British debut comes as the company that produced its operating system, PalmSource, is being bought by Access, a Japanese mobile content company. Even though Palm, the hardware maker that split from PalmSource, is still committed to using the Palm platform, it remains to be seen how pivotal it will be to a company that is already working on a Microsoft Windows smartphone.All this is a shame as somehow, Fossil and Palm have pulled off the trick of delivering a device that is small enough to be discreet yet just about usable, too. Like all Palm hardware, the easy way to get information is to key the contacts and appointments into your PC and then sync it to the device via USB.Unfortunately there are times when you will need to add phone numbers and dates while on the move, and that's where the fun starts. Entering data involves scrawling Graffiti - Palm's handwriting recognition system - on the screen. If that is too tricky there is a tiny virtual keyboard. After a while I gave up and started writing down details, which I then added via the PC when I got home. There are a few other neat features, namely a calculator and the option of being able to customise the design. You can also add other Palm third-party applications, but the watch only has 8MB of memory.The Fossil Wrist PDA is a stylish timepiece that is a useful receptacle for your phone numbers and appointments. You will enjoy its company as long as you don't try and input data on the fly.
