A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat is privacy online? &gt;&gt; The JesterThe "hacktivist for good" who calls himself The Jester comments on the difference between privacy, secrecy and anonymity online following the arrest of someone claimed to be LulzSec member Topiary on Wednesday.The Jester's Identity isn't publicly known.When Hacks Attack: The Computer Security Textbook Plagiarism Epidemic &gt;&gt; Fast Company"A crusader from Attrition.org has found that an alarmingly high number of books written by computer security experts are nearly 100% copied from other sources. What does that say about the industry?"Er... that its exponents may have learnt their craft by copying others? (We got the link fromKevin Mitnick, by the way.)It was just a matter of time: Google +1?s being sold by the thousands &gt;&gt; Search Engine Land"A report by the Atlantic shined a light on a new "social media service" which allows users to purchase Google +1?s in bulk.  The site in question, Pluseem, has a variety of different Google+ package sizes, from 50 plusses to 2,000, with the prices ranging from $0.18 - $0.38 per plus."Breaking Google's quality guidelines, as you could guess. But - the presence of spam shows an ecosystem that spammers think worth chasing.Unpatched iPhones/iPads secure connections not so secure &gt;&gt; Naked Security"Oddly the flaw in iOS was a widespread flaw in WebKit and Microsoft's CryptoAPI nine years ago. It allows any valid certificate purchased from a Certificate Authority to sign any other certificate, which the client device will then consider valid."This allows anyone who can capture traffic from your iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch with man-in-the-middle techniques to intercept and read any and all encrypted SSL traffic silently and without notification to the user."This patch should be applied immediately if you log in to any service on your device, especially things like your bank or PayPal. Users are particularly vulnerable to this attack if they frequently use public/open WiFi."The really bad news? If you are using an iPod Touch generation one or two, or an iPhone older than the 3GS, you will be perpetually vulnerable. Owners of these devices should not use them for any purpose for which security or privacy is required."Bitcoin befuddles U.S. customs agents, thwarting Seattle visit by digital currency guru &gt;&gt; GeekWire"A developer who specializes in the Bitcoin digital currency says he was sent back to China last week after he arrived at Sea-Tac Airport with only $600 in cash and wasn't able to convince U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agents that he would be able to fund his two-month visit using Bitcoin."The developer, who goes by the alias "Doctor Nefario," identifies himself as the founder of the Global Bitcoin Stock Exchange."Would have loved to be a fly on the wall during that interview.In 'Anonymous' raids, Feds work from list of top 1,000 protesters &gt;&gt; Wired.com"It turns out there's a method behind the FBI's raids of suspected Anonymous members around the country. The bureau is working from a list, provided by PayPal, of the 1,000 internet IP addresses responsible for the most protest traffic during Anonymous' DDoS attacks against PayPal last December."FBI agents served 40 search warrants in January on people suspected of hosing down PayPal during  "Operation Payback" --  Anonymous' retaliatory attack against companies who blacklisted WikiLeaks. On July 19, the feds charged the first 14 defendants under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, and raided an additional 35 suspects for evidence."So just 960 to go. Also: "It was easy to distinguish the packets coming from the' "Low Orbit Ion Cannon" -- Anonymous' fire-and-forget DDoS tool -- because they contained strings like "wikileaks," "goof," and "goodnight," the affidavit notes."Oh dear.The +1 Button: Now Faster &gt;&gt; Official Google Webmaster blog"One of the 10 things we hold to be true here at Google is that fast is better than slow. We keep speed in mind in all things that we do, and the +1 button is no exception. Since the button's launch, we have been hard at work improving its load time. Today, we're proud to announce two updates that will make both the +1 button and the page loading it, faster."File under "almost unmeasurable improvements to your life".Using Kinect with Ordnance Survey mapping &gt;&gt; Ordnance Survey Blog"We thought it would be interesting to hook up an Microsoft Xbox Kinect to work with our mapping, letting you control maps on screen using simply gestures. This video shows how we got on and all I'll say is that with moves like this, the GeoDoctor must be a real goer on the dancefloor..."Clever, clever, clever.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Thursday – a good day for gaming talk.
BBC Worldwide is launching its global iPlayer service on Thursday, via an iPad app that will be made available in 11 countries in Western Europe. The US, Canada and Australia will follow later this year, as part of what is intended to be a one-year pilot.The service will offer a limited amount of content for free, supported by pre-roll ads and sponsorship, but its core business model is subscription, with users paying €6.99 (£6.14) a month or €49.99 a year. The 11 launch countries are Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, The Republic of Ireland, The Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Switzerland.The global iPlayer app includes some features that are not in the UK version, including the ability to stream shows over 3G as well as Wi-Fi, and a downloading feature to store programmes on the iPad for offline viewing."We think we have a load of unmet demand for BBC and British content internationally," said BBC.com managing director Luke Bradley-Jones."This is not a catch-up service: this is a video-on-demand service. We will have content from the last month, but also the best from the catalogue stretching back 50 to 60 years."Users will be able to search for specific shows or browse genres including comedy and drama, but BBC Worldwide has also hired a team of editors to curate the international iPlayer.Their focus will be on pulling together themed collections around specific shows or special events. An example of the former is Doctor Who, which is getting separate collections of episodes based on individual Doctors – The Tennant Years, The Ecclestone Years and so on – as well as one focused purely on episodes featuring the Daleks."There is at least 1,500 hours of content there from day one, and it will be growing by at least 100 hours a month," said Mark Smith, the global iPlayer launch director  at BBC Worldwide."Most audiences know the big shows like Top Gear or Doctor Who, but maybe not so much about other shows, so we have been working hard on how we surface that content."At launch, the 11 countries will be seeing the same iPlayer homepage and collections, but over time, there will be scope for the global iPlayer team to flag up different content based on local demand."What we're trying to test in the pilot is the ability to drive exploration and discovery through a programming approach rather than an algorithm-based approach," said Bradley-Jones. "We're not trying to compete against a Netflix or a Hulu. This has to be tailored and hand-crafted, so we can create a tone of voice."BBC Worldwide sees the offline viewing and 3G streaming features as key selling points for the global iPlayer service, with Bradley-Jones hoping they will widen it beyond an app that is simply used within the home on a Wi-Fi network.According to Smith, the development team worked closely with Apple on the offline feature. "When we were doing our user testing, the use case was picking six shows before going on a long journey, and leaving them to download to the iPad overnight," he said."The way the device works, though, is it hibernates and stops you from doing that: you wake up the next morning and only half a show has downloaded. We have managed to override that functionality, and Apple are comfortable with us doing that."Smith stressed that users will be warned about the likely battery consumption of doing this, though: they would be best advised to leave their iPad plugged in overnight in these cases.Why focus on iPad? BBC Worldwide is not subject to the same requirements to support a range of devices as the BBC in the UK, so for global iPlayer, this was a purely commercial decision."We hope that this service becomes multi-device, multi-platform and multi-territory over time, but as a premium-but-niche service, we did not want to go in with both feet from day one," said Bradley-Jones."We're spending the next year in a pilot-type phase focusing on one device, to make a clean and very compelling experience. We have a great relationship with Apple in terms of the promotional commitments they'll give us too."Apple's iPad currently takes the lion's share of the tablet market, which was also a key factor in BBC Worldwide's decision. However, if Android tablets become more popular during the year-long pilot period, Bradley-Jones expects to port the global iPlayer app across then. For now, the global iPlayer will not be available as a desktop web service.At launch, 60% of the global iPlayer content has been produced and commissioned by the BBC, while 30% has been commissioned by the BBC but produced by independents. The other 10% is entirely non-BBC content, including ITV's Primeval, and Channel 4's The Naked Chef and Misfits."We see this as a best-of-British proposition," said Bradley-Jones. "If we get this right, it's a very exciting opportunity to provide a window onto our world: the cultural and entertainment space in Britain. To do that well, it can't be just BBC content. We really hope it will be a much broader church."How will the global iPlayer's content fit in with windows for broadcast and DVD? BBC content will generally transmit first on terrestrial channels in the 11 countries, before appearing on the iPlayer.Once shows are added, they will generally stay available for the long-term, although "a handful of top brands" will receive different treatment to take into account DVD releases or specific terrestrial scheduling initiatives.Bradley-Jones said that the cost of Hulu and Netflix subscriptions was one of the factors in deciding how much to charge for the global iPlayer – which hints that when it does launch in the US, it will be around the $7.99 mark.Users of the iPlayer app in the UK may wonder when or whether the download and 3G streaming features will make their way into that.The two apps are being developed by different divisions of the BBC, so Bradley-Jones and Smith preferred not to speak on behalf of the UK iPlayer app's team, but Smith did point to the advantage of being only on one device as one reason why the global iPlayer is getting these features first.The other obvious question to ask concerns the US, where fans of BBC shows will have to wait a little longer to get the global iPlayer app. Why?"The rights picture for the US is a little bit more complicated," said Bradley-Jones. "The nature of the agreements with our rights partners are different, and the windows across our existing business are older than they are in Europe. From our side, we have to jump through a few more of those commercial and legal hoops. We could have launched in the US with a product this week, but there would have been a few too many missing parts."When it does go live in the US, the global iPlayer will sit alongside BBC Worldwide's existing distribution agreements with iTunes and Netflix, among others, rather than replacing them.
Twitter and the White House might seem like a dry combination, but even with the debt ceiling coming perilously close to crushing everyone beneath it, the leader of the free world – or at least the people in charge of the White House Twitter feed – found time to have a bit of fun on Wednesday.How? By rickrolling one of the 2.3 million Twitter users who follow its feed and was complaining that it wasn't very interesting."Sorry to hear that. Fiscal policy is important, but can be dry sometimes. Here's something more fun," the White Housetweeted. And then it provided a link ... to Rick Astley singing Never Gonna Give You Up.David Wiggs, a self-described "energy tech enthusiast and mediocre golfer" whosetweet– "This WH [White House] correspondence briefing isn't nearly as entertaining as yesterday's" – sparked the outbreak of fun from Pennsylvania Avenue, liked it: "Hilarious", he tweeted,and"Love it!""Rickrolling" is a prank that began on the 4chan message board (originally called duckrolling, as the link would lead to a picture of a duck on wheels); the first use to link to the Astley video came under the guise of being a secret trailer for the then-unreleased video game Grand Theft Auto IV.It then spread from 4chan and took off with Twitter in 2008 as huge numbers of people joined the service: the necessity of using shortened links for the 140-character service meant you could obscure their destination – and so hold out a tantalising treat that instead turned out to be Rick Astley singing.In 2010 it was briefly doused when thevideo was removed from YouTube– but the White House found time to dig up another.Meanwhile, the deadline for the debt ceiling inched closer on Wednesday night – leading to adramatic intervention.(Updated to clarify history of rickrolling.)
The international hunt for the LulzSec computer hackers linked to cyber attacks on police and government websites in the UK and US has led to the arrest of an 18-year-old man in Shetland.The Metropolitan police's e-crime unit said the man used the online nickname Topiary, the alias of the group's main spokesman.This was the first arrest linked to LulzSec and the broader hacking collective Anonymous in which the police have immediately identified the online identity of the suspect arrested. Police also searched a house in Lincolnshire and interviewed a 17-year-old man under caution, though no arrest was made.The arrest of Topiary is the third made in the UK in the search for members of the group, following that of Ryan Cleary, in Essex, in June, and the arrest and release in London last week of a 16-year-old known online as Tflow. The apparent ringleader of the group, known online as Sabu, remains at large.LulzSec claims to have carried out attacks on a number of sites, including the Sun last week when it redirected readers to a fake story claiming Rupert Murdoch was dead, and others during May and June including attacks on the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency, an FBI-affiliated site, the US Congress, and Sony's European network."Topiary" was  on Wednesday being transported to London for interview. Themain Twitter account connected to LulzSec, which has more than 340,000 followers and which Topiary is alleged to control, fell silent shortly before midday on Wednesday. Topiary's own twitter feed,@atopiary, was wiped clear on Friday,save for one tweet reading: "You cannot arrest an idea."Police in the UK and US have been rounding up suspected members of LulzSec, and those who in January participated in attacks on the payments site PayPal as part of the Anonymous hacking collective. Last week the FBI made 16 arrests of alleged participants in the attacks, and it is believed to have a list of 1,000 computer addresses it is targeting.On Wednesday members of Anonymous and LulzSec staged a peaceful protest against PayPal for its refusal to allow payments to WikiLeaks by closing their PayPal accounts.The arrest in Shetland was carried out by the Met's e-crime unit along with the Scottish Crime and Drug Enforcement Agency (SCDEA) and Lincolnshire police.The unnamed 16-year-old man from south London was arrested and released without charge on bail last week. He is due to return for further questioning in August.Cleary is to appear before a London court on 30 August charged with a number of attacks on websites. Cleary was charged with five offences under the Criminal Law and Computer Misuse Acts, including an alleged attack on Soca's website.Earlier this week the group claimed to have broken into websites belonging to Italy's police cybercrime unit and Nato. Nato said it was investigating the claims. The group also claims to have a large number of emails collected from an attack on News International servers.Rival hackers regularly attempt to expose members of Lulzsec's inner team by publishing suspected details of their real identities, a process known as "doxing". Several such efforts made to unmask Topiary in June suggested he may be located in the UK or Ireland, though someone apparently acting as Topiary denied these in chat channels.Contacts within Anonymous suggest Topiary has not been seen online for several days.
Here's a smart, clever app idea that's just made an eminently sensible partnership. Think ofWorksnuglike a specialistYelp, listing details and reviews of mobile working locations down to the speed of the wifi connection and the quality of the coffee. We firstprofiled Worksnug, which is on iPhone, BlackBerry and Nokia Ovi, when it launched in the UK in late November 2009.Worksnug has just teamed up withHP ePrint, which means the app can now list any nearby public printing locations of the 9,000-strong network in places like Hilton hotels, FedEx stores and some Starbucks branches. App users can browse venues by map view or by using their phone's camera for an augmented reality view, though even founder Richard Leyland admitted that although Worksnug got a fair bit of attention back in 2009 as one of the first AR apps, it's not much more than just an interesting way to present information.Worksnug's app now shows HP ePrint locationsHe told me that Worksnug will hit 100,000 users across the web and all three apps some time in the next few weeks, and that a forth app, for Android, is in beta at the moment. Users are roughly 30% UK based out of 70% in Europe, with most of the remainder in the US. Though the app is free for users, Worksnug makes money through corporate sponsorships from the likes ofNokia,CiscoandPlantronics, and HP paid for the ePrint presence.Worksnug isn't shy of talking about its green credentials too. Leyland enjoyed (between the comment spam) a string of mostly gentle abuse onTechCrunch EUafter he posted about the company policy of not flying, something clearly listed on Worksnug's publishedbusiness principles.Incidentally, Leyland told me about this news in a twitter direct message, giving me a link and a password to a private Tumblr site he'd created with all the details. A little imagination breathed into a pitch that would've been lost in an email swamp. The entrepreneurs are often more inventive in their communication than the PR professionals, I'm afraid to say.But there's still no perfect solution for the burning topic of what to do with your laptop when you need the loo in that coffee shop, Leyland admitted. "It's a verylive debate. Do you ask someone to keep an eye on your laptop and rely on human kindness, do you ask the staff to keep an eye on it, or do you lock it up?" Or can you face the unhygienic and slightly suspicious activity of taking your laptop to the loo with you?We'll await the Worksnug consensus on that one.
We've grown tired of that lazy conference speech technique of setting out some radical, inflammatory vision with pronouncements about the end of this era or the start of some new revolution in something else. We feel over-informed, perhaps, about the state of the tech universe.But occasionally, the best of these tech prophets can express a developing trend with a more imaginative perspective than the tech news treadmill, and that's something venture investor andmusicianRoger McNamee did rather well back in May at the US Narm conference... the not-enticingly namedNational Association of Recording Merchandisers.Though the talk was a while ago, a video and McNamee's own transcript have been causing a stir this week. It's not a point of view we're used to hearing, but McNamee explains why Apple "is a far better monopolist to deal with than Google" because it has been better at building a business model around digital content.Google's uniformity undermined brandsHe's extremely tough on Google, stating that the era of search is over because of the rise of specialist search through apps, that Google "about to get a taste of what the music industry has been dealing with for a decade" as the tech world changes around it. He makes the astute observation that it was the lack of differentiation, what appeared to be the equality of information online, that undermined credible brands.Photo bycreativedcon Flickr.Some rights reserved"What we all missed at the time is that by treating every piece of information the same, Google enforced a standard that permitted no differentiation," he told the audience at Narm."Every word on every Google page is in the same typeface. No brand images appear other than Google's. This action essentially neutered the production values of every high end content creator. The long tail took off and the music industry got its ass kicked."The biggest beneficiaries, he says, should be those who were short-changed by the Google era of the web, which commoditised all content by "removing differentiation".The end of the Microsoft/Google monopoly eraIt's a superbly exciting, well-informed and all too rare perspective on the role of technology in facilitating content creation and distribution.He's evangelical about the iPad and iPhone as devices because of their massive adoption rate, but goes on to say that HTML5 is the greatest creative and business opportunity for content creators since Google and Microsoft began to monopolise and monetize the content of others over the past twelve years.Where Microsoft once had 96% control of internet connected devices, it now has just 50% because the growth of mobile is replacing the PC era. Google, meanwhile, has captured 80% of the index search business from which it has dominated the booming web advertising market."Google's success eventually filled the web with crap, so consumers began using other products to search: Wikipedia for facts, Facebook for matters of taste, time or money, Twitter for news, Yelp for restaurants, Realtor.com for places to live, LinkedIn for jobs. Over the past three years, these alternatives have gone from 10% of search volume to about half," said McNamee.The end of search"As if all this competition wasn't bad enough for Google, then along came Apple with the iPhone and App Store... Apple has branded, trustworthy apps for everything. If they want news, Apple customers use apps from the New York Times or Wall Street Journal. If they want to know which camera to buy, they ask friends on Facebook. If they want to go to dinner, they use the Yelp app. These searches have economic value and it's not going to Google, even on Android."When Apple and the app model win, Google's search business loses."But if that sounds like a triumphant results for Apple, McNamee turns it round again. HTML5 delivers a better experience than an Apple app, but is cheaper and offers better value to users. His band Moonalice has beenusing HTML5-based technologytolivestreamtheir shows to mobiles and iPads."Near term, focus your platform strategy on Apple," he advises musicians. "Long term, focus on HTML5. The sooner you commit to HTML5, the more likely you will produce something of economic value. Remember that HTML5 will produce companies as important as Amazon, iTunes, and Netflix. It costs musicians practically nothing to create good digital video and fantastic audio, but they need distribution systems optimised for their content."There's an extract on Apple's dominance over Google below, and also the full-length, segmented 57-minute presentation onFora.tv. The transcript was posted by McNamee himself on music analysis blogThe Lefsetz Letters.
Microsoft has signed off the code for the "Mango" version of its Windows Phone operating system - officially, the code has RTM'd (been released to manufacturing) -according to the Windows Team Blog.There, Terry Myerson, the corporate vice-president on the Windows Phone team (basically, the day-to-day manager), explains that "this marks the point in the development process where we hand code to our handset and mobile operator partners to optimize Mango for their specific phone and network configurations."(See ourprevious coverage about Windows Phone Mangofor an idea of what it includes.)The good news: this is slightly ahead of where it had been expected to be (and certainly miles better than the original release of Windows Phone, which got caught up in internal battles within the Entertainment &amp; Device division over the Kin - Project Pink, from the $500m acquisition of Danger - and the rewrite of Windows Mobile).The bad news: it's going to be called "Windows Phone 7.5". We liked Mango. We'll stick with that for now.So it's end-July, and the code is going out now, so they've got the whole of August... so that should mean release in September, right? Afraid not. The complicated dance involved in getting phone code right includes an extra layer that you don't have with the release of Windows OS to OEM PC makers: the carriers.So to get Mango into peoples' hands (or retailers' shops) the processes to be navigated are:• handset makers have to test Mango against their new designs to make sure that the code runs really well on their systems• handset makers have to test Mango against their old designs to make sure the code won't cause disastrous things to happen, and that in fact only good things happen - not even indifferent ones. This didn't quite work with the first update to Windows Phone (the "pre-NoDo" update), which messed up some LG phones when it rolled out in April.• the handset makers (which will include Nokia) have to take their phones to the carriers and allow them to test them against their networks. All carriers insist on this as a condition of phones going on the network - especially new phones; it's the same for Apple. (New iPhones are sent to carriers in sealed boxes so that the software can be tested.)• if everything is hunky dory, then the carriers will let the handset makers know. This depends of course on the slowest carrier to respond, generally.This year there's a bigger problem though: lots of Android phones and of course those new iPhones - expected in September - which are in the queue ahead of the Windows Phone Mango phones. That's potentially a traffic jam that will hold things up.That means, overall, that you shouldn't expect the Mango update to be rolled out, or the new Windows Phones (including Nokia's Sea Ray - no doubt they'll find a more thrilling name, such as N9487) to appear before October.Which is what I've been telling you since February,at least in regard to Nokia.You might also ponder quite how Mango is going to fare in the new OS world that it will be pitched into. Many said that Windows Phone wasn't competitive when first released (no cut+paste, and various other things). Mango is a big improvement. The Windows Team blog notes that it will have threading to bring conversations with a single person across multiple connections (IM, email, text) into a single view; multitasking; and Internet Explorer 9. No word on Flash.The question is whether it's going to be big enough once Apple's iOS 5 is released, and whether there will be the next version of Android - codenamed Ice Cream Sandwich - available by then. That's expected to have componnents such as face tracking, a new app launcher, USB hosting (for a game controller), and simpler updates. Given that Android's notifications system is just about perfect but (in my view) its Gingerbread keyboard system is dire, perhaps the UI improvements will be there.Whichever, Mango isn't going to have a soft landing.
When it comes to software patents, one company has recently become more and more noticeable for its position defending them: Intellectual Ventures, a company run by Nathan Myhrvold, who founded it in 2000 after leaving Microsoft, where he was chief technology officer.It's a company which hasreceived $300m of funding from venture capitalists Charles River since 2006: "Nathan helped open my eyes to the notion that IP [intellectual property] is a very important market – it's actually a very big market in tech," Izhar Armony, a partner at Charles River Ventures, says in the linked interview from April. He thinks there's a $6bn litigation market based on legal fees, and a $50bn market in IP rights and licensing.Here's the odd thing: Intellectual Ventures doesn't seem to be very good at exploiting patents it owns. In two cases it appears to have bought software patents that have value in the courts and then transferred them to little one-man bands who have abruptly realised their value and begun suing people for infringing them.The two companies: Oasis Research and Lodsys. You may have heard of the latter: it is suing a number of app developers on the Android and Apple iOS platforms, claiming that they infringe patents that it owns, particularly covering in-app purchases. Despite attempts by Apple to intervene – because it says that it has licensed those patents – the cases seem to be going ahead. And its determination to prevail has, as we've written, led tosome European app developers deciding that the US game isn't worth the candle.In other words, software patents are doing the same to the US's standing as a centre for innovation and competition as the debt ceiling issue is doing to its financial standing: destroying it hour by hour. (The NPR program This American Life had an hour-long episode about "invention peddlers" which looks at this in detail.)You don't have to look far to find venture capitalists who decry what Myhrvold represents. Paul Kedroskywrote on 19 Julythat Myhrvold's arguments "veer from hysterical, to unsupportable, and back again", pointing to aMyhrvold column at Bloomberg.One key sentence from Kedrosky's denunciation: "There is no inconsistency in promoting innovation while attacking the software patent system. Most software companies, large and small, think the patent system is an obstacle to innovation given the prevalence of nonsensical blocking patents and patent trolls. I would hope that they attack it ... This is far, far from a disinterested observer of a fundamentally broken US software patent system. Let's end the deference."Fred Wilson, principal of Union Square Ventures, who has backed a number of companies, including Twitter, said as long ago as 2009 thatpatent trolls are a tax on innovation, after one of his funded companies spent $500,000 defending itself against baseless patent claims.But Intellectual Ventures stands – apparently – aloof from all this. It isn't, as far as I know, involved in any lawsuits where it is asserting any of the patents that it owns. For a company that has $300m of venture capital funding, that seems odd – as does the seeming lack of nous about the value of the patents that it held but then transferred (it's not clear whether "sold" is the right phrase here) to those companies.There's more, though. A research firm last year released a report claiming that Intellectual Ventures has as many as 1,100 shell companies which it uses to carry out patent "shakedowns": the front companies do the suing, and the parent reaps the benefits.I contacted Intellectual Ventures on Tuesday evening, and spoke to a person to put a number of detail questions about its relationship with Oasis Research and Lodsys.Here are the questions that I subsequently put via email (in time for them to be answered during the Seattle business day):• Does Intellectual Ventures have any royalty or licensing agreement with Lodsys over the patents that it transferred to it? And when did it sell/transfer them?•  What form did the transfer of patents to Lodsys take: simple sale and complete title, or some other arrangement?• Does Intellectual Ventures have any royalty or licensing agreement with Oasis Research over the patents that Intellectual Ventures transferred to it? And when did it sell/transfer them?• What form did the transfer of patents to Oasis Research take?• Has Intellectual Ventures made any investment in Lodsys?• Are any of the staff or owners of Lodsys present or former staff or owners of Intellectual Ventures?• Why would Intellectual Ventures, a considerably funded company with large resources, sell patents with clear value to apparently low-funded companies –  Lodsys and Oasis Research?• Is Intellectual Ventures providing any funding or legal assistance for the legal actions being pursued by Lodsys and/or Oasis Research?These seem fairly narrow questions – that is, they aren't asking for a long thoughtful post on the nature of patents. They're factual.On Wednesday morning, five hours after I sent those questions, I received a response from Intellectual Ventures. It pointed to a blog post that the company had put up overnight – which is dealt with below – and had this response to my questions:"Specific to your questions on divesting patents, as has been reported, when it makes sense for our business we sell patents – either to companies who can use them for defensive purposes or to buyers who monetise them. Sometimes based on the structure of the sale we have a financial interest in the outcome of those efforts, but we never have control over, or are involved in, the path to monetisation that these companies pursue once we sell the patent."Note that this doesn't answera single oneof the specific questions about IV's involvement with Oasis Research or Lodsys (particularly about staff, investment, legal fees or form of transfer). It doesn't say whether it was a sale or other form of transfer – though it does talk about "structure" which could mean payback. It doesn't mention involvement. Simply, it's a non-answer. I've emailed back reiterating the specifics of the questions and asking for detailed responses.Meanwhile, there is theblogpost which appeared on IV's site. This says, in part:"By definition, a disruptive innovation is a product or technology that, when introduced, either radically changes existing markets or creates wholly new ones, thereby disrupting companies and networks reliant on the status quo. In simpler terms, it signifies rapid and unexpected progress … a change in context. Intellectual Ventures is a disruptive organisation, and like any other product or service which disrupts established markets, we've invited our share of controversy... We appreciate that patents are an emotionally charged issue that generates a lot of conversation and varying points of view, but we want to take a moment to provide our perspective on a recent characterisation."IV believes that inventors who invest all the time, money, and emotional resources that are required to protect their ideas with patents earn a right to recognise a return on their investments."IV is challenging the status quo by focusing its business solely on invention and investment in patents. But we think this disruption is an important and necessary step in the development of a fully functioning marketplace for ideas. Our ultimate value proposition is simple: we provide an efficient way for patent holders to get paid for the inventions they own, and in turn, for technology companies to gain easy access to the invention rights they need now or may need as they enter new markets."None of this however answers the wider question: is the exercise of these patents actually stimulating innovation? Is it to the benefit of real inventors, if the patents are traded on? (The original inventor who was awarded the patents now owned by Lodsys is bemused by the attention paid to them. He has also had to suffer a fair deal of unwarranted abuse, since he's nothing to do with IV or Lodsys.)We've seen nothing from Myhrvold indicating how it might. There is his quote in aninterview with Forbesthat "we want to build a portfolio just like those companies have, with licensing approaches broadly like they have ... I want to achieve what IBM has achieved [getting $1bn per year from licensing patents]. That's my financial model. This is a play where I take portfolio theory and apply it to something illiquid to deliver a return for my investors. I don't see that as evil. I don't see that as particularly threatening."The unanswered question remains, though: do software patents really spur innovation, or hold it back?
A burst of 13 apps for your considerationPadder for iPadDennis Publishing reckons Padder is 'the only iPad app for the iPad about the iPad', which sounds slightly off-beam. It's certainly one of the first iPad magazine apps about the iPad that isn't based on an existing print title. App reviews, news and features are all included, along with Twitter integration. The first issue is free, with future editions to cost £1.49 in-app.iPadThe Economist World in Figures 2011 EditionThe Economist has launched a new spin-off app for iPhone based on its World in Figures book. It collates stats and data from 190 countries, with users able to dig into specific countries or compare several at once.iPhoneThe Smurfs Movie StorybookContinuing their iOS-fuelled comeback, The Smurfs have a new book-app based on the upcoming film. The plot sees Papa Smurf and co head to New York, using audio from the movie and voice narration.iPhone / iPadLittle Princess – I Want to PlayBritish publisher Neon Play's latest app comes from its Jick Jack sub-brand. Little Princess is a collection of four mini-games for children involving matching, dressing up, animal-scrubbing and, er, bunny-bopping.iPhoneTadaa – HD FiltersNot all whizzy mobile photo-sharing startups are based in Silicon Valley. German app Tadaa has been building buzz in its homeland, and is expanding overseas too. Version 3.0 of the app is just out for iPhone, with camera filters (that sounds familiar...) as well as easier editing.iPhoneUltimate Air GuitarUltimate Air Guitar is an iPhone app for exhibitionists, getting them to play air guitar while clutching their device, with the app playing suitably rawk riffs based on their motion. Its developer Candid Innovations boasts that the riffs were played by its CEO, which is certainly an angle.iPhoneIncendio PressIncendio Press is a business-to-business application aimed at newspaper publishers, promising to help them publish on Android while making money from AdMob ads.  It's the work of a company called Software Counts.AndroidAtariTinyRiotThe Tiny Riot app got people to shake their iPhones to make a big noise and let off steam. Now there's a new version devoted to Atari Teenage Riot – a band whose music fits that bill perfectly.iPhoneKÀMobile Roadie is best known for making iPhone and Android apps for bands, brands and celebrities. Its first iPad project is live now, for Cirque du Soleil. It's based on the troop's latest show at the MGM Grand casino.iPadBusMapper LondonAndroid app BusMapper London offers a map-based guide to day and night buses in London, getting users to tap the map to see bus options and estimated travel times. It follows the iOS version which debuted earlier this year.AndroidScreenChompScreenChomp is a free educational app that turns the iPad into a digital whiteboard. It's aimed at teachers, and is the first product from TechSmith Labs, an offshoot from business and academic tools firm TechSmith.iPadParis AppTours: Beware Mme la GuillotineThis English-language iPhone app aims to guide teenagers around Paris through the historical character of Charlotte Corday – infamously guillotined for murdering revolutionary Jean-Paul Marat. The app provides an audio tour, and is on its way to Android soon.iPhoneJudokuAnd finally, Judoku, an iPad game from Acme Digital Laboratories which is essentially Sudoku puzzles for Jewish people. Which is to say it uses Hebrew numbers and "iconic symbols of Jewish culture" as well as standard numerals.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Vodafone is the latest company to unveil a Facebook phone, although the Vodafone 555 Blue is more likely to be a hit in emerging mobile markets like India than in the UK.The device is a feature phone running Vodafone's proprietary operating system, rather than Android or another smartphone OS.Made by TCL, the device has a 2.4-inch screen with a physical Qwerty keypad, but lacks 3G or Wi-Fi connectivity, settling for 2.5G / EDGE instead. It has a two-megapixel camera and Micro-SD card slot, with a dedicated Facebook button on the keypad.Buyers will log into their Facebook account as soon as they turn the 555 Blue on, and will be able to sign up for the social network if they don't already have an account.Joanna Shields, Facebook's vice president and managing director EMEA, said that the company hopes the device will drive new signups in the developing world. Currently, 250 million people access Facebook from their phones."What they've done here is truly created the most brilliant product from the ground up," said Shields. "It's Facebook-enabled in all aspects."The 555 Blue will go on sale in August across various Vodafone markets, including the UK. It is expected to cost less than $100 (around £60) on a prepay tariff, which will include a bundle of data usage."This is all about driving data growth in the pre-pay segment," said Peter Becker-Pennrich, group terminals marketing director at Vodafone Group. "How can we create an experience that is truly differentiating, and very relevant and enjoyable to that segment?"Questioned about the lack of 3G or Wi-Fi, Becker-Pennrich suggested that users will not feel a negative impact, since updates and messages will be pushed to them over the air. However, as prices continue to fall for Android smartphones on pre-pay contracts, the 555 Blue will face stiff competition in countries like the UK.The deal is the latest mobile partnership for Facebook, which has repeatedly denied suggestions that it wants to launch one dedicated 'Facebook Phone', touting instead a strategy of deep integration with many handsets.To that end, Facebook is a core feature of Microsoft's Windows Phone OS, while handset manufacturer HTC hasreleased two Android smartphoneswith dedicated buttons for Facebook sharing: the HTC Salsa and HTC ChaCha - the Vodafone 555 Blue's design is similar to the latter right down to the blue Facebook button.INQunveiled two Facebook phonesof its own earlier this year: the INQ Cloud Touch and INQ Cloud Q, which also run Android.Apple has thus far resisted the temptation to integrate Facebook into its iOS,striking a deal instead with Twitter, which will be a flagship feature of the upcoming iOS 5 software.Facebook is thought to be working on an HTML5-based platform for social mobile web apps,codenamed Project Spartanaccording to TechCrunch's scoop earlier this year.It is expected to bring Facebook's apps platform to iOS and other smartphones, complete with the Facebook Credits payment system.However, handsets like the 555 Blue sit more alongside Facebook's efforts to drive usage in emerging markets. In May 2010, the social networklaunched 0.facebook.com, a stripped-down mobile site with zero data charges thanks to partnerships with operators around the world.More recently, Facebook launched a newEvery Phone Java applicationthat runs on more than 2,500 feature phones, and again signed deals with operators to remove data charges, albeit for a 90-day period only.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSpam &amp; Fake AV: Like Ham &amp; Eggs &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs, reliable as ever: "An explosion of online fraud tools and services online makes it easier than ever for novices to get started in computer crime. At the same time, a growing body of evidence suggests that much of the world's cybercrime activity may be the work of a core group of miscreants who've been at it for many years."Kit steals Mac login passwords through FireWire port &gt;&gt; The RegisterClever, exploiting the nature of FireWire. But: "Mac users who want to foreclose the threat from forensic software can change the default setting of their accounts so they no longer log in automatically at startup. Mac antivirus provider Intego has step-by-step instructions for doing this here. Requiring a password when unlocking or waking a Mac prevents OS X from storing the login password in the machine's memory. The other way to prevent such attacks is to turn off Macs when they're not being used, rather than locking them or putting them into sleep mode."You are warned.Why Microsoft Won't Dump Bing -- Redmondmag.comMary Jo Foley: "I wouldn't be surprised to see Bing more tightly coupled with Windows 8. Given there's going to be a Windows 8 App Store, users will need to search the new marketplace for apps."While the world sees Bing as a distant No. 2 search engine, Microsoft brass and bean counters see Bing as a reusable component and asset that will be built into more and more products. Those who think Microsoft will discard Bing or sell it to the highest bidder are dead wrong -- that won't happen now or any time soon."Baking Bing into Windows 8 sounds like a recipe for an antitrust suit. If Google has any sense, it's already got at least one lawyer preparing a case on why that cause consumer harm - the foundation of Sherman antitrust cases.Mac OS X 10.7 Lion: the trouble with HFS+ (from the Ars Technica review) &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaA single page from John Siracusa's enormous review of Mac OSX 10.7 ("Lion") which points to the dangers lying at the heart of Apple's OS file format.15-year Windows user buys a MacBook Air. How can I make the most of it? &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Without going into a huge history lesson of my involvement with Windows and how the prospect of me purchasing a Mac was a laughable concept up until not that long ago, long story short, I'm a happy Windows user who decided it was time to purchase the latest MacBook Air. And I'm excited as all get-out about it, despite my initial reservation to dole out almost 2-large on it (maxed-out 13? model + taxes)."Now, before I posit my questions, I want to ask that you please try to temper yourselves."Ping! That's the popcorn ready.More seriously, he doesn't deal with why he switched, and that's the more interesting question.RIM buys JayCut to counter iPad's iMovie through PlayBooks | Electronista"RIM on Friday said it had bought JayCut in what's a likely attempt to counter iMovie on the iPad. The deal gives it access to a mix of video editing and cloud services. The BlackBerry maker made it clear the acquisition was to bolster video editing on the PlayBook as well as future BlackBerry phones."Terms of the deal weren't given out but were likely small enough that RIM didn't have to report its conditions."Amateur director hour has begun.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Come on inside and chat about games!
Millions of Britons are still being sold "superfast" connections that are only half as fast as advertised, according to research by Ofcom.Data released by the communications regulator shows that although Britons benefited from a 10% increase in average broadband speeds around the UK in the six months to May, reaching 6.8 megabits per second (Mbps) compared with 6.2Mbps in November 2010, the average advertised speed was 15Mbps.The data emerged from a survey of the home connections of 1,700 people.The greatest disparity in advertised and received broadband speeds came with copper-based DSL phone lines, used in more than 75% of UK homes. Customers with broadband packages offering speeds "up to" 20Mbps and 24Mbps actually received an average speed of 6.6Mbps, according to the research – and more than a third of these customers got average speeds of 4Mbps or less.Ofcom has long pushed for a change to the way internet providers, including BT and Sky, advertise "up to" broadband speeds that most customers are unable to receive.Ed Richards, the chief executive of Ofcom, said: "We are now seeing consumers increasingly move to higher-rated services and enjoying genuinely faster speeds. Consumers also have access to better broadband information, allowing them to decide which provider to use based on actual speeds they can achieve at home."However, the research is still telling us that some consumers are not receiving anywhere near the speeds that are being advertised by some ISPs. Ofcom continues to urge the CAP and BCAP committees to make changes to their advertising guidance so that consumers are able to make more informed decisions based on the adverts they see."The Advertising Standards Authority's committee of advertising practice (CAP) and broadcast committee of adverting practice (BCAP) are expected to report in the early autumn on changes to the way broadband speeds are advertised.Four of the largest ISPs – BT, Sky, Virgin Media and O2 – have signed up to Ofcom's new code of practice, which comes into effect on Wednesday and dictates that customers must be given an expected speed at the point of sale.The growing demand for faster packages – fuelled by the popularity of traffic-intensive video services such as the BBC iPlayer and YouTube – has put current infrastructure under huge strain, meaning most ISPs are unable to deliver advertised speeds, especially at peak periods when large numbers of people use the services simultaneously.Customers with fibre-optic connections get speeds much closer to those advertised, such as the those from Virgin Media and BT's Infinity package. The report shoes that the average download speed on Virgin Media's 30Mbps package was actually marginally higher than the advertised speed.Only about 22% of Britons have fibre-optic connections, despite them being available to 57% of UK homes.
Google's chief lawyer Kent Walker says that the smartphone industry is using patents in an arms race that is "gumming up the works of innovation" and that the US government needs to rein in their use.The company is facing a huge lawsuit from database company Oracle, which is claiming billions in damages over what it says is infringement in Google's widely-used Android operating system, while handset makers such as HTC and Samsung face claims from companies including Microsoft that their Android devices infringe its software patents."It's hard to find what's the best path – there's so much litigation," Walker said in an interview with the wire agency Bloomberg. "We're exploring a variety of different things."But Walker said that patents meant "the tech industry has a significant problem" and that "software patents are kind of gumming up the works of innovation."Google lost out in an auction of Nortel patentsat the beginning of July when a consortium including Apple and Microsoft bid $4.5bn for the rights covering a number of mobile phone technologies.Walker declined to say whether Google will bid for InterDigital - a patent-holding company which has filed suit against Nokia and China's Huawei – or the digital-imaging patents of Eastman Kodak, or any other specific portfolio. He said it's unclear if the $4.5 billion winning bid for the Nortel patents is a sign that other sales will be equally large. "We want to be disciplined about how we approach all this stuff," Walker said. "We're looking for a reasonable alternative, but we want to make sure Google, and the companies Google partners with, aren't shut out of the opportunity to bring great new products and features to consumers."But the problem of software patents in particular is increasingly seen as a drag on innovation within the US. After a US-based company, Lodsys, which holds some patents that may be infringed in smartphone apps, sued independent developers, anumber of British developers withdrew their products from US sale, saying the cost of business there was too high.Software patents such as Lodsys's are not directly applicable in Europe, but there are fears that attempts by the US to align patent law will bring them in and have the same chilling effect now being seen across the Atlantic.Android is now the most widely used mobile operating system, with 38.9% of the worldwide smartphone market, compared with 18.2% for Apple's iPhone, which has passed Nokia's formerly dominant Symbian, according to research firm IDC.But beneath the sales figures, a furious set of patent battles is continuing. Apple has ongoing patent cases against Samsung Electronics, HTC and Motorola Mobility Holdings over their Android-based phones; each has in response filed patent suits against Apple. Microsoft and Motorola Mobility also have filed patent suits against each other; Microsoft has successfully sued HTC and extracted a per-handset royalty on its Android handsets, and is now suing Samsung. Nokia won a patent settlement from Apple which gave it a €448m boost to its quarterly results. And Microsoft has a pending complaint against Barnes &amp; Noble over its Nook e-reader.The cases have been filed with the International Trade Commission, which has the power to block imports of products found to infringe U.S. patents."Each side can blow the other up on some level - everybody can block the other's products from coming to market," Walker said. "You create this mutually assured destruction scenario, but it's very expensive to get all those munitions."Google has been hesitant to use patents to file suits against other companies, he said."Buying patents so you can hit the other guy, it's not good form," Walker said. "You hate to unilaterally disarm here, but we haven't in our history."The company is providing support and technical help to companies that make products for the Android operating system and are being sued, either by rival companies such as Apple and Microsoft, or by small patent owners that don't make products."We'll be fine," Walker said. "We have the resources to balance the scales here."
On this week's programme, we're finding out the latest games news from the UK's largest gaming conference, Develop, held last week in Brighton. Games correspondent Keith Stuart has been speaking to David Braben, creator of Elite, about his new games for the Kinect – as well as how a Raspberry Pi could be the future of computer science.We're also picking apart the financial results from the major technology companies. We look at why BlackBerry maker RIM has cut 2,000 jobs, and we find out about the legal tangle Sony is in after the massive PlayStation security breach earlier this year.  Now that the legal bills are being added up, who compensates the consumers whose services were hacked?Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
One of the biggest game industry stories  this year has centred around the acquisition of one of casual gaming's leading lights, PopCap, by Electronic Arts for the hefty sum of $750m (£457m).While the benefits of the sale from EA's perspective are easy to work out – it extends the company's reach on both social network and smartphone gaming platforms, and increases its talent-base significantly – PopCap's motives for the sale have been difficult to pin down.We spoke to PopCap chief executive Dave Roberts to find out what motivated the deal and what effects it will have on the company.How were the past six months?It was certainly crazy. I don't know if it was the craziest six months of my life, but it was pretty damn crazy.Can you talk me through the decision process that led to PopCap being acquired by Electronic Arts?Well, we were working with some bankers on the deal. They were taking us through the whole thing – which wasn't a traditional banking process. At the same time we were spending a lot of energy and time looking at going the IPO route on this and doing a lot of work on that. So, on the one hand I was involved in that, and on the other, I was meeting with a lot of companies who could potentially acquire us, so, yeah, there was a lot on my plate during that time.It was kind of like speed dating – although I've never done speed dating. For us, there were a lot of quick 'Hi, how are you' meetings. EA was a good fit for us, though. I think both companies remembered each other from a couple of years ago when we first took a good look at each other's inner workings – it was easy to think that everything was static, when in fact, the truth was both companies had changed a lot over that time.A lot of it was about rediscovering, for us, that EA actually cared about games. That was an eye-opener for me; I mean I know John Riccitiello's been saying it for a long time, but I've heard that sort of thing before. Just because a CEO is saying it doesn't make it so. But then you walk through the halls of EA and see people who are genuinely excited about games.Number 1 hit: Bejeweled, PopCap's first runaway successThey also like us from a product-personal perspective. They genuinely have affection our games; their interest in us wasn't because they saw as filling a market niche. With Riccitiello's vision for EA, games do come first and this multi-platform future for all games is kind of where we at PopCap were heading anyway. We share a common vision with them.There's now a lot more we can do with our games – and I think we've just scratched the surface of what we're capable of.What will the deal change at PopCap?Well, PopCap's been changing every single year for the last 10 years, but hopefully, we'll keep the essence of what we do here. One of the things I like about EA – and I don't think this was true of them a few years ago – is that they care about games very passionately. I think they lost that for a while. The EA of four years ago was the EA that was arrogant and didn't really give a shit about games. At some point though, and I personally didn't even notice this about EA until around last year, but things had changed. EA was different; people were actually excited about their jobs again, and I don't think that had happened in a while.Every indication is, that EA like us as we are. They've not really proven to be very good at making casual content, so there's no reason why they'd want to mess with what we have here.We certainly look at it as an opportunity to take some of the things that we've tried to do better on a bigger scale – like massive porting efforts, for example – that we've never been quite as good as EA at doing. We could only do that sort of stuff on a PopCap scale. Teaming up with EA to do that stuff is going to make our lives so much easier; a lot of our game guys will have space and time to work on games and they won't have to spend vast amounts of time on porting efforts, say.Peggle opened the door to PopCap's hardcore success through SteamSo was the main objective in the deal to allow PopCap to refocus its creative talent?Well, that's one objective, sure. We're a relatively small company after all. I mean, for example, we've got a team in Dublin right now that's working on a social media game, but that's also the team we have that does ports to Android. Also, if we get a Sony Ericsson deal, we have to go off and buy 60 handsets to work on.Look, no individual task is that hard, but you'd have a situation where we'd have designers, artists and engineers that could be working on a social game, and they're doing other things instead of that. Now, we can move that sort of work off to other parts of the EA organisation that do that stuff very well. The good news is that EA have set it all up so we get to choose which parts of our organisation and workload that we want to integrate. There's no big EA mandate that dictates that we have to do things their way.Their attitude is more: 'Look, here's the stuff our organisation can do. Let us know what you want and we'll figure it all out.'Well, that's how it's been so far. We haven't closed the deal yet, so ask me in six months! But we're pretty excited about it. We really see this as an opportunity to be a bigger company, hopefully without losing what's special about what we do here.So was the other major objective to grow PopCap as a company?Well, we've always been about creating this enduring legacy for our brands. We want our games to rank up there with games like Monopoly and Scrabble, regardless of the fact that they're video games. People have favourite games but a many of them aren't video games and we really want to change that. Now, with the consumer reach that EA's got, we're better positioned for that. We knew we could have probably done it on our own, but it would have taken a lot a longer. With EA, we can accelerate that process by quite a large number of years, because a relationship with them gives us access to a lot more resources.Some of its things, like Playfish's publishing platform, which can accelerate our social media games development, or Origin, which is this huge client database which will help us reach more gamers.So we've got more available. We don't have all the answers yet on what we're going to do with all of it, but we're excited that we have the opportunity to use it.You sound like you're still figuring it out as you go…Yeah, well, that's just it; the biggest challenge for a company our size is that there are so many things that we could do. The danger is that we don't make sure we know what the first things we should go after are. We're going to have to be a little bit careful; it's easy to try a thousand things at once and do none of them. We've got to be a bit judicious about things and take deliberation on it.Look, there are a lot of questions we still have – we haven't closed the deal yet – and there's the potential for a lot of angst that people have when there's this much change, so we know we have a lot still to work through.You've said that there's a lot that will change at PopCap – as has been happening over the last 10 years – but surely there are fundamentals here that won't be changed?Well they shouldn't be. Unless, of course, we decided we wanted to change them. Look, five years ago we were a download gaming company. Now we're a social media games company and a smartphone games company. That's what we're know for now, and that's a pretty big change, right? It's the biggest change that I think we've had at PopCap – certainly in the time I've been here.We've had to really think about games differently. With social games, I really have to credit Jason [Kapalka, founder and chief creative officer] and some of the other guys at the studio for dragging some of the old timers we've had here, kicking and screaming sometimes, towards that genre. Once they got it, though, they really realised that all social games were not evil and they were actually a really cool way to engage users in ways we never thought of before. Once that happened, the whole landscape here changed.I think we're on this dawn of new social games. We haven't seen the best of what that platform has to offer yet – not just from PopCap but from anyone. We want to change the way people look at social gaming and I'm sure other folks are working on the same thing. Take the new Sims social stuff – I haven't seen it myself yet, but I've heard it's supposed to be amazing. I don't think you're going to be seeing much more, cloney, spam-your-friends games that we've seen on Facebook in the past. I think you're going to see a lot of innovation there and that's only a good thing.Plants vs Zombie proved a massive crossover hit for both casual and core audiencesSo do you think that we're going to see fewer games on social platforms that put a premium on monetisation?Well, it depends on what you care about. You can go overboard with monetisation on any platform. You can take any of the free-to-play models too far and I think doing that too much can put a blemish on the industry. I think that this actually hurt social games very early on, even some of the ones like FarmVille, which I think was very spammy at first. But they've gotten huge; ask FarmVille players now if they like FarmVille, and they do. It's easy for us in the core gaming crowd to say that it's not even a game, but the truth is, FarmVille has tens of millions of people who play it and love it and you can't argue with that!Do you think that the core market developers resist making social media games because they see how much money they make and they start getting worried that this is the sort of game that publishers and developers will start to focus more on making, because that's where the money is?I think that's a part of it, sure. But then there's another part of it that it's because it's the unknown. Game designers are a fickle breed and they kind of like things to stay the way they are. It's hard for things to change sometimes – look, we've struggled with it. It's hard to make a game with the right balance; which is fun, and that you can monetise while having it still be engaging. Making a game which is a one-time fee is a much easier challenge than making any freemium game model work.I've seen a lot of bad freemium models out there where they give you two levels and then expect you to pay for it – and the two levels aren't very good. There may be an interesting game in there, but you'll never know, because the makers tried to make you pay for it too fast!So, I guess developers have always had game balance issues, and now we've got a new dimension for game balancing and I think that's daunting. It's a whole new skill set and evidenced by some of the stuff I've seen out there, a lot of people aren't very good at it.I think we'll come around, though. People are learning how to make better social games. We take an approach here where we try to lead with the fun part and then dial up the monetization part. We've probably left money on the table somewhere, but ultimately we've kept our customers happy and we've preserved our reputation and, frankly, that's the most important thing for us. We're in for the long run. It's Facebook today, but it might Google+ in a year and it could be something completely different in three years.Do you have any developers looking at making games for Google+?I don't know if I'd be allowed to say so if we did!
The head of the US body responsible for combating cyber-attacks has resigned unexpectedly following a string of online assaults on the CIA and other government agencies.Randy Vickers, the director of the US computer emergency readiness team (US-CERT), stepped down on Friday, according to a Department of Homeland Security emailobtained by the Reuters news agency.According to Reuters, the email did not disclose any reason for Vickers's resignation. The Department of Homeland Security declined to comment. Vickers, director of US-CERT since 2009, will be temporarily replaced by deputy director Lee Rock.Vickers's resignation follows a number of online attacks on government websites including the Senate, the CIA and the FBI. William Lynn, the US deputy defence secretary, revealed earlier this month that a foreign intelligence service had stolen up to 24,000 computer files from a Pentagon supplier in March – one of the largest successful cyber-attacks on a US government agency.The hacker collectives Anonymous and LulzSec targeted state websites after US intelligence agencies vowed to clamp down on the groups, resulting in a string of arrests worldwide.Sixteen alleged members of the Anonymous collective were arrested last week, as part of the investigation. Two British teenagers, 19-year-oldRyan Clearyand an unnamed 16-year-old, have been arrested in the past month accused of involvement in the attacks.The unnamed south London teenager – thought to go by the online alias "Tflow" –  was released on bail on Friday following his arrest on Tuesday.Washington-based US-CERT is responsible for the protection of US government computer networks, including those of the Pentagon and Senate.• This article was amended on 27 July 2011. The original referred to the US computer emergency readiness team simply as CERT. This has been corrected.
The phenomenon of high-spending players – or whales in industry lingo – is well known to publishers of social games on Facebook. Just 1% of people who play Zynga's games arethought to account forbetween 25% and 50% of the company's revenues, for example.Nowdata published by mobile analytics company Flurryindicates that whales are also a key source of income for freemium games on iOS and Android. The company analysed in-app purchases by 3.5 million mobile gamers, and found that the average transaction value was $14.If that sounds a little on the high side – the lowest IAP option on iOS is 69p – it's worth digging down into the statistics released by Flurry, for the distribution of transactions and revenues shows how much of an impact whale players are having.According to Flurry, in-app purchases for less than $10 account for 71% of transactions within the freemium games covered by its research, but just 31% of the revenues. In-app purchases between $10 and $20 account for 16% of transactions and 18% of revenues, meanwhile.And the whales? In-app purchases of more than $20 account for a mere 13% of transactions, but 51% of revenues. In fact, 5% of all in-app purchases in the games analysed were for more than $50, which as Flurry's general manager of games Jeferson Valadares points out, "rivals the amount paid at retail for top console and PC games".He goes on to suggest iOS and Android developers working on freemium games should be paying more attention to these high rollers. "Your 'meta-game' should be about whale hunting."Popular iOS game Pocket Frogs backs up this conclusion. Its developer NimbleBitrevealed in September 2010that whales were its biggest revenue stream from Pocket Frogs.That game offered three tiers of in-app purchase: $0.99, $4.99 and $29.99. The 99-cent option accounted for around half the in-game transactions but only 9% of revenues, while the $4.99 tier took a 42% share of both transactions and revenues.The whales splashing out $29.99 per in-app purchase made up just 8% of transactions, but 49% of revenues. NimbleBit fed the whales and prospered, in other words.This data is highly important for the mobile games industry, particularly on iOS, where freemium games are riding high in the App Store charts.At the time of writing, 11 of the 20 top grossing iPhone games in the UK App Store are freemium titles. Free-to-play games Tap Zoo, Tiny Tower (another NimbleBit title), Tap Pet Hotel, Happy Park, Zynga Poker and Smurfs' Village are all making more money than Angry Birds. In the US, the trend is even more advanced: 15 of the 20 top grossing iPhone games are freemium.Back to Flurry, which haspreviously claimedthat in June 2011, 65% of revenues from the 100 top grossing games on the US App Store were from freemium titles, up from 38% in January 2011. It also suggests in its new blog post that only "around 3% of consumers" spend money within freemium games on mobile.Games industry consultant Nicholas Lovell of Games Brief wrote aninsightful blog postabout whales in August 2010, suggesting that previous limitations of physical distribution have encouraged content businesses to treat all consumers equally, with single fixed price points."This is a rubbish idea. Consumers are all different. Some are heavy spenders; some are freeloaders. Some are grazers and some are avid consumers," he wrote, suggesting that the future of all media – not just games – depends on understanding and harnessing these dynamics.""It means throwing out the model of selling a single fixed-price of content... It means catering to the 10% of your audience who want to and enjoy spending money with you and allowing them to spend $10, $50, S500 or more. It means allowing 90% of users to experience your content for free for ever."Flurry and NimbleBit's data, as well as a cursory glance at the App Store charts, show that taking that leap into the unknown can be a lucrative business. Although – and this is the most important point of all – only if it's done well, with games that are a.) really good, and b.) suit the model.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBing Becomes a Costly Distraction for Microsoft &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Microsoft needs to concentrate on a different kind of search: finding a buyer for Bing, its online search business. Bing is the industry's distant No. 2 after Google. It has become a distraction for the software giant -- one that costs shareholders dearly. The division that houses Bing lost $2.6 billion in the latest fiscal year. Facebook, or even Apple, might make a better home for Bing. A sale would be a boon for Microsoft's investors."Why Apple may be alone and vulnerable in mobile &gt;&gt; ZDNet"Apple's staggering Q3 reports might allow them to buy Dell twice and still have a boatload of cash in reserve, but they've got a real ecosystem and strategy problem."Apparently part of the problem is not having a search engine that loses torrents of money every quarter, and that it doesn't have LinkedIn baked into iOS5.How Microsoft plans to sell a 'couple hundred million' more Windows 7 PCs before Windows 8 &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley: "As Microsoft's fourth-quarter fiscal 2011 earnings made clear, Windows 7 sales -- with the glaring exception of netbooks -- are good, but not as good as they used to be. Given there's still a year (give or take) s until Windows 8 launches, what is Microsoft's game plan to keep the bottom from dropping out of the Windows PC market?"The enterprise market will likely keep Windows 7 sales chugging, as many larger businesses are only now finally deploying Windows 7, after months of planning and testing. And, as Microsoft execs said during yesterday's earnings call, the emerging market countries are snapping up a lot of Windows 7, though at lower prices -- and with substantially higher piracy rates -- than the "developed" nations."Interesting words too on tablets. And this confirms that Microsoft makes the worst Powerpoint decks in the world.Anonymous' new social site hacked, defaced &gt;&gt; MSNBC"Anonymous, the hacking group that saw some of its alleged members arrested last Tuesday, had another blow to deal with on Wednesday, albeit a lesser one: Its own social network page was hacked and defaced."The group had announced earlier this week that it was just starting AnonPlus after its "Your Anon News" account was rejected by Google's new social network, Google+, for violating the site's standards."Syrian hackers apparently to blame. Ironic?On Ethical Hacking: 'LulzSec Is Utterly Irresponsible' &gt;&gt; Radio Free Europe / Radio LibertySam Bowne who teaches 'ethical hacking' at City College San Francisco interviewed:"RFE/RL: Do you see moral or ethical differences between what the "News of the World" has done, for instance hacking into individual's phones, or by LulzSec hacking into "The Sun." Is there a moral equivalency here or are these different cases?  Bowne: "Well, I mean, they're both wrong. They're both illegal. I think they're both going to get caught and punished. So, I'm just thinking two wrongs don't make a right. And I also don't see any real purpose to the LulzSec attack because I don't think there was some secret hidden stuff about what the News of the World did that would never have come out without them hacking in. So it's not clear to me that them hacking accomplished anything. It was mostly just a prank so they could laugh about it, which is what LulzSec has always been about. "Thoughtful about the ethical differences between, for example, a physical sit-in and a DDOS staged for "visibility".How we do all this will never be the same &gt;&gt; Asymco"Yes, it's still growing at five times the rate of the PC market (and 7.5 times the rate of Windows only PCs), but the iPad phenomenon is indeed affecting the Mac."Intriguing.Samsung smartphone sales may pass Apple &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Samsung Electronics Co., the world's second-largest handset maker, may have surpassed Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) and Apple Inc. (AAPL) in smartphone sales in the second quarter, driven by the popularity of Android-based models, according to Boston- based Strategy Analytics.Samsung is estimated to have sold between 18 million and 21 million smartphones globally in the period, compared with 16.7 million for Nokia and 20.3 million iPhones, Neil Mawston, a London-based analyst at the research company, said in an e- mailed response to questions on July 22."The maker of Galaxy devices is on track to pass Nokia and Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) in smartphone sales for the first time to become Apple's closest rival, as consumers flock to devices running Google Inc. (GOOG)'s Android system. Samsung, which aims to more than double smartphone sales this year, and Apple are vying to replace Nokia as the biggest smartphone seller and capitalize on surging demand for computer-like handsets."Information on Anonymous operation online pads and IRC &gt;&gt; Pastebin.com"Description: Online "Pads" are used by anonymous/antisec to attack post information on their current target(s). The pads contain information about target IP addresses, URLs, potential vulnerabilities, contacts, whois info, exploit links,phone numbers, addresses, status, etc."" shared="noYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A burst of 9 apps for your considerationVooMote OneThe VooMote One app works with a separate accessory that slides onto an iPhone or iPod touch, turning it into a universal remote control for TVs, DVD players, hi-fis and other gadgets. Users can fiddle with the settings to customise the controls to their usage. The app is free, but the hardware will cost $99 in the US, with UK pricing to be confirmed.iPhoneBonusprintBonusprint has launched a dedicated iPad app that aims to help people create photo books from the images stored on their tablets. The idea: spread photos over 24 pages, and then order the actual printed book to be delivered within a week.iPadJack and the Beanstalk by MindshapesBritish developer Mindshapes has released its latest iOS app, moving beyond its own Jellytoons brand to try its hand at fairy tales. Jack and the Beanstalk combines mini-games and hidden items with animation and voice narration – along with a modern spin that sees Jack addicted to console games. For more on Mindshapes, read our interview.iPhone / iPadBing Get Me ThereMicrosoft has released a new Windows Phone 7 app focused on London travel. Bing Get Me There offers door-to-door directions within the capital, but also pulls in live service updates from the tube, as well as maps of London's underground network.Windows PhoneDE:BUG – The Sound of BerlinGerman magazine DE:BUG has released a classy-looking iPad app giving a guide to Berlin from a bunch of DJs and music producers. The idea: they present their favourite spots around the city, accompanied by audio slideshows, interviews and essays.iPadAirVoxAirVox is one of the first music creation apps for iPhone and iPad where you don't touch the screen to control your virtual instrument. Instead, it's all done with gestures as you hover your hand above the front-facing camera. 48 preset instrument sounds and the ability to share your creations on SoundCloud add to the fun.iPhone / iPadSunderland AFC Official ProgrammesIf apps are to cannibalise print magazines, will they also do it for the trusty football programme? Tri Active Media has released an iPhone and iPad app that offers every issue of Sunderland's programme digitally, using in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadMomotaroTouchyBooks has released an Android version of its Momotaro book-app, with proceeds going to UNICEF to help the rebuilding effort in Japan following this year's earthquake and tsunami. The story itself is Japanese – a saga of a boy called Momotaro who goes in search of a demon. It's been available on iOS previously.AndroidThe Irish Times DatingNewspaper The Irish Times has launched an iPhone app for its dating service. Obviously, it's most useful within Ireland, but the app is available elsewhere in the world too. The app is free, but users are invited to upgrade to a premium membership for more features.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Hello and welcome to Tuesday.
You'll have seen Nokia'sterrible second-quarter results. The number of both mobile phones and smartphones that it sold fell back to levels last seen in 2006; its mobile phone revenues fell back to levels last seen in 2005. In smartphones, which is where everyone expects future sales for all phone makers to lie, it did worse with its entire range of smartphones thanApple did with its two, namely the iPhone 3GS (vintage summer 2009) and iPhone 4 (vintage summer 2010). Nokia sold 16.7m - a 30% drop year-on-year, with average selling prices for those phones almost unchanged at €142 compared to €143 a year ago.That's not the worst of it though. The bad stuff is yet to come, because although Nokia is working very hard on producing a Windows Phone device, and is expected to have at least one for sale from some time in October, or a bit afterwards, that's just one device. It's not going to be a game-changer like the iPhone. (And even that didn't sell in vast numbers in its first quarter.)Nokia's problem, as the analysts I've spoken to see it, is that it isn't going to have arangeof smartphonesthat people want to buyready for sale before some time around March or June of 2012. That is, in three or four quarters' time.But by then the smartphone window will be all but shut. According to the data from ComTech that we published earlier this month, smartphone adoption in the UK is growing by about 1% per month, and in the US at a slightly slower pace, but still fast enough that in the UK (one of the largest phone markets in Europe) and the US you'll either be past, or close to, 50% smartphone ownership by June 2012.UK installed base: feature phones (blue) v smartphones (red), June 2010-June 2012. Data for 2012 forecast. Source: Kantar ComTechThat ignores the possibility, by the way, that there's a Christmas bump of smartphone purchases this year after Apple releases its one (maybe two? we're hearing whispers) phone/s in September, and Samsung and HTC continue to pour their brightest and best into the market. Samsung, which will report its second-quarter results on Friday, and is expected to have sold even more smartphones than Apple, and more mobile phones in total than Nokia's 88.5m total. The Galaxy IIS is wowing plenty of people, while HTC's Android models are proving popular.Given that those three companies alone - let alone RIM - will be going hell for leather after the customers at Christmas, it may be that those adoption rates will speed up. (It's noticeable though that it didn't speed up last Christmas, so the straight-line model may be good enough.)Meanwhile Windows Phone sales numbers aresoimpressive that Microsoftdidn't even mention them in its latest quarterly earnings. The whole Windows Phone effort is skated over in a single paragraph. And the analystsdon't ask about it in the Q&amp;A.Now, Francisco Jeronimo, smartphone analyst for IDC, thinks the timing issue presents a problem for Nokia. "On the smartphone in the just-passed quarter they couldn't even compete on price," he says. "They cut prices to keep the volume high in the mid-tier, but as Android smartphones go lower in price, the actual price isn't a strategic selling point. Consumers can buy a better experience [than Nokia's] for the same or lower price."So how about when Windows Phone comes along? "That will reverse [the decline], but the question is how bad it can get [for Nokia] before it's too bad to regain leadership. They can't compete with Samsung and Apple."And as the window of opportunity closes - and there are fewer consumers and enterprises left to try to persuade to switch for the first time from their feature phone - Nokia will be facing two diametrically opposed forces that are equally antagonistic to its success:• some of those remaining feature phone users will be refuseniks who don't want a smartphone and aren't going to change unless they're somehow forced to, or the price of changing is zero;• the feature phone users who do change will face temptations on offer from all the Android manufacturers, and Apple, and RIM. Android handsets may be so cheap you'll near enough get them with packets of cornflakes.That means the window of opportunity for Nokia, before all those feature phone switchers get tied up with two-year contracts, is closing really quite fast. The switchers who come after June 2012 probably aren't going to be as generous with their money (else they would have bought a smartphone already). They're less valuable. And Nokia will have to scrap for every new contract as the early adopters come out of contract; the most likely course is that people who have bought into an ecosystem tend to stay with it. Thus iPhone users tend to stick with iPhones, and Android users with Android phones (even if they switch between brands).US installed base, feature phones (blue) v smartphones (red), June 2010-June 2012. Data for 2012 forecast. Source: Kantar ComTechYes, you can argue that the US isn't switching quite as quickly as the UK (and the rest of Europe), so the windows of opportunity should remain open for longer there. That's true - except that Nokia faces a monumental uphill struggle in the US, where its share and brand awareness are next to zero. Winning the US, or even placing third, will take a monumental marketing effort - and those aren't cheap.There's only one bright note for Nokia, which is that carriers are quite keen that it should succeed, or at least provide some sort of competition that will stop Apple riding roughshod over them and Android leaving them with no margin. Sources I've spoken to at carriers raise their eyebrows and shrug their shoulders a little hopefully. But they know that time is not on Nokia's side here. It needs to do quite a lot, quite quickly.Just to rub it in, Richard Windsor, equities analyst at Nomura Securities, thinks that 2011 is going to see the fastest growth in sales of smartphones (it's forecast to be about 50% up on 2010, which saw a total of 285m smartphones sold, and that 2012 will see slower growth. That's the tough, competitive market that Nokia will be launching its Windows Phone models into. It's already discovered that price doesn't persuade people to buy its smartphones. Now the question is: what will?
There's still no date for the launch of the very overdue Facebook iPad app, but Canadian engineering studentMarvin Bernalspotted a hole in the latest update of the Facebook iPhone app that revealed what the iPad version will look like.Seemingly correcting a few minor bugs, version 3.4.4 fixed various problems that caused crashes, restored the send button for comments, chat and messages and the friends lists to the news feed filter. But, asBernal discovered, "change the UIDeviceFamily to 2 for iPhone on the Facebook app you get an iPad version!".TechCrunch's MG Sieglerhad an intensive fiddle and pastedtwo dozen screen shotsshowing everything you might expect from a comprehensive Facebook iPad app. And to be fair, probably everything you could have expected from a Facebook app months ago. With the app this finished, you have to wonder what finishing touches are worth holding back for. Or, what kind of opportunity Facebook is looking for to time this launch.You can be sure that this will be one of the next slate of launches Mark Zuckerberg announced during theSkype press conference. The question now is how much longer it will take.• Meanwhile, some leaked photos of Facebook'sbrand new Californian headquartershave emerged on TechCrunch. Rather eerily, these were taken at night and feel rather clinical, though you might spot a re-used Sun Microsystems door on a meeting room...
Last week, Apps Blog attended a London roundtable of book publishers convened by creative studio ustwo and consultancyLiterary Platform, to discuss the opportunities and challenges offered by mobile and tablet apps.The attendees were drawn from the digital and marketing teams of several key publishers – including HarperCollins, Faber, Profile Books and others – and while the agreement was that quotes would not be attributed, here are the key themes that emerged.– Book-apps aren't just being made by traditional book publishers:  independent app developers are also piling into the space, albeit often working with out-of-copyright content like nursery rhymes and fairy tales. Meanwhile entertainment brands like Disney - who have been involved in the books business before through licensing deals - are now publishing their own book-apps directly.– Publishers are at an experimental stage with apps: they are trying different formats and content, but in many cases they still have to commission apps with a firm eye on delivering a return on investment.– Publishers are looking for partnerships with innovative developers rather than pure work-for-hire projects. Often this involves revenue-share deals – something that appeals to both sides to ensure they are committed (and also reducing the upfront costs for the publisher). Developers are keen to secure a marketing commitment from the publisher as part of this though. Meanwhile, publishers say they can help developers with access to authors, dealing with agents, commissioning and editing content, and handling territoriality and permissions.– It's still unclear what a truly compelling experience for the reader is in an app. For example, if you buy a novel, you know you're making a commitment to reading a sequential narrative. But what do people expect from book-apps? It's more obvious for some genres – reference for example – than for fiction. Are publishers re-interpreting the original book, or doing something completely different?– Publishers realise that they don't have to confine themselves to creating book-apps, especially in the non-fiction area. HarperCollins'SAS Survival Guidewas one of the first books to become a lifestyle app with more functions and features - for example Morse Code signalling using the phone's flashlight - to create something that's more of a hybrid app product built for the device, as opposed to a straightforward e-book. Apple is also encouraging publishers not to make book-apps that are too similar to e-books, which it sells through its iBooks store.– There is already one example – Faber and Touch Press'Solar System– where what started as an app is now becoming a printed book.– What's a good price for a book-app? This is still a very fluid area. Many cost between £2.99 and £3.99, with occasional drops to 69p for short-burst promotions. However, book-apps like Faber'sThe Waste Land, Penguin'sJack Kerouac's On the Roadand Insight Editions'Harry Potter Film Wizardryhave been selling for £7.99 and above. The conversation focused more on innovation and content rather than pricing strategies though.– Many publishers - although not all - think that the best margins are likely to be in creating a platform for publishers to release digital book experiences through, rather than simply in the content. "Publishers need more windows, and whoever owns the windows will really make the money..."– There is still a lot of "paranoia and secrecy" around sales figures for book-apps, not least because they're perhaps not doing as well as has been supposed. "Nobody wants to admit it's really not making as much money as we'd like..." ustwo's decision to go public with the fact that its chart-toppingNursery Rhymes with StoryTimewasonly earning £2,000 a daywhen it was the Top Grossing Book on the App Store was a welcome break from the secrecy – even if the figure was a bit dispiriting.– There is a distinction emerging between 'marketing apps' and'product' – book-apps as something that promotes a physical book, versus those that are products in their own right. Often the work of separate teams with separate budgets and goals within a publisher.– Children's books seem to be a really appealing area, but there is still a compromise to be made "between making something that's really good for children, and making something that's going to sell". Possibly because parents are quite keen on educational apps for their children, whereas the kids would rather have something playful – a digital toy.– One contrast between the worlds of books and apps: there isrelatively little analysis done of who is buying books and how they consume them – "we're pretty unscientific – I've never sat down in an editorial meeting when anyone's brought scientific data other than sales" – whereas in apps, there is a big focus on getting analytics and then acting on them.Three reasons why publishers aren't more involved in apps than they are, according to one attendee: "It's already a risk-based business – we are spending a lot of money on things that quite often fail. Second, margins are very small – publisher profit margins are much smaller than the development industry. Third: culturally books is still a quite old-fashioned industry..."
Alan Miller has seen it all. From the nascent home console scene of the seventies to the emergence of digital distribution and freemium gaming today, he's been there and done that.Graduating from the University of California, Berkley, with a degree in electrical engineering and computer science, he started out designing aerospace control systems before beginning his career at Atari in 1977. There, he coded early titles for the 2600 console like Basketball, Surround and Hangman, but, frustrated by the lack of royalities at the company, co-founded Activision. In 1984, he moved on to launch seminal publisher Accolade.Through the nineties he worked in online games, educational software and advergaming, and is now heading up the North American arm ofGamesAnalytics, a company that specialises in helping online games developers analyse their metrics and improve their titles. You can read more about that in myrecent feature.Recently, I spoke to Alan about his incredibly career in the industry, and his views on where he sees game development heading. Here's what he had to say.With all the young studios opening up these days and working in emerging new areas of technology, do you think there are parallels between today's games industry and Atari in the seventies?I think there are. Back in that era, the industry was undefined. I started at the beginning of 1977, so Atari had probably been in the coin-op business for about five years at that point; they'd also been selling home products for a while, but they weren't programmable, they were dedicated game chips. It was great because we didn't know what the game genres were, we just tried to create products that would appeal to a huge audience.I think those elements are true again now, because the restrictions imposed by retail distribution through stores has been lifted. Game publishers are free to create products for audiences that retail distribution would never be able to reach. They can experiment with new genres, new monetisation methods, new styles of execution. And actually, we were experimenting with all of those things back in the seventies and early eighties.And also there are similarities in terms of team sizes aren't there? A lot of iPhone and casual games are created by one- and two-man teams. It was like that at Atari, wasn't it?Games were small projects – when I started, they were single-person projects. We did all the coding, all the art, all the sounds… and yes, today some of the very popular online games are done by a single individual or small groups. But it is different now – back in the Atari era we were all practising engineers and computer scientists. When I was there it was never a garage shop operation.Did you apply for a job at Atari?Yeah, I worked in the Valley for three or four years then saw that Atari was advertising and it was a very intriguing ad. When I was growing up, I was the oldest of six kids and part of my job was to keep my younger brothers and sisters amused so I'd sort of been creating entertaining activities for children my whole life – that was one of the reasons I was very interested in Atari. The other attraction was, they were basing products on microprocessor technology, which was something I wanted to get into.What did you program on?There were no PCs back in that era. When I started at Atari, the work was largely done on a timeshare system. We had terminals in the office, we would enter our code, it would go to a central computer that we rented time from and an assembler program there would convert our source code into assembly code. We would then download that into the development systems for the Atari 2600, which we were working on. Over time, some of us thought that this was pretty kludgy so we designed our own in-house development systems based on PDP-11 minicomputers – we used those for developing after a couple of years.Was there a sense of camaraderie there? Was it fun?It was a heck of a lot of fun. I was there for two and a half years, we worked really hard, we knew we were doing something new and important and we generally liked each other a lot. But when I joined Atari it was already a 1000 employee company – there was a significant business in the coin-op space and also selling millions of units of dedicated home electronic games. But, the home programmable group, where I worked, was a pretty small group – we worked on each other's games, we critiqued them, we always showed our work to each other. There wasn't the camaraderie across different companies that there is now, though: for example, Fairchild was another company here in Silicon Valley that created a programmable console – we had no interaction with those guys!A group photo of the Activision staff in 1980. Miller is on the top row, far right. Fellow games legend David Crane is in the top left corner.You co-founded Activision in 1979. What do you think of the company now?It's very different now. We started Activision primarily to get recognition for our creative efforts. Additionally, we wanted a small loyalty stream: when we proposed this to Atari it was something like two or three percent, not a whole lot. Their resistance was very odd because they were owned by Warner Communication, which is huge in book, movie and record publishing; they were used to compensating creative people with royalties. So we were surprised at their reluctance to do that with games. But now when I look at Activision, I don't really see much recognition for the creative people within the development studios, I just don't see it. But I haven't been associated with the company since 1984. They're much bigger than I ever thought they would get!It seems the traditional publishers like EA and Activision are having quite a hard time adjusting to the industry as it is now, with digital distribution and new platforms…It is a huge challenge for them, and most of the old guard have not been successful in the transition to online distribution because they're not used to designing products for the much bigger audience that online affords you. And they're not used to complex monetisation models. When you sell a product at retail, it's a one-time purchase – that model doesn't really work in the online space. You have to figure out other clever ways to motivate consumers into giving you money. The old guard hasn't done that and it's created tremendous opportunities for new publishers like Zynga. Little one and two person shops can be hugely successful if they create wonderful products.You're now in game analysis rather than development. Has that been an easy shift?It's not a recent shift for me. I developed games for many years but then I segued up into the management structure. I was CEO at Accolade in the late eighties and early nineties and that was quite a bit outside the development process. In 2000 I took a gig developing and publishing health education software for kids and that was great – it was a little bit more on the creative side again. But since 2001 I've been focusing on online games, more in a business development sense than a creative sense.You worked with David Crane on advergames didn't you?Yes, I joined Skyworks – David started that with Gary Kitchen, another one of our early Activision developers – and they established a nice company building custom advergames, all online just about. They created very large audiences for companies – they did Candystand and NabiscoWorld – those were combined attracted something like 6-7 million unique visitors, even back in the early 2000s.What did that teach you about online games?There were many lessons – it's a big and complex industry and it's changing rapidly, in fact it's changing more rapidly now than it has at any time in the last 25 years. And two great things have emerged. One is that the transition away from brick and mortar retail distribution which imposed so many restrictions on developers and publishers to this the electronic distribution model which opens up so much potential for developers to address bigger audiences and experiment with different genres and styles of executions.But also it's really changed the monetisation models how companies generate revenue form their effort. The evolution of the monetisation models over the last ten years in the online space has been really interesting and educations. I joined Skyworks in 2001 I was there for four years and I thought advertising was quickly going to become a big revenue source for games – much like it is for television but it hasn't materialised. And although I remain optimistic for the long term of advertising being an important source of revenue for online games, it's still not close to being big. We have to figure out how to make that work better.Are there universal laws of game design that run through from your time at Atari?Yes, I think there are, but they're very basic. This is interactive entertainment, the players want their action in the game to change the experience, so there has to be a sense of control and there can't be too many frustrations, there has to be reward, these are fundamental obvious things. I don't know that we can go up to higher levels of design theory, because games are so varied. What does Tetris have to do with an MMO apart from the fact that they're both enjoyable?Do you see a change in the approach to game development based on having to stimulate revenue in this way? Is this a completely new form of game design?I think it is. Again, it gets to the shift in distribution methods. In order to be successful with a free to play virtual goods monetisation model, the design of that game is significantly different than a one-time retail purchase model. And yes, those models have to be considered in designing a game. That's where the old guard publishers are not being successful, and that's why Activision bought Blizzard – they are a huge success in this arena, and they are starting to experiment with free to play. Then EA bought Playfish, Disney bought Playdom – the old guard publishers are having a terrible time because they consider this transition as just a change in the distribution method, but it's a heck of a lot more than that. The ramifications of this change are enormous.What are the fundamental game design aspects of a Facebook title?Those games are about what they call leveraging the social grid – the games have to be designed to motivate players to want to somehow engage their friends in their gaming experience – and that's a hugely different kind of game design than what we've seen in the past. I go to some of the old guard publisher's Facebook games and it's a copy of a coin-op title that they made thirty years ago. It might be brilliantly executed but there's no motivation to share it with your friends – it's a very bad adaptation to the monetisation model of virtual goods purchases.Also, there's no coincidence that Zynga is the most successful Facebook publisher – they have the biggest most sophisticated analytics group. It's 60 people. Some of the other big Facebook publishers don't have a staff at all . Zynga is showing the way, but not all companies are ready to commit to that.Where are things going with online gaming?Jeez, the future is very interesting. I think we're going to see a lot more people playing games on mobile devices – duh – but they're becoming more sophisticated, the data networks are faster and so it will be much more of a seamless experience. Whether you're playing on a mobile device or on your computer at home. And at some point in the future I do think advertising will become a significant monetisation source for games. I mean, it does tremendously for Google – they're not a game publisher but they're starting to make some very aggressive moves toward the games industry. It will be interesting to see where they go with that. Mobile phones are also developing the capability to wirelessly send information to HD televisions – people are going to be using their phone as a controller and looking at the game on a screen ten feet away – that's going to be a very interesting change for the industry. The console publishers face a very challenging future.When you founded Accolade I guess you were at the beginning of online, did you ever get a sense of what was coming? Was it foreseeable?I think it was to some extent – in the sense that we were going to see a world of fragmented platforms. We had come from Atari and Activision when there were just a couple of console manufacturers here in America. But when Bob Whitehead and I started Accolade in 1984, we explicitly set out to create games for personal computers and we knew there would be a wide variety. Additionally, we wanted to create more cinematic experiences. But we did not anticipate the evolution of distribution. I can remember one of my board members asking me in the early nineties if I thought consumers would ever switch to electronic distribution and I said no, consumers will always perceive the value of a box. I've been educated a lot over the last twenty years!What have been our most important games as a designer?The most interesting game I designed was Law of the West. I incorporated a system in which the player could do bad things – you could shoot lots of people – but it had consequences. And I think that was interesting – to develop a darker story. I also tried to have all the characters react differently to you depending on what you had done previously. But the C64 wasn't such a wonderfully robust machine and we didn't have a lot of space.The games that I've been proud to be associated with, Pitfall was the game Dave Crane did at Activision – unique, revolutionary. When we started Accolade, Bob did the Hardball game which was a very television-like experience and we hadn't really seen that before. We also worked with Rex Bradford, an independent developer, to create the first 3D golf game which we called Mean 18, but which eventually evolved into the Jack Nicklaus line up of golf games – it was well executed and was a good seller for us for a long time.Now you're analysing a lot of games, do you ever want to go back to developing?Yes indeed, I do have that urge once in a while, but I try to suppress it. You know, it's a rough emotional journey creating games. But that's probably true for all artistic forms. You have to put a lot of yourself into the project… it's a killer. It's like that now and it was like that in the early days. We worked 60-70 hours weeks most of the time back then, too. But it was because we loved it, not because we had to…
The Canadian smartphone maker RIM, best known for its BlackBerry phones, hasannouncedthat it will cut 2,000 jobs, or 10% of its global workforce, as the company struggles to maintain profitability in the face of increasing competition from Apple's iPhone and smartphones using Google's Android operating system.The company is also shaking up its second-level management, with the departure of its chief operating officer Don Morrison, who went on medical leave in June. His job will be split into two roles. RIM said that it will inform employees affected by the cuts this week.Shares in the company, which is based in Waterloo, Ontario, fell by 41c, or 1.5%, in pre-market trading. They have fallen by 45% since the start of June 2010 as delays with new products and the disappointing launch of the PlayBook tablet, allied to falling selling prices, have pointed to concerns about its longer-term future. Analyst criticism has focused on the arrangement whereby Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie share both the chief executive and chairman roles.The company in Junelowered its guidancefor the quarter and full year below analysts' estimates, suggesting profits could be as much as 15% below expectations.The shakeup is being seen as part of a rationalisation as RIM struggles to contain costs while competing with Apple's iPhone and smartphones using Google's Android mobile operating system. In the three months to May, the number of phones shipped – 13.2m – grew by just 18%, its smallest amount in more than four years, in a smartphone market that is forecast to grow by 50% this year. That means RIM is falling behind Apple, whose iPhone sales more than doubled to 20.3m in the three months to the end of June, and Android phones, which now command about 38% of the smartphone market. Its attempt to launch into the tablet market blazed by Apple's iPad have so far gone slowly, with 500,000 shipped by the end of May, compared with the 9.2m sold by Apple in the quarter ending in June.The cuts at RIM followits acquisition of software company QNX in April 2010, bringing 270 employees. QNX will provide the operating system that will power a new generation of RIM smartphones expected in 2012 – but RIM has alreadysaid that it will this year release seven new phones, based on an update to the BlackBerry operating system. One is expected to be a touch-only device like the iPhone or Android phones.That will be a challenge for the company to maintain profitability as it straddles its enterprise and consumer customers, said Carolina Milanesi, smartphone analyst at the research company Gartner."The touch-only device will have to be a success for RIM, but they also need keyboard-based phones to appeal to teenagers," she said. "The other question is how they are going to position themselves with enterprises – which is where the money is."While the broader smartphone market is split 70-30 in number in favour of consumers against enterprises, RIM's business is split roughly evenly. "Enterprise is where the money is," said Milanesi. "But if you bring out seven devices and they know that there's going to be a new QNX platform coming out next year, they will tend to hold off buying until they can see what there is."On Monday morning the company insisted that a comScore survey which put its UK user base at the end of May 2011 at just 3.6m subscribers was incorrect, and that in fact it had 7m. However the comScore relates to consumers only, and does not survey enterprise customers.
Once upon a time, media told stories in a linear way by leading readers/listeners/viewers from the beginning to the end via the bits in the middle. There was a build up, a climax and a denouement. The end.Now things are different. The web has had its wicked way with stories, allowing tellers to mash up, mix up and generally mess around with formats and functions.But are new media storytellers really doing anything different than what's come before, or are previously marginalised ways of telling stories now mainstream? What impact has the disjointed, participatory and multi-media environment had on the way we consume stories in other media?For this fortnight'sUntangling the Web, I'll ask a few sages their advice before crossing the proverbialJoseph Campbellbridge and heading into the woods of self-actualisation (on my own) to find out.Spin me a yarn at aleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk or on Twitter,@aleksk(#uttw #storytelling).
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 23 JulyPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (2)172 (–)Call Of Juarez: The Cartel(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (38)13 (7)Harry Potter: The Deathly Hallows Part 2(12+)Xbox 360 (37)PS3 (26)Wii (19)DS (16)24 (5)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)DS (28)Wii (27)Xbox 360 (21)PS3 (14)115 (4)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (5)PC (5)356 (11)Dungeon Siege III(16+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (27)PC (13)67 (3)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)PC (0)98 (–)Cars 2(3+)Wii (28)DS (28)Xbox 360 (25)PS3 (19)19 (12)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (27)PSP (10)Wii (7)4310 (6)Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (31)Wii (25)PS3 (19)DS (13)1711 (2)Transformers: Dark Of The Moon(12+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)512 (9)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (40)PC (7)1113 (–)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12: The Masters(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (42)Wii (11)1014 (20)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (34)DS (31)PS3 (17)Xbox 360 (15)2115 (–)Earth Defence Force: Insect Armageddon(12+)Xbox 360 (82)PS3 (18)116 (17)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)9117 (8)EA Sports Active 2(3+)PS3 (54)Wii (41)Xbox 360 (6)518 (–)Just Dance 2: Extra Songs(3+)Wii (100)119 (13)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)1020 (10)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (41)29UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
A choice of 16 apps for you today.Streetmuseum: LondiniumThe Museum of London and TV channel History have teamed up for this iOS app about Roman London. Based around a mapping interface, it lets users conduct their own virtual excavations to find artifacts, swiping and blowing away soil using the touchscreen and microphone. There are also videos overlaid on the real world using an augmented reality feature, and a soundtrack promising a taste of how Roman London sounded.iPhone/iPadTekken BowlBeat 'em up franchise Tekken has yet to make it to iOS in its full glory, but one of its mini-games has made the leap. Tekken Bowl has three characters, a choice of puzzle mode or pass and play, and support for Apple's Game Center community. There are, it should be noted, no fisticuffs in sight.iPhone/iPadBuildingsAndroid-owning architecture buffs will love Buildings, which offers details on more than 40,000 buildings around the world, using the handset's location to identify the nearest ones. It pulls in text, images and videos about the buildings, with developer OpenBuildings saying the information is sourced from architects globally.AndroidWreck This AppBook publisher Penguin Group's latest iOS app is based on the book Wreck This Journal, and promises to bring "destructive creativity to your fingertips". What that means is messing up your screen with holes, ink drips and scribbling, before sharing the results on Facebook and Flickr.iPhone/iPadNetgear ReadyShare CloudNetgear's new Android app is the latest to promise cloud storage, although in this case, it's personal. What that appears to mean is that Android users can access, store and share files on USB hard drives at home, from their phone. Photos can also be uploaded from the handset to the home USB drive while out and about, and music can be pulled back in the other direction.AndroidMagnetic Billiards: BlueprintDevelopers John and Ste Pickford have worked for the likes of Rare, Nintendo and Sony in the console world, but are now switching focus to iOS. Their new game Magnetic Billiards blends pool with, well, magnets, scoring players based on their skill and risktaking behaviour. The game is already picking up rave reviews on the App Store.iPhone/iPadOzBookRemember Alice for the iPad? The book-app was the first to take a well-known story and jazz it up with tablet interactivity. Now L. Frank Baum's The Wizard of Oz is getting the same treatment, albeit from a different developer – Slypot – and with a more modern feel to the illustrations.iPadBitCoins MobileWanting to keep an eye on the new BitCoins virtual currency? Expect to pay £1.99 of real money for this iPad app, which offers live price quotes, historical charts, news feeds on everything BitCoin, and support for various exchanges.iPadAllied Star PoliceAllied Star Police will get headlines for being the latest iPhone and iPad game from PopCap Games – or at least its 4th &amp; Battery subsidiary. However, there's a story behind the side-scrolling shooter: it's the idea of a nine-year old called Owain who was introduced to PopCap by the Make-A-Wish Foundation charity.iPhone/iPadVirtual PatientVirtual Patient is a demonstration app for Android from the University of Florida's Virtual Experiences Research Group. It's designed to help doctors and nurses improve their bedside manners by talking to virtual patients.AndroidTywydd S4C WeatherWelsh broadcaster S4C has launched its own weather app for iPhone, offering local weather to the nearest kilometre - "weather forecasting at street level". It also offers 24-hour and 15-day forecasts, and yes, before you ask, it works outside Wales.iPhoneBanditoThis music app appears to only be available in the US for now, which is a shame. Bandito is the work of PRX Public Radio Exchange, working with APIs from music technology firm The Echo Nest. It scans your iPhone or iPod touch library to see which artists you have been listening to most, and then pulls in news articles, blogposts and other online content based on them. Meanwhile, a Hotlist section spotlights new bands you might not have heard of.iPhoneGeoSocialsGeoSocials is the latest social location game for iPhone, although Android and BlackBerry versions are on the way later this year. The game revolves around virtual treasure hinting in the real world, with local and global high score tables. The app also doubles as a local chat client when other GeoSocial users are nearby.iPhoneNeed For Speed AutologEA has brought its Need For Speed Autolog app to Windows Phone, offering a companion to the console and PC game Need For Speed Hot Pursuit. That means it hooks into the NFS community to compare times and recommend in-game events based on how you've been playing.Windows PhoneBusy Beavers JukeboxParents wishing they had some way of letting their children watch 35 music videos featuring cartoon beavers singing educational lyrics? There's an app for them ... The Busy Beavers have apparently notched up more than 50m YouTube views, and now they have an iPhone app.iPhoneAmy Winehouse MemoryFinally, with no link provided, shame on developer Borza Industries, who released "a pair matching memory game for all fans of Amy Winehouse, who has just recently left us". On Saturday night.Android
The problem of fake Apple retail stores turn out not to be limited to the southwestern city of Kumming in China,as identified last week by an American blogger living there: similar fakes exist in countries from Croatia to Venezuela, according to readers who have contacted her.Two of the five fake Apple stores in the southwestern city of Kummingidentified by the writer on the Birdabroad bloglast week have since been shut down by Chinese officials, according to a local government website there.But Chinese officials said they would not be taking any action against the other three stores, which like the other two prominently displayed Apple signs and logos, because they did not find any fake Apple products for sale, according to a report by a local newspaper posted on the Kunming city government's website. Apple has 13 official resellers in Kumming, but no official stores.The latest post on the Birdabroad blogsays that readers have contacted her with details about "fake (or at least seriously questionable)" Apple stores in countries including Burma, Croatia, Columbia, Slovenia, Spain and Venezuela. A number of other fake Apple stores were also identified in China, including one in the city of Xi'an.Apple has 331 official stores worldwide which in the past financial quarter brought in $3.5bn (£2.15bn) of revenue. Their ability to attract customers and so generate revenues for consumer electronics companies seeing diminishing returns – or which can sell pricier goods using the company's brand cachet – seems to have them popular, if expensive, targets for copying.After the Birdabroad blogpost appeared on Wednesday, the Kunming Trade and Industry Bureau inspected more than 300 electronics stores in Kunming and found the five fake Apple stores, the city government's website said. Calls by the Associated Press to the Kunming Trade and Industry Bureau went unanswered on Monday.The maker of the iPhone and other hit gadgets has four company stores in China–  two in Beijing and two in Shanghai – and various official resellers.The proliferation of the fake stores underlines the slow progress that China's government is making in countering a culture of a rampant piracy and widespread production of bogus goods that is a major irritant in relations with trading partners.
Ever since the iPad shipped, I've been waiting impatiently for a comparable Android device to emerge – something of like shape, size and capacity, but from a more open ecosystem than the one Apple offers.Like Apple, Google operates an Android App Store that it controls – if your app doesn't please Google, it doesn't go in the store. But unlike Apple, Google allows you to install apps from unofficial sources, meaning that you can download apps directly from their authors or buy them from stores that compete with (or complement) Google's store.This is the kind of thing that's important to me. After all, a tablet without software is just an inconveniently fragile and poorly reflective mirror, so the thing I want to be sure of when I buy a device is that I don't have to implicitly trust one corporation's judgment about what software I should and shouldn't be using.The introduction of the iPad sparked a series of Android tablet launches, and none of them had sufficiently impressive specs or form-factor to capture my desire, until Samsung announced its Galaxy Tab 10.1. Despite having one of the stupidest and most awkward product names in recent memory, the Galaxy Tab 10.1 boasted specifications that met or beat the iPad 2 on every axis, and came with the latest Android tablet OS, 3.1, preloaded.So I asked a friend who was coming over from Chicago to buy one for me and bring it with him (the device isn't available in the UK until 4 August), and I greedily unwrapped it, charged it up, and got down to business with it. I've used it on my own at home and office, given it to my three-year-old to test, and taken it on a quick overseas trip, and at this stage, I'm prepared to venture a verdict: meh.It's true that the Galaxy Tab 10.1 does all the basic stuff you'd like from an Android tablet, has a long-lived battery, weighs little, and has a good, sharp screen and two very good cameras – one facing you and one facing away. The camera is a delight – there's something really fun and right about using a big, 10.1in screen as a viewfinder, especially when shooting video, and the pictures are beautiful. By and large, the OS is easy and intuitive, and the software offerings from Google's Android store and its competitors are fine as they go.But there are a few annoyances and a couple of dreadful flaws that make the Galaxy Tab 10.1 into a disappointment. First, and worst of all, there is the business of the USB connector. Apple's iOS devices famously use a long, flat proprietary connector that provides some easy cash for the company in the form of specialist cable sales, and locks competing devices out of using speaker-docks and other accessories. This is one of my gripes with Apple devices, and the use of standard, cheap, widely available mini-USB cables in Android phones (including the excellent Samsung Galaxy S, which I am delighted to own) is a major selling point for me.But Samsung's tablets – for no discernible reason – use a custom tip that isn't any of the standard mini- or micro-USB ends. Instead, it's a wide, flat connector, like the one Apple uses, but of course, it's not compatible with Apple's cables, either. I've already lost mine, run down the battery and now I can't use the tablet again until I find another one. I passed through three airports recently, and none of them had a store that stocked them.I have phone charger cables in my office, my travel bag, my backpack and beside the bed. The very last thing in the entire world that I need right now is to have to addanotherkind of USB cable to all those places. The decision to use a proprietary connector in a device whose major selling point is that it is non-proprietary is the stupidest thing about the Galaxy Tab 10.1 – even stupider than calling it the "Galaxy Tab 10.1."Likewise disappointing was the decision to omit the microSD card slot on the Wi-Fi-only version of the tablet. The 3G-equipped models come with a built-in microSD reader (handy to have, especially if you need to load some data onto the device and you've mislaid the stupid proprietary cable). This is integrated into the Sim assembly used by the 3G devices, and rather than leaving the empty Sim assembly in place and leaving the card-reader intact, Samsung removed the whole thing.Continuing on the theme of data-transfer, the new versions of Android have made fundamental changes to system by which devices talk to personal computers. Up until now, Android devices showed up on your desktop as standard USB storage, and you could move files off or onto them by dragging them around in your file-browser. This was straightfoward, fast and easy, but it did have one minor annoyance: when your Android's storage was mounted on your PC, it wasn't available to the Android device, meaning you couldn't work with the files on your Android at the same time as it was using the storage to play back movies or audio.To fix this, Android borrowed MTP, a Microsoft technology developed for the Zune, which theoretically allows you to use your tablet's files even as you're using your PC to move files off or onto the in-built storage. It's a nice idea, and would represent a minor improvement to the Android experience, if it worked.But it doesn't. When you plug your Galaxy Tab 10.1 into your PC, Android automatically launches a Samsung file-transfer app that takes up your whole screen. This communicates with a desktop app to allow you to transfer files – very, very slowly. And if you try to launch another Android app while the file-transfer is taking place, it severs communications with your PC, causing the file transfers to fail. In other words, the system that's supposed to let you use your Android while you transfer files requires that younotuse your Android while you transfer files.What's more, the adoption of MTP means that Android now requires a proprietary desktop app to effect simple file transfers – an app that is, if possible, even worse than iTunes, and represents no selling-point for those of us who want non-proprietary, "just-works" mobile devices.Samsung really doesn't seem to have its head around the notion of Android's strength being its non-proprietary, open nature. They've preloaded the device with several Samsung apps that, insultingly, can't be deleted without "rooting" the device, a process that voids your warranty.The 32GB, WiFi-only Galaxy Tab 10.1 will ship in the UK in August, at an unrevealed price, though Play.com lists it for pre-order at an insane £899 (the comparable iPad 2 costs £479.00 and I paid US$699 for my Galaxy Tab 10.1).I'm not giving up on my search for a great Android tablet – I'm eyeing up the forthcoming Lenovo ThinkPad Tablet. I love Lenovo's ThinkPad laptops, and the ThinkPad Tablet comes with standard USB connectors, video out and an SD slot (it also has an optional stylus and carry-case with an integrated ThinkPad keyboard – my favourite keyboards in the world).
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMac malware 'explosion' missing in action &gt;&gt; TUAW"Would the hackers win and Apple be overwhelmed, or would they be defeated by Apple's vigilance?"Two months ago, I tried to come up with a way that we could answer that question definitively."I wrote a small script to download Apple's malware definitions file every hour and permanently store each unique version. I started this script running on June 2nd, capturing version 2 of the file; since then there have been 22 further versions, each adding new malware definition signatures to the scanner. I now have all that data at my fingertips."It's interesting data.The sociological breakthrough of Google+ &gt;&gt; Hannibal and MeAndreas Kluth of The Economist: "Tell me: In real life, how often do you walk up to somebody and request to be "friends", then begin "sharing" pictures of your naked baby?"How wonderfully warm and fuzzy do you feel when somebody (oh yes, wasn't he on my soccer team 30 years ago? Or perhaps I vomited on him at that keg party in 1989?) stops you on the street, asks to be "friends", then shares his baby pictures with you?"Mark [Zuckerberg] has been asking us all to do exactly this sort of thing. I thought it was strange back then, and I said so in our pages. (The picture at the top of this post is from that old piece.) But -- did I mention? -- that was in 2007. A different era, as I said."He likes Google+ and Circles, however.Amy Winehouse death video scams appear on Facebook &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityBefore you wonder, yes, they had similar ones about the Oslo killings. No event is too awful for a scammer not to exploit.Intrade users think Congress won't approve increase in US debt ceiling to $15.1T or more before midnight ET 31 Jul 2011 &gt;&gt; IntradeInTrade is a prediction system using crowdsourcing: people "buy" or "sell" a decision ahead of it happening. Keep this one bookmarked. On Sunday night is was at 21% chance of happening.Africa's mobile economic revolution &gt;&gt; The ObserverKillian Fox: "Africa has experienced an incredible boom in mobile phone use over the past decade. In 1998, there were fewer than four million mobiles on the continent. Today, there are more than 500m. In Uganda alone, 10 million people, or about 30% of the population, own a mobile phone, and that number is growing rapidly every year. For Ugandans, these ubiquitous devices are more than just a handy way of communicating on the fly: they are a way of life."It may seem unlikely, given its track record in technological development, but Africa is at the centre of a mobile revolution. In the west, we have been adapting mobile phones to be more like our computers.. In Africa, where a billion people use only 4% of the world's electricity, many cannot afford to charge a computer, let alone buy one. This has led phone users and developers to be more resourceful, and African mobiles are being used to do things that the developed world is only now beginning to pick up on."APIs for Foursquare, Twitter, Facebook et al &gt;&gt; ApigeeVery nifty console for any API work you need to do or test. (Thanks@arteseaon Twitter for the link.)Microsoft FY11Q4 Results &gt;&gt; Mini-MicrosoftMicrosoft's own Deep Throat, an anonymous manager: "The iPad continues to suck in consumer love and money... money that we'd prefer they send our way but there's nothing comparable for them to buy. Windows 8 ARM tablets? Sometime next year, but what we showed at All Things D is our take of squeezing an elephant into a VW bug. Here's some deep respect and chops to the folks doing all this work, but it's a subtraction game followed by many frustrating conversations about why it's okay not to have certain obvious things work... obviously...."My one analyst question for today: when the hell is Bing going to stop losing money?!? It appears that the internal hiring spree has finally cooled down so that's good - the piling of warm bodies has stopped.... Seriously though, now's the time to start shaking the Bing tree and let the goodness of the search eco-system keep on going and shed the remaining busy work. Come on, if Xbox did it, so can you!"In Case You Had Any Doubts About Where Microsoft's Profits Come From &gt;&gt; Business Insider Chart of the DayWhat's puzzling is the dip and then leap in the 2009 period. We'd love an explanation.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Monday - let's talk about what we played this weekend!
Richard Brown, of internet service provider Wispa, suggests reducing wholesale prices will give "BT less reason to invest in rural communities" (Ofcom tells BT to cut internet wholesale charge in rural areas, 21 July). However, our decision is designed to incentivise efficient investment in newer broadband technology.Ofcom has cut wholesale prices only for the current technology which provides "up to" 8Mbit/s services and not for "up to" 24Mbit/s services or super-fast, fibre-based broadband. This will incentivise BT Wholesale to invest in this new technology where it is efficient to do so, while encouraging competition in areas where BT is the only provider. Ofcom's decision is likely to benefit around 3m homes and businesses, mainly in rural areas, with better-value broadband.Rhodri WilliamsDirector, Wales, Ofcom
'A prophet is not without honour", says the Bible, "save in his own country." This was manifestly not true in the case ofMarshall McLuhan, the Canadian cultural critic, who was born 100 years ago last Thursday, and was famous not only in his own country, but also abroad. In fact, he's the only public intellectual I can think of who played himself in a Woody Allen movie.Film buffs will recall the wonderful sequence inAnnie Hall, where Woody and Diane Keaton are queuing for a movie when a guy behind them starts opining pompously about McLuhan's description of television as a "high intensity or hot medium". Allen expresses to camera a desire to have a large sock full of horse manure close to hand, whereupon the guy asserts his right to express his opinion on the grounds that he teaches a course at Columbia on "TV, media and culture", a fact that – he asserts – gives his views on McLuhan a great deal of validity."That's funny," replies Woody, "because I happen to have Mr McLuhan right here." He goes over to a flipchart and pulls out the great man himself from behind it. "I heard what you were saying," says McLuhan to the Columbia man. "You know nothing of my work... how you ever got to teach a course in anything is totally amazing."  The scene closes with Woody saying to camera: "Boy, if life were only&nbsp;like&nbsp;this."As it happens, there have been many times in the past few years when it would have been useful to have had McLuhan to hand because, in a strange way, his insights into media seem more relevant now than they were in the 1960s when he sprang into prominence. His big idea, encapsulated in the baffling aphorism: "The medium is the message", was that the important thing about media is not the information they carry but what they are doing to us in terms of shaping our behaviour, the way we think and possibly also the way our brains are structured. McLuhan believed that this had been demonstrated by media that had dominated human society up to the 1960s – starting with print and culminating with broadcast television – and added the twist that TV was restoring the "sensory balance" that had been disrupted by print.I never really understood McLuhan's views about television, preferring the perspective of one of his disciples, Neil Postman, who argued that the essential thing about the medium was that it had an infantilising effect, a view neatly encapsulated in the title of his wonderful book about the medium,Amusing Ourselves to Death. But McLuhan's insight into the significance of dominant media, expressed in another aphorism – "We shape our tools and afterwards our tools shape us" – always seemed profound and came to seem more and more so as television gave way to the internet and the networked world that we now&nbsp;inhabit.The past few years, for example, have seen a series of angry and sometimes anguished debates about what a comprehensively networked ecosystem is doing to our children, our politics, our economies and even our brains. We wonder whether social networking might be fuelling political revolution, for example. And we ask if Google is making us stupid – or at any rate whether networked technology is reducing attention spans, devaluing memory and blurring the line between making online connections and forming real relationships. Over all of these contemporary debates looms the shadow of McLuhan, who now seems more insightful than ever.He retains, however, the capacity to polarise opinion that he always had. Mention his name in polite academic conversation and you invariably see scholarly noses wrinkle in distaste. In part, this is because – although he was an impeccable scholar schooled in a Cambridge English faculty that included FR Leavis, IA Richards and Arthur Quiller-Couch – in his writings on media he affected an aloof, oracular, aphoristic style which enraged conventional academics. He always started his lectures with a joke and invited his students to ponder questions such as the semiotics of an advertisement for aspirin that featured a helmeted, jackbooted, scantily clad drum majorette. This is not the way to win friends&nbsp;and&nbsp;gain&nbsp;influence&nbsp;in&nbsp;academia.McLuhan's big idea was to spot that the word "medium" has distinctly different meanings. The conventional one is that a medium is a channel for communicating information – which is why much discussion about media up to his time focused on thecontentthat was being conveyed by print, radio and television. But there is another, equally significant, interpretation. To a biologist, a medium is an environment containing the nutrients in which tissue cultures – organisms – grow. Change the medium and you change the organisms. Our communications media likewise constitute the environment which sustains, nurtures – or constrains – our culture. And if the medium changes, then so does the culture. The medium is far more than the message, in other words. In fact, it's all we've got.
Do you like being verbally abused while performing repetitive tasks? How about poorly animated wild west characters spouting embarrassing one-liners in washed out, foggy shooting galleries? If so,Call of Juarez: The Cartelmay be the game for you.Techland's latest sequel to its Old West franchise aims to apeNo Country For Old Men's intense, modern western style and fails in almost every way.The game's campaign is littered with awkward co-op moments in which the three central characters stand around talking on mobile phones or picking weapons in "hub" sections that should have been menu screens. When first-person-shooter action actually arrives it is sluggish and boring: drive in; shoot several waves of Mexicans; car chase out; repeat. At one crucial point, there is also a VIP to protect.Gameplay is backed up by about three or four seemingly context-free insults that team-mates throw at the player, loudly, ad infinitum.An indecipherable and comically po-faced plot involving drug barons and bombs only serves to accentuate the bitter aftertaste thatThe Cartelleaves when the game mercifully ends.
What is it with app developers and their obsession with all things avian? Hardly a week goes by without some sort of mobile bird-related fun being unleashed, whether angry or, increasingly, nude – as the multitude of explicit apps available in the unregulated Android marketplace demonstrates.At least withHungry Chicks(Apple App Store, KadaMedia, 69p) there's a benign underlying theme. You control the mother bird attempting to feed worms to younglings in their various coloured homes. Tapping under the bird flaps it around the screen, avoiding various spiky obstacles to fetch food and return it to the matching coloured nest. The correct number of worms should go to each youngling, however, since once you've landed there's no second flight, so they must be collected in the correct order.Torture Bunny(App Store, Clickgamer, 69p) is an entirely less wholesome proposition, putting the player in the guise of sadistic rabbit botherer. You place various blades, boxing gloves etc around a dungeon, before unleashing a crash test bunny and seeing what damage is caused – the more pain, the more points. It's a novel idea, but the dubious physics means near identical trap layouts result in varying scores. Let's hope these are problems that can be sorted, as there's something satisfying about putting a bunny through the wringer during the morning commute.
Price£18,795MPG47.9Top speed142mphThe car I'm driving this week is red. In fact it's "Flash Red Non-Metallic" as opposed to "Sunset Orange Metallic" – which in the brochure looks almost identical, but there is a world of difference in these subtle variations. Manufacturers don't just plump for a hue they think will capture the eye of a prospective buyer – they use colour to subliminally express themselves, to pass on a hidden message to you, and are advised by trend analysts as to the exact shades their cars should be wearing in the coming season. Futurologists at BASF Coatings, one of the world's biggest paint suppliers, reveal that "earth tones" (brown to you and me) are on the rise, while lighter colours such as beige and dusty pink will "extend the automotive colour palette". Eh? For earth tones you can read brown. But what message is that giving? According to a spokesman, the "earth tones reflect a new ecological awareness, and when used in combination with a reduced sparkle will give the impression of 'green luxury'." And it's not just brown, apparently: "indigo, mint and broken white" will also be arriving on a&nbsp;forecourt near you soon.A mint car does sound quite refreshing, but beige? Come on… Oh yes, the spokesman assures us: "It'll be beige andgreige[a mixture of grey and beige], along with apricot and rosé. There could even be a move to gold, particularly reddish gold."Goddish?So what message is my flash red car transmitting? Has it got sun burn? Does it support Arsenal? "No, red implies a&nbsp;fascination with uniqueness reinforced by technical excellence." Ah yes, of course…As well as being red, the car is also a VW Polo GTi – and I&nbsp;think it looks fascinating and uniquely reinforced. The Polo, first introduced 36 years ago, is Volkswagen's bestselling car after the&nbsp;Golf, and last year 45,282 perky Polos joined the 31,142,676 cars already on the UK's congested roads. The sales took the Polo through the 1m barrier in the UK, though worldwide the model is now approaching the 11m milestone. This latest Polo is the fifth generation of the wundercar and was styled by VW's head of design, Walter de Silva. The look Walter has established for all his VWs, from the Golf to the Scirocco, is for clean, uncluttered lines set off by a thin grille framed by a set of sleek lights. In fact the new Polo shares so many of its big sister's features it looks like a Golf that's been put through a boil wash.This latest Polo is almost unrecognisable from its great, great, great grandfather of 1975, but some things have remained the same: it's still the same tough cookie and it's still reliable, safe, economical and amazing value for money.The Polo comes with a choice of six engines, which range from the green to the gutsy. At one extreme is the 1.2-litre 75bhp BlueMotion, which can travel a jaw-dropping 80.7 miles on a single gallon thanks to a raft of eco efficient technologies; at the other is the GTi with its twincharged 1.4-litre petrol engine and 180bhp.In keeping with the throaty engine, the GTi boasts aggressive styling –  it has street swagger in spades. It's a&nbsp;hot hatch in a hoodie. The red-edged honeycomb grille, the Monza alloy wheels, the classic Jacara upholstery all add to its sense of purpose. But the highlight is the GTi's phenomenal performance. Having such a large engine in such a small body makes the car feel as if it is throbbing with energy and purpose. At times it seems almost jittery, as if you're riding a Thelwell pony with a&nbsp;taste for Red Bull.In GTi guise the Polo definitely looks good in "Flash Red". I am not sure it could carry off an earth tone, let alonegreige…Vamp your lampsFalse eyelashes may be all the rage on the high street, but it's time you gave your car a shot of glamour, too. Me-mo, who make fun and fabulous car accessories, have just launched a range of stick-on falsies. The tongue-in-cheek lashes come with self-adhesive tape. All you have to do is ensure the paintwork is clean and stick them on. As you drive along the wind lifts the lashes which makes it look as if you are fluttering your eyelids at oncoming traffic. The lashes cost £6.99 and if they don't appeal,me-mo.co.ukoffers a vast range of hilarious and innovative accessories to make the serious business of driving round town a lot more fun.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
The vocal talents of veteran actor Martin Jarvis, whose velvet purr can be heard narratingJust WilliamorJeeves in Manhattanon BBC Radio 4, pops up here on Disney/Pixar'sCars 2doing an impersonation of Michael Caine (playing an animated Aston Martin). Is this the moment where licensed video games become a proper art form or was the pay good?The target audience won't give a flying flugelhorn as they are nine-years-old, probably male and definitely hyperactive. All they care about is revving engines and squealing tyres, which this game delivers in large doses. More akin toMario KartthanGran Turismo, stage after stage is packed with cartooney, crash-bang-wallop and the fun is accessible for multiple players whether online or in the same room.Years of bitter experience have taught us to give licensed games a wide berth, but this is an exception to the rule, with both slavish fidelity to the film's plot and gameplay that has more polish than a Porsche's bonnet.Martin Jarvis can rest easy – his involvement withCars 2will leave his credibility intact.
As games grow more sophisticated, tethering complex character development and thorny moral dilemmas to their core action, the more simplistic pleasures of the medium's early years are becoming increasingly rare. So it's a thrill to play something as straightforward asInsect Armageddon, which really is all about an apocalyptic invasion led by gigantic arthropods.Though the series is relatively unfamiliar to western gamers, previous titlesEarth Defense Force 2017andGlobal Defence Forcewere admired by critics, belying their low-budget limitations with an almost unparalleled sense of scale. InEDFgames, building-sized enemies are not restricted to end-of-level encounters but are instead the norm, arriving in huge swarms alongside screen-filling spaceships and towering robots. And this onslaught usually starts from the opening minutes of the very first level.The sensibly pricedInsect Armageddon(RRP £29.99) is the first of its kind to be developed by a western studio and, as such, a few tweaks have been made to the template. It's technically superior to its Japanese predecessors, although this comes at the expense of a little ambition. The waves of oversize insects have been scaled back, with single enemies offering a little more resistance so as to retain the sense of fighting against overwhelming odds.The action is a little more structured, too, with an unseen adviser pointing the player in the right direction, though the objective rarely changes, commonly requiring little more than the wholesale slaughter of insects, arachnids and laser-firing mechanoids.Solo players are accompanied by two very capable computer-controlled allies, though the game really comes to life with a friend – or two if playing online. Players have the choice of four different armour classes, each with its own speciality.The two big disappointments are the excessive length of the levels and feeble sound effects: weapons wreak impressive visual devastation yet barely sound capable of cracking the carapace of a real insect. But faced with the tricky balancing act of retaining the ramshackle charm of the game's antecedents while making it more appealing to western audiences, developer Vicious Cycle has handled a tough assignment with aplomb.
Earlier this month, on a short bus ride through the centre of Kampala, I decided to carry out an informal survey. Passing through the Ugandan capital's colourful and chaotic streets, I would attempt to count the signs of the use of mobile phones in evidence around me. These included phone shops and kiosks, street-corner airtime vendors and giant billboard ads, as well as people actually using their mobile phones: a girl in school uniform writing a text message as she hurried along the street, a businessman calmly making a call from the back of a motorcycle taxi swerving through heavy rush-hour traffic. Not only were half of the passengers on my bus occupied with their handsets, our driver was too, thumbing at his keypad as he ferried us to our final destination. After five minutes, I lost count and retired with a sore neck. There was more evidence here than I could put a number on.My survey underlined a simple fact: Africa has experienced an incredible boom in mobile phone use over the past decade. In 1998, there were fewer than four million mobiles on the continent. Today, there are more than 500 million. In Uganda alone, 10 million people, or about 30% of the population, own a mobile phone, and that number is growing rapidly every year. For Ugandans, these ubiquitous devices are more than just a handy way of communicating on the fly: they are a way of life.It may seem unlikely, given its track record in technological development, but Africa is at the centre of a mobile revolution. In the west, we have been adapting mobile phones to be more like our computers: the smartphone could be described as a PC for your pocket. In Africa, where a billion people use only 4% of the world's electricity, many cannot afford to charge a computer, let alone buy one. This has led phone users and developers to be more resourceful, and African mobiles are being used to do things that the developed world is only now beginning to pick up on.The most dramatic example of this is mobile banking. Four years ago, in neighbouring Kenya, the mobile network Safaricom introduced a service called M-Pesa which allows users to store money on their mobiles. If you want to pay a utilities bill or send money to a friend, you simply dispatch the amount by text and the recipient converts it into cash at their local M-Pesa office. It is cheap, easy to use and, for millions of Africans unable to access a bank account or afford the hefty charges of using one, nothing short of revolutionary.Safaricom didn't invent mobile banking: it existed previously in countries such as Norway and Japan, but on a small scale and with nothing like the seismic effect it had in Kenya. The established banks weren't happy at first – they tried to shut down M-Pesa soon after it started – but now they are getting in on the game, and it is estimated that by 2015 global mobile transactions will exceed one trillion dollars. According to California-based mobile-banking innovator Carol Realini, executive chairman of Obopay: "Africa is the Silicon Valley of banking. The future of banking is being defined here… It's going to change the world."The mobile banking phenomenon spread quickly to other countries in the developing world. Uganda's largest telecom company, MTN Uganda, created its own version, MobileMoney, in March 2009. Within a year, 600,000 Ugandans had signed up. Now, thanks to aggressive recruitment drives to win more subscribers – MTN agents trolling the streets for new customers are known as "foot soldiers" – the service has more than 1.6 million users.MobileMoney outlets are everywhere in 2011: the distinctive canary-yellow buildings and kiosks that house them are dotted around not just Kampala but the greater part of the country. The MTN network reaches 85% of Uganda, and MobileMoney is available everywhere MTN has coverage. Many of the villages I travelled through, however minor or remote, had at least one tell-tale splash of yellow.Mobile phones carry huge economic potential in undeveloped parts of Africa. A 2005 London Business School study found that for every additional 10 mobile phones per 100 people in a developing country, GDP rises by 0.5%. As well as enabling communication and the movement of money, mobile networks can also be used to spread vital information about farming and healthcare to isolated rural areas vulnerable to the effects of drought and disease.Despite the proliferation of phones in Uganda, however, a digital divide persists. How can information be understood and properly implemented when more than a third of the country's adult population cannot read or write? And can complex and detailed information be managed by anything less than a smartphone, which is beyond the means of most Ugandans?One intriguing solution to these problems is being tried out by the microfinance organisation Grameen Foundation. Seeking to establish a reliable means of interacting with farming communities in the Ugandan countryside, Grameen has started to lease smartphones to local farmers so that they can receive information – seasonal weather reports, planting advice, disease diagnostics, market prices – and pass it on to their neighbours. They also gather information from the farmers they register and feed it back to Grameen in Kampala, which passes it on to agricultural organisations and food programmes.These intermediaries, known as community knowledge workers (or CKWs), are chosen for their command of English, community standing and entrepreneurial spirit as well as their technological know-how. After training CKWs to use smartphones, Grameen pays them a performance-based wage averaging at about $20 per month – via MobileMoney, obviously. Deductions are made to cover the lease arrangement and high-performing farmers can expect to fully own their phone, and the charging solution that comes with it, within two years.So far, Grameen has trained 500 CKWs in 32 Ugandan districts, reaching more than 20,000 households, or 100,000 people. "We're aiming for a million," says Sean Krepp, Grameen's Uganda director, "and we're looking at scaling this to several other countries."Before that can properly happen, the technological side of the programme needs to be developed and refined. At present, most information arrives in text form. Reports from a variety of sources, including Uganda's Department of Meteorology and its National Agricultural Advisory Services, are rewritten in clear English before being dispatched to the CKWs. Grameen has started sending images to its representatives so that, for example, a coffee plant disease can be diagnosed by visual means. The next step, according to Krepp, is video. The economist Philip Parker, in collaboration with Grameen, is currently developing a series of educational videos, presented in the style of a gameshow, to be played on CKW smartphones during village get-togethers.There are other, more fundamental challenges. Unreliable network coverage in remote areas of Uganda is a significant problem. Keeping smartphones charged in villages that don't have electricity is another. Some ingenious solutions have been devised (see below), but low battery power remains a constant headache.In spite of these obstacles, the programme appears to be working – and its potential for expansion, not just beyond Uganda's borders, but also into other areas, such as healthcare and education, is becoming clear. If the digital divide is being bridged in some of Africa's poorest communities, and the information is getting through, why stop at farming?Case study 1: a mobile money micro-economyBoat owner Allan Mukasa uses his phone to settle bills and pay local traders. Photograph: Yousef EldinKasensero:Rakai districtThe small fishing village of Kasensero on the shores of Lake Victoria is a 200km drive from Kampala, heading south-west towards the border with Tanzania. The final 40km takes you down a bumpy red-clay road, which on rainy days becomes a muddy assault course. When you finally reach the village, a road barrier blocks your way until an elderly guard deems you fit to enter and raises it up.At the end of the main street is Africa's largest lake and the main source of the town's industry. Here, lined up along the shore, are hundreds of long, narrow fishing boats piled high with nets. The morning's catch is in when I arrive in Kasensero and the last of the giant Nile perch are being carted away towards the factory further down the beach, where they will be processed, packed and sent to Kampala for export.At the end of the row of buildings overlooking the shore is a distinctive yellow facade: one of two MobileMoney agents in this village of 5,000 people. Inside, Ben Nsubuga, a fisherman, is depositing his weekly earnings.He hands a wad of cash to the woman behind the desk who logs the deposit in a book and gives him a code, which he enters into his phone. A small fee is charged and within a couple of minutes the transaction is complete."Before this service came here, I was keeping all my cash with me," he says. There are no banks nearby and in the past whenever Nsubuga travelled to bring money to his family, he feared being robbed on the long road out of Kasensero. "Now I just send the money this way," he says, gesturing with his phone. The money is transferred via text and the person at the far end can cash it in at any MobileMoney agent.The biggest problem, he says, is the network, which is patchy in these parts and often leaves customers without ready access to their hard-earned cash.Next in line is Allan Mukasa, a boat owner and the village's vice-chairman. "Somehow, it has made life here better," he says. As well as sending money long-distance, Kasensero residents bank money on their phone and transfer it among themselves, creating a kind of micro-economy in this isolated town. "We&nbsp;also use it to pay water and electricity bills and school fees," Mukasa adds. But he sees plenty of room for improvement. "Before, we didn't know how to bank. Now, we want to have a proper banking system, with the possibility of making interest."It is only after I leave Kasensero that I learn about its troubled recent history. In the early 1980s, the town was the site of the world's first community-wide Aids epidemic: a fifth of its population had died of the disease by 1986. Nearly a decade later, several thousand bodies from the Rwandan genocide washed up on its shores, carried to the lake down the nearby Kagera river. A mass graveyard a few kilometres away recalls the horror.Today, the town is putting its traumatic past behind it and, if the queues outside the yellow-fronted offices are any indication, it is prospering. Only now, Kasensero's money doesn't end up under the mattress: it hovers about in the airwaves, to be accessed or dispatched with the touch of a button and a small charge from MTN. Signal permitting, of course.Case study 2: farming with a smartphoneFarmer Simon Obwoya, foreground, makes notes on crop conditions and checks market prices. Photograph: Yousef EldinLagude:Gulu districtShortly after I arrive at the small cluster of mud huts that makes up the tiny village of Lagude, in northern Uganda, my host, Simon Obwoya, announces with great regret that he cannot show me his mobile phone: it was taken to Kampala for repairs two weeks ago. Without it, he is unable to access valuable information that makes farming in this difficult, drought-prone terrain more practicable.Last December, Obwoya, who is 43 and married with eight children, was recruited as a community knowledge worker by the Grameen Foundation and trained to use a smartphone so that, as well as receiving advice about weather, plant and animal health and market prices, and dispersing it around his local area, he could gather information from the farmers he registers and send it back to Grameen.Of all the districts that the foundation work with in Uganda, Gulu is the most problematic. For 20 years, much of northern Uganda was a war zone. Terrorised by the notorious Lord's Resistance Army, large numbers of people were forced into grim displacement camps. In the last few years, following the expulsion of the LRA in 2005, people have been slowly returning to their homes, and to normality. But two decades of conflict have taken a heavy toll – on community trust and the motivation to work as well as lives and material wealth. A wealth of farming knowledge has been lost, too, and Simon is working hard to restore that and bring it up to date.Just before sunset, a Grameen representative arrives from Gulu town on a motorbike with Simon's HTC smartphone, fresh from the menders. Simon is delighted and immediately sets about recharging it: no mean feat in a village without electricity. As part of the lease package, Simon received a lithium-ion "intelligent battery" called a ReadySet, designed by American company Fenix International. It also powers an LCD lamp and a radio, but Simon's ReadySet is low on juice so he charges his phone in our van.The next morning, Simon sets about addressing the ReadySet issue. He connects the battery to a kinetic generator, which he affixes to the rear wheel of his bicycle. Then he gets on his bike, which is held on a stand, and starts pedalling. The village has become accustomed to the spectacle of Simon cycling without moving, often for hours at a time, in an attempt to recharge his ReadySet.Unfortunately, it doesn't work as well as it should and he often has to top up the battery at the local trading station, which costs money.Undaunted, Simon takes me on a tour of his fields, where he grows maize, cassava, groundnuts and beans, and the wider area he administers as a CKW. This encompasses five villages, and Simon has registered more than 300 farmers to the programme in the last six months.To register, a farmer must provide exhaustive details about his farm, household and income, as well as the things he needs most to improve his livelihood. Many in the area still wonder why Grameen isn't providing them with physical aid, but Simon tells me he is working to change that mindset. "Let someone give you knowledge, then you are rich. That's what I say to my farmers."Is the knowledge he receives from Grameen actually making a difference? Simon nods. "Especially this year. We were warned there was going to be a long drought so many of our farmers took their time before putting down their seeds. That was what happened and our farmers were able to save their seeds."Simon has also founded a farming collective and now, with Grameen's help, they are bulking their produce and selling it at a good price to the World Food Programme, which will use it for relief work in the region. The CKW programme has had a rocky start in Gulu, and challenges lie ahead, but in the fields that Simon Obwoya monitors with his treasured smartphone, it is beginning to yield tangible results.
For some time now, I've been struggling with what I call "social network emotional anaemia". The online world – rich with the communities that I once loved and learned from, the connections I forged, the old schoolmates I rediscovered, the relationships that I cultivated and maintained – has become increasingly empty as a space to perform "friendship". I'm no longer receiving the same degree of closeness I feel I need from the network; well, not from the people who matter most to me, at least. I see them offline in the pub, the theatre, the garden and the coffee shop. I talk to them on the phone. I've even taken to writing paper letters to them, because the process demands more of my time and attention. It feels more personal, more special. Also, paper smells nice.It's in these richer "media" where I have the liminal conversations with the people I consider friends, where we set the mortar that bonds us by talking with the freedom the keyboard doesn't afford and where distraction is, oddly, less prevalent. It's where we do the stuff that we upload later. The chat that we used to do on Twitter (planning activities, bantering) or on Facebook (share photos of babies) now feels transient and insignificant. Increasingly, my online world is full of strangers with whom I'm too scared to interact, or feel I should add to a Google+ circle called: "I Don't Know You From Adam So Stay Here And Please Don't Bite, Thanks".I wonder if I'm surfing the same zeitgeist that's inspired the reported decline in Facebook usage in Britain and the US, or if I'm just suffering a crisis of confidence in the most revolutionary communication technology of our time. The web's raison d'être, after all, is to connect us (via information). I'm beginning to feel, though, that these connections are increasingly meaningless.This is a problem. For more than a decade, I have been a very public believer in the power of people to overcome the limitations of the software. According to all the research – with the exception of one over-referenced paper byRobert Kraut from 1998(with findings retracted by its authors in 2002) – we imbue online interactions with interpersonal significance in a way that increases the number of friends in our social networks and decreases a sense of isolation. Online activity creates both bridging social capital – connecting us with friends we'd never have met – and bonding social capital – the stuff that reinforces our links and brings us closer together. And, according to a large-scale study released by the Pew Internet and American Life Project in 2006, the more we use the web, the truer this becomes.I've also been part of the research community that has spent 20 years identifying little behavioural "tells" that delineate closeness and distance in computer-mediated communication: is the connection reciprocated? That's a start. One-way relationships tend to be hangers on or jilted lovers who refuse to give in. Do you only chat where everyone can eavesdrop on your conversation? Do you also hang out in a backchannel, where sociologist Erving Goffman says people let their guards down and exchange more intimate information? Getting closer. Do you use both public and private channels? Closest still. Add a connection on another network, chat that crosses over to other media and some face time, and you're probably BFFs. The more interaction over the more modalities translates into higher perceptions of trust. And that is what makes society function, especially online.So why have I lost the faith? It may be because I have too many connections. It's easy to click "friend" on Facebook or "follow" on Twitter. On the latter, I don't even have the choice of whether someone's connected to me or not. These networks have had to operationalise the inscrutable concept "friendship" into binary code of 1s and 0s, because that's how the technology works. They don't allow for a holistic, nuanced approach to human emotion because they are machines. Facilities such as circles on Google+ try to accommodate for our soft squishiness, but we are fuzzy creatures with weird boundaries that shift and change. That's why we psychologists have to look for other indicators of friendship, even offline. There's an entire field of research dedicated to specifying the content of connections, and if we can't do it in person, you can bet the online version is left wanting.Also, as far as I can tell, each additional node on an online friendship network reduces the significance of the connections that came before. It's impossible to keep up. I can't identify what's important anymore, and so rather than interacting, I just offload. That doesn't help forge friendships; it becomes a one-way communication platform. You'd not say you're friends with the people on your telly, so how is my stream-of-consciousness twitterfeed any different? I should have listened to Professor Robin Dunbar when he answered the question in his most recent book,How Many Friends Does One Person Need?We can really cognitively and biologically only handle a maximum community of 150 people, and then, there are probably about 50 who really matter.Perhaps my problem with the network is how I've chosen to use it. The main criticism with Prof Kraut's 1998 article was that there were too few people online. Now, ironically, there may be too many. As the web continues to iterate and evolve to better serve our needs, I may re-establish my friendship with it. But I think it will still take a while until it matches my expectations.
For a while after his first TV series was broadcast in 2009, comedian Stewart Lee was in the habit of collecting and filing some of the comments that people made about him on web pages and social media sites. He did a 10-minute Google trawl most days for about six months and the resultant collected observations soon ran to dozens of pages. If you read those comments now as a cumulative narrative, you begin to fear for Stewart Lee. A good third of the posts fantasised about violence being done to the comic, most of the rest could barely contain the extent of their loathing.This is a small, representative selection:"I hate Stewart Lee with a passion. He's like Ian Huntley to me." Wharto15, Twitter"I saw him at a gig once, and even offstage he was exuding an aura of creepy molesty smugness." Yukio Mishima, dontstartmeoff.com"One man I would love to beat with a shit-covered cricket bat." Joycey, readytogo.net"He's got one of those faces I just want to burn." Coxy, dontstartmeoff.com"I hope stewart lee dies." Idrie, Youtube"WHAT THE HELL! If i ever find you, lee, i promise i will, I WILL, kick the crap out of you." Carcrazychica, YouTube"Stewart Lee is a cynical man, who has been able to build an entire carrer [sic] out of his own smugness. I hope the fucking chrones disease [sic] kills him." Maninabananasuit, Guardian.co.uk"I spent the entire time thinking of how much I want to punch Stewart Lee in the face instead of laughing. He does have an incredibly punchable face, doesn't he? (I could just close my eyes, but fantasizing about punching Stewart Lee is still more fun than sitting in complete, stony silence.)" Pudabaya, beexcellenttoeachother.comLee, a standup comedian who does not shy away from the more grotesque aspects of human behaviour, or always resist dishing out some bile of his own, does not think of himself as naive. But the sheer volume of the vitriol, its apparent absence of irony, set him back. For a few months, knowing the worst that people thought of him became a kind of weird compulsion, though he distanced himself from it slightly with the belief that he was doing his obsessive collating "in character". "Collecting all these up isn't something I would do," he suggests to me. "It is something the made-up comedian Stewart Lee would do, but I have to do it for him, because he is me…"Distanced or not, Lee couldn't help but be somewhat unsettled by the rage he seemed to provoke by telling stories and jokes: "When I first realised the extent of this stuff I was shocked," he says. "Then it appeared to me that a lot of the things I was hated for were things I was actually trying to do; a lot of what people considered failings were to me successes. I sort of wrote a lot of series two ofStewart Lee's Comedy Vehiclewith these comments in mind, trying to do more of the things people hadn't liked."The "40,000 words of hate" have now become "anthropologically amusing" to him, he insists. "You can see a lot of them seem to be the same people posting the same stuff under different names in different places, and it is strange to see people you have known personally, whom you thought you had got on fine with at the time, abusing you under barely effective pseudonyms."He's stopped looking these days, and never really tried to identify or confront any of his detractors. "I am slightly worried that some of them might be a bit insane and hope I haven't made myself or my family a target."Lee is, of course, not alone in having this anonymous violent hatred directed toward him. On parts of the internet it has become pretty much common parlance. Do a quick trawl on the blog sites and comment sections about most celebrities and entertainers – not to mention politicians – and you will quickly discover comparable virtual rage and fantasised violence. Comedians seem to come in for more than most, as if taboo-breaking was taken as read, or the mood of the harshest baying club audience had become a kind of universal rhetoric. It's not quite heckling this, though, is it? A heckle requires a bit of courage and risk; the audience can see who is doing the shouting. Lee's detractors were all anonymous. How should we understand it then: harmless banter? Robust criticism? Vicious bullying?The psychologists call it "deindividuation". It's what happens when social norms are withdrawn because identities are concealed. The classic deindividuation experiment concerned American children at Halloween. Trick-or-treaters were invited to take sweets left in the hall of a house on a table on which there was also a sum of money. When children arrived singly, and not wearing masks, only 8% of them stole any of the money. When they were in larger groups, with their identities concealed by fancy dress, that number rose to 80%. The combination of a faceless crowd and personal anonymity provoked individuals into breaking rules that under "normal" circumstances they would not have considered.Deindividuation is what happens when we get behind the wheel of a car and feel moved to scream abuse at the woman in front who is slow in turning right. It is what motivates a responsible father in a football crowd to yell crude sexual hatred at the opposition or the referee. And it's why under the cover of an alias or an avatar on a website or a blog – surrounded by virtual strangers – conventionally restrained individuals might be moved to suggest a comedian should suffer all manner of violent torture because they don't like his jokes, or his face. Digital media allow almost unlimited opportunity for wilful deindividuation. They almost require it. The implications of those liberties, of the ubiquity of anonymity and the language of the crowd, are only beginning to be felt.You can trace those implications right back to the genesis of social media, to pioneering Californian utopias, and their fall. The earliest network-groups had a sort of Edenic cast. One representative group was CommuniTree, which was set up as an open-access forum on a series of modem-linked computers in the 1970s when computers were just humming into life. For a while the group of like-minded enthusiasts ran on perfectly harmonious lines, respecting others, having positive and informed discussions about matters of shared relevance. At some point, however, some high school teenagers armed with modems accessed the open-access space and used it to trash and abuse the CommuniTree, taking free speech to uninhibited extremes that the pioneers had never wanted. The pioneers were suitably horrified. And eventually, after deciding that they could neither control the students through censorship, nor tolerate the space with them in it, they shut CommuniTree down.This story has become almost folkloric among new media prophets, a sort of founding myth. It was one of the first moments when the possibilities of the new collective potential was tainted by anonymous lowest-common-denominator humanity, a pattern that has subsequently been repeated in pretty much all virtual communication. Barbarians, or "trolls" as they became known, had entered the community, ignoring the rules, shouting loudly, encouraging violence, spoiling it for everybody. Thereafter, anyone who has established a website or forum with high, or medium-high ideals, has had to decide how to deal with such anonymous destructive posters, those who got in the way of constructive debate.Tom Postmes, a professor of social and organisational psychology at the universities of Exeter and Groningen in his native Netherlands, and author ofIndividuality and the Group, has been researching these issues for 20 years. "In the early years," he says, "this online behaviour was called flaming. And then that became institutionalised. Among friends, the people who engaged in this activity were actually quite jocular in intent but they were accountable to standards and norms that are radically different to those of most of their audience. Trolls aspire to violence, to the level of trouble they can cause in an environment. They want it to kick off. They want to promote antipathetic emotions of disgust and outrage, which morbidly gives them a sense of pleasure."Postmes compares online aliases to the tags of graffiti artists: "Trolls want people to identify their style, to recognise them, or at least their online identity. But they will only be successful in this if an authority doesn't clamp down on them. So anonymity helps that. It's essentially risk-free."There is no particular type of person drawn to this kind of covert bullying, he suggests: "Like football hooligans, they have family and live at home but when they go to a match the enjoyment comes from finding a context in which you can let go, or to use the familiar phrase 'take a moral vacation'. Doing this online has a similar characteristic. You would expect it is just normal people, the bloke you know at the corner shop or a woman from the office. They are the people typically doing this…"Some trolls have become nearly as famous as the blogs to which they attach themselves, in a curious, parasitical kind of relationship. Jeffrey Wells, author ofHollywood Elsewhere, is a former columnist on theLA Timeswho has been blogging inside stories about movies for 15 years. For the last couple of years his gossip and commentary has been dogged by the invective of a character called LexG, whose 200-odd self-loathing and wildly negative posts recently moved Wells toaddress him directly: "The coarseness, the self-pity and the occasional eye-pokes and cruel dismissiveness have to be turned down. Way down. Arguments and genuine disdain for certain debaters can be entertaining, mind. I'm not trying to be Ms Manners. But there finally has to be an emphasis on perception and love and passion and the glories of good writing. There has to be an emphasis on letting in the light rather than damning the darkness of the trolls and vomiting on the floor and kicking this or thatHollywood Elsewherecontributor in the balls…"When I spoke to Wells about LexG, he was philosophical. "Everybody on the site writes anonymously, except me," he says. "If they didn't I think it would cause them to dry up. This place is like a bubble in which you can explode, let the inner lava out. And, boy, is there a lot of lava."He has resisted insisting that people write under their own name because that would kill the comments instantly. "Why would you take that one in 100 chance that your mother or a future employer will read what you were thinking late one night a dozen years ago if you didn't have to?" For haters, Wells believes, anonymity makes for livelier writing. "It's a trick, really – the less you feel you will be identified, the more uninhibited you can be. At his best LexG really knows how to write well and hold a thought and keep it going. He is relatively sane but certainly not a happy guy. He's been doing this a couple of years now and he really has become a presence; he does it on all the Hollywood sites."Have they ever met?"Just once," Wells says. "I asked him to write a column of his own, give him a corner of the site, bring him out in the open." LexG didn't want to do it, he seemed horrified at the prospect. "He just wanted to comment on my stuff," Wells suggests. "He is a counter-puncher, I guess. The rules on my site remain simple, though. No ugly rancid personal comments directed against me. And no Tea Party bullshit."The big problem he finds running the blog is that his anonymous commenters get a kind of pack mentality. And the comments quickly become a one-note invective. As a writer Wells feels he needs a range of emotion: "I also do personal confession or I can be really enthusiastic about something. But the comments tend to be one colour, and that becomes drab. It's tougher, I guess, to be enthusiastic, to really set out honestly why something means something to you. It takes maybe twice as long. I can run with disdain and nastiness for a while but you don't want to always be the guy banging a shoe on the table. Like LexG. I mean it's not healthy, for a start…"Wells does his own marshalling of the debate, somewhat like the bartender of a western saloon. Other sites – including our ownComment is Free– employ moderators to try to keep trolls in line, and move the debate on. A young journalist called Sarah Bee was for three years the moderator on seminal techie news and chat forumthe Register. She started as a sub-editor but increasingly devoted her time to looking after the "very boisterous" chat on the site. She has no doubt that "anonymity makes people bolder and more arsey, of course it does. And it was quite a politically libertarian crowd, so you get people expressing things extremely stridently, people would disagree and there would often be a lot of real nastiness." She was very liberal as far as moderating went, she thinks, with no real hard and fast rules, except, perhaps, for "a ban on prison-rape jokes, which came up extremely often".Every once in a while, however, the mood would get "very ugly" and she would try to calm things down and remonstrate with people. "I would occasionally email them – they had to give their email addresses when registering for the site – to say, 'Even though you are not writing under your real name, people can hear you.'" In those instances, strangely, she suggests, most people were incredibly contrite when contacted. It was like they had forgotten who they were. "They would send messages back saying, 'Oh, I'm so sorry', not even using the excuse of having a bad day or anything like that. It is so much to do with anonymity…"Bee became known as the Moderatrix – "all moderators have an implicit sub-dom relationship with their site" – though she was just about the only person in the comment section who used her own name. "There was a lot of misogyny and casual sexism, some pretty off-colour stuff. I would get a few horrible emails calling me a cunt or whatever," she says, "but that didn't bother me as much as the day-to-day stuff, really."The day-to-day stuff was, though, "like being in another world. It got really wearying. I would go home sometimes and just sigh and wonder about it all."She is keen to say that the Register itself she thought a great thing, and loved the idea of working there, but being Moderatrix eventually got her down. "A hive mind sets in," she suggests. "Just occasionally good sense would prevail but then there is that fact that arguments on the internet are literally never over. You moderate a few hundred comments a day, and then you come in the next morning and there are a few hundred more waiting for you. It's Sisyphean."In the end she needed a change. She's in another "community management" job now, dealing through Facebook, which is a relief because "it removes anonymity so people are a lot more polite". When she retired Moderatrixshe did a goodbyeand got 250 comments wishing her well. She doesn't miss it, though. "Just occasionally I would let a stream of the most offensive things through, just to let people know how those things looked in the world… People would realise for a bit. But then the old behaviours would immediately set in. The thing any moderator will tell you is that every day is a new day and everything repeats itself every day. It is not about progress or continuity…"There are many places, of course, on the internet where a utopian ideal of "here comes everybody" prevails, where the anonymous hive mind is fantastically curious and productive. A while ago I talked to Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, about some of this, and asked him who his perfect contributor was. "The ideal Wikipedian, in my mind, is someone who is really smart and really kind," he said, without irony. "Those are the people who are drawn into the centre of the group. When people get power in these communities, it is not through shouting loudest, it is through diplomacy and conflict resolution."Within this "wikitopia" there were, too, though, plenty ofLord of the Fliesmoments. The benevolent Wiki community is plagued by "Wikitrolls" – vandals who set out to insert slander and nonsense into pages. A policing system has grown up to root out troll elements; there are well over 1,000 official volunteer "admins", working round the clock; they are supported in this work by the eyes and ears of the moral majority of "virtuous" Wikipedians."When we think about difficult users there are two kinds," Wales said, with the same kind of weariness as Moderatrix. "The easy kind is someone who comes in, calls everyone Nazis, starts wrecking articles. That is easy to deal with: you block them, and everyone moves on. The hard ones are people who are doing good work in some respects but are also really difficult characters and they annoy other people, so we end up with these long intractable situations where a community can't come to a decision. But I think that is probably true of any human community."Wales, who has conducted perhaps the most hopeful experiment in human collective knowledge of all time, appears to have no doubt that the libertarian goals of the internet would benefit from some similar voluntary restraining authority. It was the case of the blogger Kathy Sierra that caused Wales and others to propose in 2007 an unofficial code of conduct on blog sites, part of which would outlaw anonymity. Kathy Sierra is a programming instructor based in California; after an online spat on a tech-site she was apparently randomly targeted by an anonymous mob that posted images of her as a sexually mutilated corpse on various websites and issued death threats. She wrote on her own blog: "I'm at home, with the doors locked, terrified. I am afraid to leave my yard, I will never feel the same. I will never be the same."Among Wales's suggestions in response to this and other comparable horror stories of virtual bullying was that bloggers consider banning anonymous comments altogether, and that they be able to delete comments deemed abusive without facing accusations of censorship. Wales's proposals were quickly shot down by the libertarians, and the traffic-hungry, as unworkable and against the prevailing spirit of free-speech.Other pioneering idealists of virtual reality have lately come to question some of those norms, though. Jaron Lanier is credited with being the inventor of virtual worlds. His was the first company to sell virtual reality gloves and goggles. He was a key adviser in the creation of avatar universe Second Life. His recent book,You Are Not a Gadget, is, in this sense, something of a mea culpa, an argument for the sanctity of the breathing human individual against the increasingly anonymous virtual crowd. "Trolling is not a string of isolated incidents," Lanier argued, "but the status quo in the online world." He suggested "drive-by anonymity", in which posters create a pseudonym in order to promote a particularly violent point of view, threatened to undermine human communication in general. "To have substantial exchange, you need to be fully present. That is why facing one's accuser is a fundamental right of the accused."We rightly hear a great deal about the potential of social media and websites to spread individual freedom, as evidenced during the Arab spring and elsewhere. Less is written about their capacity to reinforce pack identities and mob rule, though clearly that is also part of that potential.Social psychologist Tom Postmes has been disturbed by the coarsening of debate around issues such as racial integration in his native Netherlands, a polarisation that he suggests has grown directly from the fashionable political incorrectness of particular websites where anonymity is guaranteed. "There is some evidence to suggest that the mainstream conservative media even cuts politically correct or moderate posts from websites in favour of the extremes," he says. "The tone of the public debate around immigration has diminished enormously in these forums."One effect of "deindividuation" is a polarisation within groups in which like-minded people typically end up in more extreme positions because they gain credibility by exaggerating loosely held prejudices. You can see that in the bloggers trying to outdo one another with pejoratives about Stewart Lee. This has the effect of shifting norms: extremism becomes acceptable. As Lanier argues: "I worry about the next generation of young people around the world growing up with internet-based technology that emphasises crowd aggregation… will they be more likely to succumb to pack dynamics when they come of age?" The utopian tendency is to believe that social media pluralises and diversifies opinion; most of the evidence suggests that it is just as likely, when combined with anonymity, to reinforce groupthink and extremism.A lot of this comes down to the politics of anonymity, a subject likely to greatly exercise the minds of legislators as our media becomes increasingly digitised, and we rely more and more on mostly unaccountable and easily manipulated sources – from TripAdvisor to Twitter feeds to blog gossip – for our information.One simple antidote to this seems to rest in the very old-fashioned idea of standing by your good name. Adopt a pseudonym and you are not putting much of yourself on the line. Put your name to something and your words are freighted with responsibility. Arthur Schoepenhauer wrote well on the subject 160 years ago: "Anonymity is the refuge for all literary and journalistic rascality," he suggested. "It is a practice which must be completely stopped. Every article, even in a newspaper, should be accompanied by the name of its author; and the editor should be made strictly responsible for the accuracy of the signature. The freedom of the press should be thus far restricted; so that when a man publicly proclaims through the far-sounding trumpet of the newspaper, he should be answerable for it, at any rate with his honour, if he has any; and if he has none, let his name neutralise the effect of his words. And since even the most insignificant person is known in his own circle, the result of such a measure would be to put an end to two-thirds of the newspaper lies, and to restrain the audacity of many a poisonous tongue."The internet amplifies Schopenhauer's trumpet many times over. Though there are repressive regimes when anonymity is a prerequisite of freedom, and occasions in democracies when anonymity must be preserved, it is clear when those reservations might apply. Generally, though, who should be afraid to stand up and put their name to their words? And why should anyone listen if they don't?
Call Of Juarez: The Cartel, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Call Of Juarez and its portentously named prequel, Bound In Blood, followed the McCall brothers as they carved a path of violence across the wild west.Although their descendants feature in Call Of Juarez: The Cartel, this modern-day story of cops v drug dealers feels disconnected from the series that preceded it in both subject matter and approach. Selecting one of three characters (a wearisome clutch of gratuitously swearing ex-special forces/FBI/LAPD caricatures) the emphasis is on co-operative play, with your two buddies backing you up. Offline, you'll find they tend to lag behind, leading to toe-tapping while they amble up to a checkpoint you reached some time ago. Plot exposition is laboured and surprisingly lengthy given that it's just a flimsy excuse to go and shoot drug pedlars, while everything from misfiring set-pieces to typos in the subtitles point to a game that has been trotted out with very little love.Ubisoft, £32.89-£44.99Ms Splosion Man, Xbox Live ArcadeMs Splosion ManMs Splosion Man was a puzzle and platform game in which the protagonist blew himself up to jump, kill enemies and activate switches. Ms Splosion Man has pink lipstick and a big bow, but apart from that it's combustible business as usual, meaning repeated self-immolations are again your route to glory. One explosion sends Ms Splosion Man into the air and she can trigger two more while airborne, allowing you to bridge larger gaps or reach power-ups. There are also neon-lit rails to grind, colourful cannons to blast you towards your next destination, and sections that involve hopping between moving hover cars while endeavouring not to destroy them. There's a sprinkling of giant bosses and the game is shot through with hit-and-miss humour. Although there are moments of frustration, this is an elegant and carefully paced challenge with a multiplayer mode that's almost its own discrete game.Twisted Pixel, 800 Microsoft Points (£6.80)Games newsReefer MadnessReefer Madness, the seventh and final piece of downloadable content for superb detect 'em-up LA Noire , is now available …iPod, iPad and iPhone owners will notice things at Apple'sApp Storearen't quite as cheap as they used to be, with software that was formerly 59p now costing 69p and £1.19 titles going up to £1.49 …Meanwhile, significantly larger figures have been exchanged as loss-making games giantElectronic Artsbought maker of the world's finest casual gamesPopCap(famed for Bejewelled and the awesome Plants vs Zombies) for an eye-watering $1.3bn …Ubisofthas announced that many of its future games will requireUplay Passport, a system designed to lock online multiplayer modes for anyone purchasing a game secondhand unless they buy a one-off £10 online pass …And the highly anticipated public beta test ofCall Of Duty: Elitegoes live this week.
Following on fromMicrosoft's blockbuster financial results on Thursday night, a little closer look at Microsoft's Online Services - which continues to resemble a hole that simply eats up everything that gets thrown into it. Especially money.Here's the chart:Microsoft Online Services profit/loss by quarter from calendar 4Q 2005 - calendar 2Q 2011Any way you slice it, that isn't looking good. Revenue is roughly flat and losses are continuing at a greater level than revenues - so for the past quarter, revenue was$62m$662mand the losses were $728m.True, Microsoft is investing heavily both in its cloud services (which are part of Online Services) -Office 365has had a generally positive reception - but at some point the supertanker either has to turn around or it is going to fall into a black hole and start really sucking everything in (to mix metaphors in a terrible way).Analysts saw some positives in the fact that revenue had increased sequentlally for the quarter, but as the graph shows it's about 20% down from the peak times, which were in October 2006 - June 2007 (which covers the large three quarters in the middle).And let's turn too to my predictions about Windows revenues and profits, from the blogpost a few days ago.Back then, pondering Microsoft's claim to have sold 400m Windows 7 licences, Icalculated, based on past figures from Microsoft's financials:Going by Microsoft's own financial results (whose fourth-quarter figures are coming up next week), the three-year average for revenue per Windows PC sold is $56.47, and profit is $39.91.Plug those in to two scenarios and the following emerges for the Windows division:• 75m PCs sold: revenue: $4.23bn; profit $2.99bn• 80m PCs sold: revenue: $4.52bn; profit: $3.2bn.In the event, we know that there were a total of 81.2m (Gartner) or 80.4 (IDC) Windows PCs sold in the quarter. Call it 80.8m for convenience. By my maths you would then expect the Windows Division to have had revenues of $4.56bn and profits of $3.22bn.In the event, it was (drum roll) $4.74bn and profit $2.94bn. Revenues higher (4% than the model), profits lower (9% than the model).Why might that be? Because prices of Windows are being pushed down, even as sales are increasing. This is the China effect - that there's more piracy in China, but it's also the place (along with India and other Asian countries) where sales are booming.Still, Microsoft can rely on Office, which only needs an installed base now heading towards 2bn to make it money reliably, even if Windows falters.Meanwhile Apple announced that it hadsold 1m copies of OSX Lion in its first day. That's quite a lot. Of course, now you can start arguing on whether that's catching up with Windows 7 (quite a long way to go) or getting a head-start on Windows 8. From the appearances of the two, I think it's more like the latter. And what will Microsoft's per-PC revenues and profits look like by the time Windows 8 is ready?Updated: corrected figure for revenue of Online Services to $662m.
The makers of the Angry Birds app are being sued by a tiny American company which claims it owns patents on the method used to buy new levels inside the game – a move which has already put off a number of UK developers from selling mobile apps in the US.Lodsys, apparently a one-man company based in Marshall, Texas, has named Finland's Rovio in a patent lawsuit in a Texas court, and has also begun suing some of the biggest names in mobile gaming, including Electronic Arts, Atari, Square Enix and Take-Two Interactive.The growth of lawsuits in the US by so-called "patent trolls" – which do not make anything but simply demand payments after asserting intellectual property rights – threatens to snuff out the booming mobile app market, which is expected to be worth £4.5bn this year and double that in 2012. A number of patent-owning companies have begun lawsuits in the US against more than a dozen software companies. However, many small independent developers find the costs of a lawsuit too onerous, even given that they could run into thousands of dollars.The US patent system allows software implementations of ideas to be patented, which differs significantly from the European Union – although the European Parliament has been considering aligning patent rights with the US.Lodsys owns patents granted between 1999 and 2009, and first filed claims against seven defendants last May. It has now removed one of those, Wulven Games, but added Rovio's versions of Angry Birds for iPhone and Android, as well as EA's The Sims 3 for iPhone, Atari's Greatest Hits compilation for iPhone and iPad, Square Enix's Big Hit Baseball for iPhone and iPad, and Take-Two Interactive's 2K Sports NHL 2K11 for iPhone.Florian Mueller, a specialist in intellectual property lawsuits, says that the moveshows the company is "not afraid of suing deep-pocketed app developers": it is already suing the computer giant HP, as well as clothing company Adidas, retailer Best Buy and the New York Times. Mueller also points out that bringing Angry Birds into the case makes it clear that Lodsys is going after developers writing apps for phones using Google's Android software, which now make up the best-selling smartphones, as well as those writing for the iPhone and iPad.Lodsys is asking for injunctions and damages in its complaint, although the company has not yet published an update on itsblogto explain its decision to add the five new games companies to the lawsuit.The news is likely to increase Apple's involvement in the case on behalf of its developers. In June, the companyfiled a motion to intervene in the case, claiming that its existing licence for the patents in question also covers iOS developers – which Lodsys disputes."While the developers will likely be interested in resolving this case as quickly and inexpensively as possible, Apple's interest is in protecting its broader license rights with respect to thousands of App developers for Apple products who may be the subject of future Lodsys lawsuits or threats," said Apple's motion, making it clear that the company did not expect the small independent developers originally sued by Lodsys to be able to fight the company in court.Last week several European independent developerssaid they were withdrawing their apps from the US App Storefor fear of being sued by Lodsys. That is clearly not an option for the likes of Rovio and EA, as well as for Apple. Games are the most lucrative category on the App Store, with iOS remaining the lead mobile platform for the vast majority of mobile games firms.At the time Lodsys sent its original letters to developers demanding they settle or be sued,Mueller wrotethat "It's actually questionable whether Lodsys's patents would survive a well-funded effort to have them declared invalid."
What is it about Wild West games? We know they can be highly enjoyable, as the two previous iterations of Call of Juarez and last year's Red Dead Redemption proved, so why have they always been so rare?Still, we foolishly thought, at least here's a new Call of Juarez game to satisfy our craving for Sergio Leone-style grit and shoot-outs. But such expectations were cruelly dashed, as it is set in the present day, featuring a storyline that teams a DEA agent, an FBI agent and an LA Homicide cop as a makeshift task-force taking on a Mexican drug cartel.Completely changing the essential nature of an established franchise is an unprecedented move for the games industry, and one struggles to fathom the reasoning behind it. In the case of Call of Juarez: The Cartel, you even suspect that it may have been moved to the present day at some point during its development, as it still sports a number of missions set in places like Death Valley and Juarez itself, in which the meticulously created environments are straight out of a Western, yet the modern characters and weaponry seem incongruous.Once you get your head around Call of Juarez's abrupt reverse-ferret, though, you find a game that is well executed and pretty enjoyable to play, without really excelling in any particular area.The environments, admittedly, are fantastic, and state-of-the-art visual trickery such as depth of focus imparts an impressively high-tech feel. The controls are great, aided by a Concentration mode that you can trigger after killing a certain amount of enemies, which causes everything to enter slow-motion for a period.Perhaps the most imaginative aspect of the game is that each of the three characters – tank, sniper and all-rounder – have their own agenda. The DEA man, for example, is in hock to the bookies, and must collect drugs (unseen by the other two) for his man in the cartel to shift.The storyline is basic but functional: the trio are drafted in to go after the Mendoza cartel after it bombed the DEA offices. The action begins in an impressively believable rendition of LA's dodgiest environs, but soon branches out into more countrified territory.The gameplay doesn't vary enormously, mainly consisting of shooting hordes of enemies whose AI is sufficiently honed that you have to take a careful approach, making heavy use of cover (the game uses a manual rather than automatic system, which is sensible and works well).There are plenty of set-pieces reminiscent of Call of Duty's Breach and Clear sequences, in which you kick in doors and take on a roomful of drug-runners, with a slo-mo period giving you the edge. There are car-chases galore, and helicopters armed with rockets and machine-guns provide the equivalent of boss-battles.In other words, it's a perfectly decent game (although in no way spectacular), with a three-player drop-in co-op mode and the characters' different secret agendas adding some replay value. But all the way through, the abandonment of the Western theme nags at you. Can we have our six-shooters back, please?• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
From 12th century Jerusalem to Renaissance Rome, the Assassin's Creed adventures have led us on a rather spectacular journey through medieval history. This winter, the fourth title in the main series, Revelations, is heading out to Constantinople, bringing the first arc of the story to a close. Here, Ezio, the dashing hero of Assassin's Creed 2 and Assassin's Creed Brotherhood is on the hunt for five ancient relics hidden by his ancestor Altair and capable of ending the war between the assassins and the Templar order.The search has brought him to this complex and divided city, and as usual, Ubisoft's artists have beautifully captured the environment. The E3 demo of Revelations showed Ezio leaping from ship to ship in the harbour, using a flamethrower to set fire to the vessels, then scaling masts, leaping along fallen gang planks and indulging in crunching melee combat with numerous enemies. Now older and wiser, Ezio will have a new arsenal of weapons including an array of customisable bombs, trip wires and of course the hookblade which operates like Batman's batclaw, allowing him to scale buildings with speed and ease.Multiplayer, too, has been reworked with added modes, locations and characters, as well as support for guilds, customisation and a narrative layer adding a greater sense of cogency. The intriguing cat and mouse mode from Brotherhood has been simplified, with a clear UI and more prompts, allowing assassins to more effectively scope out their victims.But how will this scintillating title wrap up the stories of both Altair and Ezio, and what role will the city itself play in the narrative? To find out, I recently spoke with the game's creative director, Alexandre Amancio.What drew you to Constantinople as a setting?It's a lot of things. Constantinople was the crossroads of the world during that era – it was the New York City of the Renaissance. It is also the merger between Europe and Asia, which is a cool metaphor for the meeting of destinies between Ezio and Altair. But more than that, the city layout lends itself very well to an Assassin's Creed game. First, it is split in half so we can have a good sense of progression as we introduce the different areas to the player. Secondly, the city is actually 85 per cent slopes so we're introducing the hook blade, which allows us to add speed and fluidity to the climbing and navigation. We also have a lot of zip lines, which are a cool way of navigating the city – plus, you can slow down and actually assassinate targets from above.Did you visit the city to gather primary source material?We went twice. I mean, you can research from pictures on the web or from books, but you can't capture the ambience of a city if you don't go. I learned that on Far Cry 2 – we went to Africa and that made the game more real; same thing here. But not only did we send art people to get pictures, we also took samples of the sounds, the language, the market bustle, the prayers. We also pride ourselves on historical accuracy. We have a historical researcher who gives us a lot of data on how the city was in the past – the layout, the architecture… one of our cities, Venice, was actually used in a school in Europe to teach about the city back then – we're striving for the same with Constantinople.What led you to the idea of crossing the Ezio and Altair stories?Well, Assassin's Creed has been going since 2007 – the narrative is very rich and complex, so to avoid collapsing under the weight of our own mythology we needed to wrap up a few mysteries and set things up for what is to come. That's what this game is about: we're giving players some answers from Assassin's 2 and Brotherhood, we're completing the destiny of Altair, and we're tying it in to what's coming in 2012. And obviously, our over-arching storyline has to do with the end of the world in 2012 – we need to set up everything for the conclusion of that narrative. In this game, you'll get to understand why Ezio is so important and how his destiny his aligned to Altair's and to Desmond's.So where is Desmond going? Presumably his story arches into the next?Yeah. At the end of Brotherhood, Desmond is in a coma and he's plugged into the Animus to stop his consciousness from just falling into limbo. But inside the Animus drops through the white room, the loading interface, because he is too weak, and he ends up in the black room, the low-level DOS of Animus. It's much more powerful, but very hard to use, it's not meant to be for human interface. So the place gets populated with ghosts from Desmond's past, different unconscious elements – and we're using this to give more depth to what has been until now, a very two-dimensional character.So you'll be telling us more about him – where he's come from, what his motivations are?All of that stuff is going to be set up in this game – it's one of the main themes of Revelations. I think you get to understand their motivations of all the cast. Ezio goes on a really character-changing arc. You'll get a sense that this isreallythe end of the trilogy. Ezio is a character who's always been very reactive – he fell into the assassins because his father was killed, then his uncle is killed and it's all about revenge. But now he's grown, and he's going in to this inner quest – and that's with Altair. It's not Desmond playing as Altair, it's Ezio. We get to experience all the key points in Altair's life – everything from his youth to his ultimate destiny – and since Ezio is living through this, it puts some perspective on his own life and the decisions he's going to have to make at the end of the game.So you have an Inception-style multi-layered reality… That must be a nightmare to stay on top of, in terms of continuing narrative. Do you have it all written out on a blackboard somewhere?We have many! We actually have a small team whose soul purpose is to ensure that everything is coherent. One of the rules we have with AC is that anything that we state, anything that happens in the game, becomes part of the reality – part of the encyclopaedia. We really want to avoid revisionism, and it's extremely hard, especially with crossing destinies, different realities, different timelines…Right, so how does your narrative team stay on top of it?Well, wanted to avoid compiling a game bible that's 2000 pages of stuff nobody reads. So we use very visual schematics, we have all the timelines up on the walls – we always understand the relationships between characters and all the situations. It's very hard: sometimes we have a really good idea, but it just doesn't fit with the whole structure and we remove it – coherence is very important.Do you have a complete story in mind for Assassin's or do you evolve it as you go along?It's a little bit of both actually. I think that if we keep the end in sight, the path we take to reach that end can be left free because you need to be able to adjust things. It's an organic process – some gamers might not like this or that, so you always adapt the path. But if the destination is clear, you always remain true to it, because you're always heading toward it, no matter what path you take.We do have narrative arcs that complete – and Revelations is the completion of one narrative arc: the arc of Ezio and Altair. We actually also have the completion of a Desmond arc. It's good for players to feel the completion of certain stories – we can always hint at and open others. This series is such a rich universe, it has all these underlying conspiracies that criss-cross with history, so it's not like we're missing ideas and initiatives for other narrative arcs…. So it works like a TV series in the sense that it will have a continuation over many seasons, but it does have a conclusion.Can you tell us anything about the historical figures who crop up in Revelations?Some are so deeply entwined in the story, we're not naming them yet. But we do have Suleiman the Magnificent in the game. He is probably the most famous Sultan of the Ottoman Empire – he is responsible for its renaissance and glory, he was the one who stabilised and expanded it. He was so successful that the Europeans had to find ways to goaroundAfrica to reach the spice markets – he controlled everything. We also have his uncle, Sehzade Ahmet, the leading heir to the throne at the time. The others I don't want to go into but we link to many figures. Also, Ezio's love interest Sofia, an Italian living in Constantinople. It was a very cosmopolitan city – a lot of Venetians and Genoans were living there. We actually based her on a real painting of an unknown Venetian woman; so at any time we can add a little wink to history, we will do it.How are you evolving the idea from Brotherhood of being able to recruit an army of assassin helpers?That's something else we're not detailing yet! But every new feature of this game needed to consolidate at least two of the main Assassin's Creed pillars – this was to avoid the player drowning in systems. For instance, we're consolidating the Borgia Towers and the city improvements into one new system that we're calling the assassins' dens. So we do have a new possible interaction with your assassin's within the city other than just calling them for help in the middle of a fight. We also have another high-level feature: in Brotherhood you could send your assassins out on missions all over the Mediterranean – we're expanding on that and adding more gameplay…How have you dealt with the fact that Ezio has aged? Video games rarely really get to grips with this aspect, apart from giving every male character over 40 a grey beard…Well, in terms of narrative, the character is in a very different place in his life – it's more of a personal journey. For the first time he's motivated by a desire to clarify everything he's been doing. He's asking, 'why am I endangering my life for this order when I have so little information about it?' His attitude has changed, age has toughened him. And also, the hook blade is an important introduction: he's getting old, physically, but we didn't want to slow him down, so we needed a way to help his acrobatics. His eagle sense skill is also about him becoming wiser – if you get on a rooftop, you can see the faint trail of an enemy moving into a crowd; then you can pick that up, analyse the crowd and find the bad guy. It's all about him getting olderandwiser.It sounds like the hook blade is going to have quite a profound effect on the game world…Yeah, it's funny because we've been playing the game with the hook blade for so long it has become an integral part of the experience. I recently picked up one of the older titles and you really notice – it feels like something is missing. I think that's the measure of a good feature. Not only does it add speed, it adds fluidity. You know how, when you play Tetris, your brain just gets in to this flow stage where you just forget time? This is what we were aiming for – reaching a point in which the navigation itself becomes a toy.You're adding more of a narrative element to your multiplayer modes this time round. Do you think we're heading toward an era in which there's no such thing as single and multiplayer modes – where the experience caters for both aspects simultaneously?Yes. Multiplayer shouldn't be something we say any more, it shouldn't be a term, it should just be a given. I mean, we've seen the explosion of Facebook – and now that it exists, how could we ever have not imagined it? Games are the same – when someone really gets the integration of single player and multiplayer right, we will wonder how games ever existed without it.Assassin's Creed: Revelations is out on PC, PS3, Xbox 360 on 15 November
July hasn't seen any slowdown in the number of new apps hitting the various app stores. Here's our selection of some of the latest worth checking out on your device.Google+iPhone, Android, freeGoogle's new social service made its native mobile app debut on Android, unsurprisingly, but it's now available on iPhone too. It feels very much like a version 1.0, focusing on a few key features but with lots of room for additions in the months ahead. You can fiddle with your Circles to add different people to your groups and browse the stream of updates from those contacts, although you can't yet tweak your own profile from the phone. There are mobile-specific features too: Huddle group messaging, which works well, and the ability to upload photos taken using your camera phone. The stripped-down approach means it lacks some of the features seen in, say, the Facebook app. Even so, Google+ has made a decent start on phones, just as it has online.Stuart DredgeWi-Fi FastConnectAndroid, freeAccessing Wi-Fi on the go from your smartphone remains a little fiddly, but hotspot network The Cloud is trying to make the process easier for Android users with its new app. FastConnect provides a map of the company's hotspots across Europe, which is useful if you have an account with The Cloud and want to find the nearest coffee shop or other venue that'll get you online. For O2 customers, it will also automatically connect whenever it detects a hotspot – potentially a good moneysaver especially for people who spend a lot of time in cities with plenty of hotspots.Stuart DredgeZappariPhone, iPad, Android, freeAn augmented reality app that brings pictures and posters to life. Primarily a marketing tool – it was used recently for the advertising campaigns for the Warner Bros films Green Lantern and Harry Potter &amp; The Deathly Hallows: Part 2 – Zappar inserts sound and video into posters you come across at bus stops, cinemas and elsewhere. With the Lantern and Potter posters, you point your device, hit the Zap button and instantly the background comes to life; then you get the trailer for the film. It's early days yet – this version of Zappar is a preview only – but it shows just how much closer we're getting to life in a Minority Report world.Stuart O'ConnorSid Meier's Pirates! for iPadiPad, £2.49The memory of the original Pirates! game rightly makes former Commodore 64 owners go woozy with nostalgia, and its more recent console updates weren't bad either. Now the piratical adventure has been launched for Apple's iPad, and lives up to its reputation. The game sees you travelling the Caribbean battling ships, plundering towns and chatting up governors' daughters, while searching for treasure and your lost family. The action translates well to a touchscreen, and while the individual elements are fairly simple – sword fighting, ship battles and town raids – as a whole they make for a rich and captivating game, whether you have played previous Pirates! games or are new to the series.Sky GoiPhone, iPad, freeBSkyB has just relaunched its Sky Sports app under the new brand of Sky Go, with new apps for iPhone and iPad. The key change: the apps are now available for existing Sky customers for free, if they have a subscription to Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 at home. The app can then be used to watch all five of Sky's Sports channels over Wi-Fi or 3G, although the latter is probably best used in stuck-on-the-train emergencies for the sake of your data limits, as well as streaming quality. Two devices can be registered to use Sky Go, which is good: no more paying extra if you want to have the service running across an iPhone and iPad. The latter in particular makes a strong case for itself as a second screen in the house, if the main set isn't available for that crucial football match.Stuart DredgeThe SMH NewspaperiPad, free (for now)The Sydney Morning Herald, once Australia's best-quality broadsheet, shows the way for newspapers on the iPad. Its elegant layout and clear navigation system make it a joy to use, and articles are easy to read (there is a choice of three font sizes). From the front page, you can easily swipe your way through, from section to section, as though you are reading an actual print newspaper. Or else there's a dropdown menu that will take you straight to the section you want – be it world news, business, opinion of any of the features sections such as Metro, Drive or Good Living. The only annoyance is the occasional full-page ad that pops up, but I guess that's the price you pay for a free app (although I believe the SMH is to start charging a subscription fee from December).Stuart O'ConnorFree App HeroiPhone, £1.99Smartphone owners are notoriously hungry for freebies, but how to pick the good ones from hundreds of thousands of possibilities? Free App Hero is one of the better filters we've seen: it's a paid app that sorts through the torrent of free iPhone games to weed out the best. It's overseen by a team of journalists who promise to play every game that they recommend – and that's more than 100 a month. The reviews are short and snappy, giving you a glanceable guide to whether a game is up your street or not. A bargain hunter's dream, as long as you don't mind paying a couple of quid to feed your freebie addiction.Stuart DredgeTrain TimesBlackBerry, £4.99Train Times is an officially-licensed travel app based on data from National Rail Enquiries. It sucks down data from live departure and arrival boards around the UK, as well as the timetables. You can set specific stations as your home and work in the My Commute feature, to check whether your daily journey is likely to be disrupted. The obligatory location-based feature will also help you find times from the nearest station when you're in more unfamiliar territory. National Rail Enquiries has apps on other smartphones, but this BlackBerry version makes use of RIM's software in a couple of ways, tying into the calendar to set reminders, and email to let people know when you'll be travelling.Stuart DredgeUK 3G SurveyAndroid, freeAre you constantly swearing about a lack of mobile coverage in your area? The UK 3G Survey app is aiming to get an accurate picture of 3G coverage around the nation, running in the background on Android handsets as people travel around. The crowdsourced data project is a partnership between the BBC and Epitiro, and will eventually generate a map to be shown on the Beeb's website. With that in mind, the UK 3G Survey app doesn't give you any benefits now: you're installing it for the greater good so the final results can be as accurate as possible. The one thing that may put a dent in this altruism is the effect on battery life, which is noticeable.Stuart Dredge
