Commerical online music services have ignored the Mac, but Apple has plans to do the job itself, reportsThe LA Times[free reg req'd]. "Although no licensing deals have been announced, sources close to the situation say at least four of the five major record companies have committed their music to the Apple service. It could be launched next month."
Virgin Interactive Entertainment was one of the great names in the British games business, starting in the days of the Sinclair Spectrum. Now it is in debt and "awaiting the results of a creditors meeting on March 11th to find out if the company is to be liquidated or if a rescue package prepared by insolvency consultants will be accepted," according toGamesindustry.biz
"Less than 24 hours after security vendors and the government issued public warnings about a new vulnerability in the Sendmail mail transfer agent software, researchers discovered that exploit code had already been posted on a hacker Web site," reportsComputerworld. The code only targets the Slackware Linux 8.0 implementation of Sendmail, but it shows it works.
"Panasonic is unveiling ... a four-in-one palm-size device that takes digital snapshots and videos, records and plays audio files, and records live TV and music videos to play on its two-inch swiveling LCD screen," saysPCWorld.com.
Jakob Nielsen's latest Alertbox column reviews a book oncaptologywith implications for Web site credibility. The book is Dr BJ Fogg's Persuasive Technology: Using Computers to Change What We Think and Do.
Cable television companies are in a unique position to get broadband Britain moving. They are the only organisations to own truly high bandwidth lines into millions of homes, and the only ones who stand a chance of persuading us to pay for more than just basic television.They should be utterly dominant, but BT is beating them hands down at the broadband game while, in television, Sky's dominance is unchallenged.Cable continues to win the 'most promising candidate' accolades year after year, but cannot seem to break through. Could 2003 be its year?Around a month ago, I reported from a conference about the future of broadcasting. It was a glamorous do, with TV luvvies, strategists and government policy-makers worrying about big issues such as creativity, quality and culture. Looking back, it was a pretty cosy event: a meeting of concerned media professionals against generally nasty things. Appropriately, it was organised by the Guardian.I have just spent two days at another media conference. This one was organised by the Financial Times, and if the Guardian conference was from Venus, the FT's was from Mars.The topics under discussion were no less interesting or important, but they were much more scary. The broadcasting world described at this conference was a brutal one, characterised by a collapsing audience share, an unending advertising slump, attrition from competing platforms and, worst of all, an increasingly hostile and uninterested audience. Now, things are all about survival.Television is still a big business: there are well over 300 channels on cable and satellite in the UK, but the economics are terrifying. How these channels split the dwindling advertising pot and conjure up viable businesses from audiences often too small to measure (an astonishing 160 UK channels register an audience of zero in the industry's official numbers) was exercising the minds of the executives present.At the Guardian conference, the Channel 4 chief executive, Mark Thompson, quoted Matthew Arnold and traded classical allusions with his head of programmes. However, at the more recent event, classical references were thin on the gound. Hardly a BBC face was in the crowd, and the only terrestrial television heavyweight booked to speak, Carlton's CEO Michael Green, pulled out at the last minute.The language was direct, and the concerns were not lofty. The CEO of Lifetime, a US women's channel, advocated turning channels into brands and marketing them appropriately. Among the benefits of this approach, he said, is that a strong brand will "help to smooth over the weaker programming in your portfolio".Another speaker, the owner of half a dozen of those zero audience channels, said that hard negotiating is necessary in order to get programmes for a niche channel at low prices. Pile it high and sell it cheap.The tough climate may not advance content quality: the only mention of programme quality in the whole conference came from an investment banker, not a programme-maker. However, it is pushing innovation along. Almost everyone talked about new revenue sources, with much fuss made about income from premium rate phone lines and SMS: 110 million phone votes were taken for the US version of Pop Idol alone.The CEO of Fremantle Television, Tony Cohen, showed off a phenomenally successful line of merchandise derived from Rainbow, a childrens' show that has been off the air for 10 years, as well as a line of Pop Idol Karaoke machines. The herd instinct is at work, too: there are now 49 home shopping channels in the UK. How many stain removers and exercise bikes can the nation accommodate?So the climate for the TV industry is tough and getting tougher. The lights go out at a niche cable channel about once a month, audiences for even the biggest terrestrial shows are still falling, and an advertising recovery is probably two years away.Nevertheless, the cable TV operators, Telewest and NTL, really should be striding the emerging media landscape with confidence. Only they can offer the "triple play" of digital television, a telephone line and broadband internet access all in one. Telewest, the number two cable firm, estimates that it could provide 30 megabits of data per second to every home it reaches: 60 times BT's basic broadband offering.Households that take all three services are enormously profitable for cable firms, spending many times what an ordinary multi-channel home spends.However, the firms are still struggling. Epic debts built up over decades of digging trenches and laying cable, disastrous ventures into sports and entertainment content during the boom, and time-consuming restructuring forced by creditors and investors, dog the industry.It may, on paper, be the best qualified to build broadband Britain, but unless lingering problems of fragmentation (the two big firms must get on and merge), legendarily bad customer service and an unshakeably dowdy image can be resolved soon, cable is destined to lose the race.
Companies sending email or text message adverts will have to get the permission of recipients first, under rules published yesterday by the advertising standards authority.The growth in new media has been accompanied by a steep rise in junk mail on the internet and unwanted messages to mobile phones. The ASA has seen a six-fold rise in the number of complaints about direct marketing text messages in the past year.The new code of practice is an attempt to catch up with the technology and control some of the abuses. It says explicit consent must now be given for marketing by email or text message.Unsolicited email advertising (spam) must now also be clearly marked so recipients can see what it is before they open it.More than 76% of home email users receive spam every day, according to research conducted by Brightmail, a company that filters out 3bn unwanted emails a month for BT Openworld customers.BT Openworld welcomed the code but said no one organisation could solve the problem. "It can be quite difficult to control legally because emails are coming from all over the world," a spokesman, Tony Henderson, said.Most spammers obtain email addresses after people sign up for goods or newsletters on websites. But the technology also exists for companies to generate random addresses until some work. Computers generating random mobile numbers are also the source of many unsolicited text message adverts, although people signing up to services online frequently find their numbers passed on.Companies sending the messages often trick users into phoning premium rate numbers. Sending romantic messages from anonymous admirers is a favourite method. One complaint was about a text message advertisement that urged the recipient to report to an army recruitment centre.The code also covers online banner ads and pop-up ads on the internet.Andrew Brown, who is chairman of the ASA's committee of advertising practice, said: "Effective self-regulation is paramount to consumer confidence in marketing. We have to ensure that marketers have clear guidelines on how to keep their marketing communications legal, decent, honest and truthful."
Advertising watchdogs are to crack down on junk email after an explosion in the number of electronic messages promising dramatic weight loss, financial gain or peddling hardcore pornography.From June 4, anyone who receives an unwanted message from a company that does not have their permission to use their email address will be able to have their grievances investigated by the advertising standards authority, under strict new rules aimed at email marketers.Companies will also have to make it clear in the subject box that their emails are for marketing purposes.Although advertisers are already prohibited from sending unsolicited emails under the Data Protection Act, consumers have until now had little come-back because the ASA's rules did not deal specifically with junk email.Brinsley Dresden, the head of advertising law at the law firm Lewis Silkin, said the new requirements closed an important loophole in the ASA's rules."There was a bit of a lacuna with the old code which meant it didn't deal with viral marketing. Basically although there have been restrictions on email marketing for some time until now there has been no realistic means of enforcement for the consumer."But Mr Dresden warned the changes were unlikely to have a major effect on our bulging inboxes.This is because most junk mail come either from US companies, who do not fall under the ASA's jurisdiction, or are part of so-called "viral marketing" campaigns, in which companies send emails to staff and rely on people liking the email so much they forward it to all their friends."Viral marketers will no doubt continue to behave as they have always behaved. Most people who are engaged in viral marketing don't care what rules they are breaking. Indeed they would probably be very upset to learn they weren't breaking any," he added.According to research carried out by email filtering company Brightmail, the number of junk, or "spam", emails has soared in the past 12 months.Figures released in December showed four in 10 emails received by computer users are junk mail and it is estimated that well over 100 million emails a year are sent out by opportunistic advertisers and fraudsters.Brightmail has warned that junk mailers have become increasingly sophisticated in their attempts to avoid detection and filtering software, typically sending the emails from addresses that have nothing to do with them.
Palm, the California-based handheld computer producer, delivered its second blow to investors yesterday in a matter of days as it warned that third quarter results would fall short of previous projections.The company, which disclosed last week that it had cut almost a fifth of its workforce in recent months, said trading in the US had been hit by lower than expected demand for its top of the range products."Economic uncertainty weighed more heavily than we anticipated on the consumer and enterprise segments of the handheld industry," said Palm chief Eric Banhamou.Third quarter revenues are now expected to be between $205m (&#163;130m) and $210m compared with the $230m to $250m predicted in December, when the company was forecasting a modest operating loss for the period. Results for the quarter will be hit also by a $140m charge to cover restructuring and a writedown in the value of the company's real estate holdings in California's Silicon Valley. Palm shares, which fell 11% to $11.60 last week on news of the job cuts, slipped another 9% to $10.50 in early trading.Palm said demand for its mid-range and lower priced products has been in line with its expectations, with European demand proving strong. But US demand for premium products such as the Tungsten T has failed to live up to expectations, reflecting continued depressed IT spending by US corporations and weak re tail consumer demand. The Tungsten T, launched in the US in October with a $499 price tag, is now selling for $399. The $100 price cut at the end of January helped stimulate demand, but not enough to offset general market weakness.Restructuring, including the recent 19% headcount reduction, will result in a charge of up to $45m when third quarter figures are published this month. The firm also expects a $100m non-cash charge to reduce the carrying value of 39 acres of land it owns in San Jose.
In the spring of 2000, as the tremors of the Nasdaq stock-market quake reverberated out of Silicon Valley, a new computer-related phenomenon was making quiet rumblings on the east coast of America. A small country saleroom a few miles from Boston was hosting an auction of early technology, billed as the first of its kind. Up for grabs were pieces of hardware which had turned from attic junk into museum collectables.Many of the hundred or so bidders who turned out that crisp morning were after automata, the sometimes creepy home entertainments of the Victorian age: a parade of dancing animals and fairground mechanicals. But then came what for a small knot of people in the auction room was the main event.Many of the lots appeared to be simple lab stuff: a slide rule, a tool kit, manuals and ephemera. But the plum of the collection was a piece of the Eniac - the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer generator made by J Presper Eckert and his colleague, John Mauchly, at the University of Pennsylvania in the 1940s. All of the items had belonged to Eckert himself. His widow had found them in the attic and auctioneer George Glastris sensed that there might be a market.The slide rule fetched $3,000 (&#163;1,900). A bundle of books relating to another precursor of the modern computer, the Univac, went for $2,000. Eventually, the Eniac ring counter - a section of glass valves about three feet long - was presented to the hushed saleroom. The hammer went down at $70,000 (&#163;44,500) and Glastris was delighted.The buyer of the ring-counter was not present but turned out to be Microsoft's founding technologist, Nathan Myhrvold. His collection of early technology, built up from internet auction purchases and personal contacts, includes slide rules, text books, Cray supercomputers and Enigma coding machines (he has two), as well as personal pieces of Microsoft history. It is looked after by full-time curatorial staff. He has also funded two reconstructions of Babbage's Analytical Machine, the precursor of the Eniac. One of these finely wrought devices is for Myhrvold, the other is on display in the Science Museum in London, where the curator, Doran Swade, is one of the people who are pioneering ways to breathe life into early technology.Another is Dag Spicer, curator of the Computer History Museum in Silicon Valley. Snapped up from Stanford University by the museum's co-founders, Gordon and Gwen Bell, in 1997, Spicer is the museum's longest-serving employee. He has seen it grow from modest beginnings at the Moffett Field airbase, into its present multi-million dollar headquarters in Silicon Valley, in a building vacated by a former dot.com giant.The collections held by Myhrvold and curated by Spicer and Swade are at one end of the scale of an appreciation of early technology; at the other are the small-time enthusiasts who scour charity shops for elusive machines and parts. There is money in old tech. In 2000, an Apple 1 was sold for $25,000 to a Japanese collector. But the enthusiasts I have trailed over the past three years have been motivated more by a desire to preserve old technology for future generations than to make a big profit. Most of them are techies, who use their expertise to bring old machines whirring back into life.While a few academic institutions are consolidating this emerging field of research - Stanford University has the Apple archive, and the Lower Hudson River Information Centre in New York state uses its collection as a classroom aid - corporations have also woken up to the value of their heritage. Hewlett-Packard paid more than $1m for the residential garage, with house attached, where Hewlett and Packard started out.Collectors around the world communicate and trade via the internet - there are several classic-computer sites - but they also meet up in Silicon Valley, Boston and Munich at vintage computer festivals devised by collector Sellam Ismail. At 14, Ismail sold his first computer - an Aquarius made by Mattel, maker of the Barbie doll - to a nine-year-old, and has regretted it ever since: "I realise now that it was as much a part of my personal history as my photographs and other memorabilia. It helped lay the foundation of my life in computers."Since then he has spent every spare moment hauling hardware, manuals and ephemera between his home in Livermore, California, and various storage units. Now 31, he has amassed a vast collection of material that would otherwise have been land-fill, and intends to use some of his 1,300-plus computers to teach children about early technology. Ismail set upvintagetech.comto help fund his collecting. He also hires out machines for film and advertising, and to lawyers working on prior patent suits.Collectors are not confined to America - John Honniball, a Briton, has more than 100 machines. He started computing at school and was featured in the Guardian in 1979 with his Commodore PET 2001 (8k memory, 6502 processor at 1MHz). "That computer would now be a classic." He keeps his collection at home, near Bristol: "I must consider a storage unit somewhere," he says.The enthusiasms of collectors shed new light on computer technology and how we have grown used to it. It places the early computer pioneers in a timeline which most people who have ever used a computer can understand and applaud. In the three years I have been writing about computer collectors, I have developed a real fondness for their enterprise. They store their collections in garages, basements, outbuildings and, in the case of Marvin Johnston in Santa Barbara, in their cars. The word passion, not normally associated with computers, is at the heart of their unrelenting quests for a particular model or manual. These really are personal computers.&#183;Christine Finn is a research associate at the Institute of Archaeology, Oxford. She is the author of Artifacts: An Archaeologist's Year in Silicon Valley (MIT Press).
Paul Thurrott has posted his second review of a very early build ofLonghorn, the next version of Windows, on the Windows Supersite. How much resemblance the final product will have to Longhorn Alpha Preview 2: Build 4008 is, of course, another matter.
Gamers.comhas published an interview with the world's greatest game designer and Eiji Aonuma (director of The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker) which took place at the DICE summit in Las Vegas.
10,000 are exected to attend the annualGame Developers Conferencein San Jose, reportsThe Mercury News. The event follows the presentation of the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences' Interactive Achievement Awards in Las Vegas, where Electronic Arts was dominant,Reutersreports.Game Infowirehas a complete list.
Rattling home on the train yesterday afternoon, it occurred to me that I could have really used one of those expensive 3G phones being sold by 3, the mobile brand owned by Hutchison, which is launching tonight.I was surrounded by Arsenal fans returning from their game against Charlton in London, and we were all keen to find out what had happened in the Worthington Cup final in Cardiff. With one of those spangly new mobiles, one of us could not only have found out the score, but downloaded the goals. We could have seen the ball spin off David Beckham's foot for Liverpool's first, and Michael Owen punching the air with delight after scoring the second. And what a happy bunch all those Gunners would have been.Or would they? We'll overlook the fact that 3 only owns Premiership highlights, which would probably have denied us the goals even if one of us owned a 3 handset (the complexities of sports rights in the digital world merits its own book). After all, we could just have easily been interested in a league battle of the reds. And we'll ignore the fact that handsets still aren't available for purchase, despite tonight's launch.What might be of more interest to the mobile phone companies was that we still managed to sate our curiosity - by resorting to the much-derided Wap service on my backward, old, black and white-screened Nokia. We all got back home in time for the highlights, and inevitable extended "analysis", on the telly.In the meantime, we were all contented - the Arsenal fans, especially so - with learning the basic details via the 100 word report on my tiny screen. Indeed, the bloke opposite me was still punching the air half an hour after we got the result.What would it have cost to further enhance his celebrations with some multimedia? With 3's kit and caboodle deal a handset will cost £399, with monthly running costs of £59.99 or £99.99, depending on usage. A "3toGo" package removes the regular monthly commitment and charges for content on an a la carte basis, with phones costing the same as before. So just getting set up, before downloading anything, would cost more than most football league clubs charge for a season ticket - in the best seats.The nearest comparable service is the less technologically advanced, but more widely available Vodafone Live! It has been running since November - you might have seen the ads starring David Beckham - and already 200,000 handsets have been sold. Although reduced in price they are still not cheap at £149.99, and Vodafone's pricing structure is less transparent than 3's. But the service is still much cheaper than 3's.But can they really be compared? After all, this battle should be a complete mismatch: powerful new 3G versus tired old 2.5G. But the fact is that Vodafone is doing a good job of squeezing the last utility out of 2G while it waits to launch its own third generation services sometime next year.This is exactly what some werepredictingwould happen almost three years ago: newcomers will find it tough because incumbents such as Vodafone would get the most out of existing 2G services, attempting to persuade their customers to sit tight until they launch even more enhanced services, or even their own 3G offerings.Late last year, at the time of Live's launch, Vodafone boasted the service was about a lot more than just picture messaging, incorporating a range of Wap-based services, games, ring tones and the like. It certainly beat the half-hearted picture messaging efforts of the other 2G mobile companies.And, as reported onGuardian Unlimitedlast week, the company is now further souping up its content in response to 3's arrival.All this means is that 3's strongest selling point will be video calls - for those in the largely urban areas served by 3's high-speed network - and the ability to send video clips. That's not a huge advantage, given the prices users are expected to pay and the fact many are still to be convinced of the merits of plain old (static) picture messaging.Meanwhile Vodafone Live! might, technologically, be nothing new. The raw stats of 2.5G, even with added Beckham, don't set any telecom geek's pulse racing. But then it's not aimed at them. This is a collection of services beautifully marketed into a cohesive whole, pitched at a mass market more concerned with fashion and fun than being on the technological cutting edge. It represents an evolutionary step up for most of today's mobile phone users.And if it comes down to a battle between technologically more advanced but expensive 3, against a slow but glitzy, Beckham-enhanced Vodafone, I know who I'm putting my money on. Even if he did lose on Sunday.
For all dedicated web-heads, there's been just one story dominating the online world for weeks: Google has bought Pyra Labs. Yes, that's it. One big company has bought another, much smaller, one. Hardly earth-shattering news, you might think - but this is the internet, where the smallest of flutters can build to a major tremor in minutes.Google, of course, is the world's favourite search engine - a hugely successful web company that turns over a massive annual profit, employs hundreds of staff and is currently ranked as one of the world's most recognisable brands. Pyra, in contrast, is a tiny outfit employing a handful of people, making next to no money and unknown to most internet users, let alone the world at large. But they had something that Google wanted - weblogs. For the uninitiated, weblogs (aka blogs) are the online equivalent of newspaper columns, and are pretty much the hottest thing on the net. Mixing punditry, links and diary content, blogs have quickly gone from being parochial affairs to becoming legitimate - and often respected - journalistic voices. The biggest bloggers have even become minor web celebrities in their own right, commanding legions of dedicated readers and thousands of hits every day.And Pyra, which was purchased by Google last month for an undisclosed sum, is the big daddy of blogging. They were not the first to develop a diary-style content editor, but their main product, Blogger, brought weblogging to the masses. It allowed non-geeks to set up their own sites and start publishing their opinions within minutes - and, more importantly, it allowed them to do it for free. "It was really basic, but it was extremely easy to use," says Tom Coates, an online communities expert and prominent weblogger. "It was also incredibly practical and it allowed you to publish your weblog through to your own personal web-space on the web, wherever that might be."Evan Williams, the only surviving member of Pyra's original team, and the man who brokered the Google deal, has seen the company go through some very hard times, despite its popularity. He has maintained a low profile since the acquisition, but did make some comments about how he sees the arrangement. "It is a good thing. It wasn't a case of needing to sell - we were doing well and getting better," he said. And, by all accounts, they were getting better. After riding a nadir in 2001, when the company parted with every member of staff save Williams himself, Pyra has now found itself at a higher point than ever before.Started four years ago in San Francisco by a group of friends, Pyra was, like many other dotcom start-ups, born out of the boundless optimism that pervaded the west coast. What they lacked in profits, they made up for with enthusiasm and dedication.And although Blogger is the product by which the company is now known, it was never actually their intention to develop it. Like many successful ideas, Blogger was an unexpected offshoot that took on a life of its own. The code appeared merely as a by-product during development of a wide-ranging project management application.It started out as a marketing ploy, explains Meg Hourihan, who co-founded Pyra with Williams in 1999. "We figured if we released this easy-to-use updating tool, then web developers would get to know our company and our products and then they'd want to pay for our tools. At least, that was the half-baked plan."Despite initial misgivings, Hourihan helped to pioneer Blogger - but left the company early in 2001 after a period of financial instability which soured relationships between the workers and left her "on the verge of a nervous breakdown. I couldn't sleep, I was throwing up. It was terrible," she says.But, despite all the odds, Pyra continued through it all, making just enough money to continue via a mixture of appeals, optional paid-for services and licensing agreements - until Google finally decided to snap it up. With more than 1m people subscribed to Blogger services, an estimated 200,000 websites are currently being generated using its software - many of them hosted by Blogger itself. It has become one of the most talked-about services on the internet, and is credited with helping to lead a real grass-roots revolution on the web.Anyone with any experience of the self-interested world of weblogs will know there is nothing they like talking about more than themselves - and the Google deal has had them chattering away like monkeys. Speculation about the deal has become the number one topic of chat across thousands of websites, in some cases ranking as more popular than Iraq as a subject of conversation.Despite a whirlwind of gossip, however, both companies remain tight-lipped about future plans for the service. "We're thrilled about the future opportunities between our two companies - blogs are a global self-publishing phenomenon," said a Google spokeswoman, before quickly moving to reassure worried users. "Blogger users can expect to see no immediate changes to the service.""I don't think there will be any surprises at all," says Tom Coates. "And that's not because they won't do anything, but because thousands of webloggers all started talking about the stuff they could do... sorting wheat from chaff, thinking up applications, new toys, horror stories, business plans. I'd be surprised if there were any thoughts about the future of Blogger that hadn't travelled several times around the hundreds of thousands of weblogs that are out there."But most analysts agree the main reason Google has bought out Pyra is to tap into Blogger's huge data stream, rather than to exploit the users themselves; content and links are the lifeblood of their search engine, and immediate access to millions of pages of dynamic content as they are created will allow Google to further strengthen its market-leading position.Some sceptics, however, are worried that privacy might become an issue; others are concerned about the possibility of the introduction of a strictly paid-for service in place of the current free options. Overall, however, Hourihan thinks the deal will benefit everybody. "I'm happy about it," she says. "I think it's good for Pyra, for Pyra's investors, for Blogger and Blogger's users. It gives the company some stability and resources to build on the original vision."Williams agrees - for him, the deal opens a wealth of new options, and could finally unleash the full potential of Blogger, and Pyra itself. "It was a difficult decision," he says. "I'm usually sceptical of acquisitions. But to go there &#91;Google&#93; with the rest of my team and to continue working on Blogger - to have access to these amazing resources," he says, "is a dream scenario."
In ancient China the torture of many small wounds, individually not fatal but cumulatively so, was used to punish the most heinous crime. The same practice can sometimes be seen in the modern world of work and reputation. And whereas in 1897, Mark Twain could write that it takes your enemy to hurt you to the heart and your friend to tell you of it, these days you don't need to wait; the gossip is often delivered by the internet.Clara Furse, chief executive of the London Stock Exchange, is the latest victim of a whispering campaign, prompting the LSE chairman Don Cruickshank to call the rumours "outrageous, totally unfounded and an offensive slur", as the exchange obtained an injunction against publication of further allegations and threatened legal action against anyone disseminating them.The rumours in this case are said to concern Furse's private life and professional ability. Defamatory comment in transitory form, such as conversation, is slander and in most cases a slander victim cannot sue without proof of financial loss. Defamation law is, however, notoriously tricky both in substance and application. Gossip becomes non-transitory and   thus libel when broadcast or conveyed by the internet, including email. Moreover, even an oral imputation of dishonesty or unfitness for office can create a cause of legal action.Gossipmongers might think themselves safe in passing on published rumours, but this may not be so. If defamation is proved, the gossip must be able to prove the truth of the allegations and cannot excuse the slander simply by pointing to its source. Repeating defamatory comments creates liability not merely for what is said but also for the resulting spread of the untruths. You may believe what you read or hear in the media, but if it is untrue and you pass it on, you may become liable yourself for its further "publication".There are many defences to defamation, but they too are problematic. For example, Times newspapers failed in the House of Lords in 1999 against the former Irish Taoiseach, Albert Reynolds, to establish a separate category of qualified privilege for political information of public interest. There is no general immunity for reporting untruths, even in the absence of malice. Exceptionally, a common and reciprocal interest, such as a statement to shareholders, may create qualified privilege which protects an inaccurate statement made in good faith.We could speculate whether article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights might be invoked to protect freedom of expression where matters of public importance are concerned, but here again rights carry responsibilities and do not protect a cavalier approach to truth. There is also Furse's article 8 right "to respect for &#91;her&#93; private and family life". Ironically the flotation of the LSE, which she helped implement, may have deprived her of any such claim against a "public authority" if the LSE had been unsupportive.Beyond this, an employer's common-law duty to an employee may help to explain why the LSE has acted in what some commentators have called an "unprecedented" and "extraordinary" way by rejecting the allegations and vigorously defending their chief executive. If they had failed to do so, the exchange itself might have found itself liable to Furse for breach of its implied obligations of trust and confidence to its own chief executive.Employers are also vicariously liable for the civil wrongs of employees carried out in the course of their employment. In 1996 Norwich Union apologised to and settled a substantial damages claim by Western Provident Association, the medical insurer, for loss caused by internet rumours traced back to Norwich Union employees using their work email. To the extent that libellous rumours about Furse had originated from or been repeated by the LSE's own employees, the exchange might be vicariously liable to her. Here lies the importance not just of prompt action but also of a formal email policy for employees, making clear what action is outside the scope of employment and a disciplinary offence. But in avoiding the Scylla of cyber-liability employers must avoid the Charybdis of unlawful interception of private communications. Here again, a clear and consistently implemented staff policy is critical.Gossip will always exist. It is part of the human need to communicate, part of our making sense of a confusing world, part of humour and perspective and much more. But lies are different. Lies multiply. It was also Mark Twain who said "One of the most striking differences between a cat and a lie is that a cat has only nine lives". It is up to everyone passing on gossip, not just the media, to check whether they can independently verify the truth of the stories they pass on. Ultimately employers may be forced to act against lies even if victims do not.&#183;Charles Boundy is a partner at Fladgate Fielder
Cast your mind back eight short years and Britain was in the grip of National Lottery fever. The new game would - we were told - make us millionaires overnight and at the same time pour money into the coffers of numerous deserving causes, as well as going towards building a fabulous monument to the millennium in Greenwich. Obligingly, we trooped out in our millions to buy tickets and spent our Saturday evenings huddled expectantly in front of the television. And the Sun had Lenny Lottery, some poor sap in a suit with numbers all over it, travelling the country for front-page rags-to-riches stories.Nowadays, of course, it's a different story. Many have come to the conclusion that the chances of getting rich from the lottery are roughly analogous to spotting Lord Lucan riding Shergar through the gates of Brigadoon. And the cavalcade of new lottery games has left most bemused and irritated by blanket advertising featuring a purple-bearded Billy Connolly, rather than reinvigorated.When Camelot was re-awarded the licence to run the lottery in 2001, in the face of stiff competition from a Richard Branson-led consortium, it promised to improve flagging ticket sales. A major part of this initiative was, alongside the introduction of new games, the use of new media. Now that we're finally starting to see the first fruits of this labour, the question is: can the web and mobile phones ride to the lottery's rescue?The idea is to make it easier for people to play the lottery, so that instead of braving the rain to get to the newsagents they can simply enter on the web in their lunch hour or via their mobile phone. At the same time, Camelot hopes that the new way of playing, and attendant new games, will reinvigorate players, particular younger ones, who feel the game has become boring and staid. "I still expect the bulk of sales will be through retail. But there are a group of people who don't want to queue instore and probably don't come into contact with the lottery," explains Richard Hurd-Wood, Camelot's new media supremo.The idea is sound in theory but may be difficult to pull off in practice, for several reasons. The first is simply one of timing. Bearing in mind that the lottery will celebrate its ninth birthday in November, it's criminal that it has only now managed to launch a website containing anything beyond the latest winning numbers. Hurd-Wood says that the introduction of new media channels was delayed until after Camelot was assured of a second term in charge of the lottery.But in the meantime, a whole host of web-based lottery games have come and gone and there's still a multitude of companies gambling on casinos and online betting becoming mainstream pursuits. So Camelot's first job will actually be getting people to the site in the first place and then having to battle it out with gaming giants such as Rank, Littlewoods and Ladbrokes.The other concern is that, given the national lottery's special status, it can't be seen to be promoting excessive gambling, which is a distinct possibility given the daily draw it is launching in the spring and the cavalcade of instant-win games planned for the site. To counter these fears, Hurd-Wood says that players will be able to set themselves an upper limit for the amount they would like to gamble per day, which they won't then be allowed to exceed. Nevertheless, expect the first "online lottery ruined my life" story to appear in the tabloids any time soon.There are also plans to extend the lottery on to Sky Digital and mobile phones by spring next year. By that time, reckons Hurd-Wood, enough people will have new style phones capable of displaying colour, animation and video. Analysts are predicting that gaming will be one of the big money-spinners on mobile devices, particularly as 3G services slowly come to market, and it could be here that the lottery can make its biggest splash.As far as interactive television goes, the difficulty will again be breaking into a crowded market. The fact that bingo-style games channels such as Avago have had initial success on digital TV is in one sense encouraging, showing that people are happy to spend money through their TV in the hope of seeing a return. But it also raises the prospect of there being dozens of these types of channels clogging up the EPG in 18 months' time when the lottery will be ready to launch.Given that Camelot is spending &#163;45m on its new media projects, it's a high-stakes gamble. And one the company can't afford to lose.
Red Herring, generally the best of the "new economy" business magazines, has closed, following failed attempts to sell the title. There are reports fromAP,The San Francisco Chronicle, and many others.
CNetsays Starbucks is dropping its Wi-Fi prices with $6 now providing access for 24 hours. "Starbucks New Ventures Director Lovina McMurchy said that inside the busiest Starbucks only 20 Wi-Fi device owners use the networks every day. Users are usually 'mobile pros, like a sales force that's always on the road,' she said."
From urbane and camp to logging camp. In a simpler, less connected age, the gulf between the studios of Graham Norton's nightly television show in central London and the tiny northern Californian town of Carlotta would have been unbridgeable, but these days it seems nothing is beyond the power of eBay.Last week the two came together when Norton began a mock fundraising drive to buy Carlotta, a 33-acre logging community in Humboldt County, a six-hour drive north of San Francisco. The town, which has its own post office, hair salon, mechanic's shop and pub - Batini's Bar and Restaurant - has just been posted for sale on the world's biggest online auction site. (The minimum bid is $1,000,065 and offers close next Sunday.)'We're buying a town,' Norton's website declares. 'There's a whole town up for sale in California and we want to see if hypothetically we could raise enough money to buy it.'Over in Carlotta, the Irish comedian's stunt has been pounced upon. 'The British Are Coming,' announced the headline in the magnificently named local newspaper, the Eureka Times-Standard.The sale of the town may appear to be merely an exercise in self-promotion, but in fact it is the latest bizarre chapter in the remarkable success story that is eBay: Carlotta is simply lining up alongside some of the unlikely 'goods' that have found their way on to the online auction.Sandra Spalding, the estate agent charged with selling the town, is deadly serious about the sale. 'Honestly, it's a gorgeous little town, right on the river front, perfect for anyone who is looking for a more peaceful quality of life,' she says. And perfect for anyone who wants the headache of trying to figure out how to revive a community that has largely fallen into disrepair since the local hotel burned down in 1995.Spalding, who has been selling real estate in northern California for nine years, got the idea for putting Carlotta up for sale on eBay from her husband, Denis, who has traded sports memorabilia on the site for a couple of years. At the end of last year another dilapidated Californian town, Bridgeville, was put up for auction on eBay after being on the market for over a year without attracting a single interested bidder. It sold in a couple of weeks for $1.78 million - much to the amazement of everyone who'd ever seen Bridgeville.'So far, we have had lots of interest, but no real bids for Carlotta,' says Spalding. 'But that's the nature of the business. I'm sure that as we get closer to the closing date we will be able to sell the place.'The story of Carlotta is a story without losers: not the town's current owner, Angelo Batini, who is 72 and wants to enjoy his retirement; not Spalding, whose biggest sale in the past decade doesn't come anywhere close to $1m; and, most of all, not eBay, which, despite its billions, couldn't buy the kind of publicity Graham Norton's show offers. As the company's spokesman, Chris Donlay, laughingly concedes: 'You're right. This story doesn't kill us.'Thus with this official, albeit coy, endorsement, Carlotta takes its place on the pantheon reserved for 'weird things that people have tried to sell on eBay' - alongside the human kidney (withdrawn by eBay, although not before bids reached $6m), the virginity of Francis D Cornworth of Florida ($10m, again withdrawn by eBay), the 'drug-free urine' offered by a New York-based seller (cancelled by eBay) and the nation of Iraq (withdrawn by eBay last month after bidding reached $99m). A bungalow where Eminem lived with his mother as a teenager was auctioned on eBay, although genuine bids for the rapper's former home in a suburb of Detroit failed to reach the minimum of &#163;75,000.More recently, parts of the Space Shuttle Columbia found their way on to eBay within hours of it exploding in the skies above Texas.But unlike some of the stranger items, Carlotta really is 'for sale'. But here's the strange thing: whoever wins the eBay auction for this stretch of not-so-prime Californian real estate will not be buying the town of Carlotta.They will be buying the right to buy the town of Carlotta. 'Virtually all of the sales on eBay are binding contracts, except when it comes to real estate - real estate sales are governed by the laws that are in place around the country, not by the rules of eBay,' says Donlay. 'So in this case what you are bidding for is the right to buy the town. If you don't make the highest bid, you won't be the person sitting down first with the real estate agent to negotiate a deal.'It would take a world-class curmudgeon not to concede the simple beauty of eBay. From conception to execution to world domination, the company has advanced because it was founded on the perfect idea - it allows buyers and sellers to find each other without the hassle of travelling thousands of miles or searching through hundreds of flea markets. Simply visit the company website, register, type in what you want - signed David Beckham memorabilia (606 items currently on offer), a first edition of  White Teeth (two available right now) - and start bidding.Founder Pierre Omidyar started the company in 1995, designing a basic website and posting up a broken laser printer for sale. Someone bid $15 and a Wall Street legend was born. Omidyar was a bit of a hippy throwback and possessed some classically hippy ideals, such as that everyone should trust and respect one another, which he imposed on his burgeoning business. He expanded his website, gave it a name - AuctionWeb - and started charging a fee for every sale (to cover the cost of his web hosting bill).Eight years on, the company is cited by most business observers as the single unblemished success of the internet age. Certainly, the figures are staggering. According to the recently published results, the company's earnings quadrupled in the final quarter of 2002. Profits for the previous year topped $200m. Meanwhile, the company's share price has never been higher, at around $80. Omidyar long ago left the day-to-day operation of his company to others, spending half of the year in Paris and the other half in the US.The eBay website may be more elaborate now than back in 1995, there may be far more rules governing what can and can't be sold and the fees charged to those people selling goods are a deal steeper, but the company philosophy remains pretty much the same: trust in human nature.By and large, this works pretty well. There are eBay 'communities' in 27 countries around the world. (The UK is the company's fourth largest market - after the US, Germany and South Korea - with an estimated two million users.) In the UK, around &#163;150m worth of goods changed hands over eBay UK in the last three months of 2002 - and the figure is rising every quarter. Overall, 195 million items were put up for auction last year.Even more remarkably, the eBay phenomenon has spawned other industries. A survey by eBay in mid-2001 found that around 10,000 people in the US had given up their day jobs to become full-time eBay traders.'The way we see it trading is part of the human DNA. However, eBay is more than just a place for trading, it is also a place where people - communities - come together from all over the world,' says Donlay, reading from the company handbook.This may be the way the world is seen through the plate-glass windows of the company's San Jose headquarters, but there are some members of eBay's global community who believe the company handbook is a few years out of date. In a devastating article published late last year,  Time magazine gave voice to what it described as the growing disillusionment of eBayers (as regular users like to call themselves) over rising fees, the company's increasingly profit-oriented practices and the threat posed by fraud.The company does not dismiss criticism out of hand - indeed, its executives attend conferences at which eBay users are invited to air their grievances - but there is a feeling among some observers that eBay views such complaints as the penalty for untrammelled business success. Fraud is a concern to the company, concedes Donlay. 'But it is not a massive problem. Of the 195 million items listed for auction last year, less than one hundredth of one percent of the transactions ended in some kind of fraud. We are taking every step we can to protect people and make sure their eBay experience is a good one,' he says.Still, Time and others are not convinced. 'The eBay story no longer reads like a fairy tale,' the   magazine declared - a view endorsed by Jay Senese, who began selling CDs on eBay in 1998 and is now the auction site's biggest volume seller. 'The incentive was I could get wealthy selling my goods on eBay. I look all the time for eBay millionaires and they're not out there.'But however loud siren voices like Senese's scream, it seems that they cannot be heard in the woods of northern California around Carlotta, where Sandra Spalding still believes in the power of eBay to sell the town. 'The Brits make really good beer, don't they?' she asks. 'So maybe this Graham Norton guy will buy the town and build a brewery.'Well, maybe he will. But then again, maybe he won't.&#183;The old fire station in Carlotta: offers for the Californian town close next Sunday - the minimum bid is $1,000,065.Ebay's greatest hits&#183;Bidding for a piece of chewing gum chewed by Arizona Diamondbacks' baseball player Louis Gonzalez reached $3,275 - offered by Indiana University student Dave Pierce.&#183;Debris from the Columbia space shuttle. Within a few hours of the disaster, bidders on eBay were offered pieces of wreckage, with starting prices of up to $10,000.&#183;In 2000, some half-eaten French toast and the fork and plate used by Justin Timberlake, left, were offered in aid of charity. Bids reached $3,154.&#183;An anonymous 'dealer' recently listed Iraq for sale, advertising its convenient location on the Uzbekistan-Syrian super freeway, historical sites, hundreds of presidential palaces and 'oil, oil, oil!' - all for a starting price of 99 cents (60p). Frenzied bidding had reached $99m when eBay deleted the auction last week.&#183;Eminem's former home in Detroit, where lived with his mother as a teenager, failed to reach the minimum price of &#163;75,000, despite reports of offers up to &#163;7.5m.EBay cancelled all of these listings.
All too often, the working day feels as if it doesn't start until lunchtime. After trawling through voicemails, post, junkmail and our email inbox, there seems little time left to, ahem, work. Now, as today's Review highlights, we are also being deluged with junk email.Conventional advice is that we should never respond to those unsolicited internet correspondences typically entitled 'Buy the best loo paper in the world', 'How to reverse the ageing process' or 'Request for urgent business relationship'.Conversely, we commend the tireless public-spiritedness of Jonathan Land of New York. Through his website -www.thespamletters.com- he engages in courteous and lengthy correspondence with junk mailers.'Is this the best loo paper in the world or merely in Ohio?'; 'I don't want to go back 10 years; I was having a horrible time with spots' and 'I own many companies. Which one in particular did you have in mind?' are the kind of responses he sends to perplex the spammers. In an age when so many have forgotten that courtesy demands a reply, Land is an inspiration to us all.
Businessweek Online has produced a package onThe Linux Uprising-- a grand total of 10 articles plus charts and graphs. Although it continues to peddle the myth that the development was started by Linus Torvalds, it also notes the ongoing transition of GNU/Linux from a grass roots movement to a corporate operating system peddled mainly by IBM, Hewlett-Packard and other industrial giants, to whom the cost of the operating system is trivial compared to the hardware with which it is bundled. (And yes, it does represent a much better deal for users than being tied into a proprietary operating system or a vendor-dependent flavour of Unix.) It will also be interesting to see whether this sort of serious Linux coverage marks a change at BWO, which too often tends to come across like an Apple fanzine.
"Santa Clara County lost 44,400 jobs from January 2002 to January 2003 -- a decline of almost 5 percent. Since the peak of the job market in December 2000, the county has lost 17.9 percent of its jobs, a total of 191,500," says theSan Jose Mercury News.
Reuter's latestLiveWire columnis about blogging so natually a lot of blogs are going to link to it. It points to Daypop's newWordburstfeature, which is an automated way to highlight "hot" words.
Innovation is usually thought to be a good thing, but often it's not. In  fact, innovation can be a really bad thing, which is one reason why so  many innovative products disappear without trace. They are simply more  trouble than they are worth.Rob Wilmot, who was once parachuted in to save ICL, Britain's biggest  computer corporation, put it most succinctly. "Added value," he said, "is  the same as subtracted value."Every company on earth is apparently devoted to "adding value" in order to  enhance its products, to make them stand out from the crowd. What  they really want to do is find a way to make you buy their product instead  of somebody else's. The issues that actually drive the corporate agenda in  the IT industries therefore include: how do we develop something that  makes it hard for users to switch to a competitor, or for a competitor to  clone us and compete with us?  Their weapons include patents, copyrights  and other intellectual property rights, and especially the proprietary  control of the hardware, software and peripheral interfaces that affect  compatibility.One of the most dramatic examples of this type of innovation was the  launch of the IBM PS/2 personal computer and OS/2 operating system  (co-developed with Microsoft) in 1987. IBM had controlled the data  processing market for decades, but gave away its monopoly power by  bringing in Intel and Microsoft to provide key components for the IBM PC.  The PS/2 was an attempt to wrest that control back.Of course, the PS/2's new "magic ingredient", the Micro Channel  Architecture (MCA) expansion bus, was promoted as being technically  superior to the existing bus. As, indeed, it was. OS/2 was also far  superior to the PC-standard MS-DOS. On these grounds, the PS/2's  "innovations" won the support of many technical experts who were either  too clueless to see what was going on, or had an inadequate understanding  of IBM's motives and modus operandi. However, they worried customers, who  mostly stuck with existing PC standards that were good enough.By 1993, IBM's PC operation was stuffing the distribution channels with  PCs no one wanted to buy, and losing a $1bn a year. It appointed a new  manager, Bruce Claflin, who gutted the company, moved the development  lab, killed the PS/1, PS/2 and ValuePoint lines, and dropped the MCA bus,  turning the division profitable in a year. Eventually, IBM went back to  producing what were still called "IBM compatible" PCs. The IBM PC  Company never recovered its old prominence on the desktop, but at least it  succeeded in notebook computing with its ThinkPad line.Which isn't to say that the ThinkPad was not innovative. However, the  innovations came in things like colour and finish, screen size, the new  TrackPoint pointing device and short-lived "butterfly keyboard", bundled  software, price (low by IBM standards), marketing and support. The  ThinkPad innovated in areas that were valued by customers, and customers  were therefore prepared to pay for them. However, it did it without  departing too far from accepted industry standards, which would have  made customers reject it as "incompatible". Lesson learned.The problem with pointless technical innovation is that it is trivially  easy to do, especially in computing, but hugely expensive for users.Innovation is easy because once you have a platform, hindsight can always  find ways to improve it. And the longer a platform sticks around - and  that can mean five, 10, 20 years or more - the easier it becomes to see  better ways of doing things. But if those innovations introduce  incompatibilities, they become increasingly expensive for the market to  absorb.Obviously, the companies that either made or used PCs didn't think ISA  (Industry Standard Architecture - a politically correct name for the old  IBM PC AT bus) was the greatest expansion bus ever invented. However, the  fact that it was a common standard meant that, in terms of "the whole  product", it was still better than MCA. In purely practical terms, the  availability of cheap expansion cards, software, support and other factors  -- especially the millions of PCs already in use -- outweighed MCA's  theoretical advantages. (See the column published on January 25 for an  explanation of "the whole product" concept.)If we could start again from scratch, with hindsight, we might well decide  to adopt the MCA bus, or something similar. Since we are not starting from  scratch, we have to consider the switching costs. And unless the benefits  are much bigger than the switching costs, we are not going to switch.  Certainly we are not going to switch every six months, or every time some  manufacturer brings an "improved" but incompatible system to market.Of course, markets do switch. The IT industry has changed dramatically  over the past 40 years, moving from large centralised machines  (mainframes with dumb terminals) to decentralised client/server systems  (mainframes, minicomputers, and other servers talking to PCs and other  smart terminals), and it is still changing. The games console industry  makes a platform switch every five years or so.Backwards compatibility helps. Users are more likely to adopt innovations  if they can keep the benefits of their existing platform - hardware,  software, data, or all three - rather than throw away their past  investments. But even that is possible. For example, the switch from vinyl  LPs to CDs has taken two decades, but it does show that even an  entrenched, ubiquitous standard can be displaced by an incompatible  newcomer.The key to understanding such changes is part of the whole product model,  because "the whole product" also includes "the future product", or  reasonable assumptions of what the future product might be.So suppose, for example, that a company introduces an innovative product which  departs from the market standard. Suppose also that the innovation  delivers enough benefits to cover the switching costs. This still does not  mean that the market will switch. It won't if users believe that the  standard platform will be developed to provide equivalent benefits.To take an IT example, most users would not switch from using Intel  processors to using Motorola processors just to get a speed increase, or  to move from a 16-bit to a 32-bit platform. When it was selling the 68000  line used in the Apple Macintosh, Atari ST and Commodore Amiga, Motorola  seriously thought they would. But switching would have meant users  changing their hardware and software and converting their data - a hugely  expensive proposition. What users actually did was defer the benefits  until Intel, as expected, delivered equivalent chips compatible with  market standards.Intel offers "road maps" that provide a detailed guide to where the  company is going, but users might have had a different view of "the future  product". They might have decided that not only were there benefits to  switching, but that similar benefits could not be delivered in a  reasonable time on the existing standard. And if switching made sense for  them, they might well conclude that other users would also come to the  same conclusion.In this contrary vision, "the future product" of the standard system would  include a decline in market share, and a loss of support, making the  current product less attractive. This would not only make it a better idea  to switch, but encourage users to switch sooner rather than later.This may sound like a theoretical point, but it's the kind of process that  underlies changes from one platform to another. For example, people are  not willing to pay as much for PlayStations and PlayStation games once  there is the perception that the market will switch to the PlayStation 2.  The wary defer their buying decisions, and the new product casts a pall  over the old one.Similarly, the real value of Lotus Development's office software fell from  £500 to about £5 once it became clear that Microsoft Office was the  winning platform. The existing product didn't change by a single byte, but  the future product suddenly had a negative value. The cost of switching to  Microsoft Office was far less than the possible future cost of having to  retrieve important data from dead file formats.This is one of the most difficult problems for computer companies to  handle, because even if they are wrong, perceptions can become  self-fulfilling prophecies. One of the many reasons that Apple lost the  desktop wars was the conclusion arrived at by every rational person: that  Apple was bound to lose. One day, Microsoft could face a similar problem  with GNU/Linux. So not only must it maintain Windows' dominance, it has  to maintain the perception of future dominance. In this case, of course,  the answer is Microsoft.net.&#183;Note: this column belatedly answers the main objections that readers  emailed in response to the earlier one about "the whole product" concept  on January 25. Like that, it draws heavily on work by Stan Liebowitz,  Professor and Associate Dean of the School of Management, University of  Texas at Dallas, and others, including Geoffrey Moore, managing director  of the Chasm Group. All the mistakes are, as usual, my own.
Forbes magazine's list of the world's10 most powerful billionairesis headed by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and his mate, Warren Buffett.
Worldwide PC shipments are forecast to reach 33.2 million units in the first quarter of 2003, a 4.8% increase from the first quarter of 2002. By the end of 2003, worldwide PC shipments are expected to reach 138.7 million units, a 7.9% increase from 2002, saysGartner.
Vodafone plans to head off the threat posed by the launch of the UK's first third generation mobile phone network by offering its customers comedy, sports and music video clips through its heavily publicised Vodafone Live service.The company has hailed the launch of Vodafone Live, backed by a multimillion pound advertising campaign starring David Beckham, as a great success.It revealed today that it had sold almost 200,000 Vodafone Live phones since the service launched last November.Now it plans to offer video clips through a new Nokia phone set to launch in April.The move is being seen as an attempt to scupper the high profile launch of Hutchison's 3, which will launch next Monday and offers video calling, Premier League goal clips and other high speed video services including news from ITN.It will offer a range of clips from existing content providers such as magazine giant Emap and CNN, as well as using its sponsorship of the Ferrari formula one team and Manchester United to gain access to exclusive content.Unlike Hutchison's 3G service, it will not be able to offer live video because it is using the existing network. Vodafone does not plan to launch its own 3G service until the first quarter of next year at the earliest.Vodafone also announced it had signed up a raft of new content providers for its Live service, including betting site Blue Square, customised local weather forecasts and personal finance site Motley Fool.Other forthcoming services include multimedia text alerts, offering pictures and sound on top of existing services such as football goal alerts.Vodafone, which has lagged behind the other operators in signing contracts to allow customers to send picture messages to rival networks, added that the first such agreement with Orange would be announced within the next two weeks.
"More than 90 per cent of the staff at its British headquarters in Reading felt proud to work for the company, with 92 per cent saying that they were excited about where the company was going and would miss it if they left," according to a survey reported in Ye Olde MurdochTimes.
One of the initial assaults in a war with Iraq could reveal a devastating new weapon. The "e-bomb" is likened to a man-made lightning bolt. The bomb, still untested in a live situation, unleashes millions of watts of electricity in a fraction of a second and could potentially cripple Baghdad's military computers, radar systems and weapons launchers, leaving the Iraqis virtually defenceless against an attack.The equipment is part of what US defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld dubs the "transformation" of the military by shaking off the relics of the cold war years - something that has become more urgent since the terrorist attacks of September 11.The shifting nature of warfare exploded into public view at the end of last year when an unmanned probe killed an al-Qaida operative and five of his accomplices in Yemen. The launch of a Hellfire missile from the Predator was the first time an unmanned probe had been used to such deadly effect and hinted at a very different war in Iraq this time around.The Pentagon has already set aside $131m for 22 more Predators, made by fast-growing Californian company General Atomics Aeronautical Systems and $129m for the Global Hawk surveillance drone, manufactured by rival Northrop Grumman. An additional $81m is being earmarked to develop an undersea drone."Since September 11, there has been a new more aggressive military strategy and there is a lot of money being spent," said John Robinson, managing editor of the aerospace bulletin, Defense Daily. "Defence contractors are watching closely. They see a lot of business being done."In the past two years, the US defence budget, already by far the largest in the world, has increased by 23%. The president is seeking another $17bn increase next year, taking the budget to almost $380bn - roughly ten times the size of the defence budget in Britain.Sweet musicThat doesn't even include the cost of a possible war in Iraq - White House officials are poised to ask for a supplementary budget calling for $60bn to wage the war and $30bn for post war reconstruction - or the homeland defence budget.The war drums beating in the US are making sweet music for a defence industry that had otherwise been facing relentless cuts since the end of the cold war. "We see very significant growth in sales and earnings in the next few years," said Ronald Sugar, named as the new chief executive of Northrop Grumman last week.The buzzword at the Pentagon is "network-centric" warfare, the fusion of surveillance and intelligence data with precision-guided weapons and communications - essentially the same kinds of changes in delivering real-time information that the internet has wrought on the commercial world. The aim is to link spy planes, satellites, fighters, bombers, tanks and ships to quickly identify targets and coordinate attack.Northup Grumman in particular has bet heavily on the new direction espoused by the Pentagon and bought a mix of businesses that specialise in areas such as digital communication, stealth, precision weapons and mobility. Lockheed Martin, the world's largest defence contractor, has similarly positioned itself and is the dominant provider of the military satellites to make the communications systems work."Transformation" has also been a bonanza for the information technology industry. The US government plans to increase spending on computers, software and services to $58bn in the current fiscal year, up 17% on a year earlier - a growth rate that is causing an industry starved of new contracts to salivate. Dell Computers is providing 60,000 personal computers to the marine corps for email and other communications in the battlefield. Panasonic is also providing laptops to US soldiers and Compaq is supplying handheld devices to detect signs of biological or chemical attack.But despite a hike in procurement from barely $60bn under the Clinton administration to around $72bn today, shares in the big defence contractors are languishing at 52-week lows. In some cases, the companies are having problems in other parts of their   business. Raytheon, which makes Tomahawk and Patriot missiles, is under investigation by the securities &amp; exchange commission for accounting irregularities.Boeing, though benefiting from defence contracts, including the C-17 Globemaster refuelling tankers, has suffered from the blow to its commercial aircraft business dealt by September 11. Lockheed has been stung by poor investments in the telecoms industry.Analysts cite technical reasons for the falling prices. Shares in defence contractors had enjoyed a good run since the Republicans, generally more sympathetic to the military, came into power and some investors are cashing in their gains. Analysts have also been mapping out what happened during the Gulf war of the early 1990s. In that event, defence companies went higher until bullets were fired. But they still admit to being a little bemused that sentiment has not kept them higher.The chief reason for the stocks' slide seems to be the wider economic malaise. Despite Mr Rumsfeld's promises there is a dose of cynicism among investors about whether the forecasts will turn into hard cash. In the present environment, increases to defence spending have faced little opposition but if the economy continues to languish and there are cuts in healthcare, education or the environment then matters could quickly change."What we have is an economy depressed by the climate of war which is leading to huge deficits that will likely preclude the kind of increases in investment in military systems that are being talked about," said Loren Thompson, a military expert at the Lexington Institute think tank. The Bush   administration's determination to keep popular opinion on side with huge tax cuts that will worsen the US budget deficit only compounds that disbelief."Buying weapons systems is not the highest priority for either political party." Mr Thompson added. "They would rather fund their key constituencies, which for the Republicans means cutting taxes and favouring the business environment."Even with the extra money being made available, the size of the military has shrunk significantly since the Soviet Union collapsed and the apparent threat to the US fell away. The army, which at the beginning of the 1990s had 18 divisions is now struggling to maintain ten. The navy has dwindled from 580 ships to a fleet of 301. The airforce has undergone similar cuts - the B52 bombers used in Afghanistan were 40 years old.ReprieveThe aging nature of much traditional military hardware has caused some resistance among the armed forces to investment in futuristic equipment and some modernisation programmes, formerly facing the axe, have won a reprieve.The House armed services committee has argued that the budget proposals for 2003 should be at least $40bn higher if the Pentagon is to maintain the conventional armed forces while at the same time overhauling its ships, aircraft and vehicles.The fact is that while long-term increases in the Pentagon's budget are welcomed, impending war is not necessarily good for business. "The downside is when you are fighting a massive war in Iraq that it might crowd out investment," Mr Robinson said. "What you are concerned about is the pointy end of the spear. There is a tremendous amount of money just spent on people, uniforms, pensions and so on and we've got 100,000 reservists mobilised which is extremely costly and when you are doing that you are not buying new stuff."
The third biannual survey by Helsinki Web designer Marko Karppinen has shown that "a vast majority of the World Wide Web Consortium's (W3C) member home pages do not pass the standards body's own test for compliance with W3C recommendations," reportsCNet.
"As part of a marketing campaign for its upcoming Centrino brand for mobile PCs, Intel will promote wireless Internet access at Marriott International hotels," reportsIDG News. This is good, as long as it doesn't discourage the more useful wired LAN-to-room approach. Also, Marriott's charges seem to be outrageous: "WLAN access at a Marriott hotel costs $2.95 for the first 15 minutes and $0.25 for each additional minute." At that sort of price, I'd stick to dial-up.
Over the past few years, Microsoft has been quietly adding features to support peer-to-peer and groupware, and now it has launched a beta version of the Windows XP Peer-to-Peer Software Development Kit. AsCNetnotes, Microsoft bought XDegrees, a peer-to-peer start-up, last year, and has been working for some time with Ray Ozzie's Groove Networks. Microsoft's long term view is clearly that eventually most people will have a PC that is powerful enough to be a server and an always-on broadband internet connection that can support peer-to-peer applications.
UK online for business, the DTI's help centre for the smaller trader wishing to find out about working electronically, has gone all security-minded and put a new section on its site (www.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk) dedicated to people who want to protect their data. The section is atwww.ukonlineforbusiness .gov.uk/informationsecurityand includes tools, advice and case studies on how real companies have made a difference with security technology. One of the highlights is a 20-minute questionnaire in which you can assess how exposed you are to risks, and which will offer neutral advice on what to do about it. It's free of charge and offers links to the police and other areas that will help in the event of a cyber-crime being committed.&#183;Worried about disposing of old computers without damaging the environment? OK, it's not top of the agenda for many business people, but the Environment Agency regards it as sufficiently important to have set up a website atwww.environment-agency.gov.uk/netregs. The idea is to educate businesses of all sizes about their obligations and will eventually cover 100 specific industries as well as offering general advice to all comers. You can log on anonymously; if you're concerned you may be in breach of regulations, the regulator doesn't have to know while you're just checking.&#183;How useful would £40,000 be? Thought so - and this is the exact sum on offer from the E-Commerce Awards, although naturally this is spread across a few categories. Formally launching on March 13, the cash will be awarded for Voluntary &amp; Community, E-Business Start-up, E-Trading and E-Business, as well as innovation and a new award recognising implementation of the DTI's Technology Means Business accreditation. The overall winner will leave the scheme with £190,000 in their corporate pocket. Sponsored by UK online for business and InterForum, details on entry into the initial regional heats will be at www.ecommerce-awards.co.uk on the 13th.&#183;One of the difficulties in managing a growing company is that there aren't enough sockets for all the PCs you might need to network. Power adapters are one thing; networking specialist 3Com has produced a similar concept with its "network jack", which allows four devices to work from a single 10/100 network socket on the wall. Network administrators should save around 60% of the cost of a more traditional four sockets in the wall, and of course if the requirement changes it can be moved elsewhere. It costs around £80 depending on the retailer.&#183;Lufthansa has become the first airline to offer in-flight broadband connections for its passengers. The scheme, which is running for a three-month trial period on flights between Frankfurt and Washington DC runs off a connection with the Eutelsat satellite, which communicates with the Boeing 747s while they're travelling. Passengers can then get their emails, surf the web and book cheaper tickets for next time, and the service is free of charge at least during the trial period. It's catchily entitled "FlyNet" and a decision will be taken on whether to continue the service depending on take-up.&#183;People who have wanted a lawyer on hand in their office are being offered the next best thing by FasTrak Software Publishing with its Desktop Lawyer software, which comes in personal and business editions (£29.99 and £49.99 respectively). The business edition contains customisable documents with unlimited use, and links so you can get additional input from real live lawyers at a fixed cost to check documents should you need it. Shareholder agreements, start-up agreements and employment law all come within the scope of the business product and you also get 50% off the price of web service LawAssure, which has online documents and a database of legal information. The product doesn't vanish into meetings or charge £100 per minute when you ask it to type a letter, so it's not a substitute for the real thing.&#183;Also with a legal bent is SurfControl, a company offering a free guide to communications and what you should and shouldn't do. Called the Legal Guide to Employee Monitoring it has input from employment specialist Hammonds and aims to help people deal with areas of the Human Rights Act 1998, the Data Protection Act 1998 and the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 that are less than clear or which appear to clash with each other. Possibly more importantly, it offers advice on how to set up an Acceptable Use Policy that will be both reasonable and enforceable for companies that fear their liability if staff abuse the email system. It's free of charge so help yourself to a copy atwww.surfcontrol.com/go/pmlegal.
Golden beaches, palm tree-lined streets, manicured golf courses and giant motor yachts moored at the marinas: Boca Raton in Florida is a millionaire's paradise. It's also the spam capital of the world."The amount of spammers resident in Boca Raton is incredible," says Steve Linford, a London-based catcher of the unwanted emails that deluge almost every inbox in the world. "There are really only 150 spammers doing 90% of all the spam we get in the US and Europe... at least 40 of them are in Boca Raton."Nobody knows for sure why so much junk email flows out of the town. It might be down to Florida's relaxed laws on spamming. Some also suspect they are sent on behalf of the state's notorious   criminal community - spam and crime, especially fraud, are closely linked. Or the locals might simply be following the lead offered by their governor, Jeb Bush, whose re-election campaign last year was accused of spamming.Whatever the reason, Linford is glad of the physical distance between him and some of the world's most prolific junk emailers. As the head of a volunteer spam-stopping campaign called Spamhaus, which claims to protect more than 100m email inboxes around the world, he's at the front line of the anti-spam effort.Linford and his mostly US-based team compile the Spamhaus Block List (SBL): a list of known spammers' IP addresses (the address allocated to every computer connected to the net). The SBL is provided   free to internet service providers around the world, and is effective at blocking known sources of spam.As a result, he's not a popular man down in Boca Raton."We get a lot of death threats," says Linford, in a matter-of-fact way. "At least two or three a month. Spammers actually phone here to say 'we're going to cut your throat'," he adds, with a chuckle.Linford has never suffered anything more than these threats - other than "near continuous" cyber assaults on his servers. But they do indicate that spamming is becoming a serious business, on which serious amounts of money are riding.Indeed, if you have had the feeling recently that the amount of spam in your inbox was getting much, much worse, your instincts are quite correct. In 2001, junk email accounted for only 8% of all email. Last year, it was 40%. That amounts, according to researchers at IDC, to 870bn spam messages in one year - in North America alone.Spam continues to grow at a rapid rate: in January last year, Brightmail, a spam-fighting company, counted 2.7m spam attacks on the internet (one spam attack can mean many million individual spam messages being sent out). Last month, that number had climbed to more than 6m. IDC, perhaps conservatively, predicts the number of spams sent in North America will top 1bn this year.But if indications on the sheer volume of spam turn out to be correct, we tend to be wrong about the kinds of spam we get.With their lurid subject lines and graphic content, we tend to assume most spam is sexual. Yet around 82% of spam has nothing to do with porn sites or sex, according to Brightmail.In fact, one-third of email fits under the much less salacious category of "products" - cheap ink cartridges and the like. Twenty-four percent are financial offers - "low-cost loans", credit card offers and more. Scams make up just 5%, although these - like the sexual emails - attract a disproportionate amount of attention.In the background, spammers and spam-fighters are slugging it out in an attempt to gain control of the email medium. And, like rat catchers in the days of the plague, this is a very good time to be in the anti-spam business.In a windowless room in an anonymous San Francisco office block, a handful of young men in T-shirts and jeans watch an array of monitors. The room is nicknamed "the Bloc", and these men are the spam-catchers for Brightmail. They are monitoring   millions of "decoy" email addresses - the traps into which unwitting spammers fall.Brightmail's technology takes advantage of the way spam finds new recipients. "One of their techniques is simply intelligent guessing," says the company's chief executive, Enrique Salem. "They do what is called a dictionary attack, where they will grab a dictionary of names - common first names, common last names - and combine them. They test all these names until they find one. It's a brute-force thing - they have computers and they don't mind working all night."So Brightmail has a network of millions of email addresses, based at the internet service providers it serves. When a spammer makes a guess at an address, and sends spam to one of these Brightmail traps, the message comes back to the Bloc. There, it is automatically compared to messages arriving at other Brightmail addresses and, if they spot a spam attack under way, the message goes out: block this message, it is spam.It's an effective means of stopping the rogue emails: in December, they checked 40bn messages and found 16bn were spam. But spammers are aware of the techniques being used to catch them, and they are adapting."Spam is changing every day," says Salem. "I can show you some examples where, to the human eye, the mails look identical, but the spammers will embed hidden text in the message which you can't see. So when the filters try to look at that, they can't catch it." It is a constant game of technological cat and mouse.It is also a very profitable game for Brightmail - the company sells its spam-sifting services for $5-$15 per user per year to companies who want to lighten their employees' inboxes. Revenues at the privately held company are said to have doubled last year, and Salem says he expects the start-up to become profitable this spring.Some legislators are keen to add legal weight to the fight. In this country, the most frequently heard voice is that of Derek Wyatt, chairman of the House of Commons all party internet group. He advocates forcing internet service providers (ISPs) through licensing to take steps to block spam before it arrives in inboxes."From a legislative point of   view, the best way to do it would be to charge the ISPs a license fee," he says. "They wouldn't like that. Why wouldn't they like that? Because they would have to become accountable."The MP wants Ofcom, the new communications regulator, to take responsibility for licensing internet service providers - and fine those who fail to meet agreed standards."They should say 'you sign up for this, and if you don't do this, here are the fines'," he says. "If, after two years, spam goes to 45% or 61% &#91;of all email&#93; - the whole world will be jammed."Wyatt is now working to set up a "shadow select committee" to look into the growing crisis of spam. Stephen Timms, minister of state for e-commerce and competitiveness, has already agreed to appear before the cross-party committee, which is likely to convene within the next three weeks.Wyatt's views on regulation   are controversial - the big ISPs insist they are not responsible for spam, which often comes through unprotected mail servers or hijacked machines.Meanwhile, an increasing number of ISPs are looking to technology to help them: employing systems to cut down on the amount of spam their customers receive.In the UK, BT Openworld launched a Brightmail-powered anti-spam service as a free optional extra for its customers in November. Already, more than 30% of those customers who use the company's email system have signed up."It's the fastest take-up of any opt-in service we've ever done," says Neil Scoresby, BT Openworld's consumer portal head. A similar service for "pay as you go" users, priced at around &#163;1 a month, is likely to launch in April.In the United States, meanwhile, there appear to be more concerted attempts to stem the flow of spam. After years of procrastination, Congress may soon pass legislation aimed at attacking the problem in the US.Previous attempts have been thwarted by, among other things, concerted lobbying by the powerful Direct Marketing Association. However, the associa tion has recently performed a u-turn and says it will now lobby for anti-spam laws.In Europe, legislation is already in place: the EU's data protection initiative will mean that by the end of this year, commercial bulk emailers based in Europe will only be able to email those people who have specifically opted in to their mailing list.The technology industry's big guns are taking aim at the spammers as well. America Online revealed last week it was blocking around 750m spams a day; it said it would be introducing more sophisticated spam-countering measures later this year, and toughening its stance on spammers who use its network. Microsoft also announced it intends to bring a series of lawsuits against spammers it accuses of raiding its Hotmail service for email addresses.Spamhaus's Linford remains sceptical, however, that changes in the law will do much to change the spammers' behaviour, or that they will even turn up for the court hearings if caught. "These people are fraudsters to start with," he says. "The number one rule about any spammer is that they are chronic liars."They'll tell you immediately that you opted in &#91;to their mailing list&#93;. And they'll   swear blind that they didn't do it. They lie from morning to night. So even death threats we take to be the normal spammer thing, although the top 5% to 10% of spammers have criminal records for pretty bad things... money laundering, drugs trafficking, theft, violence, all sorts of things."It is a fight that, for Linford and his fellow volunteers, seems to have taken on moral tones: good versus evil, right versus wrong. And it looks likely to continue for some time yet. But, as he says, it is one he feels the anti-spammers must win."How many companies would like even just to send out one email each if spamming were allowed?" he asks. "If you can imagine how many small businesses would like to spam everybody in the world - and work out how many there are in the UK and North America - and then imagine each of them sending you just one spam per year. How many spams would you get each day? This is the problem - spam cannot scale."&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Today, there is no way to stop spam. However, the flood can be reduced to a trickle with a little effort. We still need changes in the law to make spamming illegal, changes in ISP behaviour - they can filter email before it reaches users - but free software like Mailwasher can make a real difference.The first step in dealing with spam is to discourage users from responding to it. Maybe there is only one mug in a million, but if a spammer can send out 100m spams for nothing, it can still be a profitable business. And don't ask to be taken off a spammer's mailing list: it will simply confirm your address is a live one and will be added to more mailing lists of verified addresses.There is nothing personal about this: spammers neither know nor care who you are. Most addresses are "harvested" from the net by software robots and sold by the million. Some are "discovered" by trying every combination of words and letters that could be expected to appear in front of @hotmail.com - a process that takes months. Either way, once you have made it onto one list, it's just a matter of time before you are on five, 10, 50 or 1,000...If you are already being deluged with spam, consider changing your email address. And rather than using one new address, use three or four. Try to keep your "real" address secret by giving it only to close friends and reliable companies, and make sure you never publish it anywhere in harvestable form. For example, write it in a way that people can read but most software can't:J i m d o t S m i t h %at% abc.co.uk, or whatever.If you are obliged to provide a dubious source with a working email address, use a Yahoo or Hotmail address created for the purpose. Indeed,SpamConand other suppliers offer DEAs or disposable email addresses that can be used for posting to Usenet newsgroups and similar purposes.Remember, you don't have to provide any truthful information in order to get a web-based email address. You can certainly lie about your age, and I always give a date of birth that makes me less than 10 years old. This used to limit the amount of porn and   financial spam I received, though standards have clearly fallen over the past few years.Viewing spamWhen it comes to reading email, the best approach is to delete all the spam first. To do this in Microsoft's Outlook Express, turn off the Preview Pane: go to View|Layout and untick the box that says Show Preview Pane. That way, you can select and delete spam without seeing the contents - and without giving messages the chance to ask to dial out or download anything from a website.If you go to View|Layout and click the button marked Customize Toolbar, you can put a Preview Pane icon on the toolbar. This lets you turn the Preview Pane on or off with a single mouse-click.Most spam is easy to spot. I delete almost everything that has no Subject line, or where the subject line is all in caps (I AWAIT YOUR RESPONSE), anything with my email address in the Subject line, and anything with odd letters at the end (t cct f). I'm sure I delete some real mail along with the rubbish, but I'm well past caring. In fact, I get so much spam at some addresses that I have opened folders called Real Mail. I move the tiny minority of messages that don't look like spam to the Real folder and just delete the rest.Mail filtersOf course, life would be easier if the spam could be deleted automagically. This is done by "mail filters," of which there are two basic types. In the first case, spam is identified by its characteristics - the use of certain combinations of words, for example. In the second case, it is identified by human beings, who add a rule to the filtering software to remove that email.The problem with using rules is that filtering software will always let some spam through while also blocking   some real mail. These "false positives" worry ISPs. Also, spam filters may well block newsletters and other mass mail items: you often have to add these manually to your "whitelist" - your list of friends' addresses.Nonetheless, filters can block a lot of obvious spams. In fact, a new breed of filters using Bayesian analysis may prove to be almost as good as humans: seewww.paulgraham.com/spam.html. Examples includeSpam BullyandSpammunitionfor Windows, andSpamSievefor Mac OS X.Since people are generally good at spotting spam, the alternative is to have users identify it, and forward their spam to a blacklisting service. If someone reports a spam    email immediately, this can save millions of people from receiving copies of the same spam later. The most interesting example of this cooperative filtering isCloudmark's SpamNet, which currently has about 300,000 users. It is a free service, but it only works with Microsoft Outlook.Of course, many filtering systems use a combination of the two approaches, and this is probably the best way to go.There are at least three ways to have your mail filtered for spam. The first is to sign up for a filtered mailbox. Technically, Hotmail and Yahoo fall into this category, since they let you set up a junk mail folder to hold spam. The problem is that their filtering is not very good. Better services are offered bySpamEx,SpamConand others. I recommendMyRealBox, which is free.One big advantage of filtering systems is that they usually let you block mail on the server, before you have downloaded it to your PC. The blocking can be done for you, by an ISP, or you can do it yourself. Brightmail is the market leader in blocking spam for ISPs. Its service is used byCix, BT Openworld, EasyNet, and MSN, among others.Install softwareYou should also install your own filtering software, such asMailwasher, McAfee's SpamKiller,SpamEater ProorSpamPalfor PC users, orSpamfirefor Mac users. (The mail software in Mac OS   X includes spam filtering.) Mailwasher and SpamPal are free. All work with standard POP3 mailboxes (not AOL). Mailwasher also works with Hotmail.Filtering with Mailwasher is a two stage process. You run Mailwasher first, to scan your mailboxes and get a list of subject lines. You can then decide which messages to delete and which to download; you can also "bounce" unwanted email to suggest that your mailbox is not working.Of course, it is still tedious to mark lots of spam for deletion. However, Mailwasher can mark most spam for you. Go to Tools|Options|General and click the button to have mail checked against blacklist servers such as SpamCop. You can edit the list of servers. When you delete and bounce spam, Mailwasher will blacklist those addresses and delete any more mail from the same source. Once the spam has been disposed of, you can download mail as normal.Blocking spam does take a bit of effort, but it's usually less effort to do it with software than to delete it manually. And if you are a dial-up user, it saves a lot of wasted downloads.
Lawrence Lessig has written about software patents etc in theFinancial Times.
Google's acquisition of Blogger was smart. Very smart. In fact, the more you look at it, the smarter it seems and the more potential it offers for both partners.Blogger gets the cash it needs to develop. Google effectively owns the hottest phenomenon on the net, employs the very resourceful (and, I hope, soon to be very rich) Evan Williams, and gets live access to hundreds of   thousands of bloggers scouring the net, choosing what they think is best and linking to it. Hugely attractive, to say the least, for a search engine that ranks things partly on the number of links to a site.We should not be surprised by this, because from day one we've come to expect great things from Google. Perhaps a bit too great. As a result of its own ingenuity, and the tardiness of some of its rivals, it now holds something of a benign dictatorship over the net.If you want to find something online, you have to use Google. Without Google, the net is a random mess, but with it, you are only a few seconds away from what you want. There are plenty of other search engines, but none has yet offered anything so effective, and so powerful.Likewise, it has also become the critical path between websites and the public - if you run a site and you don't feature on Google, you might as well not exist.Its dominance is remarkable, as is the fact that it keeps extending its offering with apparently effortless grace. For most search engines or portals, reaching market leadership and launching Google News would have been enough for one year, but then    they revealedFroogle- their plan to take over e-commerce - and they buy Blogger. A quick visit toGoogle Labsreveals even more goodies on the way.But for all this effortless grace, it is still dominant. And in its own very smart, very graceful way, Google is becoming to the internet what Microsoft is to the PC. And this is why some people are getting worried.Take this recent rant on Google Watch: "Young, stupid script kiddies and many bloggers still think Google is 'way kool', so by now Google enjoys a 75% monopoly for all external referrals to most websites. No webmaster can avoid seeking Google's approval these days... If he tries to take advantage of some of the known weaknesses in Google's semi-secret algorithms, he may find himself penalised by Google, and his traffic disappears. There are no detailed, published standards issued by Google, and there is no appeal process for penalised sites. Google is completely unaccountable."I don't subscribe to this view of Google as an evil empire. And Daniel Brandt, the author of Google Watch, has something of an axe to grind. But he   has a point. Just because Google is smart and, frankly, about as cool a company as currently exists on the planet (they were just voted Brand of the Year in a poll conducted by Interbrand ahead of Coca-Cola and Starbucks), doesn't mean the hold they have on the net isn't becoming just the teeniest bit worrying.Countless sites depend on it for referrals, countless users treat its search results as gospel. That gives it incredible power: over businesses, over the internet as a whole and over the way millions of people see the world. As it continues to improve and expand, and as no one has yet offered anything that looks like a real rival, that power becomes even greater.To date, it has behaved reasonably well, although if you read Google Watch, you can see where it might be pushing the boundaries.Bill Gates's billions were earned by corporate behaviour best described by the consultant and author Geoffrey Moore as an 800lb gorilla (incidentally, this was a compliment). Google, on the other hand, is several steps up the evolutionary ladder and, to date, hasn't had to resort to such gorilla tactics. It has earned its dominance, not forced it. No one ever used Google because they had to.In theory, if something better than Google launched tomorrow, we could all switch and Google would be left to wither on the vine. It's how Google came to dominate, and it's also how its position remains precarious.In reality, no one seems close and Google keeps getting better. For the forseeable future, Google's grip on cyberspace seems set to become even more powerful. Let us hope they have the intelligence to use that power well. Ultimately, it will be in their, and our, best interests.&#183;Simon Waldman is the director of digital publishing for Guardian Newspapers. His weblog (not powered by Blogger) can be found atwww.simonwaldman.co.uk&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
One-third of the UK's 467 councils have significantly improved their websites over the past 12 months, according to an annual survey out tomorrow.  The Better Connected survey, published by the Society of IT Management (Socitm), a professional organisation for local public sector technology bosses, examines every local authority site. It found that 10 councils have reached its top level of attainment (see box), compared with four last year."There's definitely been significant improvements this year," says Martin Greenwood, the report's programme manager. "There are far fewer councils that aren't treating website management reasonably seriously, although a lot aren't resourcing it properly."Just 20% have the lowest "promotional" rank, down from 34% a year ago. And the four councils without a web-site last year have finally gone online: 40% were offline when the survey started in 1999. Last year, Stroud district council's website was classified as promotional - but this year, it leapt to the top rating. "It's down to management commitment," says Stroud's public relations officer David Marshall.David Hagg, its chief executive, moved to Stroud 18 months ago from Tameside, east of Manchester, the first council to win the top    category in 2001. Stroud staff visited Tameside when setting up the new site. Marshall's department manages the site, through the council's webmaster, Kylie Gibbon. She joined the council in July, its first full-timer in this role, having worked for a dotcom firm in her native New Zealand.She edits material supplied by 21 coordinators throughout the council. This includes the council's 950 frequently asked questions (FAQs), based largely on queries each department received by phone or letter. Review dates, built into the content management, must be edited at least every six months. Gibbons also gets the results of a facility allowing    users to rate the material.Judy Balfe, senior administrative officer for the housing department, says her ratings have been positive so far. She adds that the FAQs allow her to help callers when they ask about other areas such as planning: previously, she had to try to find the right officer.Now, she can get the answer herself, through the website questions.  Wrexham county borough council is also celebrating its top status - the first council outside England to win this rating. Its rise has been more gradual, having twice won Socitm's award for best Welsh site. In July, however, Wrexham became the first council in the UK to win See it Right    accreditation for website accessibility fromthe Royal National Institute of the Blind.The council also offers every page in Welsh and English: 14% of its population speak Welsh as their first language. "We wanted a website that was accessible to as many people as we could manage," says chief information systems officer Dave Hylands, whose department runs the site.Helping the visually impaired can be simple. On the top left of every page is a white-on-white internal link to the page's specific contents. This means that users of software that converts text to spoken words can skip the    navigational links repeated on every page. Such software also reads out ALT tags, the written alternatives that can be given to pictures - you can see these if you stop your browser downloading images - so these must be in place and of use."We had to look at maps, and how we could deliver them in a text-only format," says web development manager Duncan Hield. This is done by giving such maps extended ALT tags, describing the contents in depth. "And we had to simplify the HTML structure. I think it also helped the overall design," he adds.This means dark text on a white background, sparing use of graphics and no use of Flash or pop-up menus.  The site links to external, free translation services and may provide more translations in future, depending on the results of the 2001 census. The Socitm survey praises Wrexham's homepage, and its permanent urgent news section, in case of floods or other emergencies. Hield is on the town's emergency planning team, and can be called at any time to update the section remotely. Both Stroud and Wrexham accept online payments: in Wrexham's case, for gas, water, council tax and rent."Wrexham has had relationships with Dee Valley Water and North Wales Gas for years," says Hylands."It was logical to continue to allow that facility." Both councils allow credit    and debit card payments, despite the fact that banks usually charge significantly more for processing credit cards. However, this is not costing too much. Wrexham - which took &#163;70,000 online in January - found that only a quarter of payments came through credit cards. For Stroud it was a third.Stroud also provides account data: entering a council tax bill number shows when and how your payments have been made, using an XML link to the council's database. Information systems manager Andrew Pain says that as these accounts do not show personal data, they do not need authentication. If they did, however, he could manage that: his department produces digital certificates, allowing councillors access to private documents, saving about &#163;800 a year. Both councils believe authentication is the key to providing better services, but are unclear as to what method will work best.Ten for transactionsThe following council websites won or retained the Better Connected survey's highest "transactional" status, meaning they provide several kinds of interactive service, make widespread use of databases and online form-filling, provide good links to relevant government services and offer excellent information.* Birmingham city (new),www.birmingham.gov.uk* Camden London borough (first won 2002),www.camden.gov.uk* Hertfordshire county (first won 2002),www.hertsdirect.org* Maidstone borough (new),www.maidstone.gov.uk* Stroud district (new),www.stroud.gov.uk* Sunderland city (new),www.sunderland.gov.uk* Tameside metropolitan borough (first won 2001),www.tameside.gov.uk* Wandsworth London borough (new),www.wandsworth.gov.uk* Westminster London borough (first won 2002),www.westminster.gov.uk* Wrexham county borough (new),www.wrexham.gov.ukSource: &lt;A HREF="http://www.socitm.gov.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.socitm.gov.uk
Instant communication takes too long. But all those seconds waiting for people to answer are about to come to an end.At the 3GSM World Congress in Cannes last week, Nokia, Ericsson and Siemens announced that they are working on a standard for adding walkie-talkie features (Push to Talk) to phones.This will mean that instead of dialling a number, users will be able to highlight a name on a mobile screen and press a button to talk to them instantly. Their voice will come out of the recipient's phone in two seconds or less.With Push To Talk, "presence" software shows you - with their permission - which of your friends have their mobiles switched on. You can then broadcast a message, such as, "Let's meet at the pub on the corner."As with real walkie talkies, only one person can talk at a time, which takes a bit of getting used to. But Push to Talk is particularly useful for companies that want to communicate quickly with truck drivers or sales teams.This explains why it has caught on in the US, where it has helped make Nextel the fastest-growing US mobile operator. Nextel gets about $20 a month more from customers who also use its Push to Talk service, prompting its rivals - AT&amp;T Wireless, Cingular, Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile - to announce plans to introduce Push to Talk this year.In the past, this would have been expensive to do as Nextel uses a proprietary mobile network from Motorola including a technology called iDEN, used for private mobile radio services such as police   and ambulance systems. But with the advent of higher mobile data speeds over General Packet Radio Services, CDMA 1X in the US, and third-generation mobile, it is possible to offer Push to Talk over standard mobile networks using open software.Among the key players is Comverse, a mobile messaging software company which has a joint venture with Israeli software company Mobile Tornado. Its Push to Talk software, like many of the alternatives, can be used over wireless Wi-Fi networks, too.In theory, this means that mobile users could use their handset as a free walkie talkie when within range of a Wi-Fi base station (or a friend with Wi-Fi up to half a kilometre   away). This is ideal for skiers trying to meet up for lunch in a resort. In the US, Push to Talk software is already popular with US snowboarders and skateboarders who pay around $1 to $2 a day for unlimited use.Even Silicon Valley's somewhat jaded investors are enthusiastic about Push To Talk. Sonim Technologies, a company chaired by Rob Wilmot, a key player at Britain's former technology hope, ICL, received one of the largest first round fundings - $21.6m - of any Silicon Valley wireless start up last year from investors including 3i and Apax Partners.Rahul Khanna, marketing director, of Sonim, expects at least one UK mobile operator   to start customer trials of Push to Talk by the end of this year. O2 is said to be running technical trials.However, it will be possible to turn your mobile into a walkie talkie from next month if you are already using a so-called smartphone. Chicago-based fastmobile's UK subsidiary will be providing "walkie talkie" software on itswww.fastmobile.comsite.To use it, customers need to fill in an online form with their mobile number and payment details, which can include reverse charge SMS (a way of debiting your mobile phone account for services).The fastchat software will be transmitted to the customer's handset over the air like a ringtone and will work   on phones including the Sony Ericsson P800 camera phone, the Nokia 3650 and 7650 and the new Siemens smartphone, which have large screens and built-in speakerphones. The recipient will need the software, too, and messages will cost between 15p and 35p.The software turns a spoken voice message into text that can be transmitted over the airwaves via GPRS to fastmobile's internet server. From there, it is routed to the recipient's mobile, where the text will be turned back into voice.James Tagg, vice president and European managing director of fastmobile, which is backed by $4m in venture capital from Leo Capital Holdings, BlueStar Ventures and Red Barn Investments, says: "We've just carried out a walkie talkie-like conversation between China, Cannes and the US including a Chinese speaker and a translator."John Chapman, a senior analyst at Gartner, was a bit sceptical about Push to Talk at first but thinks that: "If operators can get the pricing right and make it available to users of prepaid mobile packages, it could be bigger than SMS."Tal Kuttner of Comverse says: "We think Push to Talk will be the killer application over 3G. SMS is great because it's instant; this is voice SMS."
Yahoo had abrief storyon Apple's chief financial officer stating the company wants to increase market share from 3% to 5%, and revenues to from $5.7bn to $8bn. The story does not say over what timescale this should happen. But, assuming the target market share will be hit at the same time as the target revenues, a look at the ratios of the two figures suggests either they plan to outperform a declining PC market (increase share without necessarily selling lots more computers), or margins will fall in the drive for share (and they make less revenue per percentage point of share).The former would be impressive, the latter good news for customers (and probably more likely). It's good to see the company acknowledging a fact that should be patently obvious, but which some Apple fans choose to ignore: market share does matter.Perhaps of more immediate interest is that Fred Anderson also said Mac users would see "more and more software come out of Apple". Given the quality issues that I (and others) have been banging on about in recent weeks, this could prove a mixed blessing for users unless Apple sorts out its recent quality control problems. It is certainly bad news, however, for third party developers, who must be wondering what Apple will do next. There's a good debate on atMacslash.
The introduction of London's congestion charge has helped to focus the minds of motorists on alternative ways of getting from A to B.Of course, there's public transport, cycling and - gulp - walking, but a new option is rapidly growing in popularity.Lift-sharing is a brilliantly simple idea that helps reduce the number of cars on the road, cuts air pollution and can save you money - and stress. The country's biggest lift-sharing company iswww.liftshare.com, which currently has 35,000 regular users each month.The system works pretty much like a dating agency, but rather than finding your ideal partner, it matches you with a potential driver or passenger who is travelling in the same direction or to the same destination: all you pay is a contribution to petrol costs.The company was launched in 1997, and its success is based on the startling fact that every day, there are 10m empty car seats on Britain's roads. "We want to encourage people to use their cars more efficiently," says Liftshare's founder Ali Clabburn.The start of congestion charging in London has given   lift-sharing a huge boost, with local councils now keen to promote its benefits by teaming up with Liftshare. "Sharing lifts is set to become an increasingly popular way of travelling in central London," says a spokesperson from North London Transport, the organisation that represents eight north London councils.Two spin-off sites from Liftshare have also just been launched:www.villagecarshare.comaims to boost transport options within rural communities that are often poorly served by public transport.Meanwhile,www.studentcarshare.comcurrently has 10,000 students signed up who regularly share lifts around the country.London motorists wanting to reduce the cost of their daily commute as well as spread the cost of the congestion charge might want to sign up withwww.londoncarshare.co.uk, a site that lists all the London boroughs, allowing you to localise the search for your perfect potential lift.Another lift-share operation,www.shareajourney.com, is aimed at employers and other organisations wanting to organise lift-sharing. This works well for parents wanting to cooperate with the school-run if their children's school is a member, or for   office commuters if their employer is a member.One of the fastest growing lift-share sites iswww.shareacar.com, which was launched in October. Already, the site has almost 15,000 users, with roughly half based in London and the south east.Business has certainly been brisk following the introduction of the congestion charge, which has resulted in a 50% increase in members."The majority of our users are commuters who are either looking for a lift to work or a ride from their home to their nearest railway station where there's often a problem with parking," says Hugh Douglas-Smith, from Shareacar.New members pay a &#163;5 registration fee payable only by credit card, which is, in effect, a security measure. Safety is a top priority for all lift-share sites, with all offering options for women-only drivers or passengers.If you've thought about giving up your car but still feel you need access to one occasionally, then car-sharing could be for you.In Europe, more than 100,000 people are members of over 100 clubs, and use car-sharing as an everyday part of their transport mix.Evidence suggests that one car-club car on average replaces five private cars, and that car-club members reduce their car mileage by half and replace this with a combination of walking, cycling and public transport.In the UK, around 20 car-clubs now operate and all work in more or less the same way: a couple of cars are parked in a handy location close to members' homes and are then hired out, usually via a call centre, on a first-come, first-served basis.To find out where your nearest scheme is, go towww.carclubs.org.uk, which lists all car-club schemes in the country. The sitewww.smartmoves.co.uk, for example, is now the biggest car-club, with 200 members and 15 cars in schemes operating in Bath, Bristol, Coventry and Edinburgh.Earlier this week, Smart Moves rolled out its plans for car-sharing in the capital with the launch of the London City Club. Car-sharing across London is planned, starting with Kensington."We want to offer more Londoners the choice not to own a car but to have more convenient access to one," says Chas Ball, managing director of Smart Moves.Membership of Smart Moves costs &#163;140 a year, with cars costing from &#163;2.30 an hour to hire plus 15p a mile.There's no charge, however, for that feeling of freedom you get when you finally decide to ditch your car.
How did Classic Comedy.net evolve?It has taken two years of research and planning. My father, Michael Bentine, died in 1996 and I took over the administration of his estate. I started looking at different ways of getting iconic programmes he'd produced, fromSquare Worldthrough toPotty Time, on to video or DVD. About 99% of old comedy is in a tin somewhere, and the non-broadcast rights lie with the performers and directors.How has your BT Broadband partnership helped you?At the moment, we have loads of material built around 56k modem delivery - 10 seconds is about 110K but that's quite a long time in comedy. Broadband allows us to deliver whole five-minute sketches at far better quality. Why stumble around the net on one roller-skate, blindfolded, when you can get on a Kawasaki!Is the net community reluctant to pay for content?In this country, we used to only pay the BBC for the production of TV programmes because we assumed it was our right to watch ITV for free because of commercial advertising. I think a lot of future internet delivery will come down to paying for data or paying for access. Suppliers such as BT, Microsoft or AOL collect material they then offer to their subscribers.3G?This is the year when the new technology comes in _ be it the single-imageMMSwe saw coming late last year, or the audio, video and Flash-delivery that is appearing on video-enabled mobiles. I saw an interesting statistic that 15% of all new mobiles sold in December had video capability - and that's only the first month they were available.3Gis coming online this year and I see no reason why the ability to enjoy anything audio or visual when on the move should not increase dramatically. When mobile phones first came out the size of car batteries, everybody wondered who would want to lug them around!Gadgets?I'm my father's son so I love anything that goes bang or hurls projectiles - one of my earliest memories is my dad digging potatoes with explosives! That said, I'm gagging for 3G. I looked at a series ofGPRSpersonal digital assistants. I want more from a PDA than an address book and three inches of a spreadsheet: I want to be able to search for and download video clips and look at news.Broadband's such a godsend as there's no waiting around for information - I remember Windows 3.1! I'm from the days of msconfig and autoexec.bat!Favourite sites?http://news.bbc.co.uk,www.ananova.com,www.phill.co.uk,www.bt.com/btbroadband.
Phone homeI am an illustrator specialising in creating graphics for archaeologists, and want to use a mobile phone on site, at home and elsewhere in Europe, to send the images I create from an Apple G4 laptop to a client. How can I do this? I mostly work in   vector graphics and the files would typically be one or two megabytes.Rosemary RobertsonDesign for ArchaeologyJack Schofield replies:I'm not sure mobile phone technology is good enough to do this reliably, and the time taken may make the cost prohibitive, especially overseas. A standard GSM mobile can send data at 9.6 kilobits per second, which is about a fifth of the speed of a dial-up modem. I wouldn't be surprised if it took 10 times as long to send a file, by which time the phone may have dropped the line.There are faster options. GSM can do 14.4kbps if the network supports it, and GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) can in theory send data at up to 171.2kbps by using eight channels at once. However, you are unlikely to have the chance to use more than four channels, and three of those will probably be used for downloading, so 21.4kbps (still less than half dial-up speed) is a more likely maximum. And that's assuming any archaeological sites have GPRS coverage.You should be able to send smaller images, so experiment to find out how big an image you can send conveniently and reliably - perhaps somewhere between 50K and 250K. Next, using a   program such as Aladdin's StuffIt, take one of your large images, compress it, convert it into text for transmission, and split the large file into a series of smaller files that can be reassembled at the other end. (Some email programs can also do this.)Any phone with built-in Bluetooth short-range wireless networking should be able to work with a personal computer. Examples include the Nokia 7650 and the Ericsson T68i.Ross Barkman's Home Pageoffers scripts to make it easier to send data from a Mac. However, if you can find a phone line or, best of all, a Wi-Fi wireless hotspot anywhere near your digs, you will be able to send large files faster and more reliably.Search meRecently a program has installed itself that over-rides my default home page setting, and I getwww.searchex.comdisplayed instead. Is there any way I can get rid of this very annoying intruder?Neil VeitchJS:This has been a most frequently asked question over the past couple of weeks. The Searchex malware (a BHO or Browser Helper Object) was installed by a bogus Valentine card, much to the annoyance    of 7Search, which has now removed Searchex from its affiliate program. Searchex can be removed using Spybot or Ad-Aware, or manually. Details and links are given athttp://boards.cexx.org.  PC Magazine's utility,BHO Copcan be used to control this type of program.On deliveryI use Hotmail. Can I set up a system where I can get a return message indicating non-delivery? Sometimes I have wondered why I get no reply and then find the message never reached the person.Tom JohnstonJS:Email that is not delivered is supposed to "bounce" and be returned to the sender, so a non-delivery message is not necessary. With some mail software you can request an acknowledgement when mail is opened (and, it is therefore assumed, read), but the recipient does not have to send you one.Not floppyI have yet to see you recommend use of CompactFlash cards as a high volume general purpose storage alternative to floppy discs.   Or do you see a problem with their use?Bryan FletcherJS:The various types of solid-state (chip) storage such as CompactFlash and SD cards and "pen drives" are much faster than floppies, have much higher capacities, and are more reliable. Floppies have the advantage that the "readers" - disk drives - are widely available, and the disks are cheap enough to be disposable. I use a multi-format memory card reader that plugs into a USB port, and I'd be very happy to switch from floppies to memory cards if they were available at throwaway prices. Seehttp://masl.to/?J2B051493in Online for a guide to the various types of storage card.Backchat&#183;Laurence Hurst sayswww.ntcompatible.com"has a very large searchable list of both hardware and software which is NT (NT4/Windows 2000/XP) compatible, with instructions for getting software to run. I have found it invaluable during my upgrade from Windows Me, and have made all of my hardware and software work with Windows 2000 despite the fact that some are listed as incompatible by Microsoft."&#183;Following on from the 090   phone drop discussion, where bills are run up by dialling a premium rate number, a reader reports that he has had &#163;150 in charges refunded by BT, "but it took six months. The important thing to remember is that the complaint is against the phone company, not the ISP. ICSTIS were very useful for information but were unable to take any action directly". In this case, the user had downloaded a dialler program that, without notification, silenced his modem, disconnected the PC from BT's internet service, and dialled an 090 premium rate number.&#183;The last words on PGP (Pretty Good Privacy). Alasdair Beal says that installing PGP 7 on a Windows XP machine is covered by the Microsoft Knowledge Base article Q286562, but the workaround is simply not to install the PGPnet and/or PGPfire components. Another alternative, reports Nick Sweeney, is to install it under Windows 2000 emulation mode. However, as Nick and others point out, PGP 8.0 is supported on both Windows XP and Mac OS X Unix.
Toejam &amp; Earl 3: Mission to EarthSega/Microsoft 	&#163;39.99 Xbox***Toejam &amp; Earl 3 gets a welcome return for the videogame funksters. Yes, in a gaming world full of square jawed or big-breasted stars, it's good to see a place reserved for rhythmic alien freaks.This time around, the titular tykes are joined by a female rapping bug, creating a trio of ugly looking, yet sweet-sounding heroes. The slightly unusual plot - scour earth for the 12 sacred albums of funk - masks the fact that this is a pretty standard 3D platform collectathon. You might be searching for vinyl in this case, but it may as well be Mario's stars or Jak and Daxter's power cells. The original ity is more in the style than the play. Whether it's the gospel singers who herald each level's objectives or the pun-filled characters, T&amp;E 3 certainly stands out.It's also a treat for the eyes. Crisply defined textures and realistic lighting create a welcoming playground. And there's little initially wrong with the "collect everything" gameplay. Most levels follow a similar pattern: grab whatever needs taking and "funkify" all the humans. Yes, instead of bullets or fists, you beat your enemies by zapping them with funk notes or beating out a set rhythm. Unreal or Quake fans should probably leave now.A multiplayer mode and some mini-games add longevity, and the urge to check out the graphics on the next section is a pull.However, once the jokes and tunes have worn off, you are left with a bog-standard platform game that, while stylish and attractive, won't strut its stuff for too long. (GH)PraetoriansPC	&#163;34.99 Pyro Studios/Eidos***The Romans knew how to party, and it's a wonder they still found time to conquer half the world. Rome's war machine is the focus of the latest 3D real-time strategy game, Praetorians.If you're a regular strategy player, then many of the features will be instantly familiar. Praetorians has many similar traits to existing RTS titles, such as the lack of resource gathering and the focus on tactical strategy and formations rather than individual units, which is akin to the gameplay in Medieval: Total War.However, instead of lush plateaus and fog-topped hills, Praetorians opts for less visually epic backdrops than the Total War series, with the action taking place in much   smaller 3D countryside and city environments. Sadly, the game has a fixed camera, which doesn't zoom and can only be angled up or down. This rather negates the aesthetic purpose of the game being in 3D.Despite these limitations, your troops are easy to control and historically accurate. There are also interesting features such as flurries of leaves and sudden flights of birds, which can signal hidden enemies.Some games get away with pick and mix from other   titles, but Praetorians, though nicely presented and structured, fails to add uniqueness to borrowed gameplay. (RP)Ape Escape 2PlayStation 2		&#163;29.99 Sony****Now that the PlayStation 2 is reaching what passes for middle age in a console, Sony is turning to territory traditionally occupied by Nintendo: mainstream games, suitable   for all ages, and particularly platform games.Not generally renowned for the quality of its platform games, Sony has shown signs of redressing the balance, first with the excellent Ratchet &amp; Clank, and now the second, much-improved iteration of Ape Escape. The premise of the game is simple: you must   travel to various destinations, and capture monkeys using a net and wacky gizmos.In classic platform game style, there are bosses to fight, too. After a neat Japanese cartoon-style intro, Ape Escape 2 impresses thanks to an innovative control system, in which you use the buttons to choose a weapon, and then   wield it using the right analogue stick.Short tutorials at the start of the early missions keep the learning curve shallow enough for the most ham-fisted gamers, and difficulty levels ramp up in a wonderfully progressive manner throughout the game. The one glaring fault Ape Escape 2 demonstrates is a fixed camera that occasionally proves a hindrance - but not as frequently as that of, for example, Super Mario Sunshine.But the game's real joy lies in its madcap humour, which fully exploits the legendary cheekiness displayed by apes, and a surreal edge that even the great Miyamoto would admire. This puts Ape Escape 2 into territory occupied by the best platform games: many a parent will surely sneak a crafty go on the game after the offspring have been tucked up in bed. (SB)
Its creators describe it as "the first online getaway" - a place where the sky is always blue and the sun never sets. Analysts are calling it the next generation of chatroom, others call it a game that never stops. It is a virtual space that exists solely on the internet. It is a place called There.There Inc is a $33m start-up based in California. It has spent three years building a virtual world inspired by Neal Stephenson's vision of the metaverse in his classic science fiction novel Snow Crash. There features Disney-like avatars floating around a beautifully rendered three-dimensional environment that feels like a never-ending day on a tropical island. It is only one of a growing number of virtual worlds that are already inhabited by hundreds of thousands connected over the internet. And far from the image of isolated individuals tapping away at their computers, the inhabitants of these new worlds are proving just as socially minded as the rest of us.It is Friday evening, 6pm Pacific standard time. Inside the game in a clearing among some palm trees and beach huts, more than 100 people are gathering for the first antiwar rally to be held in a virtual world. A hundred people might not sound like much, until you consider that There isn't even commercially available yet. The 100 or so who attended Polygons for Peace are "beta testers", volunteers who offer to try out the world for free.Among them is Nigel Jett, a 23-year-old student from   Washington State. Jett stumbled across Polygons for Peace only minutes after first entering There in January."Two guys and a girl wearing a T-shirt with a peace symbol on it were sitting beneath a virtual gazebo," he says. They invited him to join, and since then, he has helped arrange the peace rally. Today he starts and polices antiwar discussions.You could argue that these people would be better off organising a protest in the real world. But Jett says that is missing the point. "We had some really great discussions, we had lots of really diverse   opinions," explains Jett. "It was very decentralised. No one was making speeches. Some people tried to coordinate things and made sure that discussions were actually productive and didn't turn into name calling."Just as in the real world, a few troublemakers showed up and tried to disrupt the three-hour meeting. Representatives of the company and pro-war campaigners came to have a look, too.Unlike its rival The Sims Online, There has been likened more to a sophisticated chatroom than a game. Characters speak in speech   bubbles as in a comic strip. The game's designers have developed a detailed set of gestures and facial expressions that allow avatars to wink, flirt, laugh and even blush. Broadband users can even talk to each other.Inside There, you can travel about the islands on dune buggies and float on hover boards. You can buy virtual clothes and rent property. Unlike earlier virtual worlds, the game encourages players to trade virtual items for real money. You can design and sell your own clothes or buy a virtual pair of Levi jeans or Nike trainers.Last Friday's peace rally was not an isolated event. There is a history of protest within virtual worlds. In 1999, in a protest over software glitches inside Ultima Online, a group of players lost their rag with the company and staged a coup. They stormed the castle of Lord British, Ultima's monarch and the alter-ego of its founder, Richard Garriot, and murdered his character.But there are signs that citizens of virtual worlds are becoming more political.In September, Electronic Arts, makers of The Sims Online, announced a multi-million dollar product placement deal with fast food giant McDonald's. Players in the game are able to buy and run their own McDonald's kiosk. Eating a Big Mac inside the game improves the players' standing. But some gamers were incensed."Product placement weakens the overall aesthetic of a game in ways more insidious than movie or television-based placement," wrote Tony Walsh in Shift.com."Our gaming experience is cheapened, but game titles are no less expensive. Publishers have already set the price of a computer game two to three times that of a new DVD movie. Will games with integrated advertising be any less expensive than games without? Not bloody likely."What is more likely is that virtual worlds will go increasingly mainstream this year. EA has sold 19m copies of The Sims, making it the best-selling game of all time. The new online version - which will be available in the UK later this year - has sold less well, with only 100,000 people subscribing so far.Nearly 500,000 people pay Sony $13 a month to play EverQuest, an online version of Dungeons &amp; Dragons. The largest virtual world is Lineage, with more than 4m subscribers in South Korea.As veteran programmer Mark Pesce noted in a catalogue of last year's Barbican's Game On exhibition, "it's a Walter Mitty-like state on a national scale".
Away from the main halls at the 3GSM show in Cannes last week, many delegates were pondering the emergence of a hybrid handset for existing 2.5G networks. Too large to be a mobile phone, yet not powerful or feature-rich enough to be classed as a handheld PC, the devices team big colour screens with innovative designs and an emphasis on email and internet applications.Executives from US company Danger gave an exclusive preview of the latest    incarnation of its hiptop device. The original hiptop has a large screen that flips open to expose a full Qwerty keyboard. Among its features are web access, email with the option of opening attachments, voice calling, instant messaging and a personal organiser.It uses Danger's operating system, which may have helped keep the price under $200 in the US. The hiptop paraded in Cannes adds a colour screen, GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) and tri-band network functionality. Although it has yet to announce a deal with a European network, the company is confident the colour version will be launched by the end of the year.Also from    the US came Bsquare's Power Handheld. It has an unusual design - imagine a small colour screen Pocket PC device laid on its side with a retractable Qwerty keyboard. It has voice calling and internet access and email, with support for attachments, over GPRS. It uses Microsoft's Windows CE .NET operating system. Bsquare is hoping to launch the device, below, by the end of the year. The third device hailed from closer to home, with Pogo Mobile Solutions offering its latest product- the nVoy - to networks.Smaller and lighter than the original Pogo, the nVoy adds built-in camera and photo messaging to the earlier prod  uct's email, internet access, voice calling and personal organiser facilities. The nVoy uses compression techniques that Pogo claims makes web browsing up to six times faster, only this time using even faster GPRS networks.Pogo says the product will be in British shops by the end of the year. Cannes also saw activity in the smartphone sector - standard sized mobiles that feature web browsers, easy access to email systems and advanced facilities like video streaming. Siemens unveiled its riposte to the Nokia 7650, Orange SPV and Sony Ericsson P800 in the shape of the SX-1. Due in early summer for around &#163;350, the model is smaller and slimmer than rivals yet has a slighter larger    screen. The handset's number keys are at the side of the screen.Due around the same time is the smartphone from Alphacell. Aimed at the youth market, the M5 features an integrated camcorder/camera, Java support for gaming, internet access and multimedia messaging. The company has secured a distribution deal with The Carphone Warehouse.In keeping with previous years, 3GSM also threw up the odd wacky gadget. A British design company PDD was touting a prototype pair of glasses (pictured, above) that connect to a device wirelessly and then fool the user's eyes into thinking they are looking at a much larger screen: PDD claims 21 inches.   (AN)GB advancesA sleek silver case, clamshell design, rechargeable lithium ion battery: meet the new Game Boy Advance, or GBA SP. Out on March 28, it looks set to bring an older audience to Nintendo's venerable handheld. The main improvement is the frontlit screen, which allows you to play in conditions other than perfect sunshine. The screen, which folds out, is an improvement, but can be overly reflective. The battery gives approximately 10 hours power with the light on, 18 without. One annoyance is the lack of a headphone socket; an additional connection is needed. Internally, the SP is the same as the GBA, but with its new look the Game Boy has finally grown up. (GH)
Secret windowThe latest Massive Attack album takes its name from a cult electronic security book by Charles Jennings and Lori Fena. The Hundredth Window is a warning about how information about you can be used against      you. It is also the name for the window you can never close on your computer that can let intruders in. Some say      Massive Attack are just paranoid. The band have launched a website to coincide with the album. Designed by the      Bafta award-winning Hi-Res!, it features unreleased music and video, but there is more to it than meets the eye.      Type in Antistar - the title of one of the album's songs - at the right moment and secret windows begin to open,      each with its own content. Expect more throughout the year, says the band.www.massiveattack.comwww.100thwindow.comwww.hi-res.netBack to the futureSolaris, Steven Soderbergh's new adaptation of Stanislav      Lem's classic science fiction novel of sentient planets and lost love, is in UK cinemas this week. The official      site, a mostly standard mix of trailer/gallery/clips, offers a virtual tour of the doomed space station, making      clever use of the footage from the film. Fans of Andrei Tarkovsky's more meditative adaptation from 1972 are      grumbling that the remake is too fast and too romantic, as you can read on the site dedicated to the Russian      director's films. Better still is the site dedicated to Lem himself, which includes his reflections on the remake,      nearly half a century after he wrote the book.www.solaristhemovie.comhttp://skywalking.com/tarkovskywww.cyberiad.info/english/main.htmOrwell 100If he had not died at the age of 46, George Orwell would have      been 100 this June. To celebrate the George Orwell centenary, a special conference is being held in May at      Wellesley College near Boston, Massachusetts. If that's too far away, then the Orwell community on the web is      also gearing up for the anniversary. If you want to know just how relevant Orwell is today, take a look at his      1943 essay, Politics and the English Language, which is available online.www.orwell2003.comwww.resort.com/~prime8/ Orwell/patee.htmlwww.k-1.com/OrwellMore musicDespite the slump in      album sales - blamed on the internet rather than poor pop music - certain sections of the music industry      continue to produce interesting websites. Sheffield's Moloko, who have a new album out in March, serve up a      version of Tetris, pre-released tracks from the new album, and a video of singer Roisin Murphy looking delicious      in period costume at a 60s Northern Soul party. Elsewhere, Pedro Winter, the manager of Daft Punk, has a new      website called Headbangers City. It takes the form of a crudely illustrated city map and features video clips and      some very funky French music.www.moloko.co.ukwww.headbangers.tvwww.daftclub.comBork on OperaSoftware, which makes a little-used but innovative web browser, recently accused Microsoft's MSN of purposely      providing its users with a broken page. The spat stems from October 2001, when MSN effectively blocked Opera      users from viewing the MSN home page, suggesting they upgrade to Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Now, in reply      to MSN's "treatment of its users", the Swedish company has released a special edition of its Windows browser.      The Bork edition automatically translates the MSN site into the language of the Swedish chef from the Muppet      Show. "Hergee berger snooger bork," says Opera's Mary Lambert, in a statement on its website. "This is a joke.      However, we are trying to make an important point... the success of the Web depends on software and Web site      developers behaving well and rising above corporate rivalry."www.opera.comwww.msn.comNever off?Last      week, loss-making Salon magazine announced it was unlikely to make it into March. But despite this expected      failure, big commercial ventures continue to be launched online. One of the latest is Always On Network, a new      "superblog for business geeks" founded by Red Herring magazine co-founder Tony Perkins. AON is divided into      three categories of bloggers: ordinary members, about 100 volunteer correspondents, and industry "celebrities"      such as Dell Computer's Michael Dell.www.alwayson-network.comNew &amp; noted&#183;Pay the congestion charge      online:www.cclondon.com&#183;Check out the weird cycle lanes of Brighton (and Hove):www.geocities.com/fredpipes/cyclelanes&#183;Explore TS Eliot's Wasteland:http://world.std.com/~raparker/exploring/thewasteland&#183;Cannot find weapons of mass destruction? Try this      404:www.coxar.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk&#183;Find articles from magazines:www.findarticles.com&#183;Order art for your      mobile:www.artones.netSix of the best24Official sitewww.fox.com/24BBC sitewww.bbc.co.uk/24Fan sitewww.24fans.comPlot generatorwww.chthonic.f9.co.uk/24Yahoo groupwww.24fans.comThe blogwww.24weblog.com
BlogrollersI find the evangelising zeal evinced by a number of recent commentators on weblogging (Secret of their success, February 4; On the war path, February 20) to be rather ill-placed. It is certainly a wonderful thing that many more people are able and have chosen to be self-publishers. However, we need to redress the balance with more people who are prepared to be journalists, which involves actually interviewing people, thorough research, presenting a rounded and dispassionate overview and reasoning through substantive arguments.Many webloggers substitute cynical criticism for constructive activity, affecting the disdain of elite salonistes, who confuse talking to themselves with talking to the world. The Technorati list reveals the closed and self-appointed character of the blogsophere.The late, lamented Spy magazine would undoubtedly have updated its "Logrolling   in our time" feature to "Blogrolling", if it hadn't already been created, without irony, as a service for blog-readers.Another challenge presented by the proliferation of writing is how we readers and writers might document, manage and use this profusion. We have to go beyond the endless scrolling lists that characterise web publishing to create taxonomies of knowledge, develop reputation management for recommendations, and deploy visual tools for navigating and contextualising information. The seeds of these concepts can be seen in Moveable Type, NewsMonster and elsewhere, but we have a long way to go before this medium is worthy of presentation to the rest of the population.Anyone interested in a real world discussion of the future of mass communication is welcome to join me at theCHI2003development consortium in April.Nico Macdonaldnico@spy.co.ukVideo meetingIf John Harper wants a video-conferencing system (Feedback, February 20), he doesn't need to ask BT to build it for him. Thanks to the magic of the internet, there's nothing stopping him building it himself.The internet is an end-to-  end network. Services are built at the edges, on the computing devices in our homes. They don't have to be built into the network. All the network has to do is route Internet Protocol packets.Email, the web, instant messaging, peer-to-peer file sharing, RSS aggregators _ If we had needed BT's approval to create these things, they would never have existed at all. Thankfully, with the internet, anyone can create any service they like, as long as it communicates using IP.The role of telecoms companies in solving that problem should be to make all bandwidth cheaper, not to mess around with specialised video-conferencing networks.Colin Robertsonczr@rtnl.org.ukWar wiseDickon Ross (Electronic Pearl Harbor, February 20) did a good job on cyberterrorism but left out an interesting dimension - the novel on cyber conflict between the US and Iraq. I'd written it well before the current unpleasantness, but it'sjust been published.Bill Neugentwneugent@mitre.orgOre checkingOperation Ore has the names of more than 7,000 UK men, but we assume that the police   will check that those credit card details are "genuine", since identity theft is on the increase. Once stolen, a credit card number could be used to buy anything and since everything is delivered online, the home address of the card holder is not an issue. It pays to check statements for any fraudulent use.Gordon Jolygordon.joly@pobox.comBook marksBookcrossing (Finders keepers, February 20), sounds an excellent idea (though which of my treasured tomes I'd choose to set free I can't think), but Clint Witchalls seems to have remarkable faith in human nature."Once people get used to seeing the Bookcrossing logo," he says, "they'll know that there's no need to call the anti-terrorist police." Well, no, not until the terrorists catch on, at least.Ron Gravesron.graves@btinternet.comMac discountI notice from arecent surveythat Apple Macs account for "just 2.21 per cent of the operating system market".   Can we please limit letters and articles about Macs to a max of three in every 100 ? I'm  so  bored with them.Terry Shuttleworthterry@shuttleworths.netMac countsWhat I love about Online is the fact that the Mac is treated as a hopeless minority, yet every graphic reeks of Macintosh-ness. How many people will recognise the "system restart" image for the cyberterrorism article (War on the web, February 20), or the PowerBook on page three a couple of weeks ago (Tune into the wireless, February 13). It makes my w*doze-over-my-dead-body heart sing.Dave Griffithsswiftybilko@yahoo.co.uk
On the 10th floor of London's Centre Point office block, Frances Dickins buys and sells things almost nobody wants. As the chief operating officer of the UK arm of Active International, the world's biggest corporate barter company, she is accustomed to dealing with desperate companies. "They come to us when they have nowhere else to go," she says.Instead of money, Active gives companies barter credits for last season's clothes, spare hotel rooms or tins of peas, which they can swap for goods and services they need at a later date.   A common purchase with the credits is advertising, company travel or printing, bought at a discount through Active's trading desks. "You have a large amount of products you need to move; you're going to take a killing, maybe realise 20p or 25p in the pound. We'll give you the full value but in credit. Think of it as a book of discount vouchers," Dickins says.Whether it is large companies with excess stock or small businesses that need to grow but don't have the cash, barter offers a way out of a fix.Corporate barter isn't a new idea. For example, in 1935, US pharmaceutical giant Monsanto sold saccharin to a company in China. When the company was unable to pay in cash, Monsanto took frozen mackerel in exchange, and acquired an export market in the world's most populous country. In 1972, PepsiCo did a deal with the government of the USSR to supply the first western consumer product on sale in the Soviet Union. Instead of roubles, Pepsi was traded for vodka, and PepsiCo acquired distribution rights to Stolichnaya in the US.Today, massive swap deals still happen. Last November the Thai government agreed to arrange a swap of 60,000 tonnes of excess rice for 300,000 South African cattle, avoiding a plunge in rice prices and solving its beef shortage in one trade. But thousands of small firms are also finding barter an indispensable part of their business. Barter exchanges handled goods worth $7.87bn in 2001, according to the International Reciprocal Trade Association. That business will grow 20% in 2002; add trades where no intermediary is used and the global barter market may be 10 times that amount.In Active International's offices, even the furniture was acquired in a trade. This week a client in broadcasting has new computers, while a computer company has more TV advertising as a result. Another Active client is John Harold, managing director of Coombe International, manufacturer of Grecian 2000, Just For Men and Odor-Eaters ("all human misery is catered for," says Harold). When he has excess stock, he has to get rid of it as quickly as possible - but without flooding the market, causing existing retailers to slash prices or lose business.Odor Eaters and Grecian 2000 often find their way to eastern Europe, having been repackaged using spare print capacity at another of Active International's clients. "This is quite difficult to do ourselves. We don't have contacts in eastern Europe, and Active does, so it's a very easy way to get rid of surplus stock," Harold admits. The credits help pay for the Just For Men TV advertising. Now you know who to blame.The trading desks at Active often put together deals as complex as any financial product in the City. "It's like finishing a Rubik cube," says Dickins, admitting the cube sometimes takes longer to finish than she expects. "We acquired TV advertising airtime in Poland - I've nearly got rid of all that now. We had so much of it we could have been on 20 hours a day, and we did have a nasty incident with 150,000 singing lobsters. They didn't sing as expected."With clients like Tesco, BMI and BT, Active is hardly fly-by-night, but Dickens admits the industry has a reputation for being "pretty grubby, a bit spivvy". This is partly due to a profusion of small barter trade agencies claiming to represent small businesses that came out of the internet boom in the 1990s, nearly all of which have disappeared. One of the few that has prospered is BarterCard International, originally from Australia but now based in 13 countries and with 2,000 participating businesses in the UK alone.BarterCard's members are nearly all small businesses, most with between five and 100 employees, according to Wayne Sharpe, the company founder and now chief executive of BarterCard UK. "Let's say a restaurant wants to get £10,000 worth of printing done - it's unlikely it will find a printer that wants £10,000 worth of meals. With BarterCard, the restaurant pays the printer in trade pounds, so it now owes £10,000 of meals to the BarterCard network," Sharpe explains. The network now embraces photographers, plumbers, even dentists, who can cash in those credits by eating in your restaurant.BarterCard's other job is to take the risk out of bartering. It vets all its members and absorbs the risk, so that if another member goes bust, you don't lose your credit. In return, it takes 5.5% of each transaction in cash and a further 1% in credit. "Historically, barter has been a bit of a wild west show," Sharpe says. "There is less risk in our system than there is in a normal cash transaction."Barter at this level saves cash. Sometimes it can also find you new customers. John Talbot runs Talbot's Investigations, a private investigation firm in Reading. Even after 17 years in the business, his turnover grew by 15% when he found he could barter spare capacity through BarterCard, earning trade credits for finding debtors or performing surveillance. He is aiming for 25% of his turnover as barter business. "It's a great way to use up spare capacity," he says. "But it leads to new contacts, and some of those customers refer me to contacts in the cash world."BarterCard's global network is also making barter a true global currency for small businesses. "We have not come across any business that hasn't done a barter transaction. The reason they don't do it more often is probably because they don't have a secure mechanism by which to do it," Sharpe says. "With us, a hotelier in London can earn trade pounds here, walk into a restaurant in Sydney and pay with our currency."Occasionally, barter gets you a deal you would never find in the cash world. Ask Peter Minuit, who in 1626 bartered $24 of beads - for an island called Manhattan.International Reciprocal Trade Association:www.irta.com;Active International:www.activeinternational.com, 020-7520 6666;BarterCard UK:www.bartercard.co.uk, 01932 772772
