Sam "Serious" Stone has carved his own particular niche over the past decade by offering a nostalgic return to a time when games were, well, just games. TheSerious Samseries has always presented endless power-ups, outlandish guns, secret areas and alien-demon-robot foes, usually in Egyptian tombs. It's essentiallyDoom, but bigger, bolder, and with just a hint of irony. This latest offering is a repackaging of his many explosive first-person adventures, plus the one surprisingly good foray into side-scrolling, all in a single box. Consequently there's an outrageous amount of content here, most of it in a very similar vein. That's not a criticism; this is a game for people who wish shooters weren't always trying so hard to be Michael Bay action movies, and if that sounds desirable, there's hours of fun to be had here.
Repeat after me:Edward Snowdenis not the story. The story is what he has revealed about the hidden wiring of our networked world. This insight seems to have escaped most of the world's mainstream media, for reasons that escape me but would not have surprised Evelyn Waugh, whosecontempt for journalistswas one of his few endearing characteristics. The obvious explanations are: incorrigible ignorance; the imperative to personalise stories; or gullibility in swallowing US government spin, which brands Snowden as a spy rather than a whistleblower.In a way, it doesn't matter why the media lost the scent. What matters is that they did. So as a public service, let us summarisewhat Snowden has achievedthus far.Without him, we would not know how the National Security Agency (NSA) had been able to access the emails, Facebook accounts and videos of citizens across the world; or how it had secretly acquired the phone records of millions of Americans; or how, through a secret court, it has been able to bend nine US internet companies to its demands for access to their users' data.Similarly, without Snowden, we would not be debating whether the US government should have turned surveillance into a huge, privatised business, offering data-mining contracts to private contractors such asBooz Allen Hamiltonand, in the process, high-level security clearance to thousands of people who shouldn't have it. Nor would there be – finally – a serious debate between Europe (excluding the UK, which in these matters is just an overseas franchise of the US) and the United States about where the proper balance between freedom and security lies.These are pretty significant outcomes and they're just the first-order consequences of Snowden's activities. As far as most of our mass media are concerned, though, they have gone largely unremarked. Instead, we have been fed a constant stream of journalistic pap – speculation about Snowden's travel plans, asylum requests, state of mind, physical appearance, etc. The "human interest" angle has trumped the real story, which is what the NSA revelations tell us about how our networked world actually works and the direction in which it is heading.As an antidote, here are some of the things we should be thinking about as a result of what we have learned so far.The first is that the days of the internet as a truly global network are numbered. It was always a possibility that the system would eventually be Balkanised, ie divided into a number of geographical or jurisdiction-determined subnets as societies such as China, Russia, Iran and other Islamic states decided that they needed to control how their citizens communicated. Now, Balkanisation is a certainty.Second, the issue of internet governance is about to becomeverycontentious. Given what we now know about how the US and its satraps have been abusing their privileged position in the global infrastructure, the idea that the western powers can be allowed to continue to control it has become untenable.Third,as Evgeny Morozov has pointed out, the Obama administration's "internet freedom agenda" has been exposed as patronising cant. "Today," he writes, "the rhetoric of the 'internet freedom agenda' looks as trustworthy as George Bush's 'freedom agenda' after Abu Ghraib."That's all at nation-state level. But the Snowden revelations also have implications for you and me.They tell us, for example, that no US-based internet company can be trusted to protect our privacy or data. The fact is that Google, Facebook, Yahoo, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft are all integral components of the US cyber-surveillance system. Nothing, but nothing, that is stored in their "cloud" services can be guaranteed to be safe from surveillance or from illicit downloading by employees of the consultancies employed by the NSA. That means that if you're thinking of outsourcing your troublesome IT operations to, say, Google or Microsoft, then think again.And if you think that that sounds like the paranoid fantasising of a newspaper columnist, then considerwhat Neelie Kroes, vice-president of the European Commission, had to say on the matter recently. "If businesses or governments think they might be spied on," she said, "they will have less reason to trust the cloud, and it will be cloud providers who ultimately miss out. Why would you pay someone else to hold your commercial or other secrets, if you suspect or know they are being shared against your wishes? Front or back door – it doesn't matter – any smart person doesn't want the information shared at all. Customers will act rationally and providers will miss out on a great opportunity."Spot on. So when your chief information officer proposes to use the Amazon or Google cloud as a data-store for your company's confidential documents, tell him where to file the proposal. In the shredder.
An artificial intelligence has gone rogue and it's up to you to shoot enough robots into shrapnel to fix it – such is the loose plot of twin-stick shooterHexodius. Controls are simple, moving your ship with the left thumbstick and targeting enemies with the right, while the upgradable craft allows for a degree of individualised gameplay.Progressing through maps of linked hexagonal rooms reveals slightly different challenges – shoot, survive, protect. Unfortunately, the staccato pacing, inconsistent difficulty and inability to replay individual rooms to improve your score render the game far from perfect. Fun in bursts, but flawed.
Gathering a dream team of more than 200 characters from Sega, Capcom and Namco Bandai's stables, this tactical RPG proves an entertaining effort. A wildly imaginative (if broadly nonsensical) dimension-shattering plot introduces the massive cast, while knowingly playing on its fan-baiting appeal.However,Project X Zone'sgreatest asset is its combat. Although turn-based, each attack plays out like a beat-'em-up, with up to three characters pummelling out combos. It's speedy and engaging, with the tactical aspect effected through unit position and choice of character. Cute visuals may divide player opinions, but the battle system and lengthy campaign deserve attention.
Ah, a Dacia! Rhymes – appropriately? – with patchier, not pacier. From Romania, and finally available in Britain. Oh, but I've got the wrong one. Obviously the correct Sandero to be trying out – and buying – is the very basic model. Because, at £5,995, that is by far the cheapest car you can get in this country. But they've gone and sent me a posher, more expensive model, with a 1.5-litre diesel engine (the basic one is built around, and entirely powered by, a knackered old&nbsp;Romanian donkey, which you kick through a special hole in the driver's footwell where you might expect to find an accelerator pedal).Yeah, but it's not that posh. It does have a radio, instead of a hole, which is what the cheapest one has. Really. If you want a radio, you fit your own: that hole's for real. The ass-kicking one I admit I made up (this column in no way condones cruelty to animals, by the way). And the basic one is powered by the same 1.2-litre petrol engine you find in some little Renaults (Dacia's parent company), so it'll be fine. This diesel is certainly perfectly adequate.I've also got remote central locking, and electric front windows, and headrests in the back, and a&nbsp;light in the glove compartment, and I can have it in a colour that isn't white, and more. All of which I&nbsp;kind of wish I didn't have, because the whole point of a Sandero is that it's the cheapest car on the road, and all this unnecessary luxury has bumped up the price a bit.It's still a bargain, though, especially for a car of its size. There's plenty of room for four adults, and the boot is generous. To drive? Well, maybe I was expecting it to feel like a Trabant or a joke-era Skoda but, you know what, it's really not bad at all. Not the most refined or quietest of rides, maybe. Certainly not the most exciting experience behind the wheel. But everything works, it feels solid enough and safe, and every time we set off from A to get to B, we arrived successfully at B. Even when B was Brighton. By the C…The only shame is that it doesn't have much of a character. Lots of cheap cars from the past have had a utilitarian charm about them. I'm&nbsp;thinking Trabbies, even those old Skodas, but also Renault 4s, first-generation Fiat Pandas, Citroën&nbsp;2CVs. But that's because they were all distinctive. Asked to draw one, you almost could (even I almost could, and I can't draw). No one can – or will ever be able to – draw a Dacia Sandero. It just looks like bleurgh.Perhaps drawing your car – or loving it – is not important. You just want quite a lot for not very much money. In which case, the Sandero is truly brilliant.Dacia Sandero Ambiance dCi 90Price£8,595Top speed107mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption (manufacturer's figure)74.3mpgCO2emissions99g/kmEco rating7/10Cool ratingMmm... 1/10? 10/10? I honestly don't know
Tiny ThiefAndroid, iPad and iPhone, £1.99 (Rovio Stars)In each of Tiny Thief's witty and engaging puzzles, you need to steal an item while avoiding detection, rescue your pet squirrel and pick up any extras you find along the way. An incredibly impressive thieve 'em-up.Earn To DieAndroid and iPad, £1.99, and iPhone, 69p (Not Doppler)Drive across the zombie-infested American wasteland, ploughing through all who stand in your way like an ice-road trucker who's just sniffed out a bowl of grits. Simple, joyous destruction.Scurvy ScallywagsiPad and iPhone, £1.49 (Beep Games)An intriguing mix of pirates, adventure games and match-three puzzling that sounds like the Old Gregg episode of The Mighty Boosh, Scurvy Scallywags gets you to align images in pursuit of glory, treasure and The Ultimate Sea Shanty.Ice Breaker: A Viking VoyageAndroid and iPad, £1.99, and iPhone, 69p (Rovio Stars)Your job as Viking Cutting Master is to free fellow Scandinavians and their lost treasure by making tactical slices through ice, ropes and sticky slime, as if you're carving up a giant Viennetta. Elegantly designed and great fun.MusyciPad and iPhone, free (Fingerlab)Somewhere between a game and a musical instrument, you imbue geometric shapes with sounds and let them bounce about in a sonic playground, created with a few stabs of your finger. &nbsp;Gentlemen!Android and iPad, £2.99 (Lucky Frame)Pitting two players against each other on the same iPad, the Pong-meets-dapper-Pacman combat is fast, furious and often over so quickly you'll barely know who trounced whom.Deus Ex: The FalliPad 3 and iPhone 4S or later, £4.99 (Square Enix)All the vent crawling, door hacking, body augmentation and non-lethal takedown encouragement of its PC and console-based big brother, but on your iPhone. Enemy AI's a let down, but The Fall remains a miniature technical marvel.&nbsp;Bridgy JonesiPad and iPhone, 99p (Chillingo)There have been many bridge-building games in the past, but none with the humour or finesse of Bridgy Jones, whose wobbly constructions need to carry your train across chasms via bonus bones for Bridgy's pet dog.&nbsp;Coastal CommandiPad, £1.49, and iPhone, free (Pomob Games)This seafaring twist on tower defence gives you a small archipelago on which to place your turrets, presented in precise, pretty-looking vector-style graphics that let you see the path of each individual bullet, shell and missile.&nbsp;Nuclear OutrunAndroid, iPad and iPhone, free (Gamenauts)Speed along the cheerful irradiated badlands, tapping zombies to blow their little cartoon heads off and collecting survivors by driving over them, in this mindless undead-exploding freebie.
Barnaby Jack, a hacker who was due to present his findings on the security vulnerabilities of implanted medical devices, has died.The San Francisco medical examiner's office said Jack, 35, died in the city on Thursday – but did not provide details on the circumstances surrounding his death.Jack hadexposed a security flawin insulin pumps that could be made to dispense a fatal dose by a hacker 300ft away,pushing some medical companiesto review the security of these devices.He was also a popular and respected figure in the information security scene. Within that small scene, reverse engineers are especially close, saidMatthieu Suiche,a friend of Jack's and chief scientist at CloudVolumes Inc in an email. "We pretty much all know each other, or have lots of common friends," Suiche said. "It's almost like we all grew up together."He added: "There isn't much to say except that Barnaby was one of the rare people in InfoSec who was a brilliant researcher but also a good friend to many of us."Suiche met Jack at the Black Hat conference a few years ago and said they had been really good friends since. He said he had drinks with Jack and his girlfriend in San Francisco just over a week ago.He called his friend "brilliant", and said Jack's latest research on medical devices could help save the lives of many people. "In this world full of people fearfully complying and worrying, very few people are crazy enough to challenge the rules, to approach life in an unconventional paradigm and to speak up to contribute to change this world," Suiche said.Jack was due to speak at the Black Hat conference, which starts Saturday in Las Vegas. His presentation, "Implantable medical devices: hacking humans," would have explained how these devices could be compromised and would have suggested ways to improve device security.Black Hat said the room his discussion was meant to take place will instead be used as a place for his friends and colleagues to gather and remember him on 1 August, when the session was set to take place.Black Hat said in a statement:We have lost a member of our family. Everyone would agree that the life and work of Barnaby Jack are legendary and irreplaceable. Barnaby had the ability to take complex technology and intricate research and make it tangible and accessible for everyone to learn and grow from. Beyond his work in our industry, Barnaby was an incredibly warm hearted and welcoming individual with a passion for celebrating life. We all have a hilarious and upbeat story about Barnaby. He is truly a shining example of what we love about this community.Black Hat will not be replacing Barnaby's talk on Thursday, Aug. 1. No one could possibly replace him, nor would we want them to. The community needs time to process this loss. The hour will be left vacant as a time to commemorate his life and work, and we welcome our attendees to come and share in what we hope to be a celebration of his life. Barnaby Jack meant so much to so many people, and we hope this forum will offer an opportunity for us all to recognize the legacy that he leaves behind.Our deepest sympathies go out to Barnaby Jack's family and loved ones. Words cannot adequately describe how much he will be missed, but it is certain that Barnaby will NEVER be forgotten.At the time of his death, Jack was director of embedded security research at security firm IOActive.On Twitter, the company said: "Lost but never forgotten our beloved pirate, Barnaby Jack has passed. He was a master hacker and dear friend. Here's to you Barnes!"
A British-based computer scientist has been banned from publishing an academic paper revealing the secret codes used to start luxury cars including Porsches, Audis, Bentleys and Lamborghinis as it could lead to the theft of millions of vehicles, a judge has ruled.The high court imposed an injunction on theUniversity of Birmingham's Flavio Garcia, a lecturer in computer science, who has cracked the security system by discovering the unique algorithm that allows the car to verify the identity of the ignition key.The UK injunction is an interim step in a case launched by Volkswagen's parent, which owns the four luxury marques, against Garcia and two other cryptography experts from a Dutch university.It complained that the publication could "allow someone, especially a sophisticated criminal gang with the right tools, to break the security and steal a car". The cars are protected by a system called Megamos Crypto, an algorithm which works out the codes that are sent between the key and the car.The scientists wanted to publish their paper at the well-respectedUsenix Security Symposium in Washington DC in August, but the court has imposed an interim injunction. Volkswagen had asked the scientists to publish a redacted version of their paper – Dismantling Megamos Crypto: Wirelessly Lockpicking a Vehicle Immobiliser – without the codes, but they declined.Volkswagen told the court that the technology they examined was used in a number of its vehicles and other mass market cars manufactured by itself and others.Garcia and his colleagues from the Stichting Katholieke Universiteit, Baris Ege and Roel Verdult, said they were "responsible, legitimate academics doing responsible, legitimate academic work" and their aim was to improve security for everyone, not to give criminals a helping hand at hacking into high-end cars that can cost their owners £250,000.They argued that "the public have a right to see weaknesses in security on which they rely exposed". Otherwise, the "industry and criminals know security is weak but the public do not".It emerged in court that their complex mathematical investigation examined the software behind the code. It has been available on the internet since 2009.The scientists said it had probably used a technique called "chip slicing" which involves analysing a chip under a microscope and taking it to pieces and inferring the algorithm from the arrangement of the microscopic transistors on the chip itself – a process that costs around £50,000. The judgment was handed down three weeks ago without attracting any publicity, but has now become part of a wider discussion about car manufacturers' responsibilities relating to car security.The scientists said they examined security on everything from Oyster cards to cars to enable manufacturers to identify weaknesses and improve on them.Finding in Volkswagen's favour, Mr Justice Birss said he recognised the importance of the right for academics to publish,  but it would mean "that car crime will be facilitated". A Volkswagen spokesman declined to comment on the interim injunction.
Internet traffic to legal pornography sites in the UK comprised 8.5% of all "clicks" on web pages in June – exceeding those for shopping, news, business or social networks, according to new data obtained exclusively by the Guardian.Only "arts and entertainment" – a category that is boosted by Google's video site YouTube – and search engines were bigger, at 9.5% and 15.7% respectively.The figures, which do not include traffic from mobile phones, were compiled bySimilarWeb, a web measurement company based in Tel Aviv which tracks clicks online rather than total volume of traffic. Otherwise, the figures would be distorted by the sheer size of video files such as YouTube and the BBC's iPlayer, which is classed under "news and media" because it sits within the BBC's website.The data does not include illegal searches for child abuse, which typically travel over secret networks such as Tor, or use peer-to-peer technology to try to hide the abuser's identity."Traffic on adult sites represents a huge portion of what people use the internet for, not just in the UK but around the world," said Daniel Buchuk, head of brand and strategy at SimilarWeb. "It is astonishing to see that adult sites are more popular in the UK than all social networks combined.""People don't just 'stumble' upon adult content. More than 8% of Google UK searches led to adult sites in the past three months," he said.The data was released as internet service providers wrestle with the challenge posed by the prime minister, David Cameron, who earlier this week tasked them with ensuring that within 18 months anyone signing up for internet service would have to choose whether toopt in or out of being able to access pornographic sites.Internationally, it appears that Britain is far less interested in porn than Germany, where it makes up 12.5% of traffic – nearly half as much again as the UK – and somewhat less than Spain, where it comprises 9.6%.But Britain ranks above the world average of 7.7%, and just slightly ahead of the US, where adult traffic makes up 8.3% of clicks.Cameron's anti-pornography policy has beencriticised by internet expertswho say it will be ineffective and commentators who point to his refusal to take action over the Sun's topless Page 3 pictures as contradictory.The controversy over the proposed blocking intensified over the week when the website of Claire Perry MP, who has campaigned against access to pornography, was hacked to show adult pictures. It also emerged that the Chinese telecommunications company Huawei operates the HomeSafe filtering system used by TalkTalk, one of the UK's largest ISPs.Cameron praised HomeSafe when launching his scheme – but it emerged that the system collects data about every URL that customers try to access. The system holds a list of "banned" URLs determined to contain pornographic content; every request via TalkTalk's system is routed through Huawei's system and checked against the list, but requests from customers who have opted to view pornography are ignored.That, campaigners argue, means there is in effect no "opt out" from the filters – only from their application.The Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) said on Wednesday that "protecting children from seeing legal adult pornography … [is] best addressed by parents following the excellent advice provided by Get Safe Online". Martyn Thomas of the IET warned that "universal blocking of websites, search terms and content is a blunt, ineffective tool".Buchuk said: "The hardest part for the government, which is what companies like Facebook or Tumblr are currently struggling with, will be to draw the line on what gets banned."SimilarWeb collects its data by watching the activity of people who have installed one of its browser plugins, which Buchuk said were installed in millions of machines worldwide. Around 1% of the internet populations in most western countries use its plugins, he said, allowing a reliable estimate to be made.The data includes cases where people go to pornographic subdomains within sites such as Tumblr, now owned by Yahoo, but not on YouTube, which includes content restricted to adults which is protected by a login.Buchuk suggested that the policy of forcing people to choose whether to opt in or out of accessing adult sites could have dramatic knock-on effects: "Other industries such as online gambling often rely on display advertising on adults sites." That could mean lower revenues for both the sites and the gambling companies.• This article was amended on 29 and 30 July 2013 to clarify that Martyn Thomas represents the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET).
Media Talk'sJohn Plunkettis joined by Tech Weekly'sJemima KissandStuart Dredgein this special programme that we have decided to nickname 'Tech Media Talk Weekly'.Recorded at the Guardian's new coffee shop at east London'sSilicon Roundabout– home of tech businesses including Moshi Monsters and Soundcloud – the panel discussesthe on/off sale of Hulu. Is there malaise in the TV industry, despite earlier successes such as the BBC's iPlayer?Apple, Google and Microsoft are all competing to be the centre of your entertainment hub – but who's winning? And do we really want everything in one box?Plus, as is the tradition on Media Talk,Rebecca Nicholsondrops in for an iced coffee and reviews the latest TV, including thefinal episode of Luther, the return ofPhone Shopand the decline of The Americans.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).djay 2 (£0.69 / £2.99)Developer Algoriddim made one of the first popular DJing apps for iOS with the original djay. Now it has a sequel, including a new user interface to flick between virtual decks and track waveforms. There's also a built-in sample player and recorder, and useful features for pro DJs and bedroom (digital)steel-wheel spinners alike. The link above is for the more-expensive iPad version, but theiPhone version can be found here.iPhone / iPadBloodmasque (£4.99)This is the latest iOS game from Square Enix: an atmospheric action-RPG with a vampiric theme, impressive graphics and a 12-hour main story to play through. There's also a neat feature to take a photograph of your own face and map it onto your character – in a way that doesn't look as freakish as you might expect – plus the ability to import your friends' characters to play alongside.iPhone / iPadSago Mini Doodlecast (£0.69)This is a relaunched version of an older app called Doodlecast, aimed at helping 2-6 year-olds turn their drawings into video stories. It works by getting the child to draw a picture while talking, records their finger-strokes and words, then exports the results as a video that parents can share with friends and family, or simply play back with their kids. 36 "drawing prompts" are provided to give children ideas, too.iPhone / iPadTreehouse: Learn Programming and Design (Free)The Treehouse website has been teaching people to code for a while now, but now it has a spin-off iPad app to take the process to Apple's tablet. Subjects and languages covered include Objective-C, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, Ruby, and SQL, but it requires a Treehouse membership to run.iPadFrontback (Free)This is the kind of app that may well baffle anyone older than 25, but delight plenty of younger people. It's an app for taking two photos: one with the iPhone's front camera and one with its rear one, then sharing them together in a single pic on social networks.iPhoneTodoist: To Do List | Task List (Free)Productivity app Todoist's latest update adds native tablet functionality. It's a to-do list and task-tracking app that synchronises with the Todoist website, with a premium account option to get text, email and push-notification reminders, among other features.iPhone / iPadArtistico (Free)Developer PlayArt's previous apps have focused on introducing art to children. This new hidden-object game is aimed at a broader age-range, but still with the ambition to get people looking at famous artworks in a new light.iPadMOTD Magazine (Free)The transfer rumour-mill is cranking up, clubs are playing pre-season friendlies around the world... The new football season is on the horizon, bringing with it the traditional Saturday-night TV highlights. Match of the Day's spin-off magazine is going digital at just the right time, then: selling individual issues for £1.49 via in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadTotally Pregnant (Free)This is a very helpful-looking app designed for mothers-to-be, with 3D videos showing how babies develop in the womb, lots of advice, discounts on products and a database of questions and answers on all things pregnancy-related.iPhoneSky Tourist (£0.69)Sky Tourist is the most characterful new iOS game released this week: a colourful action-puzzler where you guide hero Petey Pendant through a succession of physics-based puzzles – 75 levels in all. An indie treat.iPhone / iPadThe Book of Holes (£2.99)Danish children's picture-book The Book of Holes' schtick was a hole through the middle of every page. That idea has transferred nicely to digital, with an app that's "exploring everything from the wonders of the universe to the most mundane of bodily functions". As with the book, the app is designed to be used by parents and children together, rather than just the latter.iPadLoom (Free)I'm getting photo-sharing app fatigue in 2013, but there is still scope for innovation (andusefulinnovation, more importantly) around how we store our photos. Loom aims to be "one library, seamlessly organized and accessible from anywhere", with up to 5GB of space available for free. However, it's also the latest app asking users to "reserve a spot" rather than start using it right away: you can do thaton its website.iPhone / iPadAsterix: MegaSlap (£0.69)Asterix. Slapping. That's a good two-word pitch for a mobile game if ever I heard one. The indomitable Gaul makes his return to iOS in this quirky casual game featuring many of the familiar characters and locations from the Asterix books.iPhone / iPadGobaby (£1.49)Something for parents with young children on the go in London, this: "the map app for parents on the go" with listings for pram-accessible tube stations, baby-changing venues and more than 1,000 cafes, libraries, museums and shops that are baby-friendly. It also pulls in live service updates for the tube, to help avoid hot, cramped delays.iPhoneDailymotion Caméra (Free)YouTube has its YouTube Capture app for easy shooting and uploading of videos, and now rival Dailymotion has its own equivalent. Expect filters, simple editing tools to tweak contrast and brightness, and a choice of formats to upload to the video service.iPhoneBloxy Girls (£1.49)Bloxy Girls looks a lot like a virtual version of Lego, it's fair to say. Aimed at girls, it gets them to build structures from 3D bricks, then populate them with miniature figures and animals. More than 110 different bricks are available, so there's plenty of freedom for creativity.iPhone / iPadNarrato Journal (£2.49)Dear Diary, what apps are available to help me create a digital diary? Well, this one for starters. It imports your photos, tweets, Instagram pics and Foursquare check-ins, while also letting you manually add thoughts, then tag them with locations and photos. The price includes a year's subscription to Narrato, which stores your journal entry on its servers.iPhoneKeepy (Free)More storage here, but aimed at parents. Keepy invites them to take photographs of children's drawings, models, certificates and school reports, tag them with dates, and even record their voice talking about it. Everything can then be stored in Dropbox for safekeeping, and shared with family and friends when desired.iPhoneClimbing Everest: On Top of the World (£4.99)Magazine publisher Bauer Media is behind this digital one-shot mag-app covering the history of Everest ascents: photos, interviews with climbers and profiles of the likes of Edmund Hillary. The app is a spin-off from hillwalking magazine Trail, who can presumably be relied upon to know their stuff in this area.iPhone / iPadRiptide GP2 (£1.99)Water-based racing game Riptide GP's sequel sees you race nine hydro jets through a range of courses in single-player career mode as well as online multiplayer races. Excellent graphics, good handling and a decent sensation of speed make it very fun.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Apple has lost its status as the world's most profitable maker of mobile phones, with strong demand for Samsung's Galaxy handsets pushing the South Korean multinational into the financial lead for the first time.The California company made an estimated $3.2bn (£2.1bn) profit from iPhone sales in the second quarter of the year, according to the research firm Strategy Analytics, a marked drop from $4.6bn a year ago and less than Samsung's estimated $5.2bn haul from both its basic models and smartphones in the same period.While the high-priced iPhone was the engine that propelled Apple to become the world's most valuable company, its customers are no longer bent on owning the latest model.Healthy demand for the three-year-old iPhone 4, which is cheaper than the latest iPhone 5, has reduced the average selling price of its blockbuster device.As smartphone ownership trickles down the income brackets in both western and emerging markets, Apple's margins have taken a hit. The company's latest financial results showed that the average selling price of an iPhone has fallen to $581, down from $613 in the first quarter.The same trend has squeezed Samsung's handset profits, which are down from an estimated $5.6bn in the second quarter of 2012, but the strong performance of its flagship Galaxy S4 has, at least for now, put an end to Apple's four-year reign as the world's most profitable phone-maker."With strong volumes, high wholesale prices and tight cost controls, Samsung has finally succeeded in becoming the handset industry's largest and most profitable vendor," said Neil Mawston at Strategy Analytics."Apple is now under intense pressure to launch more iPhone models at cheaper price-points or with larger screens to fend off the surging competition and recapture lost profits in the second half of 2013."Rather than producing new budget phones, Apple has relied on sales of its older models to reach more cost-conscious shoppers. But a change of strategy is rumoured: the chief executive, Tim Cook, is said to be considering a brand-new budget iPhone as part of a revamp of the company's product range planned for this autumn.Across all brands around the world, the average price of a smartphone has plunged to $375 from $450 since the beginning of 2012, the research firm IDC estimates. With mobile phone networks cutting subsidies on handsets in the depressed economies of southern Europe, cheaper models by companies including LG and Sony are proving popular.In China's fast-expanding smartphone market, homegrown brands including ZTE and Huawei are selling well.The trend has helped Samsung widen its lead over Apple in the overall volume of handsets sold.Apple's global smartphone market share has fallen from 17% to 14%, its lowest level for three years, while Samsung's edged up to 33%, Strategy Analytics' research shows. Samsung sold 76m smartphones in the quarter to June, more than twice Apple's 31m iPhones, and up from 49m in the same period a year ago. LG, ZTE and Huawei have all roughly doubled their worldwide shipments by unit.
East London's tech startups are on a roll. There is a steady stream of new companies being created, the existing startups are growing and established tech companies are moving into the Silicon Roundabout area. All of this is making it increasingly hard to recruit great software developers, and developers are the lifeblood of every technology startup.Startups are picky when it comes to hiring. In a team of five or ten, one bad hire can have dire effects. It's not just that a significant percentage of your team isn't productive, but one person who isn't pulling their weight can badly damage the morale of the rest of the team. Tech startups are fast moving environments that require a high degree of technical skill and a real commitment to success.If Britain is to grow its entrepreneurial base – and we need it to – then we must significantly change how computer science is taught at schools and universities. This is not an easy fix. It takes several years for a change to the education system to be developed and for students to make their way through the improved system. So changes are not going to fix the immediate hiring situation. If the education system is not the short-term answer, then surely startups can do something about it and train their own staff, instead of expecting the rest of the world to solve their problems for them?Many startups believe they don't have the time to help their employees improve; you always feel that if you don't ship this feature right now, you will fail. But startups are about building great companies for the long term, as well as great products for now. Great companies are built on their teams and culture – so startups have to think about how they build for the long term.Learning not trainingIn typical startup fashion, at Songkick we emphasise learning over training. People learn best when they have a personal motivation to do so. We provide an environment where everyone in the company has the time and support to improve themselves.All new developers go through a mini "bootcamp" during their first week, when they get a thorough introduction to all our technology and products. They have a mentor who takes the week off to work exclusively with them, and by the end of their first day they will have made at least one change to our website.Beyond the first week, we are constantly helping our team to improve. We have weekly Developer Talks where a member of the team talks about an item of interest – either some challenge they've tackled or more general talks on technology. We've recently had a series on best practices with CSS from Marc, our client-side architect. We also bring in guest speakers to discuss technology topics – most recently, Spike Brehm, lead engineer from Airbnb, spoke to our team about the Rendr framework they have developed.We also support the team in formal and informal learning. Every developer gets 11 days a year to work on anything technology-related they like. This might be attending or speaking at a conference, working on an open source project or working on one of our internal hack days. Many of the team do online courses together; groups have worked on machine learning and cryptography courses from Stanford and MIT. A group of us have recently started working on Nand2Tetris which builds a fully functional computer capable of running Tetris from the most basic electronic component the NAND gate. We also support learning by giving every employee an annual stipend to help pay for courses and conference attendance.We also organise regular coding "dojos". A dojo is a meeting where coders get together to tackle an interesting technical problem. The group shares the task, with a pair of programmers working at the only computer for a short time and then passing duties on to the next pair in the group. By rotating the pair and keeping each pair's time short, everyone gets practical experience while the rest of the group help from the sidelines. We've recently held dojos on the APL and Go programming languages – the former just for fun, but we're using the latter in our everyday work. Our dojos are open to all Songkick team members and we often have guests from other local startups join us too.The learning culture of Silicon Roundabout and beyondIt is not just individual companies like Songkick that encourage active learning. Several new learning organisations have arrived in Silicon Roundabout in the last couple of years. General Assembly was a huge success in New York, and chose to come to London at the end of last year. They now teach dozens of courses about technology and general startup business techniques. The Makers Academy is a home-grown success, that helps people learn to program in an intensive 12-week course.Most encouragingly, startup-focused courses are spreading beyond London. Just two examples of many: TechHub is offering a course in 3D computer modelling in Manchester and in Leicester a group of startup developers are organising a regular meet-up to help others learn programming.All over the country, people are finding new ways to learn the skills needed to be a software developer at an entrepreneurial company. This is a hugely encouraging sign for the health of the startup community and for British entrepreneurialism.A better future through education and learningDespite the pressures of startup life, we put significant effort into helping our developers learn and improve. We know this is good for the people who work here and good for the long term growth of the company. People with broader and deeper skills help us get better and improve our chances of becoming a world class company. They also raise the overall level of talent available to all UK companies and will help Britain become one of the great tech nations of the future.
Video game publisher Activision Blizzard has announced a deal to buy itself back from French media giant Vivendi. The company, responsible for hits such as Call of Duty and World of Warcraft, will purchase 429 million shares for $5.83bn.Concurrently, Activision Blizzard CEO Bobby Kotick and co-chairman Brian Kelly have formed ASAC II LP, an investment vehicle through which they will purchase 172 million company shares for approximately $2.34bn in cash, or $13.60 per share. This will make it the largest Activision shareholder, and the arrangement includes $100m personally invested by Kotick and Kelly.Included in the same investor group is Tencent, the powerful Chinese investment company that runs social networks, internet service providers and online gaming portals in China."Tencent's investment as part of a group which now holds around 25 per cent of the company is an interesting development," said Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Electronics and Media. "Activision Blizzard and Tencent are already business partners for the Chinese market, so the evolution of this relationship can only strengthen AB's potential IP reach into what is a massive market in its own right. IHS data shows the PC Online market in China reached $8.9bn in 2012, of which Tencent held 43 per cent. Our research also shows Tencent's dominance of the Chinese market is strengthening in 2013."Vivendi will retain a 12% stake in the company, thoughaccording to Wall Street Journal sources,  Vivendi's representatives on the Activision board – including current chairman Philippe Capron – are expected to step down."These transactions together represent a tremendous opportunity for Activision Blizzard and all its shareholders, including Vivendi," said Kotick in a statement released on Thursday. "We should emerge even stronger – an independent company with a best-in-class franchise portfolio and the focus and flexibility to drive long-term shareholder value and expand our leadership position as one of the world's most important entertainment companies. The transactions announced today will allow us to take advantage of attractive financing markets while still retaining more than $3bn cash on hand to preserve financial stability."The merger of Activision with Vivendi's own games division, which included World of Warcraft creator Blizzard Entertainment, was announced in December 2007. The deal, worth $18.9bn, saw the creation of Activision Blizzard, now the largest third-party video game publisher in the world. Last year, the company announced record revenues of $4.86bn, and first-quarter figures for 2013 showed net revenues of £1.32bn.Recently, however, Vivendi has been struggling to reduce its debt, reported to be in the region of $17bn. The conglomerate is alsoin talksto sell off its shares in African phone operator Maroc Telecom to Etisalat for $5.5bn.Activision has now released itself from Vivendi's problems, but this could well bring new financial challenges."It is a substantial and gutsy move by Activision but also an eminently sensible one given the alternatives Activision faced," said Nick Gibson, an analyst with Games Investor Consulting. "Vivendi's majority stake combined with its own balance sheet difficulties could have resulted in raids on Activision's cash reserves – by forcing Activision to pay out large-scale special dividends – or other actions that might have jeopardised Activision's ability to operate."This move frees Activision from such threats but in doing so also radically weakens its balance sheet as the company goes from being largely debt free and hugely cash rich to having net debt of $1.4bn thanks to the use of $4.6bn in debt financing for the transaction. Needless to say, this presents its own set of problems although the Activision management clearly feel this is the more manageable and acceptable problem to have."The Activision Blizzard buyout comes at a crucial time for the video game industry. Sony and Microsoft are about to launch a new console generation with the arrival of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One this winter. Activision's Call of Duty Ghosts title is likely to be a key seller on the machines, as is next year's sci-fi adventure Destiny, a hugely ambitious new title from the studio behind the blockbusting Halo series.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts). It's a heavy games week this week, hopefully there'll be a better balance with non-games releases next week.Galaxy on Fire 2 HD (Free)Fishlabs' sprawling Galaxy on Fire space epics have always been a reliable source of mobile entertainment, and the latest installation is no different. It sees you shooting and trading your way across the galaxy, with more than 10 hours in its main campaign mode, and additional quests unlocked through in-app purchases.BOINC (Free)BOINC is the work of the Space Sciences Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley. It's an app that runs in the background when your Android is plugged in, charged and connected to a Wi-Fi network, and "harnesses the unused computing power of your Android device and runs jobs for scientific research projects". A bit like the same establishment's SETI@home project, but for a wider range of research.Google Play Games (Free)Google Play Games is essentially Android's version of Xbox Live or Apple's Game Center: a way to "discover new games, track achievements and scores, and play with friends around the world", integrated into developers' games, but also with this standalone app. It'll be interesting to see if Google puts more welly into its discovery aspects in the coming weeks and months, to help recommend games your habits suggest you'll like.Todoist: To Do List, Task List (Free)Productivity app Todoist has been out for a while on Android smartphones, but its latest update adds native tablet functionality. It's a to-do list and task-tracking app that synchronises with the Todoist website, with a premium account option to get text, email and push-notification reminders, among other features.Ionage (Free)Ionage is a real-time strategy (RTS) game set in space "where you use giant floating space platforms to do battle in a steampunk themed story of galactic conquest". Which sounds nice. It's also exclusive to Android, and while it plays nicest on tablets, developer Twice Circled promises it's been "resourcefully optimised" for smartphones too.Wedding Dash (Free)PlayFirst's "Dash" series of games are best known for Diner Dash, but this new game transfers the idea to wedding-planning. It sees you juggling tasks on the touchscreen to help heroine Quinn arrange cakes, flowers and grumpy brides, while fending off pigeons and fires. That's a helluva wedding. In-app purchases unlock extra levels and features.Quad Drawer (£0.79)"Your apps, quicker," promises the blurb for this launcher app, which styles itself as an on-device drawer that you can rummage through for apps by typing a few letters of whatever you're looking for. Apps can also be sorted alphabetically, by install date, or by most / last used to make them easier to find.Pixel Defenders Puzzle (£0.65)I fell hard for this when reviewing the iOS version last year: it sees you matching pixels and characters to make more-powerful characters, who then attack enemies at the top of the screen. If you've ever played the (also addictive) Triple Town, it's a bit like that but with extra fighting, and a fantasy-RPG theme. Well worth a try.Mushihimesama Bug Panic (£4.99)Good luck pronouncing the title to this shoot 'em up, although you'll need even more luck (and plenty of skill) to play it well. This is an old favourite from Japanese developer Cave, with bullets flying all over the shop, a punishing-yet-rewarding difficulty curve, and three control systems to suit your playing style.Totally Pregnant (Free)Talking of punishing-yet-rewarding difficulty curves... No, this is a very helpful-looking app designed for mothers-to-be, with 3D videos showing how babies develop in the womb, lots of advice, discounts on products and a database of questions and answers on all things pregnancy-related.Battle Dragons (Free)Dragons! If you're missing Game of Thrones, Battle Dragons may at least ease your fire-breathing giant-winged withdrawal symptoms. A bit. It sees you raising a dragon army then sending them off to battle other players, while building and defending your own fortress, and setting up "Dragon Tribes" with Facebook friends. If that reminds you of iOS game Clash of Clans, you're on the right lines – and with that game still not winging its way to Android, Battle Dragons could pick up plenty of fans.Minecraft Skin Studio (£2.39)Minecraft-maker Mojang likes this app for creating and sharing "skins" for Minecraft, and has provided an official endorsement. The app helps you browse more than 50k skins created by other players to modify Minecraft's desktop version – sorry, not the mobile or Xbox versions yet – and create your own.Prince of Persia Shadow &amp; Flame (£1.99)Another famous gaming hero returns to Android with this new Prince of Persia game from Ubisoft. Fans will know what to expect: platform leaping and plenty of sword-slashing combat, with 14 levels, touchscreen-friendly controls and spiffing graphics.Sparky Lock Screen (£1.31)The Google Play reviews are very positive for this collection of lock-screen themes, for Android smartphones only for now. Besides a varied collection of themes, its key appeal is how simple they are to set up and swap between.Riptide GP2 (£1.99)Water-based racing game Riptide GP was highly popular on Android, but its sequel offers plenty of new features. You can race nine hydro jets through a range of courses in single-player career mode as well as online multiplayer races. It plays nice with the Google Play Game network, and the visuals really are impressive – especially on devices with Tegra processors inside.Sugar Rush (Free)Swiping on a screen to make matches from 'candy' sweets? WHY HAS NO ONE THOUGHT OF THIS BEFORE?! Oh, hang on... Yes, it's fair to say Sugar Rush shares some of its DNA with Candy Crush Saga, as you pop sweets three-at-a-time while looking for jackpots to boost your score.DeathSmiles (£7.99)If you've a.) finished Mushihimesama Bug Panic and b.) have plenty of disposable income, here's another of Cave's shoot 'em ups to try. This time, the theme is "gothic horror", which means more skulls, but about as many bullets flying in your direction.The Smurfs 2 Keyboard (£0.79)SwiftKey? SchmiftKey! Swype? Schmype! And so on. They may be scrapping for the title of best Android keyboard-replacement app, but now there's a new contender: The Smurfs. "Let The Smurfs assist you in all your typing needs, bringing joy and fun to all your texts!" And you may laugh, but wait until your child demands it...Smart Layover (Free)This is handy for frequent flyers: an app that aims to help you make the most of layovers in more than 140 airports/cities, with deals and discounts for in-terminal shopping and eating, suggestions for sightseeing, and flight alerts and notifications to ensure you don't miss a connecting flight.Shake For Help (£0.66)This app turns your Android device into a connected panic-alarm: you set it up with specific emergency contacts, then it contacts them with your location if it's triggered by shaking the device. It runs in the background, and yes, it's possible it may be set off by mistake – in which case, shaking the device turns it off.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Fitness-tracking devices by companies including Fitbit, Nike and Jawbone are being used by a growing number of humans. Now their dogs can get in on the action too with a device calledFitBark.Pitched as "the world's tiniest wireless activity tracker for dogs", FitBark is a tiny device designed to be attached to a dog's collar, tracking their activity throughout the day, and plotting the results as graphs in a companion smartphone app.Based on breed, size and age, FitBark will set a daily activity goal for a dog that is "equivalent to approximately one hour of moderately intense physical activity, and the rest of the day spent at a lower energy level".The New York-based startup behind it istrying to raise $35k on crowdfunding website Kickstarterfor the first run of devices, and already has more than $30k of pledges after the first day of its campaign."FitBark combines our love for dogs, tech and beautiful design into a product that helps humans better understand dogs and give them back the joy that they provide to us," claims the company's Kickstarter listing.The device weighs less than 10g, is rugged and water-resistant, and promises up to 10 days of tracking from its Lithium-ion battery before needing to be recharged. The app that goes with it will be available for iPhone and Android smartphones, with data transferred between the devices using Bluetooth technology.FitBark is selling its first 250 devices for $59 through Kickstarter, although people can pay $109 for a FitBark plus a Base Station for their home, to transmit data to their smartphone when they're not within Bluetooth range of their pet.FitBark has been in development for 18 months, and this is the startup's second attempt at crowdfunding the product. The first attemptwas cancelled in May this yearafter raising just over $52k of its $100k goal."We received tons of feedback on the product, learned about pricing and forged a few great supplier relationships that allowed us to believe we could build an even better FitBark device at a lower price point," explains the company in the new Kickstarter listing."We also felt that re-launching would better our chances of making FitBark available to dog lovers everywhere (even across the globe)."FitBark is also hoping that its device will encourage humans to track their own activity. Its app can receive data from trackers including Fitbit and Nike Fuelband to compare the respective walkies taken by dogs and their owners.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Call of Duty: Ghosts Confirmed for Wii U | IGNIt looks like Wii U fans will hear the Call of Duty after all:Ghosts will come to Nintendo's console on November 5th, the same day as versions on other consoles, and includes support for the Wii Remote and GamePad.In addition, Activision confirmed that it will release five other titles on Wii U this fall, including Skylanders Swap Force, Angry Birds Trilogy, Angry Birds Star Wars, SpongeBob SquarePants: Plankton's Robotic Revenge and Wipeout Create &amp; Crash. Plankton's Robotic Revenge comes following Activision's acquisition of the SpongeBob license, which it recently acquired from THQ.Battlefield 4′s Battlelog lets players use browsers as second screen | VG247Battlefield 4′s Battlelog service was debuted last night in a reveal trailer from DICE. The clip showed examples of how your mobile and tablet can be used to play Commander mode, tweak loadouts, queue servers and more. The studio has now confirmed you can use your browser as a second screen instead.Over on Reddit, Battlelog producers "TheBikingViking" and "DarkLord7854″ confirmed that browsers can be used as a second screen on your laptop or if your PC has dual monitors to run Battlelog's suite of features while you play the game.It's basically just a website so will be viewable on smartphones too, although the report suggests it won't optimise for smaller screens. I'm guessing this is just the start of a more polished second screen offering that will eventually emerge as a proper app.Zynga sheds almost half its daily users in 12 months | CVG UKThe Facebook gaming gold rush is over and this fact is continuing to prove challenging to Zynga:Zynga has shed almost half of its daily active users since Q2 2012, the firm said today.Reporting today as part of its financial results for Q2 2013, ended June 30, the firm said that active users of its games for the quarter dipped to around 39 million, down 45 per cent from 72 million in Q2 2012.This continues a downward slide for the company's active user base, which sat at 52 million in the first quarter 2013. Likewise, the firm's monthly active users fell from roughly 306 million in the second quarter of 2012 to 187 million in the second quarter of 2013.The firm posted revenues of $231 million, down 31 per cent year-over-year, and a Q2 2013 net loss of around $16 million.Zynga's recently hired CEO, Don Mattrick, remains optimistic. "The next few years will be a time of phenomenal growth in our space and Zynga has incredible assets to take advantage of the market opportunity," said the former Xbox boss.That's okay then!Why gaming's latest take on war is so offensive to Russians | PolygonInteresting piece from Polygon on the not-exactly-rounded depiction of Russian troops in WWII:Critics in Russia and the countries of the former Soviet Union say its portrayal of the Eastern Front in World War II plays to Western bias about history and clichés about the Soviet war effort.Following a video posted by 'Bad Comedian' in Russia, fellow countrymen bombarded Metacritic, dragging the game's user score down to 2.2. "The story is not true and is a complete falsification of the history of Russia and its methods of warfare," wrote one. Another added that the game had taken "dirty myths about war and turned the story into ideological rubbish."Grave Windows game | Indie DBThis looks pretty chilling:Grave is a first-person, open-exploration survival experience. The player must discover a series of mysterious items that provide clues to strange happening in an abandoned and mysterious town. However, as night falls, threats loom in the darkness. Survive the night and uncover the secrets of the town before the Strangers in the night find you. beware that everything is not always as it seems.Intriguingly, the game supports the sort of seamless transgressive multiplayer that Journey introduced and which forthcoming titles like Watch Dogs are likely to make a big deal of:Multiplayer is simple but really interesting. Players who are engaged in online play are dropped into each other's games and will have their own experiences that can be shared with each other. There's no need to browse for servers or type in IPs, it is handled behind the scenes and the process is pretty smooth. It's an eerie feeling to come across another player out in the dark, but safety in numbers isn't always the case...The Weblog Mobile Pick: A Ride into the Mountains is a picturesque, archery-based, epic adventure | IndieGames.comThis looks lovely:A Ride into the Mountains for Android and iOS feels like a magical combination of Shadow of the Colossus and Zelda, focusing on the adrenaline one could experience riding and fighting enemies and bosses on a horse.The gameplay consists of tilting the device to dodge with the horse, while sliding back with a finger controls the aiming. An additional finger tap initiates the later learned "focus" ability, useful for when the wind is blowing in different directions and enemies hide behind walls.The adventure involves riding in the mountain to retrieve a relic stolen by an evil force which has caused darkness to spread. The game isn't so evil itself, as mobile games seem to require, respawning the character before each most recent enemy encounter along the journey. There are plenty of enemies of all shapes to shoot, some with different attacks to repel.Here's the video:And there's more infohere.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A Guardian investigation has cast doubt on claims by a UK-based Turkish researcher that he hacked into Apple's Developer portal, which has been offline for more than a week.Ibrahim Balic, who describes himself as a security consultant, claimed on Sunday that he had discovered a number of weaknesses in the site at developer.apple.com which allowed him to grab email addresses of registered developers.Apple took its developer portal offline on Thursday 18 July. On Sunday itemailed developers warning that the site had been hackedand that some of their details might have been stolen. It has not given any more details of how the hack was carried out.In all, Balic said he had been able to grab the details of 100,000 people registered on the site, and that he included 73 of them in a bug report to Apple. He claimed that he exploited across-site scripting(XSS) bug in the site, and noted 13 issues in a bug report to Apple between 16 and 20 July.However XSS attacks generally require the attacker — which in this case would be Balic — to "infect" a page, in this case Apple's, with a malicious piece of Javascript or HTML which would then be used to extract data from a visiting user. If Balic's claim is correct, he seems to have used the XSS exploits against his own system.Balic offered to provide proof of his hack by sharing some details of the file with the Guardian, and provided the emails for 19 people; the Guardian also extracted another 10 from an email Balic put on YouTube in which he apparently showed how he hacked the site. (He has since made the video private.)But attempts by the Guardian two days ago to contact 29 of the group whose details Balic claims to have acquired found that seven of the emails bounced — because the email is no longer operational — and not a single one of the others has responded to a request to say whether they are registered with Apple. Nor could any of the emails or names be discovered online — which would be unusual for any active developer.Many of the emails also belong to defunct services such as Freeserve, Demon and SBC Global — which makes it unlikely that they would have signed up as developers, as that only became possible in 2008.Graham Cluley, an independent security consultant, commented: "Many of the names and email addresses either don't look like they would belong to Apple developers, or appear to have left no footprints anywhere else on the net." Of the set of 10 emails which appeared in the video, he said: "It's almost as though these are long-discarded ghost email addresses from years ago or have been used by Balic in his video for reasons best known to himself."Balictold iMorethat the user information that he showed in a video came not from an exploit against a developer portal, but from Apple's iAd Workbench, for targeting advertising campaigns to users. He said that a malformed web request to those servers containing just a first name or last name meant he could get more data — including a full name, username and email address for those users.He then said that he wrote a script that generated "random" users to get more account information wherever there was a match of some sort, and used that to acquire the user details.Balic did not respond to a request by the Guardian to explain why the emails he had apparently collected were defunct or apparently inoperational.Apple refused to comment on the method used to hack into its site. It would not comment on whether it has called in law enforcement over the hack, or whether it has identified any suspects.Even if the hack was not carried out by Balic, Apple has still been the target of a significant attack. However, standard iTunes Store and App Store accounts belonging to non-developers have not been affected.The increasing delay in bringing its developer portal back online may also create problems for Apple in its preparation for the launch of iOS 7, the updated version of its iPhone and iPad software. It released the third beta for the software on 8 July, and has generally aimed for a fortnightly cycle of releases. That would imply that the fourth beta should have been released last Monday 22 July – although a year ago there was a three-week delay, from 16 July to 6 August, between the releases of the third and fourth betas for iOS 6, the current iPhone software.The company meanwhile has set up anew "system status" page, which on Friday morning showed that only two of its 15 developer systems — for updating apps, and reporting bugs — are online.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIn his own words: confessions of a cyber warrior &gt;&gt; InfoWorldRoger Grimes:Much of the world is just learning that every major industrialized nation has a state-sponsored cyber army -- though many of the groups, including team USA, have been around for decades.I've met a few cyber warriors. As you might imagine, they can't talk much about their duties. But if you work shoulder to shoulder with them long enough, certain patterns emerge. For starters, there are a lot of them. They are well armed with cyber weaponry, and they're allowed to experiment and hack in ways that, as we all now know, might be considered illegal in some circles.The interview that follows shows they're not that much different from anyone else. Except the hacking thing, of course. And better kit (such as water-cooled computers).Why the new tabbed Gmail inbox doesn't feel "mobile first" to me &gt;&gt; Martin BelamMy assumption is that the design changes are data-driven around how few people use filters or labels, and how many people "Mark as spam" legitimate opt-in newsletters and promotions when they realise that is easier to do than to actually unsubscribe from them.But the desktop isn't my gripe.It is the mobile implementation on iOS that is making Gmail less efficient to use for me.Updates to the tabs that aren't your primary inbox are signalled by something that looks like an email, but actually isn't. Which is a bit confusing as a metaphor.Year of the ChinaDroid &gt;&gt; TechRiceKai Lukoff:The value of content consumed on Android devices will explode in the coming years. It'll start with in-app purchases in games and ads viewed while browsing, but it'll soon become the terminal of choice for e-commerce and the decision point for offline retail purchases too. That's why Amazon sells its Kindle devices at such a low price: it can make much more on content sales than the device itself. And that's why all of China's Internet heavyweights like Tencent, Baidu, Alibaba, and Qihoo are now partnering to build their own smartphone. Especially those that don't yet have a strong entry point onto the smartphone (here's looking at you, Baidu and Alibaba), will try to buy one by releasing their own subsidized devices or paying other manufacturers to pre-load their apps. Google absence has created fierce and chaotic competition to control content delivery channels in China.AOSP (non-Google Android) is now about 90% of smartphones shipped in China.Programming Diversity &gt;&gt; IndiegogoCreate access and opportunity for women, people of color, people with disabilities, LGBTQ people, and other marginalized people in tech.Only aiming for $4,500, it's hit $8.040. A worthy topic for contribution. Amounts vary from $5 to $5,000.First malicious use of 'Master Key' Android vulnerability discovered &gt;&gt; SymantecEarlier this month, we discussed the discovery of theMaster Key vulnerabilitythat allows attackers to inject malicious code into legitimate Android applications without invalidating the digital signature. We expected the vulnerability to be leveraged quickly due to ease of exploitation, and it has.Norton Mobile Insight—our system for harvesting and automatically analyzing Android applications from hundreds of marketplaces—has discovered the first examples of the exploit being used in the wild. Symantec detects these applications as Android.Skullkey.We found two applications infected by a malicious actor. They are legitimate applications distributed on Android marketplaces in China to help find and make doctor appointments.A cloud on the horizon no larger than a man's hand.India: Army 'mistook planets for spy drones' &gt;&gt; BBC NewsIndia's army reportedly spent six months watching "Chinese spy drones" violating its air space, only to find out they were actually Jupiter and Venus.Sundar Pichai on the difference between Chromecast and Google TV &gt;&gt; AllThingsDLiz Gannes:So why two different devices? The new Chromecast dongle will be a sort of lightweight way to stream video on a television. Google TV, you probably already know about — though you probably don't own as it's not super popular. Soon, "it will be a full-fledged Android for television," [Sundar] Pichai said, noting that he expects to announce many more partners at CES early next year.The Chromecast costs $35 and has just 256k of memory (How little is that? It was thetop of the line in 1983, according to an old link I just pulled up.). But that doesn't mean it streams low-quality video; the default resolution is the industry-standard 1080p.Where Google TV can provide "an immersive experience" that's appropriate for gaming, Chromecast will have too much latency for gaming, Pichai explained.So why make a new device that doesn't do as much? To try to popularize the activity of watching Internet TV on a real living-room TV, said Pichai."It is shocking how much video is consumed on phones, tablets and laptops, but the TV usage just breaks off," he said. (During prepared remarks, Pichai cited Sandvine data showing that YouTube and Netflix account for an estimated 49.4% share of all peak downstream internet traffic in the US.)So Google TV is Chromecast, but with optional gaming? "Jump in the car with me, Google TV. We're going to pay a visit to your old friend Reader." (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)An in-depth look at the big (and small) additions to Android Jelly Bean 4.3 &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe most user-facing new feature in 4.3 is the ability to create restricted profiles. This builds on the multi-user implementation in Android 4.2 tablets (and only tablets) by allowing the tablet owner to designate which apps, services, and settings are available to restricted users. This is perfect for guests, kids, or retail kiosks.(Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
I will be in Africa for three months and want to shoot some simple documentary films. Since I will live locally, I have decided to take my Flip HD camera, a Tascam DR-05 and my Olympus XA2 with me. Now I am thinking about how to transfer and store the footage. Shall I take a netbook or a 7-inch Samsung tablet? I probably need a USB port so it all points to the netbook but I feel that netbooks are a bit outdated already. I don't think I would even use the netbook much, other than to save to it temporarily and then transfer files to a small external hard drive.AnonymousFlip camcorders, and their FlipShare software, have been specifically designed to plug into a laptop's USB port in order to copy movies across, so this would be the most natural way to use one. Also, laptops and netbooks have mass storage built in, often in the form of a 320GB or 500GB hard drive. Tablets don't have as much built in storage, typically from 8GB to 64GB. Copying movies from a tablet to an external hard drive would be an extra step, and would not actually provide a backup.Flip says a third-generation Flip Mino HD can capture 120 minutes of video on its 8GB of built-in memory. If you can know roughly how much you might shoot, you can estimate how much storage you will need. An hour of video per week would take up about 50GB.I haven't tried using a Flip HD camcorder with a tablet, so perhaps readers can report how well it works. However, the idea raises some potential problems. First, if the tablet has a USB port, can it provide enough power to handle a Flip HD for a sustained period? (File copying can be a bit slow.) Bear in mind that the Flip HD expects the USB port to recharge it, and I doubt that's what the tablet's designers had in mind!Second, can the tablet play files in the Flip HD's native video format? If the tablet can play them, can it edit them? You probably won't want to attempt any sophisticated video editing while you're away, but the ability to "top and tail" videos is a big advantage and can save you a lot of storage space. You can do this with FlipShare, and you can also grab "stills" from your videos. (There's aFlip Video app for Androidbut it can't edit videos and almost half of its ratings are one star.)If you're serious about taking a tablet rather than a laptop, you'll need to test its Flip HD compatibility extra-thoroughly before you set off ... though of course, you should do that anyway.SD cards for soundThe Tascam DR-05 digital sound recorder saves recordings on SD (Secure Digital) cards. Again, it has a USB port for transferring files to a laptop, and if you run out of batteries, you can run the DR-05 plugged into a laptop's USB port. However, it's probably simpler to remove the SD card and slot it into your main device, which might be a laptop or a tablet with an SD card slot.Tascam DR-05: uses SD cards as storage. Photograph: TascamIf you record MP3 files, then storage shouldn't be a problem. Check to see how big your existing files are, and guess how many recordings you might make. I suspect that a couple of 8GB or 16GB cards will get you through. If you intend to record uncompressed WAV files, then you will probably have to budget space on your PC's hard drive.Film mattersIf you are really taking an Olympus XA2 – meaningthe compact camera from the 1980s– then you don't have to worry about digital storage for photos. However, 35mm colour films are susceptible to heat, which is why serious photographers store their films in the fridge.Olympus XA2: 35mm film camera launched in 1980. Photograph: OlympusKodak's technical note onMaintaining Film Quality with Refrigerationsays films can be kept in original sealed cans for up to six months at 13°C (55°F) and a relative humidity below 60%. For exposed but unprocessed films, it recommends -18 to -23°C. Also, the faster the film, the more susceptible it will be to heat damage. You don't need Hollywood levels of quality or reliability, but three months of intense heat isn't going to improve your results.It's relatively expensive to shoot 35mm nowadays, compared with the zero cost of digital. The only obvious advantage is that some 35mm cameras work without batteries – except for watch-type S76 silver oxide cells in the XA2. I'd suggest you take stills with the Flip HD as well, or take a decent digital compact.Netbook or laptop?It's not clear from your question whether you already have a netbook. If you do, I can't see any problem with taking it. If you were planning to carry it everywhere, then yes, a tablet would be lighter. If you're only taking it to store films and photos, it will spend all its time at your home base and it won't matter how heavy it is. Although it's not a good choice for photo, video or audio editing, a netbook can also handle "topping and tailing".I agree that "netbooks are a bit outdated" now and I wouldn't recommend buying a new one for an adult, unless price is the overriding consideration. Microsoft has allowed the specification of netbooks to advance over the past five or six years, but not by much. Manufacturers are still constrained in what they can shipifthey wish to include a cheaper version of Windows. The main drawbacks are the limited processing power, no more than 1GB of memory, the maximum hard drive size (was 160GB, now 320GB), and the 1024 x 600 pixel screen resolution. Also, netbook manufacturers can no longer use the very cheap Windows XP Home ULCPC (Ultra Low Cost PC) Edition that some buyers might prefer to the more expensive Windows 7 Starter Edition.For a little more money, you can get a low-end laptop with a much better specification (4GB of memory, 500GB hard drive, 1366 x 768-pixel screen) and a full version of Microsoft Windows 8. A recent example is the Acer Aspire V5-121 with an 11.6in screen, which is currently discounted to£249.99at Amazon.co.uk. Yes, it has a very slow 1GHz AMD C70 processor, but it's only slightly slower than a 1.6GHz Intel Atom N2600, and has better graphics.Portable and cloud storageIt would be nice to add a small, portable external hard drive for extra backups, but think about taking 32GB SD memory cards instead. You can buy name brand 32GB cards for about£15each, or possibly less if you shop around. SD cards don't need a power supply, have no moving parts, are not vulnerable to heat or dust, and take up very little space. A couple of 32GB SD cards would store your most important files, if not everything.There are, of course, someportable storage devicesthat are aimed at travelling photographers, which I'll mention for the sake of completeness. They are attractive in combining a hard drive with a small screen display, but they tend to be expensive. For example, a 500GB HyperDrive ColorSpace could set you back£370(there are models from about £340 to £430).You don't mention whether you will have online access. If so, you may be able to upload files to an online (cloud) service such as Dropbox or Microsoft's SkyDrive. I have not been to Africa, but in most countries, you can either use free Wi-Fi hotspots or buy pay-as-you-go dongles that connect via a mobile phone network. All these USB dongles seem to include Windows software that gets you online without much effort or technical knowledge, which may be another reason to favour a netbook or laptop for storage.One big advantage of SD cards is that they are very easy to hide. Even if some of your equipment is lost or stolen, you should still be able to hang on to your irreplaceable data. One big advantage of online storage is that it can't be lost or stolen, as long as you remember your ID and secure password.
Microsoft reversing on unpopular Xbox One decisions has become a rather familiar story. In June, the company backtracked on its digital distribution plans, abandoning a system that would limit pre-owned sales of physical games, and that would require the daily online authentication of every Xbox One unit.Now, Xbox business VP Marc Whitten has released a statement seemingly revolutionising the console's approach to indie developers. "Our vision is that every person can be a creator," he declaredto Engadget. "That every Xbox One can be used for development. That every game and experience can take advantage of all of the features of Xbox One and Xbox LIVE. This means self-publishing. This means Kinect, the cloud, achievements. This means great discoverability on Xbox LIVE. We'll have more details on the programme and the timeline at Gamescom in August."Originally it appeared that Microsoftwould not allow self-publishing, meaning that small studios would have to work with larger publishers in order to release Xbox One games. It's an archaic model, a hark back to the days before the smartphone platforms, where only cursory approval structures are in place, and where studios are largely free to set pricing structures and monetisation strategies. And with Sony promising a robust self-publishing model for PlayStation 4 (while carefully positioning itself as the indie platform of choice), something was always likely to give.Responses from the indie community have so far been guarded – mostly due to the lack of concrete information. Veteran developer Byron Atkinson-Jones of Xiotex Studios, wonders whether this is simply a repackaging of an earlier strategy. "I'm suspicious," he says. "Xbox One has a Metro interface, which is the same as in Windows 8 and Surface, so the plan has always been that you can develop cross-platform apps – it's very easy to do, it's just an HTML 5 interface – but you have very limited access to the hardware. If that's what they're talking about with this self-publishing programme, it's not the same as self-publishing on Nintendo or Sony. I wonder about how much has changed."Atkinson-Jones also highlights the limitations of using a retail machine as a development unit. With consoles, most major studios will use special debug versions of the consoles, which come loaded with libraries and APIs designed to help programmers get the most out of the machine. They also tend to have technical differences, which help when running early code. "Using retail machines as debugs doesn't make sense," says Atkinson-Jones. "If you want to create large-scale games, you need more memory on your debug machine. It's all just quite limited."It's a theme picked up on by Andrew Newton of Clever Beans, the studio responsible for PS3 indie title When Vikings Attack. "If they're opening up retail consoles to programming, it will definitely have to be limited. You need to ensure the security of the system to prevent hacking. It sounds like it'll be a little like the new version of XNA [a special toolkit and coding application designed for small indie studios to develop Xbox 360 titles], which did allow developers to create things a bit more easily because it's a managed system; on the other hand you wouldn't be able to create a Triple A product with that. The hardware access is limited."Alex Zoro, founder of PixelToys, saw Microsoft's move coming, but expected more information by now. "Microsoft has historically been open to indies but I'm surprised they didn't announce more at E3," he says. "They haven't handled the PR in a way that's done them any favours, and we still don't know much about what they're proposing. I presume they are moving toward the openness of the Apple store, and if you look at the increasing integration between Microsoft's platforms, they need an integration of policies. Also, we don't really know Sony's policies either; they've talked about being open, but both manufacturers will have agreements that you have to sign up to; I'm sure the wording on those won't yet be finalised on either machine. Nothing is clear at the moment."Zoro also questions the idea that working within retail machines will limit indie developers in what they can achieve. "If you look at the way that people develop for mobile devices now, there's no special hardware, everyone is using the devices themselves – it's about having adequate tools to get the debug information that you want. If Microsoft builds enough of the diagnostics into the machine, then in the same way you can build a high quality iPhone game, you can do that for the Xbox One as well."For other developers, the worry isn't that games developed using the retail hardware will be technically inferior to "officially" produced titles, it's that they'll be ghettoised on the Xbox One menu system. Xbox 360 offered the XNA toolset, but all the games developed using that limited language were placed within the Xbox Live Indie Games portal, which was somewhat hidden away on the dashboard.Sean Taylor at Dundee studio Denki, which produced the critically acclaimed Xbox Live game Quarrel, sees discoverability as the key issue: "My first reaction to the announcement was to wonder whether this was a genuine shift towards an app store model, such as the one Ron Carmelblogged aboutin 2011, or whether it was simply a PR-friendly resurrection of the Xbox LIVE Indie Arcade Channel. I'm hoping that they use Gamescom to confirm it's the real deal."Whichever model it turns out to be, the problem of curation and discoverability will loom large. Getting it right could be the factor that persuades a lot of developers to switch allegiance. But visibility is something which has become increasingly worse with every dashboard update on the 360, so it's a challenge for them. I don't think good games made on retail consoles will look or feel like second class citizens. The crucial question is whether or not Microsoft willtreatgames created on retail consoles as second-class citizens regardless."Dan Marshall, whose latest game Gun Monkeys has just been released on PC, is more optimistic. "It's hard to be grumpy about these things now," he says. "Good on them, they've been paying attention and they're making strides in the right direction. But in typical Microsoft fashion, they've put out a vague statement about what it means. What they should have done is provide a link to some boring corporate website that has a list itemisingeverythingfor the developers whose income and lives will depend on this thing."Marshall is also unconcerned about any technical limits that might accompany a development environment running on a retail machine. "From a certain point of view, it's brilliant," he says. "Dev kits go for around $15,000 – well as an indie, that's $15,000 that I can now spend on better graphics or polishing bugs or nicer music. It instantly opens doors. We're in this era of Unity and of engines and middleware doing a lot of the heavy lifting for you. In all honestly, I don't have the time or the technical understanding to be dicking around with the memory access or graphics processing unit. That stuff's vital if you're making Gran Turismo 6, but if you have a small indie team, you're not going to need that raw power."The reaction then, is one of very cautious optimism. There are questions about how the Xbox One system will be opened up to self-publishing studios, and on the limits of any programme that involves the use of a retail machine as a development unit. And while Sony has sought to present indie as very much a part of the wider package, even showcasing a whole bunch of smaller titles during its E3 press conference, it's unclear whether Microsoft will present a similar meritocracy on its own system.Xbox One chief product officer Marc Whitten has suggested the answers will come at Gamescom. This time, finally, there can be no room for ambiguity.
Early backers for Canonical'sUbuntu Edgesmartphone-PC hybrid pledged nearly $3.5m in the first 24 hours of itscampaign on crowdfunding site Indiegogo, while the total has since grown to $5.7m.That represents just under 18% of the $32m target for the campaign with 28 days to run, thanks to a scramble to secure one of the 5,000 devices being offered for $600 to first-day backers.Latecomers were left to pay $830 for the device, a smartphone which dual boots between Android and Ubuntu, and is capable of being connected to a monitor and Bluetooth keyboard to act as a PC.Now Canonical has introduced a set of lower pricing tiers, in what it says is a direct response to feedback from potential buyers. The limited-edition tiers range from 1,250 Ubuntu Edges available for $625 to 7,000 at $820, with the $830 tier remaining "unlimited"."You told us you want more opportunities to get the Ubuntu Edge at a lower contribution level, so we went back to our spreadsheets and came up with a solution," explains an update on the Indiegogo campaign page, which also deals with potential unrest over people who'd already pledged to pay the highest price."Hundreds of you have already contributed $830 for an Ubuntu Edge, but don't worry. We'll refund the difference at the end of the campaign so you won't lose out. We'll contact you all directly with more information."Reaching $5.7m in pledges is big news for Indiegogo, which is on a drive to remind the world that there is more to crowdfunding than just rival site Kickstarter."It has been the fastest crowdfunding campaign ever to reach the $2 million mark, achieving this in under 8 hours. Should it reach its target of $32m in the space of a month it will be Indiegogo's highest grossing campaign ever," said Indiegogo's Kate Drane.Her job title – director of vertical market development, design and technology – indicates Indiegogo's desire to do more with technology products. ThePebble smart-watchandOuya Android consoleraised $10.3m and $8.6m respectively on Kickstarter in 2012, with both shipping this summer.Canonical's attempt to raise $32m represents a step up in terms of ambition, but also in risk. If it sells the 28,500 Ubuntu Edge units across the new, cheaper tiers, that will mean just under $22.4m in sales to add to the $3m from the initial run of 5,000 $600 units.That will still require nearly 8,000 people to commit to paying the highest $830 price for the device. Even so, if Canonical hits its target, it will be an important moment for other technology firms considering crowdfunding as an alternative to traditional financing for their hardware.
The most popular figure in Starcraft II isn't one of today's top pros, or a team owner, or even one of the game's creators. Sean Plott, better known by the alias Day[9], has been obsessed with this series and its culture since the first game was released in 1998. And he knows why. "It'ssafe. It is one of the safest things you can do. You will suffer no bodily injury, break no arms. It's not like setting up a business where you can really upset and offend people. It's highly social. You're playing against very kind, analytic, sweet-hearted nerds. I mean, hell, even if you're playing against a murderous drug dealer – you're doing it over the internet! And no murderous drug dealers play a lot of Starcraft."Blizzard's real-time strategy series has a long history beyond the scope of this piece, but suffice to say Starcraft: Brood War and Starcraft II are two of the leading lights in esports – competitive videogaming – with millions of active players and year-round global events with huge prize pools. Sean Plott was 11 years old when the first game was released and, along with his elder brother Nick, has been obsessed with the game and its iterations ever since.It is hard to quantify exactly what Plott does to someone unfamiliar with gaming culture, and in particular the recent rise in popularity of video streaming sites. A singular figure in the evolving ecosystem of esports, Plott is focused on Starcraft II but has fingers in all sorts of pies; streamer, analyst, commentator (aka 'shoutcaster'), event organiser, community focal point and many more.The internet at the tail-end of the nineties, of course, was very different. "Back when I was a wee noobie and had just got this game, I didn't know about competitive balance; the internet was fairly new so there weren't really any venues for that kind of discussion. The idea of community sites was a new thing, most players didn't even know about them. So [the reason I kept playing Starcraft then] all comes down to the way the game feels. Just the act of moving things around and building stuff, and the responsiveness is really crisp and snappy. It's the difference between riding a good bike and riding one with a flat tyre – it just feels wrong. Starcraft feels full, it feels great."The Plott brothers shared a passion for the game, which soon enough saw the pair entering tournaments – aided and abetted by their mother. Sean first realised he was getting seriously good after immersing himself in the World Game Tour ladder (a league system for Starcraft: Brood War), obsessively downloading and analysing replays from the top players, and seeing a drastic improvement.Pole position"A year or two after this started, suddenly I'm the one at the top of that ladder, and I'm like, 'whoa, something's changed!' It's only then, around 2004/5, where I started to train really seriously and really hard." Plott was going pro, which meant a crazy schedule in the months before the biggest tournaments and re-scheduling his university work. "I'd wake up, play for two hours, eat lunch, then I'd play for six hours till seven, then I'd eat dinner and take a break till eight-thirty or nine, then I'd play till three in the morning. So it was two hours, six hours, and six hours. I'd sleep from three am to ten am every day."It paid off: Plott won the 2005 World Cyber Games USA Starcraft tournament. It was a biggie. "[It was] one of the weirdest moments I've ever had. Because you get this idea when you're growing up about how great it's gonna feel to be the champion. You always see those dramatic shots of people winning where they burst into tears and champagne starts pouring out of the ceiling and it's awesome. And I remember playing against Yosh, Sherwin Mahbod, in the finals of WCG 2005, and being in that last game and thinking, 'I'm totally going to win this, there's no way I can lose.' Then I won and I remember thinking, 'What do I do now? Do I hug him? I guess so.' I went over there and hugged Yosh and he said, 'well played, man' and I said, 'thanks'. And I felt cool but it was kinda weird. The joy was delayed. Because you don't wanna be all, 'Yeah, I fucking beat everyone!' You don't want to be a sore winner. Yosh was one of my practice partners, he'd helped me get better!"Plott in the Brood War days. ‘The second win in Cancun was satisfying. I beat Testie in the finals 3-2 and that felt fucking good, because I respect him so much, I really think he’s one of the best gamers of all time, and that one time I got him. But there was no-one there!’Though Plott would go on to win the WCG Pan-American championship, held in Cancun in 2007, that first trophy led to an important realisation. "For me, far more so than winning an event, the joy was in learning and improving and feeling like I was solving a lot of problems. I almost think I'd have more joy in that winning spot if I played really intense dramatic games. But it's such a funky feeling when you work out what someone's going to do, you know the exact weakness, and you exploit it at the right time. 'OK there I did it, boom got 'im!'"Plott kept on playing as well as contributing ceaselessly toTeam Liquid, the internet's greatest Starcraft site. "Starcraft is like a culture, a lifestyle you can immerse yourself in. I was obviously into Brood War's competitive scene, and then I was running a little low on time in grad school. I thought as another thing I could be doing, let me try to talk about the strategy rather than play. So first I tried writing articles, then I tried audio podcasts, then I finally tried video streaming and it felt really good."Building an audience onlineThe Day [9] Daily began in April 2010, coinciding with the beta (pre-release) phase for Starcraft II's first instalment, subtitledWings of Liberty. The show initially looked at pro matches in great detail, and soon widened out into more general themes: how to deal with losing, analysing replays, fine-tuning builds – if you haven't seen one before, it's well worth setting aside some time forDaily #100. The show's audience began to build in the runup to Starcraft II's release, which in turn led to Plott becoming one of the most in-demand commentators at major Starcraft II events. Thanks to jetting around for such gigs while maintaining a punishing video schedule Plott was soon working 100-hour weeks – while he was still at university."I started not being able to do it on my own when I was getting so much email that I had to ask for help from my friend Eric. We'd heard aboutBlip.tvand that money could be generated straightaway, you didn't need a partnership like you do on Youtube, so we started playing there. Then all of a sudden money starts coming in. So I'm in grad school. I'm making all this content that people can watch for free, and I'm starting to be able to generate some revenue."Hard work and willingness seem to define Plott, but in one respect he was fortunate – his own initiatives coincided with the wider popularity of streaming. Sites like Blip, Twitch and Justin.tv gave professional players and personalities the opportunity to not just broadcast live to a growing audience, but also to make money through ads and sponsorships. Plus, streamed content can later be edited and uploaded to YouTube."On the surface I make videos but then also there's… managing's the wrong word for it. There's cultivating the community that watches those videos. How do you not just make good content but how do you really truly connect with those people. Because people are watching live, and I can directly interact with them right now. How do you do that? How do you get the word out? How do you take those skills and dovetail them into other things?"'Grad school isn't generating money'This is perhaps the most important talent for great streamers, and Plott seized the day; organising a launch party for Wings of Liberty, commentating at countless shows, setting up a 'for fun' corporate league, and cross-promoting everything. "Gradually stepping forward on five different fronts. The big moment for me came when I was flying around to all these different events, coming home and doing the Daily, and had the thought, 'grad school isn't generating money'." Plott laughs – at this point in time he'd already produced more than 200 Dailies. "I want this degree. I love this program. I'm learning so much, I love my professors and all my classmates. But a business is happening without me even choosing for it to happen. It is just occurring naturally."In terms of numbers, around 5,000 people watch Plott record each Daily live, but individual episodes then rack up anywhere from 60,000 and 3.5m viewers afterwards. In the other metrics that matter online, like YouTube subscribers (350,000) or Twitter followers (160,000), business is equally good. And one of the most impressive aspects about Plott is how seamlessly he combines being both Day[9] and the CEO of Day[9]TV.Plott has shown careful judgment in how he's grown things; a not-inconsiderable talent when you're dealing with gaming communities, which largely consist of entitled young men. I recall when Plott started selling merchandise – something a chunk of his fanbase had been loudly clamouring for – there was cynicism and grumbling, which in the context of his main product being free seems especially crazy."Broadly speaking, people have no idea about the amount of work that goes into really anything. Some people think that I get a game and think, 'hey, let's do a show about it' and then just turn it on. I've had people interview me who say things like, 'Oh so the Daily takes an hour of your time, so what do you do for the rest of the day? What's it like having that freedom?' And I'm thinking, 'dude, are you fucking high?'"Some of this surely has its roots in the informality inherent with streaming. While there's obviously an aspect of exaggeration to being on-camera (a good streamer will be interesting, alert and engaged for hours at a time), it would be too much of a stretch to say, for example, that Day[9] is Plott's persona. There's too much crossover for a costume.Part of Plott's appeal, in other words, is that millions of people see him as a friend as much as a broadcaster. "There's a wide range of informality, from strangers saying, 'Hey Sean!' to 'Hey, did you pay your rent on time this month?' At first I was quite alarmed by it. I'd think, 'what does it mean?' Then after a while I thought, well let's just have a conversation with this person; I'm talking about these subjects on air I guess, so it's not that weird for them to bring it up. After the third time you're like, 'dude, I now have my rent on autopay, I didn't want to do it but I did' and they're like, 'No way! I procrastinate too!' Then I've made a connection with someone. And that's cool! So it's like... out of a hundred interactions with fans, maybe one of them is a little awkward or weird or even negative, but the other 99 are awesome."'Opportunities are like pop corn kernels'Plott's work ethic is the subtext for much of our conversation: he tells me how, when a child, he wanted to be funny so would memorise 20 jokes a day to repeat at school. When he wanted to get good at public speaking, he started doing it at every opportunity. During the early stages of the Daily the thought of being on camera made him flushed and sweaty, but he'd ignore it and barrel on. This seems a precocious maturity – even at a young age he never feared embarrassment, or getting things wrong, or losing."Here's my fundamental theory of life. Opportunities are like popcorn kernels. If you throw one into the pan and wait for it to pop you're gonna starve to death. But if you throw a whole bunch in there, you don't really know which ones are gonna pop but you know some will definitely pop. I credit Starcraft for a lot of it. You always think that losing is going to be the worst thing in the universe. Like the second place team that could have been the champs, but it all got ripped away! Now that makes for a good story, but in reality you give it your all, you sacrifice everything to try to win, and then you don't – and it's not that bad! There was a lot of fun along the way. You learned a lot. People talk about the fear of being an idiot, and when you get on stage and do that, yeah it's a horrible feeling, but it's not nearly as bad as your brain tries to convince you it is."Which reminds me of something else; while playing Starcraft you will suffer no bodily injury, and break no arms. "I emphasise the safety because there are few more amazing feelings than really pushing yourself hard, farther than you thought you could, and achieving something. Starcraft is so complex, it's such a ridiculous challenge, and when playing you learn so much about yourself and your tendencies. And it's just great when you win at something becauseyouwon – not because you had money, or you were the best-looking, or your parents set you up. You won because of you and nothing else."Sean 'Day[9]' Plott was first attracted to Starcraft because it seemed safe. He fell in love because it isn't.
Whenever I think about "smart" TVs, I'm reminded of a quote from Zeebox's Anthony Rose made during aninterview with GigaOmin April 2012."In the future, your TV will be a beautiful but dumb hi-res panel that will play the content it is told to by your smartphone or tablet," said Rose, in response to a question about the significance of internet-connected televisions and their built-in app stores.According toOfcom's 2012 Communications Market Report, 15% of UK consumers owned smart TVs at the end of last year, althoughseparate research from Analysys Masonsuggests that less than half of these people are likely to have actually connected their TVs to the internet.One of several problems with smart TVs is their reliance on remote controls: an often-clunky experience at a time when touchscreen interfaces on smartphones and tablets have been getting slicker and more user-friendly at a rapid pace.Hence the appeal of Rose's theory that these devices will increasingly handle the smarts for our big, beautiful flat-screen TVs. They won't be dumb, as such: it's just that we'll be outsourcing their thinking to the devices in our hands.That's where Apple's AirPlay technology and the Apple TV box came in some time ago, and it's whereGoogle's newly-announced Chromecast dongleand its developer SDK are looking to play too.The device plugs into the HDMI port of a high-definition TV, and enables smartphones, tablets and computers to stream (or rather "cast" in Google' lingo) music, video and games to the bigger screen in the corner of the room, AirPlay style."It works with Netflix, YouTube, Google Play Movies &amp; TV, and Google Play Music, with more apps like Pandora coming soon," explains Google'sintroductory blog post. "With Chromecast, we wanted to create an easy solution that works for everyone, for every TV in the house."Unlike AirPlay, Chromecast merely uses the second device as the controller: the actual content is streamed (over your home Wi-Fi network) from whatever digital service you're using. Google says this will reduce battery strain on your smartphone, tablet or laptop, and also means you can continue using the device while casting.There is already aGoogle Cast SDK for Android, iOS and Google's Chrome browser, with aims of getting developers to integrate the technology into their apps, much like they would AirPlay on iOS.This, of course, raises the question of whether Apple will approve apps that support Google Cast as well as AirPlay: there's a chance this will become the latest skirmish between Apple and Google, although the fact that iOS apps are able to use Google Maps rather than Apple Maps is an encouraging sign that it may not.Apple has sold 13m of its Apple TV set-top boxes so farApple said in May thatit had sold more than 13m Apple TV boxes, with around half of them sold in the previous year, but chief executive Tim Cook has tended to describe the product as a "hobby" for the company – albeit often to deflect question about any grander ambitions Apple has in the TV market.At $35 a pop, Google may well sell more of its Chromecast dongles, especially if it convinces lots of people to buy several to cover "every TV in the house". But asking whether Chromecast is an AirPlay or Apple TV killer isn't the right question. What it means for smart TVs – including Google's own Google TV initiative – is a more pertinent point.Smart TVs will continue to sell in droves, because it's actually quite hard to buy a high-definition TVwithoutconnectivity built in nowadays, even if you don't then use it.But digital services and app developers mulling whether to invest more time, effort and investment in making dedicated smart TV apps now have another alternative: to focus on integrating AirPlay and Cast into their smartphone and tablet apps instead.That strategy only makes sense if Apple and Google can sell enough Apple TVs and Chromecast dongles, while possibly striking more deals with TV manufacturers to incorporate AirPlay and Cast into their upcoming products.Yet with pretty much every big consumer-electronics firm scrapping for control of the flow of entertainment into the living room – Sony and Microsoft's multi-screen plans for Xbox One and PlayStation 4 are just as relevant here – it's likely to be some time yet before developers and viewers alike have a firm idea of which content-slinging technologies will be here for the long-term.
It's strange to talk about "digital" revenues for games publishers, given the inherently-digital nature of all video games. The likes of Electronic Arts don't have thriving businesses selling board games or skittle sets, so in one sense, all their revenues are digital.Digital distribution – games delivered over the internet to computers, consoles and mobile/handheld devices – is increasingly un-strange to talk about, of course.Mobile app stores; Steam; Facebook; the digital stores of Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo; and publishers own direct-to-consumer businesses like EA's Origin are increasingly key for game-makers.EA's latest financial resultshammer home that point."In Q1, 76 percent of our non-GAAP revenue was digital – driven by the online services of blockbuster franchises like Battlefield and FIFA, as well as our strong mobile portfolio,"executive chairman Larry Probst told analystsin the publisher's earnings call this week.The publisher saw its digital net revenues increase by 17% year-on-year, split thus:$177m from extra content in PC and console games, as well as freemium online games like FIFA Online 3; $104m from mobile devices, including $90m from smartphones and tablets; $37m from full-game downloads, mainly on PC; and $61m from subscriptions, advertising and other revenues.Console add-ons are playing a big role here: the last FIFA game's Ultimate Teams feature was "a $200m digital opportunity for us" over EA's last full financial year, according to EA Labels president Frank Gibeau.But it's mobile that appears to be growing fastest for EA, with its The Simpsons: Tapped Out attracting 5.9m daily active users (DAUs) during the second quarter of this year.For comparison, that's nearly 1m more than highly-touted messaging app Snapchat, whose growth (without revenues yet) so excited venture capital firms, they pumped $60m of funding into the company in June.Meanwhile, EA's Real Racing 3 free-to-play racing game has been downloaded more than 45m times since its release in March, averaging 2m DAUs since then. No wonder EA is enthusiastic about mobile."Right now, it's growing like gangbusters. And a lot of that is due to its global nature," Gibeau told analysts inEA's earnings call."It's a platform that appeals across multiple regions and multiple territories. But they're very unified platforms to publish into so it's very efficient for us."That's what led to another startling claim about EA's latest financial quarter, by its president and chief operating officer Peter Moore. "Apple was EA's biggest retail partner measured by sales," he told analysts. "That is a first."The Simpsons: Tapped Out is popular on iOS and AndroidThe important caveat here is that EA didn't have any big console releases during that quarter. It will still be a very different picture in the last three months of the year, traditionally the most lucrative time for console game sales (and thus, a logjam of big releases).Even so, the company's breakdown of its non-GAAP revenues by platform shows how the year-round performance of mobile games is smoothing out the more seasonal nature of console publishing.Xbox 360 generated $108m of revenues for EA in its last quarter, while PlayStation 3 made $79m and Wii $3m. Against that, Sony and Nintendo handhelds combined generated a mere $6m, while mobile devices made $104m.Mobile's gain appears to be Facebook's loss, judging by other comments by Gibeau about EA's recent decisions toclose social games like SimCity Social, The Sims Social and Pet Society, which were developed by the Playfish studios it acquired for $300m in 2009."We've de-prioritised the social segment for our portfolio and moved those resources and teams to focus in on the opportunity in mobile, as well as to help us continue to grow and maintain the console side of the business," said Gibeau."There's still a very active gaming business on Facebook and in the social channels, and we do participate there with several franchises and services. But our emphasis and focus over the next several years is going to be on mobile and HD consoles."EA's mobile growth may be impressive, but the company still faces competition from newer games firms that have grown up fast with mobile platforms. In its latest quarter, EA was making around $1m a day from all its smartphone and tablet games.Compare that to the$2.4m daily revenues that Finnish developer Supercell was makingearlier this year from just two games – a figure that's likely since increased as one of those titles, Clash of Clans, has blown up in Japan.Or look at Japanese firm GungHo Online, whose Puzzle &amp; Dragons game is thought to havemade $113m in April alone– so around $3.8m a day.Comparable figures for King's Candy Crush Saga are unknown, but it was up there with Clash of Clans and Puzzle &amp; Dragons in June, according toanalytics firm Distimo's global top-grossing charts.It's a sign that for a big publisher like EA, its digital competition is coming more from nimble firms like Supercell, GungHo and King than its traditional rivals like Activision, whosechief executive Bobby Kotick told analysts in Maythat in mobile he'd seen "nothing that's really driven any sizeable amount of operating profit".
If one single piece of code has improved Del Harvey's life, it's got to be the addition of text shortcuts to the iPhone software. When iOS 5 introduced text expansion – type a few predetermined letters, and it will expand them to a whole phrase or sentence – the task of replying to people who are having problems with their Twitter account eased at once.Harvey is senior director of Twitter's "Trust &amp; Safety" team, and if you look ather Twitter account– which has 313,000 followers – you'll find that a phrase that appears again and again is "You'd want to file a [support] ticket via bit.ly/gottaproblem", often followed by "Tickets are answered in the order received". She used to type those by hand, with the incumbent risk of error; now it's just a couple of shortcuts.For that, Harvey gives quiet thanks; she answers a lot of those in a typical week. Having shortcuts allows her to get on with the bigger challenges at Twitter, where she used to be the lone person in charge of the service's spam and other security challenges when she joined in 2008. (She survivedblocking the founders' accounts as spamin her first month on the job.)Now, the team is much bigger, but so are the challenges. Twitter spam – once one of her main focuses – hasn't been beaten, but it hasn't grown proportionally to the number of users or tweets. Instead, her department tends to focus more on the broad issues: ensuring transparency, getting malware off the system, and more recently dealing with wider issues such as removing links to child abuse pictures. "Trust &amp; Safety" means, essentially, making sure that people can trust Twitter when they log on to it even as the service grows at breakneck speed.Harvey's LinkedIn profilegives some clues to her dry – verging on astringent – sense of humour. "My experience and goals can perhaps best be summarised by Vanilla Ice," it says. "If there was a problem, yo I'll solve it / check out the hook while my DJ revolves it." She continues: "I do things, where 'things' is an undefined set within the broader range of 'somebody ought to take care of those …'"The "things" include everything from Twitter's terms of service to privacy policies; "I ensure user trust and protect user rights and mitigate legal risks," she explains."Biz [Stone] and Ev [Williams] thought there wouldn't be a problem with spam because you can choose who you follow. Wrong," she notes. But she also notes that "anecdotally, [spam] seems small. But, you know, we work on getting rid of one and another pops up. The anti-spam engineers are doing some really cool work" – which she won't elucidate on.The number of users and more importantly the number of tweets that go through the service has increased enormously. It took three years and a couple of months to reach the first 1bn tweets sent. Now, 2bn are sent every working week. A billion per day is probably in sight within a year.Twitter has grown too. It recently moved to new premises on San Francisco's Market Street, an area where the homeless and the unemployed play chess on the pavement alongside pawn shops that offer you a good deal if you have some diamonds to trade in. When I mention that I'd felt I stood out slightly from most of Market Street's denizens because I was wearing a suit jacket, Harvey remarks drolly "I think you'd get less attention on Market Street if you walked along it in the nude than if you wore a suit jacket." She pauses. "Literally," she adds.Twitter's new offices, though, are six floors and a world away from Market Street. Located in a former furnishings warehouse recently redeveloped by a local property speculator, it is vast yet also well-lit; the centrepiece is the canteen, which has an outside space with its own lawn. As befits a Silicon Valley company (in name at least), the range of food is plentiful and the coffee seems never-ending.Around the building, short slogans – "Simplicity" or "Defend and respect the user's voice" – appear in rotation on backlit screens, each intended to remind people of the company's aims. Dick Costolo, the chief executive since a boardroom shakeup in October 2010, summed up Twitter's mission statement in 2011 as "To instantly connect people everywhere to what's most important to them".It hasn't stuck just to words, of course; Twitter has added pictures, music and acquired Vine, which has enabled six-second videos to become an art form. And of course before that it created its own link shortener, t.co, through which every single link posted to Twitter; any found to be malware or spam won't resolve, and trying to post or repost it will fail.And there are other things where the Trust &amp; Safety team has had an important effect on how you experience Twitter, she says. "In March 2012 we launched 'POC' – point of contact – meaning that every product manager has a point of contact in Trust &amp; Safety who they can get in touch with, so if they're proposing something new there's somebody from our team following it. So, for example, there's an option to have an interstitial [notice] before you view sensitive content. That's there because we were involved in its development.""If you're launching image embedding on Twitter, then you might not think about how to stop people seeing image embeds. Why would you? You're trying to put images in there, not stop them being seen." But if an image might be offensive, you don't want to present that to the user without warning. So you have to opt in – either one-off, or (via a setting) permanently – to seeing images without getting a warning.Next are the wider problems around images. One of the projects Harvey is most keen on is called "PhotoDNA" – aMicrosoft-developed technologywhich will produce a unique "fingerprint" of every picture put on Twitter's service and be able to identify images of child exploitation. It's already used on Microsoft's Hotmail (now Outlook), Skydrive and Bing services, and Facebook adopted it in 2011.It's not the only thing, but for Harvey it's a big thing. Before she joined Twitter, she worked for an organisation called "Perverted Justice", set up in 2002, which used to organise stings to catch sexual predators. In 2006, the US TV network NBC gave it $802,000 for helping it on its TV series "To Catch a Predator". (Harvey was the "secretary" at the organisation, on a six-figure salary.) The organisation helped in 535 convictions around the US, and Harvey received a commendation from a Californian police department for her work on one sting.So the concentration around child abuse, and getting such images off the web, chimes with her. "There's a lot that's happening concurrently, on a lot of different fronts. One of the things that's exciting is that we're working on implementing Photo DNA which lets you match images hashes for nude child porn images. We're working with a bunch of the other companies in this space around a bunch of stuff in this space, that's exciting."She explains: "Given the length of time that I've been working on issues tie to child exploitation, it's really fantastic that we're making progress on getting that in place. And it's good that others in the industry are working on it or implementing it, because it's not an area of competition [between companies]."But with Photo DNA, Twitter faces what Harvey calls "the scale/speed problem". "We first fell into that problem with [link shortener] t.co," she explains. "We did think of putting a sort of wrapper around the pictures." The simple challenge is how to check so many pictures when the service sees about 2bn tweets every working week.So does Photo DNA have a timescale for its release? "It's a little bit 'ready when it's ready'. Partly because, with scale, it becomes so incredibly complicated to think how the implementation will work," Harvey says. "You think 'we'll just delete the image' – but is it hosted on a CDN [content delivery network, which caches frequently-viewed content closer to its destination] somewhere? Then how do you make sure that it gets flushed? These aren't just standard images, but images you want removed as soon as possible. How do you flush those? You can't just have a queue of requests, because what happens if there's a sudden surge and then a backlog of images to be flushed? And you're likereally? Really, does it have to be this complicated? And the answer is yes, it really does have to be that complicated."But she adds that implementing Photo DNA "is something that Product has committed to. They have folks figuring out how to best implement it, and I'm hoping that it's a this-year thing. But I can't swear to it."Then there are other contentious issues – such as the suggestion by some Twitter users inside Turkey that the government there is filtering out tweets which oppose its government."I've heard that there's been occasional access issues, and there was a URL that involved a homomorphic character" – she grins – "I just learned that word recently, so I had to trot it out. Homomorphic, that's where it's a Cyrillic alphabet character so it looks like an i but it's not; it's missing the dot, and it's like 'Twitter; minus that i. That URL doesn't lead you here [to twitter.com] – when you click on it, it leads you to – I think – a [Turkish] government website. So there could certainly be people who have been" – she slows down while she picks her words – " ….bemusedby that. And then there's always the possibility of general blocking."Havingintroduced two-factor authentication(a long called-for feature) in May, the company is still working on other ways to protect users' accounts while also helping them to use them when they have trouble. "Things like password resets – people have the problem where they can't remember what email they registered with, or they don't have control of that email any more." (The latter being the way that the Syrian Electronic Army managed to put out tweets on Twitter accounts belonging to the Associated Press, Financial Times, BBC and, yes, the Guardian.) "Maybe you'd have a protection scheme where you have to put in some personal information to reset it," she suggests.What about the fallout from the Guardian's NSA revelations – including those about Prism (where Twitter was notably absent from the companies to which the NSA was claiming "direct access")? Harvey shrugs. "Transparency is the way to go," she says. "I honestly hope that that is the way it does go. But it's a good conversation to have."
Premium-rate telephone watchdog PhonepayPlus has fined an Australian company £250k for a 'misleading' app promising to boost smartphone battery life, which was advertised within other developers' children's apps.CommandM PTY Limited's app signed people up to a £4.50-a-week premium-rate subscription, but the fact that it was advertised within children's apps including ABC Match and Raspberry Torte's Fresh Fashions Boutique led to complaints from parents.PhonepayPlus says that one parent received a charge of more than £100 on their mobile bill after their child signed up to the subscription service.CommandM is a private firm registered in Australia and based in New South Wales,according to its company filings. It has been active since March 2007.The regulator's ruling entitles parents to a refund if their children were misled into signing up for the subscription. PhonepayPlus is also contacting developers of the apps within which the ad was carried, to inform them of its decision."As children and young people increasingly engage with apps we will continue to work with parents and games developers to make sure that children can get the best of this exciting technology in a safe environment," said chief executive Paul Whiteing.The ruling comes amid growing unease over the way advertising and in-app purchases are being used within some children's apps, and a spate of reports of children spending hundreds or even thousands of pounds on virtual items without their parents' knowledge.CommandM's battery-life app was different, though, because it used premium-rate billing to charge for its subscription – thus bringing it within PhonepayPlus's area of regulation, unlike in-app purchases made through Apple and Google's App Stores for iOS and Android.The UK's Office of Fair Trading iscarrying out an investigationinto the wider area of "potentially misleading or commercially aggressive practices" in children's apps and online games, and expects to publish its next steps by October 2013.This is not the first time premium-rate subscriptions have been found within children's apps. In February 2013, an advert for a contest to win a 64GB iPad wasfound within Talking Friends Cartoons, by Outfit7,one of the most popular children's app developers.The contest, run by a company called Yamoja, required users to sign up to a £4-a-week subscription service for ringtones, wallpapers and games. Outfit7 swiftly pulled the advertisement after it was reported.Children's app developers whose apps include advertising rarely know what ads will be served before they run: they leave that to their mobile advertising network partners.This is why inappropriate ads can appear without the developer's prior knowledge: a previous Outfit7 app, Talking Ginger, infamously included an ad for£400 cash loans from payday lender Wonga, before those too were pulled.The company has since said it is working hard to prevent this from happening again. "We believe we should be an example. We have a huge user base among kids, and we can't afford to take that lightly," chief executive Samo Logintold The Guardian in June.Other efforts are also underway. British startup SuperAwesome islaunching a Kids Mobile Network mobile advertising network, which it says will ensure only trusted children's brands' ads will appear within apps on its network.Meanwhile, PhonepayPlus is running an initiative calledPhoneBrain, which aims to educate children, teachers and youth-club leaders about premium-rate services, and the costs involved.
Facebook reported a second-quarter profit on Wednesday, exceeding analysts' expectations and providing the floundering stock with a much-needed surge in after-hours trading. The company's sales rose to $1.81bn, a 53% increase from the previous quarter. This figure was a slight increase from the $1.62bn analysts expected the company would make.Facebook stock has returned a mediocre performance since the company went public in May 2012, but on Wednesday shares jumped 20% to $31.81 during after-hours trading.Second-quarter results show that the company it is steadily increasing how much of its advertising revenue comes from mobile. The amount of total advertising revenue jumped from 30% in the first-quarter to 41% in the second, comprising $656m in sales."We've made good progress growing our community, deepening engagement and delivering strong financial results, especially on mobile," Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder, said in a statement. "The work we've done to make mobile the best Facebook experience is showing good results and provides us with a solid foundation for the future."The company reported a $562m profit and $333m net income, which is 13 cents a share. This time last year, the company reported a loss of $157m in the second quarter.The number of Facebook daily active users increased from 665 million in the first quarter to 669 million in the second. In June, the site had an average of 469 million daily users on mobile. Facebook had 819 million mobile monthly active users in second quarter of 2013, compared to 543 million in the second quarter of 2012. The new figures were also a boost from the 751 million reported last quarter.With adjustments for one-time events including related payroll tax expenses and income tax adjustments, Facebook said it earned 19 cents a share.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Original Madden NFL designer awarded $11 million in EA lawsuit | JoystiqA US District Court jury in the Northern District of California has ruled in favor of Robin Antonick, the original credited designer for EA's Madden NFL series, in his lawsuit against publisher Electronic Arts, awarding him $11 million. Antonick's lawsuit against EA sought unpaid royalties for iterations in the series released between 1990 and 1996.Xbox One retail consoles double as debug units, Microsoft to allow indie self-publishing | EngadgetThis was always going to happen:Microsoft's Xbox One is getting decidedly more indie-friendly with today's confirmation from Microsoft that its forthcoming game console will double as a developer debug unit. In so many words, each $500 unit purchased at retail this holiday will also run in-progress game code, enabling developers to get in on the action all the more affordably (debug versions of game consoles cost far more than retail game consoles, and tend to look slightly different from their retail counterparts). "Our vision is that every person can be a creator. That every Xbox One can be used for development," Xbox corporate VP Marc Whitten said in a statement.I'd be very surprised if Microsoft didn't make more indie-friendly announcements at Gamescom, too...Sony's PS4 Has Fifty Percent Lead Over Microsoft's Xbox One, Says Strategy Analytics... | PRNewswireRemember yesterday's story about the analysts predicting an early advantage for Xbox One in the coming console war? Well...Sony's PS4 will have the edge over Microsoft's Xbox One in the new games console battle which will erupt later this year according to feedback from Strategy Analytics' latest ConsumerMetrix survey. According to the report, "Games Consoles: Purchase Intention Index Q2 2013", 14.2 percent of consumers are very or somewhat likely to buy a PS4 within the next twelve months compared to 9.5 percent who will buy an Xbox One. If the results were reflected in sales data this would imply that sales of PS4s would be nearly fifty percent higher than Xbox One. The survey interviewed a representative population sample of more than 6000 respondents across the US and Europe in June 2013.Now I don't knowwhatto think!Why Steam Trading Cards Should Embarrass Microsoft and Sony | IGNThe latest idea to grow user engagement in Valve's digital gaming service: indie game trading cards!When you play trading card-enabled games on Steam, that game's cards will randomly "drop," automatically adding them to your Steam inventory. The number of free drops you can get just by playing is equal to half of that game's total number of cards. So if a game has 10 cards, you'll get 5 free card drops.After that, you become eligible for a random booster pack drop, which provides three more cards for that game. Booster packs are awarded randomly to any Steam user that has received all their free drops and remains active on Steam.Once you complete a set of cards you can redeem them for a nifty profile badge and a variety of other digital rewards. The more Steam users turning in cards to create badges increases that game's booster pack drop rate, smartly regulating the card supply.It's a neat idea, even though the benefits are mostly digital customisation trinkets.Sony gives green light to Gran Turismo movie | GamesIndustry InternationalGreat news for petrol heads... who are also undemanding cinema-goers:Need for Speed isn't the only driving game heading for the big screen. According to Hollywood blog The Wrap, Sony Pictures has begun development on a film project for its long-running racing sim Gran Turismo.The only names attached to the project so far are producers Mike De Luca and Dana Brunetti, who are also co-producing the upcoming adaptation for 50 Shades of Grey along with the best-selling book's author E L James.So, a car film from the makers of an erotic novel tie in. That could lead to some interesting concepts. Fast and Bi-Curious?Call of Duty dev told he deserves to die for releasing game-balancing patch | Games industry news | MCVThis is, quite frankly, bizarre and shaming:Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 design director David Vonderhaar has received death threats regarding tweaks made to weapon balancing in the game's most recent patch.I've read some of the abuse David has been subjected to over the last 24-hours – insane, vicious ramblings threatening him and his family with sickening violence.The best responsehas come from Activision community manager Dan Amrich:Now consider that these Internet Tough Guy rants and demands are not unique to COD, but exist everywhere, in many gaming communities. This is why the world often does not take gaming seriously; this is why gamers are assumed to be immature, whiny assholes. Because the immature, whiny assholes are louder.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLG sells a record-breaking 12.1m smartphones in Q2 2013, revenue up 10.1% YoY to $13.6bn &gt;&gt; The Next WebLG announced today its second-quarter earnings of KRW15.23trn ($13.6bn) in revenue, up 10.1% year-over-year due to sales increases in most of its business units — and in particular its mobile phone business.The company's mobile unit shipped 12.1m smartphones during the April-June period, the highest-ever quarterly figure throughout its history, and recorded revenue of KRW3.12try ($2.78 bn), up 34.5% from the same period a year earlier.And operating income too. LG seems to be the counterexample to the idea that you can't come back from a loss.Facebook to allow you to better hide and customize what posts and ads show up in your News Feed &gt;&gt; ABC NewsIt's not exactly a dislike button, but Facebook soon plans to roll out ways to better understand why you don't like something in your News Feed.Currently, when you hide something in your News Feed, Facebook begins feeding you less content from that person or page, but the company is working on ways to better understand why you don't want to see a photo, status update, article or advertisement.'Dislike'.Chromecast &gt;&gt; GoogleGoogle's new $35 HDMI device for beaming content from an Android device to your TV. Creates its own Wi-Fi hotspot. Play along with it.Smartphone laggard Nokia picks up pace under CEO Elop &gt;&gt; ReutersNokia CEO Stephen Elop recalls a meeting in August 2011 in which the company's leadership struggled to decide on the name of its new smartphone, the first using Windows Phone software."We almost fell into the trap that had often befallen Nokia, which was... let them work on it a bit longer because we couldn't quite reach agreement," Elop said. Instead, he demanded a decision that day."Why wait til tomorrow or next week? We could make the decision today. And we did." Lumia was the result.Fascinating insight into how much has changed under Elop.SF court orders Prenda to pay $22,531 in attorney's fees &gt;&gt; Ars Technica[Prenda Law shell company] "AF [Holding]'s business model was to sue people for downloading pornography in order to coerce settlements," continued [Judge Edward] Chen. And despite [Prenda Law lawyer] Duffy's protestations to the contrary, Chen remains very concerned that Prenda did indeed plant links to its own porn on The Pirate Bay to induce downloading:The dirty little secret of iOS 7: some devices won't get the killer new features &gt;&gt; CITEworldRyan Faas:AirDrop is one of the most dramatic features of iOS 7, with lots ofbusiness potential.But before you start sharing files using AirDrop, you may need to spend some money on a newer iPhone.The same is true if you're looking forward to using live filters directly in the revamped Camera app. Both of these features require you to have an iPhone 5 (or iPhone 5S or whatever moniker Apple is planning for the next generations of iPhones).ROLL IT: A Chrome Experiment &gt;&gt; GoogleIf you have a desktop and a smartphone to hand, here's where the rest of your day went. Works on "modern browsers": does this include Internet Explorer on Windows Phone?Heard: an app that records what you heard 5 minutes ago &gt;&gt; Boing BoingWhen you activate the app, it begins recording everything around you on a 12-second buffer (extend it to five minutes for $1.99). Any time you want, click the "Push to save" button to save the current clip. Do nothing, and the self-destructing buffer lets the audio slip into the ether.Why would anyone not in the NSA want an app like this? With Heard, you can capture anything from your baby's first words to a key point in a lecture without hovering your thumb over the record button all day.Like.New Kiwi spook law allows domestic prying &gt;&gt; The RegisterNew Zealand's Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB), which illegally spied on resident Kim Dotcom, is on the cusp of gaining sweeping new powers that include wiretapping NZ citizens.The GCSB's domestic spying first came to light last year when it mistakenly tapped Dotcom's communications, not realising that his residency status at the time meant its actions were illegal. Rather than punish the organisation for its domestic snooping blunders, the New Zealand government has spent some time steering new laws through parliament to increase the GCSB's powers.Google adds Grooveshark to its piracy search filter &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakGrooveshark, which operates from the US, has more than a million visitors per day and has negotiated licensing deals with several independent music labels. The major labels, however, have not licensed their content to the company, which has resulted in several lawsuits.Looking at thesearch trafficfor "Grooveshark" it appears that the term was put on the blacklist at the end of April,coincidingwith the appeal Universal Music Group won against the streaming service.Probably not a coincidence. Some background about Groovesharkhere.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
The latest Google doodle celebrates the life and work of British biophysicist and x-ray crystallographer Rosalind Franklin, whose research led to the discovery of the structure of DNA.Franklin was born in Notting Hill, London on 25 July 1920.The second "o" in the doodle contains her image, while the "l" has been replaced with the DNA double helix.Franklin also made critical contributions to our understanding of the molecular structures of RNA, viruses, coal and graphite.She died from ovarian cancer in April 1958, aged just 37.The scientist has perhaps become best known as"the woman who was not awarded the Nobel prize for the co-discovery of the structure of DNA".During her DNA research,Franklin worked at King's College London under Maurice Wilkins.The story goes that he took some of her x-ray crystallography images without her knowledge and showed them to his friends, Francis Crick and James Watson, who were also trying to discover the structure of DNA.Wilkins, Crick and Watson were awarded the Nobel prize in Chemistry in 1962.Crick later acknowledged that Franklin's images were "the data we actually used" to formulate their 1953 hypothesis regarding the structure of DNA.The most significant of those images is known asPhoto 51, which is also the inspiration foran exhibition currently at Somerset House in London.
Analysts are increasingly certain that Apple will offer a cheaper iPhone this autumn, despite the unexpected 20% rise in its sales during the past quarter.What would it look like? The best guesses are that the screen would be the same 4in as the existing iPhone 5; it would use the Lightning connector introduced with that phone (so that all Apple's mobile product range used the same connector, introduced last September); and that the "cheaper" model would be differentiated by lower specifications for the camera, storage, processor speeds and onboard RAM than the top-end model expected to be released in September or October.Analysts disagree on one key point: whether or not it would include 4G/LTE.Pictures purporting to show just such a "cheap iPhone" emerged from a supplier near Foxconn on a blog run byTactus, which offers haptic technologies. It showed a white, plastic device with the iPhone 5's "Lightning" connector. (However, there are plenty of copycat factories in China offering "iPhones" which run Android.)But if iPhone sales just went up 20%, why would Apple want to introduce a cheaper phone that might cannibalise its top-end devices?Two reasons: its share of the smartphone market, and so the mobile phone market, is slipping. Apple's share of the smartphone market fell to about 17% in the most recent quarter. As the smartphone market expands, it needs to expand with it to keep pulling in users.And it needs those users because the phrase "Android first", if used by app developers, would strike terror into Apple executives' hearts. The idea is beginning to form that as Android smartphone ownership grows in Europe and Asia, startups in those regions might begin to look at writing their app for that platform first, suggests Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis. "If Android users only have one-quarter as much engagement [with apps], but there are five time as many of them, that becomes quite compelling for developers," he says.In the US, Apple is safer; the distortions introduced by the phone companies' contract plans (which mean hardly anyone has SIM-only contracts) effectively mean that cheaper Android phones cost the same for the consumer as comparatively more expensive iPhones such as the iPhone 4. That means that the iPhone has about 40% of the installed base of smartphones - a safe base from which to attack.Splits in the marketThe challenge though is that the phone market is seeing price deflation, even as the "premium" end grows. Data from the analyst company Gartner provided exclusively to the Guardian says that the "premium" segment of the phone market (that is, higher-end smartphones with average selling prices (ASPs) to carriers averaging over $400) will grow over the next four years, from around 539m phones in 2013 to 876m in 2017.But - and it's a key point - the ASP of those phones will drop by 12%, from $433.50 now to $383.80 in 2017. The whole segment is going to get cheaper. And that contrasts with the iPhone ASP, which last quarter stood at $581 - its lowest ever, but still 34% above Gartner's average for the segment.Yet Tim Cook didn't sound convinced about the need for a cheaper iPhone:speaking to Wall Streeton Tuesday night, and asked about the "saturation" others perceive in the high-end market, he said: "I don't subscribe to the common view that the higher end of the smartphone market is at its peak. I don't believe that, but we will see, and we will report our result as we go along."Then again, it wouldn't be the first time Apple had head-faked ahead of a product introduction.Making the differenceIt's worth pausing to consider quite how Apple would differentiate a cheaper phone. Asked whether Apple doesn't set itself goals - such as "we need X% growth" - Cook offered an intriguing insight into the company's thinking. "We start a product because we believe that the most important thing is that our customers love the products and want them. If you don't start at that level you can wind up creating things that people don't want."(Coming the week afterMicrosoft wrote off $900mon Surface RTs that it seems far too few people want, his words have some resonance.)He continued: "So we try very hard to focus on products and customers, enriching customers and making great products." That, after he had said: "we think that if we focus on that and do that really, really well that the financial metrics will also come, and so we don't see those two things being mutually exclusive."So Apple wants to do something which it thinks will delight users, at a price point that suits both of them. It reckons that will then show up on the bottom line.How do you differentiate such a phone from the top-end model? The materials and specifications are the obvious way. "It's the same as the HTC One Mini and Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini," says Daniel Gleeson, mobile analyst at IHS Electronics and Media. "You offer less memory, a lower processor speed, less processor memory. There are compromises which all add up and can make a huge difference to the bill of materials cost [how much the raw parts of the phone cost]."Phablet fable?Earlier this week the Wall Street Journalreportedthat Apple "is testing larger screens for its smartphones and tablets as it attempts to answer increasing concerns about its product lineup, and competition from Samsung". Certainly, lots of high-end Android devices offer bigger screens, often 4.3in or more.Yet Evans is unconvinced. "I'm sure that they are testing lots of sizes. But look at all the different sizes of tablet they tested before they produced the iPad, where the prototypes came out in the legal case [against Samsung in 2012]." That showed an array of tablets of different sizes before Apple fixed on the 9.7in model for the first iPad."LG Display reckons that large screens for smartphones are actually only about 10% of the overall market," Evans continues. "Everybody pays attention to the high-end Android devices, which have big screens. Samsung said it sold 15.5m Galaxy S3s in the December quarter. But that was out of, what, 60m smartphones it sold?" He suggests that "it isn't entirely clear that large-screen Android phones are really where the action's at." And the suggestion that Apple is losing share to larger screen phones "isn't necessarily true", he says. "There's a 'phablet' space, and a significant number of people who think it's a significant product. Apple might do a larger screen, but offer a lower pixel density to suit lower-end buyers while not causing problems for developers."Name a priceWhat's unclear is the pricing. Gleeson suggests an ASP of around $450 - comparable with the HTC One or Samsung Galaxy S4. Evans reckons it will be between $200 and $300 in order to capture more share in the emerging markets such as India and China, where cheap Android phones are carrying all before them, and the prepaid (aka pay-as-you-go) market in Europe and elsewhere.They disagree on whether it will include 4G/LTE. Gleeson says that the high-speed mobile internet capability is now a must-have, especially for any device that would be sold in the US (as, presumably, these would be). Evans thinks that not having it would make the device cheaper, and also make the top-end device - the iPhone 5S? iPhone 6? - more aspirational.It's notable that the iPhone 4S, released in 2012, doesn't have 4G/LTE - even though many phones released even the year before did. And Verizon, which did well selling iPhones in the just-gone quarter, pointed to figures for LTE-capable devices as a key to its growth.Gleeson reckons that LTE would be essential in a cheap iPhone for the Chinese market, where around a billion people have a mobile phone - and 420m already have mobile internet connections.But Apple does not yet have a phone that works on the China Mobile network, the country's largest. The two have reportedly been arguing over how to split revenues.How many more?The other key question is: if Apple introduces a cheaper iPhone, how many will it sell? This is largely guesswork. It's sure to grab some market share at whichever price level it competes at. But who form?Gleeson suggested it would add double-digit millions to its sales - but then declined to be specific; IHS is having a discussion on precisely that point later on Wednesday.Evans is more sure. With a phone priced between $200 and $300 (which - take note of Gartner's figures - would come in at the bottom of the "premium" market), he reckons it would double Apple's unit sales, and could grab another 10% of the handset market - not just the smartphone market. With that, Apple could take 20% of the whole overall mobile market, which runs at about 400m handsets per quarter. That would be 80m handsets.For comparison, Apple's largest-ever iPhone quarter - so far - was 47.8m in the Christmas quarter of 2012."That would solve all the ecosystem problems," says Evans. "It would also pose an existential problem for some of the Android OEMs."When will we know? Cook said he's expecting a "very busy" autumn - so September or October. The iPhone is sure to be part of it. The question is, how many? And will they, like iMacs in the past, come in colours?
The seemingly unending (and ever-increasing) complexities of the modern automobile are deterring more and more owners from carrying out the basic maintenance and repairs that previous generations of motorists thought nothing of doing themselves,a survey published this week confirms. People are less and less confident about poking around under the bonnet, and more and more willing to pay someone else to do it (plus with many modern cars, they have no choice). But according to Trevor Barkham of the AA's technical team, there are still plenty of straightforward tasks that today's motorists can and should have a go at – saving money in the process.LightsIn some modern cars, changing a headlamp, side light or indicator bulb is "a nightmare". In others, it really couldn't be easier: lift a lever, twist a knob, and you're there. "As with many jobs, the advice is: look at the manual," says Barkham. "Either it will tell you how to do it with clear instructions and illustrations, or – in the case of Xenon bulbs, for example – it will recommend you take the car to a dealer."Windscreen wiper blades and washer jetsWorn wiper blades are "really easy to change", says Barkham, but many drivers get lost when they try: "This really is a job every driver should be able to do. Again, look at the manual." Likewise, a simple pin will clear blocked washer jets, whose technology hasn't changed since the 1960s.Washer fluidAnother easy job. First, know where the reservoir is ("You'd be surprised," says Barkham, "how many people top up their radiator or engine oil with screenwash.") Don't put antifreeze in it (that'll ruin your paintwork), avoid washing-up liquid (too many bubbles), and if you don't have a proprietary screenwash to hand, water will do but top up with screenwash as soon as you can to inhibit bacteria growth.Brake reservoirA warning light on the dash will come on if this is low. Often it's an indication of another problem, such as worn brake pads, so if you do top it up (always using an&nbsp;unopened bottle of fluid) and the light comes on again, get those checked.Oil levelThe most important check every motorist should do: preferably once a week, always before a long journey. Locate the dipstick (not visible here; usually has a yellow handle), check level, and top up half a litre at a timewith the right kind of oil for your car(see the manual). If the oil warning light comes on, get the car checked immediately – it means low oil pressure is already damaging the engine.Radiator and coolant reservoirYou normally only need to look at the reservoir, says Barkham, which is clearly marked with easily read level indicators. Check it regularly: on most modern cars, that's all you usually need to do. If the level has fallen, it most likely indicates a problem somewhere else. If you do top it up, openwith extreme cautionafter the engine has cooled.BatteryMotorists don't need to top up the electrolyte as they once did, but many modern batteries feature a charge indicator (usually a little green ball): if it disappears, you're low on charge. And if you don't use your car much, use a battery maintainer – an underused battery will fail within a year.
This post first appeared onRob Freeman'spersonal blog athttp://mediabiztech.wordpress.com/2013/07/21/how-to-give-your-lost-phone-a-much-better-chance-of-being-returned/. It's reposted here with permission.Last week I found a phone on a train. It was well after 11pm and with few people around, I took the phone home, aiming to try tracking down the owner myself, else hand it in to a staffed office.Find him I did, but the whole exercise made me really wonder howanylost iOS devices ever get returned (assuming they haven't been stolen).I made a short film about what happened …… but I want to use this post to detail a little more about how it was done.I'd been on the train since it started in Brighton, and was walking up through the carriages after we left Clapham Junction when I found the phone, so I'm guessing that's where the owner got out in a hurry.It was an iPhone 4S, lying on the edge of a seat . There wasn't anyone else in that part of the carriage. It was in Airplane mode, so the "Find my iPhone" function would have been inoperable.I don't have an iPhone, but I'm prepared to bet there are lost property rooms packed with dozens of lost iPhones and Pads all over the world, particularly in airports and train stations.They are unable to be reunited with their owners because Apple's security features make it impossible and the owners themselves haven't planned for their possible loss.Here are the issues.The lockscreenI don't know anyone who alters the iOS wallpaper setting screenThis is the first hurdle most people will fall at. Unless you know the code, you can't get into the contacts to start ringing obvious numbers, eg. Home, or Mum/Dad.The simplest thing here is to take a photo (or screenshot - press the home button and the power button on the top of the iPhone) of your contact details, and use this as your lockscreen wallpaper. It's in the Settings menu. (Obviously, don't use your mobile number…)There were a couple of other things I thought were worth trying before resorting to phone hackery.SIM card detailsI removed the SIM card and tried it in another phone. "Find my iPhone" wasn't running, but if the SIM was still enabled, the owner would hopefully try to ring their phone.Alas, the AT&amp;T SIM was either blocked already, or had never been enabled for the UK phone network. [Actually, it's a good idea to enable the PIN lock on your SIM in case someone criminal gets your phone: otherwise they can use it to ring up enormous call charges - Tech.Ed] I also had a look for any contacts that were saved on the SIM. Nothing there either.The hackNow the technical bit. Getting past the passcode is boringly unsophisticated. It's a brute-force attack where your computer runs through every possible 4 digit combination and then tells you what the code it. It takes about 30 minutes, max.I used theGecko iPhone Toolkitfor this. This exploits a previous iPhone vulnerability, so you must also put the phone into firmware update mode and inject an earlier version of the firmware into the device.The beauty of this hack is that it maintains all the existing phone data.Once I had the code, I was immediately able to see the owner's Facebook and Twitter accounts, so I contacted him on both.@warrenpacificHopefully you were feeling lucky today … I've found your phone! It's missing its owner too, so msg me— R Freeman (@robf)July 15, 2013In the contacts. I found a number for Mum/Dad. I also saw the phone did have the icon for Find my iPhone, so I turned off the flight mode and connected the phone to my own Wi-Fi, so the phone could start signalling home.Finally I flicked into the Email, to find that address too. Here I struck lucky. With Wi-fi now on, the phone updated the inbox and the first message to pop in there was the copy of the online form the owner had filled in with the railway company.It had a UK number in there as a contact point. Bingo!I rang the number, and learned that unfortunately the owner was on a plane back to the US, but his friend Nick, (who handily lived on the same tube line as me) would come and get it straight away.So I found the phone at 2300 on a Sunday night, and it was in Nick's hands by 1800 on Monday. Warren, the owner got it back later that week and was mightily pleased.For the rest of us: plan for lossI firmly believe that most people would do the right thing and try to get the phone back to its owner. But good grief, how many people would be as geeky as me?I suspect many phones, even finding their way to an official lost property office, just languish there.If you have a smartphone, take a look at it and think: how would anyone get it back to you if you lost it?Why not put your contact details on the lockscreen right now?iOS users: replace the lock screen wallpapers (screenshot above) .Android users: Jellybean: go to Settings &gt; Lockscreen &gt; Owner Info. If you have Ice Cream Sandwich, it's Settings &gt; Security. (Advice for Gingerbread, BB7, BB10 and Windows Phone welcome.)I always invitecomments, or you can tweet me@robf.Or leave a comment below.
As YouTube's senior director of content partnerships, Patrick Walker was one of the video service's key public faces for its dealings with the creative and media industries, as well as with multi-channel networks (MCNs) and individual creators.Now he's trying life on the other side of the fence, joining UK-based MCNBase79as its chief content officer nine months after the company – founded in 2007 by Ashley MacKenzie, son of Kelvin – raised $10m in a funding round.The investment and appointment of Walker show big ambitions for Base79, whose 800 YouTube channels currently generate more than 650m monthly views, and which has partnerships with the likes of BBC Worldwide, Endemol's Tiger Aspect, Hat Trick Productions and The FA.For Walker, it's a return to content production, where he started his career in 1993 as a producer and director for Japanese broadcaster NHK, before moving to the BBC as a senior broadcast journalist and senior producer."Thinking about technology challenges in relation to content creation was always something that fascinated me," says Walker."There's been a continuum to my career, of looking for a new exciting opportunity to take something that's still quite unformed, and help piece it together."YouTube sceneryWalker certainly did that as Google's first hire outside the US to work on its video strategy, initially with Google Video and then as YouTube's European boss after the site was acquired for $1.65bn in 2006.Walker found himself attending TV and media industry conferences at a time when YouTube was still viewed with suspicion by broadcasters and producers, not least because of copyright infringement concerns."It was a very tense time, with all the legal issues coming up. But over time, YouTube has become part of the scenery in television: it's a place you need to play at some level, in some way," he says."You've had the emergence of these brands – the MCNs – managing multiple channels on YouTube, and now a lot of the major media brands are getting engaged. But the big media companies are dipping their toes in still, which leaves a lot of room for an emerging company like Base79 to really establish itself."Walker says he took a close personal interest in following Base79's growth while working at YouTube (and, indeed, he alsoinvested in the companyand joined its board in 2008 while working at YouTube)."They're respected by rights holders, have a good reputation as content creators, and are seen as a safe pair of hands in dealing with these complex issues in a complex world," he says."In their DNA, they're truly a digital media company built for future expansion based on how people will consume video, and how advertising should be built into these multi-channel environments."Walker suggests his role is about helping Base79 to "place its bets carefully" as YouTube continues to grow. The service currently attracts more than 1 billion unique monthly users who watch more than 6bn hours of video, with more than 1m channel-owners earning money from their content.Base79 was one of the European launch partners forYouTube's Original Channels initiative in October 2012, securing funding for four channels with partners IMG, Guinness World Records and Hat Trick.Walker says original content and partnerships with existing media firms will continue to be important, but adds that Base79's "bets" also include careful planning of its global expansion."It's about being a truly international company, as opposed to being 'global' just because your content is global," he says. "We're deciding where to place our bets with regard to regions emerging where we could use people in the ground."Flow is one of Base79's Original Channels on YouTubeSustainable MCNsYouTube and MCNs is an interesting subject in 2013. The rapid growth (in views and subscribers) of companies like Machinima, Maker Studios, Fullscreen and Base79 has fuelled bullish talk of TV disruption, gatekeeper disintermediation and monster revenues all round.If you follow the sector more closely, though, you'll see more uncertainty: questions aboutwhether the ad revenues on YouTube are as high as the MCNs expected– and, indeed, budgeted for when spending their Original Channels funding.They're disruptive for sure, but how many YouTube-based businesses are sustainable for the long-term? "I would say it's an important time for people to stay the course," says Walker."The economics are still to be proven in many cases, so you have to get the right mix of production costs commensurate with the type of income you're going to generate. It's a good time to stay focused on the goal."Walker notes the trend for some existing media stars – Jamie Oliver in particular – to use YouTube as a way to build direct-to-fan relationships while also bringing through new talent, as a positive thing.He also suggests that coverage of channels struggling to make ends meet after blowing through their Original Channels funding may be missing the point, too."The Original Channels programming budgets were not meant to be long-term sustainable funds to draw on indefinitely. They were meant to seed the market, get excitement going and get people trying things they might not have done otherwise without that excitement and investment," says Walker."It served its purpose in that regard. People got excited, and there is now a lot of money coming in to developing businesses like Base79 who are figuring out how to create sustainable businesses on the platform, and stay at it."Beyond YouTubeThere has been speculation in recent months about some MCNs looking beyond YouTube for distribution of their videos, in an effort to boost views (and thus ad revenues) while reducing their reliance on a single platform.Is Base79 considering this strategy? Walker points out that it's been doing that for a long time, distributing across various services, even though YouTube's growth made it the dominant channel."I think every multi-channel network would be wise to continually focus on how they serve creators not only on YouTube, but through different means of distribution and channels," he says.Walker mentions connected TV apps as one opportunity of interest, and is also enthusiastic about the role mobile devices are playing in the growth of YouTube (and thus its content partners)."Mobile is the fastest-growing category of usage. YouTube's mobile consumption is up to 50% or more in countries like Korea, and over 25% in the US and UK," he says."That's why it's important for Base79 to communicate to the partners we work with – rights holders and brands – that rights clearances across platforms are critical. Content has to be as free to flow across devices as it is across borders."
The digital currency Bitcoin may have its own Bernie Madoff. An investment scheme promising a 7% weekly return was in fact a fraudulent "Ponzi" scheme, in which a Texas man used new investors' money to pay interest to existing ones, according to charges filed by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.Trendon T Shavers, from KcKinney in Texas, was the founder and operator of "Bitcoin Savings and Trust" (BTCST), allegedly raised a total of 700,000 Bitcoins in 2011 and 2012 – then worth about $4.5m – for his scheme, claiming that he made his profits on market arbitrage.Using online handles such as "Pirate" and "pirateat40", Shavers sold "investments" to people around the US. He claimed that "I have yet to come close to taking a loss on any deal" and that the "risk is almost 0" when challenged. He also said that he couldn't reveal his investment strategy: "If I told you, then I couldn't do what I do," he once wrote.The SEC allegesthat Shavers transferred at least 150,649 Bitcoins into his personal account – which he used to pay for rent, food, utility bills, shopping and gambling. "In reality BTCST was a sham and a Ponzi [pyramid] scheme in which Shavers used Bitcoin from new investors to make purported interest payments and cover investor withdrawals on existing BTCST investments," the SEC said on Tuesday.In November 2011 he said he was closing the fund,sayingthat "As the fund grew there were larger and larger coin movements which put strain on my reserve accounts and ultimately caused delays on withdraws and the inability to fund orders within my system."That attracted suspicion among users of Bitcoin, though some were still prepared to take the risk, given the low cost of the virtual currency at the time, that it might pay off.Bitcoin is a virtual currency which is created by computers solving complex mathematical problems – known as "mining" – to create a peer-to-peer system with no central authority. The total supply of Bitcoins is known at any time, and the cryptographic structure means that there is a set limit on how many can ever be in circulation. Transactions are effectively anonymous.Because there is no central bank, the value of Bitcoins is effectively determined by demand within the system. Growing interest has meant that the exchange rate to currencies such as the dollar and pound has moved dramatically from less than a penny per Bitcoin toabout $93 now.Ironically, the rapid rise in value of Bitcoins means that Shavers's fund of 700,000 Bitcoins would now be worth about $60m.Patrick Murck of the Bitcoin Foundation said in a comment: "Compliant with SEC rules or not, Mr Shavers's offering, as alleged, was wrong and harmful to the Bitcoin community. We all want to have a safe and fair economy and the Bitcoin community has made great strides towards this goal since Mr Shavers's operation went out of business last year."If Shavers's operation was a Ponzi scheme, it could paradoxically demonstrate that Bitcoin has reached a sort of maturity. A number of venture capital companies have begun investing in Bitcoin-related businesses, and gambling site which uses Bitcoin was recentlysold for a reported $11.5m.Bernie Madoff was a New York-based investor who ran a Ponzi scheme – in which new investors' money paid off existing investors – which crashed after the credit crunch in 2008, revealing that between $18bn and $65bn had been lost through his fake "investments".The SEC alsoissued a warningabout the broader risk of virtual currencies, noting that "Potential investors are often less sceptical of an investment opportunity when assessing something novel, new or 'cutting-edge'."
The television no longer has the undivided attention of a growing proportion of British viewers, judging by the62% of UK internet userswho say they use their smartphone or tablet while watching TV.Many of those second-screeners are using social networks like Facebook and Twitter, with both companies keen to capitalise on the trend, and encourage broadcasters and brands to do more to engage audiences on the services.Twitter bought social TV analytics startup Bluefin Labsearlier this year with that aim in mind, but now Facebook has worked with rival startup Trendrr to analyse TV-related chatter on its service.Among thefindings published on Trendrr's blogare the claim that "the volume of Facebook user engagement relating to television programming was 5 times as large as all other social networks combined" – a clear shot across Twitter's bows.The US-focused research claims that drama and comedy TV shows were particularly popular on Facebook, but live events saw "dramatically higher levels of activity over other social networks — something that may be surprising for some marketers who view Facebook as a platform mostly for extended conversation".Trendrr says it is planning to work on further research with Facebook, including possibly integrating its data into the startup's Social TV Rankings charts, and helping broadcasters and brands to measure the conversation around their shows and advertisements, and compare it to engagement elsewhere.News of the Facebook/Trendrr partnership came asTwitter launched its TV ad targeting servicein the US, following a two-month beta test.The service aims to help brands synchronise their paid-for "promoted" tweets with ads airing on TV, including targeting those tweets at people who've been tweeting about the show during which they aired, and who thus will be likely to have seen the ad.Twitter's TV Ads dashboard now has more analytics for brands"The results of the beta test reveal that the impact of using Twitter in combination with TV advertising is significantly greater than that of using TV advertising alone," claimed Bluefin Labs founder Michael Fleischman, now working at Twitter in a product role."In our tests over the last few months with brands like Adidas, Holiday Inn Express, Jaguar, and Samsung, advertisers using TV ad targeting saw significant improvements to key brand metrics, such as message association and purchase intent."Twitter is also launching a new set of analytics in its TV Ads dashboard for brands, helping them to examine in greater depth what Twitter users are saying about their advertisements.Both Facebook and Twitter have been heavily courting the TV and advertising industries in recent years, pitching the merits of their platforms.For example, in April at the MIPTV conference, Twitter's UK head of broadcast partnerships Dan Biddle claimed that "40% of tweets in the UK during peak-time television hours are about television", and advised broadcasters to "think about programming Twitter as you programme your channel."For more research into second-screen viewing habits, read The Guardian'sSocial TV and second-screen viewing: the stats in 2012article.
Apple's profits fell for the second successive quarter on Tuesday – down by 22% – but the company managed to beat analysts' estimates, recording a 20% rise in the number of iPhones sold to 31.2m.Revenues were flat at $35.3bn (£23bn) and net income down to $6.9bn.Chief executive Tim Cook immediately sought to assuage market jitters that the company has lost its ability to innovate, saying in a statement: "We are really excited about the upcoming releases of iOS 7 and OS X Mavericks (operating systems), and we are laser-focused and working hard on some amazing new products that we will introduce in the fall and across 2014." He gave no hint what those products might be.Apple's share price rose 4% to $440 in after-hours trading, having fallen 1.7% during the day to $419.Analysts and observers expect Apple to introduce a cheaper "low-end" iPhone in the autumn, and possibly another as yet unknown product in the wearable computing field within the next 12 months to provide a fresh boost to its flagging portfolio.Asked whether there were products and services that could reinvigorate the premium smartphone business, Cook said: "Our focus is always on new products and services. We have opportunities in distribution from carrier relationships to retail stores. We also have a market expansion opportunity [in businesses]. I think we have lots of growth opportunities."He added: "I don't subscribe to the view that the high-end [smartphone] market has reached its peak, but we'll see."The Cupertino-based company managed to avoid the fate of Google, Microsoft and Intel last week, which all reported results that disappointed analysts.Wall Street had been forecasting that Apple would bring in profits of $7.32 per share; Apple managed $7.47.Despite the rise in iPhone sales, average selling price dropped sequentially from $613 to $581, reflecting what is widely seen to be a slowing high-end smartphone market in most developed countries. Sales of the iPad tablet dropped 15% to 14.6m, and the average selling price fell from $449 to $436.The fall in the iPhone's average selling price was blamed on the mix of products as people bought cheaper iPhone 4 devices, as well as foreign exchange fluctuations. Cook insisted that the iPhone 5 had been the best-selling device. "The strongest emerging markets are prepaid markets – India, the Philippines, Turkey," Cook said. US and UK sales were up by 50%, he said.Horace Dediu, of the Asymco consultancy, pointed to figures in the company's accounts showing "huge spending on PP&amp;E [plant, property and equipment] of $6.2bn [during the quarter]."Apple cut inventories, which is often seen as the prelude to newer products in the coming quarter. But the company offered flat guidance for the forthcoming quarter to the end of September, suggesting it will have revenues of between $34bn to $37bn – which would see marginal revenue growth – and gross margins of 36% to 37%.The heft of Apple's size was revealed by the size of its iTunes, Software and Services segment, whose $3.99bn revenues were larger than those of handset competitors HTC and Google-owned Motorola combined.But figures from China, the Asia-Pacific region and Europe suggested the company's high-priced products were shunned by consumers unwilling or unable to afford them. Revenues in China, once a source of strong growth, faded by 14% to just $4.6bn, and the rest of the Asia- Pacific region by 18% to $2bn. European revenues slumped by 8% to $7.6bn. Only the US and Japan offered bright spots, rising by 12% and 27% to $14.4bn and $2.5bn respectively.Cook said China was weaker but that revenues "don't tell the complete story" and that sell-through of devices including inventory reductions was down only 4% on the mainland, and Hong Kong was up 5%. "I attribute this to many things, including the economy there clearly doesn't help us or others," said Cook.Daniel Gleeson, mobile analyst at IHS Electronics &amp; Media, said: "The growth in iPhone shipments but the decline in average selling price can point to two things: Apple is pushing hard to get into emerging markets and is reducing prices to get in, or Apple is clearing stock of iPhone 4 and 4S faster than normal ahead of a launch of a lower cost iPhone that would make those models obsolete. Those scenarios are not mutually exclusive either. Apple could be using its stock of iPhone 4 and 4S to try different pricing strategies in various markets ahead of a major push with a dedicated lower-cost model."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One may have "a 2-3x unit advantage" at launch over PS4 – analyst | VG247Unexpected news from the exciting world of analysis:Robert W. Baird and company analyst Colin Sebastian has stated in his latest investor's note that Xbox One seems to be riding the momentum train at retail.Along with topics covering upcoming financial releases such as EA, Take-Two and Activision, Sebastian noted that gutting the DRM policy on the new Microsoft console has done wonders for the upcoming system."Despite losing the headline battle at E3, Microsoft's Xbox One appears to be regaining some momentum, in part due to the used and online policy tweaks," he wrote. "Importantly, our supply chain checks suggest Microsoft may have the benefit of a 2-3x unit advantage at launch compared to Sony's PS4."Has Microsoft's about-turn really been so successful? Stewart Gilra, CEO of UK developer Just Add Water, had a one word response to this story on Twitter: "bullshit". Whatever, Gamescom has just become even more vital...Nintendo hits two-year stock high with Animal Crossing success | GameSpot.comFinally, some good news for the big N:Nintendo's share price has hit a two-year high, Bloomberg reports, with stock at the Japanese publisher jumping four per cent today.Stock for Nintendo closed at ¥14,050 (approximately $141/£92) a share in the Tokyo stock exchange, the highest for the company since July 2011.Analysts said that Animal Crossing: New Leaf helped contribute to Nintendo's fortunes, with the company further buoyed with speculation that China might soon lift its ban on handheld consoles.That China story is interesting – the removal of the 13-year-ban depends on manufacturers constructing handheld devices in the new Shanghai free trade zone. Morehere.Rockstar's Agent Might Not Be Dead, Take-Two Interactive Files New Trademarks | SiliconeraHmmm, what could this mean?First revealed in 2009, Agent was announced as a PlayStation 3 exclusive from Grand Theft Auto developer Rockstar Games. Agent was described as an espionage game set during the Cold War. After the initial announcement, Rockstar and Take-Two haven't said much about the title, but confirmed it was in development two years ago.Perhaps, Agent is making progress because Take-Two Interactive, the parent company of Rockstar Games, registered two trademarks for Agent. Both trademarks are for use with video games, computer games, online video games, and various printed materials such as manuals and guide books.Could it be that Rockstar North is planning to re-awaken this project after work ends on GTA V? Said to be inspired by cool seventies conspiracy flicks like Parallax View and the Conversation, it has the Houser brothers written all over it.Eidos Montreal GM resigns | GamesIndustry InternationalStephane D'Astous departs, citing irreconcilable differences with Square Enix management, lack of leadership, courage, and communication.Eidos Montreal has lost the only general manager it's ever known. Stephane D'Astous resigned from the Thief studio last Friday, the developer told GamesIndustry International today."Since last year's financial short-coming performance of Square Enix Europe, we (HQ London and GM Eidos-Montreal) have had growing and divergent opinions on what needed to be done to correct the situation," D'Astous said. "The lack of leadership, lack of courage and the lack of communication were so evident, that I wasn't able to conduct my job correctly. I realised that our differences were irreconcilable, and that the best decision was unfortunately to part ways."Box Office Epic Fail: Dissecting the Summer Casualties | VarietyThis article is about how Hollywood is saturating the peak season with mega-budget blockbusters – too many for the audience to cope with. Yeah it's about film, but I think there are important lessons here for the games industry:"There's eventually going to be a big meltdown," Spielberg forecast. "There's going to be an implosion where three or four or maybe even a half-dozen of these mega-budgeted movies go crashing into the ground, and that's going to change the paradigm again."The games industry has gone in exactly the same direction as the US film business – big budget Triple A smashes, smaller indie projects and very little inbetween. The problem is, as the budgets rise, so do the stakes – especially when everyone else is playing the same game. Hollywood is now paying the price and several big releases have dive-bombed at the box office. With the pressure to score big during the first wave of next-gen console releases, a similar situation could easily occur here.Aaahhh, Don't Do That To A Vita Screen! | KotakuDon't like costly gadgets being abused? Look away now...Peripheral and accessory company Hori have a new line of Vita screen protectors, and to demonstrate their toughness, they did the only thing a product like this asks for: they tried to scratch the shit out of the handheld's glorious screen.Ouch.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A generation of British children grew up with Knightmare, the pioneering TV show inspired by roleplaying games that mixed live contestants with computer-generated dungeons. Now it's returning in a one-off episode filmed for YouTube.The revived Knightmare will be one of the British highlights ofYouTube's Geek Weekon 4-10 August, which will celebrate science fiction, comics, gaming and science.The episode has been produced by the show's creator Tim Child, and will feature comedian Isy Suttie (Peep Show) and actor Jessie Cave (Harry Potter) alongside the original show's dungeon master character Treguard.They'll be joined by four British YouTube stars, Dan Howell, Phil Lester, Emma Blackery and Stuart Ashen, as the video service aims to showcase and cross-promote some of the British talent that's finding a thriving online audience through their channels.More than 100 YouTube creators will be publishing themed videos for Geek Week, which is being executive-produced by multi-channel network ChannelFlip.Content will include a celebration of Doctor Who and various superheroes; a day focusing on science and education channels; and a live broadcast from the YouTube Space in London of popular games YouTubers trying to break a selection of Guinness World Records.Celebrities including Jamie Oliver, Rachel Riley and Brian Blessed have contributed video playlists, while another veteran TV character – Kryten from Red Dwarf – will act as a daily host pointing viewers to new videos."With more than half of our top 20 non-music channels dedicated to geek culture, YouTube has become a top destination for fans everywhere to create, share and watch geek content," says Danielle Tiedt, vice president of marketing for YouTube."We're excited to shine a spotlight on this global community during Geek Week and debut all-new videos and series created by some of our most popular channel partners."A glance at the stats for some of the British YouTubers starring in the new Knightmare episode shows the reach that technology, science and "geek culture" is getting on YouTube.Howell'sdanisnotonfirechannel has just under 2m subscribers and 114.1m video views so far, while Lester'sAmazingPhilchannel has 1.1m subscribers and 70m views. Both joined YouTube in 2006.Musician Blackery has 289k subscribers and 11.2m views forher channel, whileAshen's "Comedy, Technology, Idiocy" videoshave attracted 368k subscribers and 77.2m total views.Globally, channels that could fall under the Geek Week banner are hugely popular too.Industry siteTubefilter's monthly top 100 YouTube channels chartis currently topped by Swedish gamerPewDiePiewith his 10.8m subscribers and 2.1bn total views – 208.4m of which came in June 2013 alone.Fellow games-focused channelSky Does Minecraft(4.7m subscribers and 967.8m views) and games / sci-fi channelRooster Teeth(5.6m subscribers and 2.3bn views) are also among the most popular YouTube channels.Meanwhile,Machinima, which started as a channel for gaming videos, but has since diversified into a multi-channel network covering entertainment, sports and comedy, claims an audience of more than 190m people who watched more than 2.1bn videos in May 2013.For more on Knightmare's history, read The Guardian'sHow we made Knightmarefeature from April 2013.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle starts sending adverts as emails to Gmail users &gt;&gt; Geek.comThe Gmail redesign wasn't just to help users, though. It turns out Google has decided to introduce a new form of advertising because of it, one that you could view as being much more intrusive than before.Some users havestarted noticingthat in the Promotions tab new emails are appearing that they haven't signed up to receive. As you can see in the image below, these emails as marked as "Ad" under the sender name. A little further investigation reveals they are actually Google adverts packaged as emails.Xbox One records the last five minutes of your gameplay &gt;&gt; Eurogamer.netAs reported below, Xbox One will record the last five minutes of your gameplay. But there's been confusion around exactly how long PlayStation 4 will do the same.SCEE's Neil Brown was heard to say "seven minutes" at a Develop 2013 talk in Brighton last week - much less than the 15 minutes previously reported. Sony has now told Eurogamer that Brown corrected himself when queried by an attendee after the session concluded, and that his script had read "several".So you can store and edit it later, say from an online game.Google Reader died because no-one would run it &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedThe decision had little to do with consumers — the RSS reader was very popular with a core set of power users — and much more to do with corporate politics. At Google, Chief Executive Larry Page and his inner circle of lieutenants, known as the "L Team," simply did not view Google Reader as an important strategic priority. Internally, it became obvious that despite Google Reader's loyal fan base, working on the project was not going to get the attention of Page, several sources close to the company told BuzzFeed.How to give your lost phone a much better chance of being returned &gt;&gt; MediaBizTechRobert Freeman:It was an iPhone 4S, lying on the edge of a seat . There wasn't anyone else in that part of the carriage. It was in flight mode, so the 'Find my iPhone' function would have been inoperable.I don't have an iPhone, but I'm prepared to bet there are lost property rooms packed with dozens of lost iPhones/Pads all over the world, particularly in airports and train stations.They are unable to be reunited with their owners because Apple's security features make it impossible and the owners themselves haven't planned for their possible loss.Here are the issues:The lockscreenThis is the first hurdle most people will fall at. Unless you know the code, you can't get into the contacts to start ringing obvious numbers, eg. Home, or Mum/Dad.The simplest thing here is to take a photo of your contact details and use this as your lockscreen wallpaper. It's in the Settings menu.Devastatingly simple idea. (If you lose your phone, you'd want Freeman to find it.) Obviously, don't use your mobile number in the contact details...(Not) TweetBot &gt;&gt; Amazon:Mobile AppsThis item is only available for Android devices. Add it to your Wish List and you can view and purchase it from your computer.It's also a ripoff: the Tweetbot team hasn't ported it to Android. (This is for sale on the Amazon App Store.) Worth reading thereviews.Writing notifications that don't suck &gt;&gt; MediumDave Feldman:Good notifications and error messages require care. They're not necessarily hard, but they are often overlooked – to the detriment of your overall product experience. Because notifications often occur at times of anxiety and annoyance, a bad notification can ruin your UX; while a good notification can take a moment of frustration and turn it around.He doesn't deal with the notifications that roll over the top of iOS's screen, which can be a hazard - to put it mildly - if you're trying to interact with a screen element up there. A useful piece, though.Ubuntuforums.org cracker promises no password release &gt;&gt; The RegisterQuoth the hacker:"You can stop worrying about your passwords. Yes, they were encrypted. Encrypted with the default vBulletin hashing algorithm (md5(md5($pass).$salt). Whilst it may not be the strongest, when you're dealing with 1.8m users it would take a very long time to get anywhere with the hashes. You don't have to worry about a DB leak. That isn't how I like to do things.Oh, well that's OK then.Nokia announces Lumia 625, a 4.7in phone with a small-budget price &gt;&gt; The VergeNokia has just announced the Lumia 625, a budget Windows Phone with the largest display the company has ever put in a smartphone. It's a 4.7in WVGA (480 x 800) panel with 201ppi, however, which makes it one of the least dense displays we've seen in recent memory — only Samsung's Galaxy Mega 5.8 does worse. Compounding the screen misery are limited viewing angles and poor contrast, though Nokia does include one of its flagship features with the "super-sensitive touch" technology that allows you to use the touchscreen with gloves on."Screen misery" - this year's new illness. (Hint: Nokia's didn't design this phone to delight tech bloggers.)Exclusive: Moto X camera's new minimalist user interface and swipe gestures &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe latest tidbits of information from an anonymous tipster is the new camera interface for the Moto X, which is considerably different from both previous "skinned" Motorola phones and the AOSP camera apps in both Android 4.2 and what we've seen of 4.3. It's a lot cleaner than both, with a big focus on gestures and unobtrusive controls.These look intriguing, and having easily accessible alternative camera settings feels like the wave of the future (as point-and-shoot phone pictures become a commodity). How easy though is it to remember the right gestures when in a rush?This Is The Moto X &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThere's a lot riding on this phone. After Google acquired Motorola in the summer of 2012, Samsung tightened its grasp on the Android smartphone market. Motorola is in a distant third, trailing even behind imploding HTC. Motorola and Google need a killer device that will appeal to mainstream customers. That's the Moto X. At least both parties hope so.Anyone who thinks that the Moto X will sell in large enough quantities to make any significant different to Samsung's share in the US (or Motorola's) simply has no grasp of the smartphone business. Whether its software features make an impact - that's a different question.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Following a special round table discussion hosted by the End Violence Against Women Coalition,Jane Martinson,Women's Editor of the Guardianis joined by a panel of experts to discuss violence against women in the digital world. On the panel isProfessor Sonia Livingstoneof the LSE and Director of theEU Kids Online network,Laura Bates, founder of the@everydaysexism project,Ikamara Larasiof black women'sorganisation ImkaanandHolly Dustin, Director of theEnd Violence Against Women Coalition.Many thanks toAmnesty UKfor hosting the recording, and particular thanks to Sarah Green, Campaigns Manager at theEnd Violence Against Women Coalition, for more information about all of Amnesty's campaigns and work,click here.
YouTube turned songs like Gangnam Style and Harlem Shake into global hits, but now Universal Music Group is hoping to use Google's video site as the launchpad for a new generation of music stars.The major label is launching a new label called All Def Music, which will focus on signing, developing and promoting musicians on Google's video service.UMG is working with entrepreneur Russell Simmons, veteran hip-hop executive Steve Rifkind, and Brian Robbins, founder of children's YouTube network AwesomenessTV, which was acquired by DreamWorks Animation for a reported $33m earlier this year.All Def Music will launch in the third quarter of 2013 with Rifkind as its president and chief executive. It's effectively UMG's answer to the wave of multi-channel networks (MCNs) on YouTube like Maker Studios, Fullscreen and Base79, which include a number of musicians on their rosters.All Def Music will rely partly onAll Def Digital, an MCN launched by Simmons and Robbins earlier this year with funding from YouTube. The company also manages emerging artists, among them poet/musician Spoken Reasons, who has more than 1.3m YouTube subscribers already."The exponential growth of Internet-based video has created a powerful new outlet for music and music-based content," said UMG chairman and chief executive Lucian Grainge in a statement."The launch of All Def Music is a part of our broader strategy to partner with some of the most experienced entrepreneurs in media and technology to identify future stars and develop powerful content on the world's fastest growing media platform."The label sees Simmons return to the Universal fold, having founded hip-hop label Def Jam, which became part of UMG in 1998 as part of a wider merger, and is now part of its Island Def Jam subsidiary."I look forward to working with the extraordinary talent from the vastly creative YouTube ecosystem in the same way I've worked with musicians, poets, comedians and designers all my life," said Simmons.YouTube has already spawned a number of music stars. British singer/songwriterAlex Dayhas more than 708,000 subscribers to his channel, which has generated more than 116m video views, for example.In 2011,Day sold 100k downloadsto reach number four in the UK's Christmas-week singles chart.Meanwhile, British bass-music brand UKF has4.4m subscribers for its UKF Dubstep channel, which has racked up more than 1bn total views since its launch in 2009.Traditional record labels are also finding new income streams from YouTube. Indie label Cooking Vinyl said in January 2013 thatit was earning up to $5,000 per million views on the service, with its YouTube revenue having more-than doubled between February and November 2012."We're anticipating YouTube becoming our most important revenue stream in the future," said the label's digital distribution manager Richard Leach at the time. It remains to be seen whether Universal Music Group's new venture can help the major label group towards a similar goal.
Mark Shuttleworth isn't lacking in chutzpah - which, when you're a multimillionaire who has been into space and set up one of the more successful companies offering Linux distributions, is perhaps allowable.Still, he was in remarkable form on Monday when announcing a new crowdfunding scheme from his company Canonical. He aims to raise $32m by 21 August from people who want a phone. They will pay from $600 (a slice which ended at 4pm BST on 23 July, with 5,044 bought and the total raised at $3.45m) to $830 (everyone who comes afterwards, unless you want to buy two for $1,400 or buy one of the first 50 off the production line for $10,000).Funding the project will require around 40,000 pledges for theUbuntu Edge, a smartphone which dual boots between Android and Ubuntu - and so can be both a smartphoneand a PCif you plug it into a screen and attach a (Bluetooth) keyboard.Shuttleworth was blunt: he thinks that there just isn't enough innovation going on in the smartphone and PC space. Nobody's trying anything interesting. Except, of course, him and the Canonical team."We came to the view that there is an innovation gap," he said. "The pressure to produce high volume hits damages the ability to produce leading edge innovation. If you're hoping to produce up to 50 million of some device then you have a demonstrable disincentive to produce anything that hasn't been made already. There's what we think is an opportunity to connect with early adopters and enthusiasts."Innovation? Where?That the phone and PC business hasn't been innovating much will come as news to people such as Nokia, which earlier this month was showing off its Lumia 1020, which hasa camera with 41 megapixels, the ability to retrospectively zoom into elements of a picture, and amazing low-light optics. I may have beendismissiveabout its wider market prospects, but it's a hell of a cameraphone. It's going to be leading-edge for at least 18 months - and perhaps longer.Or how about Samsung, which has worked hard on producing lots of software features such as its eye-controlledSmart ScrollandAir Gestureto enhance TouchWiz (even if they aren't widely loved)? How about Microsoft, which had the front to recompile Windows to run on ARM chips to produce the Surface RT? Or Apple, which has redesigned its phone software's appearance and many aspects of its operation in a seven-month crash course that seems aimed at capturing more of the Asian market? Don't those count as innovation?Apparently not. Shuttleworth said: "We can get things proved in the lab, but we don't have the proving grounds to get them into mass market devices. We get very excited about ideas that can combine something that's very exciting to use. There's an enthusiastic community which likes shaping its own devices - and we can combine that with crowdfunding, which is a really powerful way to connect innovators with early adopters."No argument about that; Kickstarter and Indiegogo are fantastic for finding early adopters for new products (sometimes, the only buyers for new products). I write as someone whoponied up for a Pebble smartwatchon Kickstarter and waited a year for it to arrive. But that was OK. I had a watch in the meantime. People promising their money to Canonical will already have their smartphones too.Shuttleworth continued: "We have also looked at other areas of the phone market which we think have fallen into the innovation gap. For example, we're going to have a pure sapphire touchscreen so it will be thinner, and yet resistant to the scratches you get with glass."But, he added, "our goal is not to get into the phone business, but to create a fantastic test harness."And so Shuttleworth apparently wants the Ubuntu Edge to recap the mistakes of past years. "We see the convergence of the phone and PC," he said. "And [we can] move the whole market forward faster than it would if left to its own devices."Back to the futureLet's recap the past mistakes first, and then we'll look at why the idea of the "phone-PC hybrid" doesn't (and arguably can't) work.There have been plenty of attempts to produce phone/PC hybrids. TheNokia N900?Palm Foleo? No, let's go back to the most recent - which, arguably, should be the one that had the best hope of succeeding.Remember the Motorola Atrix? Sure you do - it was unveiled amid much fanfare at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show, alongside the Motorola Xoom, the first tablet using Google's Android 3.0 "Honeycomb" software. (You remember the Xoom - the iPad killer. Sold a whopping million or so from its launch in March 2011 until it was quietly killed.)The Atrix, though, was to be the next wave. It was, yes, a hybrid phone-PC, which ran Android and then, when connected to a screen via its micro-HDMI output plugged into a laptop accessory, would begin running Webtop - an Ubuntu-based desktop system and the Firefox browser. Engadgetgave the Atrix 9 out of 10and CNet gave it four out of five stars. It won a "Best Of CES" award.Another thing: the Atrix was aterrible flop. Which may tell you as much as you need to know about reviews on some gadget websites. I had a test unit, and found it such a profoundly dispiriting experience that I gave up on it after a day. It was too limited and too frustrating ever to appeal to business users, who would be the only people who would be able to afford the accessories needed to plug the devices.When I asked about this, Shuttleworth suggested that "the march of Moore's Law" means that fusty old hardware like the Atrix - which carried the moniker of the "world's most powerful smartphone" when it debuted - is outdated. "I think it was an 800MHz CPU" - actually it was a dual-core Tegra 2 running at 1GHz - "whereas ours will be running at 2.4 gigahertz." That's more specific than the project page, which says "We'll choose the fastest available multi-core processor, at least 4GB of RAM and a massive 128GB of storage." Well, the Atrix only offered 1GB and 16GB basic.The thing about the Atrix was that there wasn't a market for it. As I suspected, people didn't want to carry a phone around to be their desktop. Cloud services weren't as good then of course - though it was the first 4G phone, there weren't the services to go with it.So could the Ubuntu Edge be in the right place, right time? We have cloud services like Dropbox. It will have HDMI out, so you can connect it to a screen with an HDMI connector - no need for the Atrix's clumsy accessories.Here's the odd thing with the Edge, though. It will be a dual boot device - Android as a phone, Ubuntu as a PC. Great! You sit down, and all those thoughts you saved on your Android phone aren't available to you when you're on Ubuntu. Or else the PC notes aren't there when you're on the phone.Update:the project says "you'll be able to move seamlessly from one environment to the other with no file syncing or transfers required".(Also, forget about taking phone calls while you're on your "PC".Update:the project says "you'll be able to make calls from your desktop". So bring your headset with mic.) Yes, you can put the notes into the cloud via Evernote or Dropbox - but in that case, why mess about with 128GB of storage? Why, in fact, not just sit down in front of a personal computer of whatever hue (Windows, Mac, Linux distro, Chromebook) and connect to your cloud services? What problem does having a dual-boot phoneactuallysolve?The error of the hybridTo my mind the category error that Shuttleworth and the Canonical team have fallen into here is to gaze upon the smartphone landscape, look upwards at the PC, and say "there's a gap there". There is. But it's already filled.Let's assume for a minute that the project gets funded (which is likely, though not certain). So now you have your Ubuntu Edge in your pocket. You use it on the train, save some work to the cloud, and come into the office. Now… you need an HDMI cable and a screen to attach it to so that you can reboot into Ubuntu. What's that? Your work has already provided a PC (possibly running Ubuntu, though chances are probably not)? Well, that's your money spent buying a dual-boot phone wasted then.But wait, there's another scenario! You're out and about and you need to write something up - a report, a sales meeting, a site visit. You turn up at the internet cafe, with an HDMI cable in your bag, and… wait, they have PCs there with screens. And no sign of an HDMI in - these are internet cafes, after all, and their screens date back to the Mesolithic age of computing.Well, what about the situation where you turn upsomewhereand they have screens you can plug your dual-boot phone in? Sure, those might exist. I'm sure you'll be able to think of a couple. That time when you visited that production facility and the desktop was broken but the screen worked. Sure.Update: sure enough, people have suggested a scenario: the business traveller who arrives at their hotel room and finds a monitor there. This means the Ubuntu Edge is perfect for the demographic of "business travellers who work for companies which are generous enough to pay for a nice hotel room but not for a work computer, and who don't want to lug around a laptop despite presumably having luggage, and want to do their work in Ubuntu." I'd suggest this is a very small demographic.On the other hand, here's a solution which costs very much less than the Ubuntu Edge, allows you to keep your existing smartphone (if you've got $830 to burn on a crowdfunding project, you've surely already got a smartphone) and yet do useful work: buy a tablet.Think of the advantages:• With a tablet, you cancarry a screen around with you- no hunting for somewhere to plug it in;• You have a virtual keyboardall the time(and if you want to add a Bluetooth one, that's available too);• Whether it's an Android tablet or an iPad, those cloud services where you needed to store your notes from your smartphone are going to be available;• If your tablet doesn't have its own 3G or 4G connection, you can use the phone's hotspot to make a Wi-Fi link.Certainly, carrying a tablet as well as a phone does mean toting more weight. But not much. Compared to the convenience it affords - larger-screen computing power absolutely anywhere you want it, including train station platforms (not many HDMI screens there), contrasted with the inconvenience of having to hunt around for a screen with an HDMI input, the tablet wins every time.Of course, buying a tablet doesn't have the magic fairy dust of "open source" like the Ubuntu Edge might (though if you buy an Android tablet, near enough). But the trouble with hybrid devices is that you have to judge them perfectly; otherwise, like Microsoft with the Surface RT, you can be left holding the baby. (A$900m writeoff, in Microsoft's case.)It's fairly certain that the project will hit its funding target - there are enough people in the world who think that running open source software confers a sort of magic on a device, and have the spare cash. But I suspect they won't use it as a phone/PC hybrid in the way Shuttleworth expects - and that it will end up being a pricey smartphone.Still, a sapphire screen, eh? Sounds nice.Corrected with points about file system access and call access on desktop; added scenario where you could use a screen.
Finnish developerSupercelllaunched its first two mobile games – Hay Day and Clash of Clans – in the summer of 2012. In the first three months of 2013, those two games alonemade the company $179m (£116.7m) in revenues.That's why mobile gaming is such a simultaneously exciting and terrifying industry to operate in right now, and Supercell isn't even making the most money. Japanese firmGungHo Online made $303m in revenuesin the first quarter of 2013, with the majority of them coming from a single mobile game: Puzzle &amp; Dragons.Now these two companies are working together, with a cross-promotional campaign with Clash of Clans characters appearing in Puzzle &amp; Dragons, and potentially a reciprocal arrangement within Supercell's game.On one level, Supercell and GungHo are rivals, but they're also partners, which should be causing the odd headache within big games companies from EA and Activision to Zynga.The rise of Supercell in particular has been meteoric. Hay Day was released on 21 June 2012, then Clash of Clans on 2 August. By mid-April 2013, Supercell was pulling in $2.4m of daily revenues from its 8.5m daily active players, and raising a $130m funding round that valued the company at $770m."We've been surprised. None of us could have imagined how quickly this would happen," says Ilkka Paananen, Supercell's chief executive.It's a far cry from his previous mobile games companies. Finnish studio Sumea, which was bought by US publisher Digital Chocolate in 2004, specialised in quirky, characterful own-IP games of the kind that would later prosper on Apple's App Store.Yet it was making them at a time when the dominant mobile games stores were those run by mobile operators, where quirky, characterful own-IP games tended to sell badly – if they were stocked at all.Digital Chocolate had some success on iOS and then Facebook, but Paananen left in 2010, then launched Supercell in 2011 to make social games on Facebook, starting with a game named Gunshine. It never quite took off, but one year and a "tablet-first" pivot later, Hay Day and Clash of Clans launched."Our growth speaks a lot about the platform that we're on, and how quickly games can spread organically," says Paananen. "It's also been exciting for me personally to see how global this business has become: we've been at the top spots in Western countries, but also number two in China, and in the top five in Japan. That's really exciting."Supercell's Hay Day gameFree-to-play gamingSupercell's rise has been interwoven with the explosion in free-to-play (F2P) games on smartphones and tablets: a trend that's caused plenty of tension within the games industry.The key argument is over whether many of the most successful F2P mobile games are little more than money-sucking "monetisation machines", where the design is almost entirely geared towards forcing players to spend money. Gambling-style addiction, without even the prospect of a payout.For the most part, Supercell's games have swerved this criticism, yet still managed to make lots of money. How? "The huge irony here is that if the monetisation is not your number one priority, that actually leads to better monetisation," says Paananen."When you prioritise engagement and retention – making a great game that people play often and want to play for a long time – they are happy to pay. We want to design games that people can theoretically play for years."Paananen is quick to stress that Supercell is just the latest in a long line of games firms with this objective, and mentions World of Warcraft and League of Legends as two franchises whose longevity his company is keen to emulate.He also has some sharp words for some of the trends in social and mobile/F2P games that have hinted at other motivations, as well as companies focusing too much on analytics as a guide for their design choices."There was a time, especially in the social games industry, where people thought you could create great games based on a spreadsheet: that creativity and design wouldn't really matter, because it was all about some maths," says Paananen."Games are still a form of art, not a form of science. You can't design fun on a spreadsheet. And if you want to make an industry for the long-term, if you can't create fun games, there's no future."I'm sure analytics still play a significant role in Supercell's business, in terms of watching closely how people play Hay Day and Clash of Clans, and taking design decisions at least partly based on that.In other words, Paananen's criticism isn't of analytics per se, but of the trend he saw for analytics without the art.Supercell has talked publicly and regularly about its company culture: small teams organised in "cells", with the freedom to work on new game ideas, test them and – if the team decides they're not worth pursuing – gathering the company together to toast the lessons learned with champagne.Spot the Clash of Clans character in Puzzle & DragonsGungHo partnershipSupercell currently has just over 100 employees, and Paananen says it's determined to "stay as small as possible" on the grounds that "smaller companies are more fun, and happier people create better games"."Having small teams in the console space is hard. The Minecraft guys are an exception, of course, but it's tough to have small teams if your goal is to do cinematic action titles for next-generation consoles," he adds."But those movie-like experiences aren't what people are looking for in mobile. What users really value is the gameplay and social aspects of the games, and that enables you to keep the team smaller, and move quicker."One example of moving quickly is Supercell's GungHo partnership, given the rapid rise of the latter's Puzzle &amp; Dragons (even if GungHo itself is a well-established publicly-listed company in Japan thanks to its online gaming business).Paananen says that the partnership came about through seeing GungHo boss Kazuki Morishita speak at industry conferences – "I really admired how humble he was about everything" – and the sense that the two companies' cultures might mesh well."We were interested in the Japanese market, so we got in touch with them, and there was an immediate connection on a personal level, but also on how we both think about game design. So we decided to do some cross-promotion," he says.Such collaboration has been quite common in the independent games world. Doodle Jump and Pocket God crossed their streams in 2009, for example, as did Minigore and Sway, while Braid character Tim made a cameo appearance in Super Meat Boy.The difference with Clash of Clans and Puzzle &amp; Dragons is that they're two of the most lucrative mobile games in the world right now, with the latter providing the former with a valuable introduction to gamers in Japan.Big traditional publishers rarely do this kind of thing – although the Mario and Sonic games show it's absolutely possible – which Paananen suggests is often due to "short-term thinking" relating to financial goals."Companies run on these quarterly goals which they absolutely have to meet, but that creates a lot of pressure and short-term thinking," he says."But when you think a bit more in the long-term, why wouldn't you co-operate with guys like GungHo? Players of both companies have really appreciated it. It shows that sometimes one plus one can be greater than two. I don't realise why some other companies don't do it."Clash of Clans was localised for Japan, and tripled its revenuesAsian expansionJapan is high on Supercell's strategic priorities, too, with Clash of Clans having reportedlytripled its revenue there since the cross-promotion started, which in turn came just after an update to the game with support for Japanese language."It's a very interesting opportunity for us. If you think five years ahead about what the most valuable games companies will look like, they'll need to have a strong foothold not only in the Western markets, but in one or two of the big Asian markets: Japan, Korea and China," says Paananen."One of our goals is to create the first fully-global games company, which has players both in the West and in the big Asian markets. We still have a very long way to go, but the signs have been very promising."Does being big in Asia mean also being big on Android? Supercell is still an iOS-only developer, but Android is huge in China and South Korea in particular. Will the company's desire for Asian expansion mean Western Android users get to play its games soon?Paananen plays the straightest of straight bats. "You are quite right in saying Android is pretty big in Asia, but right now we don't have anything to say on that front," he says."We are, of course, keeping our eyes and ears open for different platforms, but I would say also that iOS is a pretty big platform in our experience in both Japan and China."Supercell is thinking hard about how its two current game franchises can expand in other ways, though. Mobile brands like Angry Birds, Talking Friends and Cut the Rope have all explored animation, toys and other merchandise.When might we see Hay Day plush toys or Clash of Clans cartoons or comics to match? Paananen says Supercell will be "pretty cautious" when it comes to licensing and merchandising, but the company is clearly mulling its options."We've had lots of requests coming in, and we've said no to the vast majority of them. But hopefully this year we will try something on that front," he says."We're going to be very, very choosy, and it'll be as high-quality as possible: something our players will feel is authentic and part of the game experience. We want to do something cool though: not just the games, but something extra."At the end of the interview, conversation turns back to the often-heated debate around F2P games, and whether too many are trying to take advantage of their players rather than delight them. This, alongside the separate-but-related debate about the way in-app purchases are used in children's games.Paananen thinks developers can't afford to shrug off the criticisms. "It's such a new industry, you have to do what's right for players. Some of the negative PR around free-to-play stuff has been a shame," he says."It's really up to us as an industry to get pro-active about this stuff and do things that are right for our players. If we don't, someone else will come in, and there's going to be legislation."The Supercell boss is broadly optimistic though, and thinks that as better games continue to be released, the good companies will prosper, and the short-term moneygrabbers will fall away."The irony here is that the free-to-play model should be a win-win situation for consumers and developers. There have never been such high-quality games available for users to enjoy and try out for free," he says."And it's an efficient business model when done right, as you can see from guys like King, GungHo and us. It's just a case of knowing what's right and what's wrong, and being more pro-active about it."
