Toy storyAt this time of the year, many of us are trying to weigh the relative merits of Robosapiens, Lego Hogwarts Castles, Bratz Tokyo a Go-Go Dolls and similar delights. FamilyFun might help. This American organisation starts with more than 500 toys, has a bunch of schoolkids reduce them to about 60 finalists, and sends samples of all of these to 17 KinderCares so that more than 1,000 kids can play with them and vote on their favourites. The result is a list of Best Toys for 2004, including the ones mentioned above. Some are not available in the UK, or not suitable, but the site still provides some useful information. This year, for the first time, FamilyFun has also produced a list of the 10 best video games for kids aged 6-12.Best Toys for 200410 best video games for kidsBarkingRaiders of the Lost Bark is a new game launched by the Rainforest Foundation. It lets you dodge logs and flying chainsaws in your quest to save the Congo's rainforests. Whether or not you complete the game, you are also invited to email the World Bank's president, James Wolfensohn, to ask him to stop the proposed industrial logging in the area, where millions of people depend on the forest for their survival.tinyurl.com/3rnpxSole traderIf you were picking a website for Sex and the City's Sarah Jessica Parker, it would have to be Shoewawa. It is very similar to the blog-based sites that drool over mobile phones and similar gizmos, except that it deals in Mukluks, Helmut Lang, right, Louis Vuitton satin pleated pumps and Manolo Blahnik Mary Janes. The site has been created by Gemma Cartwright, who is also responsible for Catwalk Queen.www.shoewawa.comwww.catwalk-queen.netOcean floatsDo you often wonder about the subsurface temperature, salinity and speed of currents in the middle of the Pacific, just off the coast of Africa, or anywhere else? They do at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), which, in conjunction with researchers in many other countries, has a global ocean observation project called Argo. This is based on "floats" that sink to a depth of about 1,000m, follow the ocean currents for nine days, dive to 2,000m then resurface and transmit their data via satellite. The data is used for climate research and studying things such as El Nino, hurricanes and typhoons. The project started deploying floats in 2000, and now has 1,519 of them, so it is half way to reaching 3,000 floats in 2007. The interactive map at the Observing Platform Support Centre (jcommops) lets you zoom in on individual floats.www.argo.netwww.argo.ucsd.eduargo.jcommops.orgFlying offThe launch of a beta version of Yahoo's FareChase - a travel search engine that does price comparisons - attracted a lot of attention. It has lots of competition, not only from Sidestep, which seems to be the market leader, but from sites such as Mobissimo Travel, Kayak and Qixo. In the UK, we have had a similar site for about eight years: Cheapflights.co.uk.Cheapflights.co.ukwww.farechase.comwww.sidestep.comwww.mobissimo.comwww.kayak.comwww.qixo.comChristmas scenesThe internet hosts all sorts of odd collections, and the University of Dayton, Ohio, has one that is, as the website says, "pregnant with meaning": America's - and probably the world's - largest collection of nativity scenes. The Marian Library has been collecting them for a decade, and now has almost 1,000 from 45 countries illustrating all sorts of styles. More than 100 of these creches are being shown in four locations in Dayton and Cincinnati, but they are all on the web.www.udnativity.orgSix of the best  e-cards123Blue MountainYahooVintage ecardsChristian AidLinks
Best on fieldAfter reading Neil McIntosh (Crash course for footy addicts, December 2), I felt compelled to reply. I genuinely feel Football Manager is the best game I have ever bought, and better than any of the previous Championship Manager games. He seems to ignore the gameplay aspects - which are in essence what you want from a game - and focuses on all the "problems" the game has due to Sports Interactive's (successful) quest in producing the most complicated and addictive management sim in the world.Alex QuinnManchesterDoomed to sufferI, too, felt that Football Manager had too many serious flaws to realistically be considered finished. I disagreed about the customer service to a point, for the simple reason that the forums are there and the majority of the issues posted about are responded to usually within a day or two, at most. What Sports Interactive failed to realise is that not everyone has internet access. While a great many do, those that do not are doomed to suffer with a game that desperately needs a patch. What about all those copies that are out on the shelves?Peter JonesNuneatonTake a hikeI was very disappointed after reading the article about Football Manager (FM). If Neil McIntosh had looked through the FM forum topics, he   would have seen that there are not only posts about issues that make the game unplayable. Yes, the game has issues, and for some people, the game is not playable. But for most, the game works fine. Saying that Sports Interactive has a lack of communication is incorrect. In lots of posts you find a reply from its people.McIntosh should have taken a walk around the block to cool down before he started writing his article.Ronnie van HemertThe NetherlandsHigher authorityRegarding the letters in Feedback (December 2) about support for Firefox among online banking services, while it is true that Egg online services work with Firefox - or at least works for my credit card account - you still need IE5 or higher when using Egg as a portal to accounts with other companies, such as Smile and Comdirect. I downloaded User Agent Switcher as recommended by Andy Gilmour, to no effect.Tony GrettonCheltenhamSound the alarmI suggest the problems of access to many websites is not the fault of Firefox but rather ZoneAlarm. ZA 5.5.062 has prevented access to many websites that were accessible before. ZA's users forum bulges with users' complaints. ZA issued 5.5.062.004 on Friday and, if installed as a clean install rather than an upgrade, it provides better access than before but it is still not problem free. Don't blame Firefox, the problem lies elsewhere.Don HawthornNottinghamInfection spreadsIsn't it somewhat more worrying if infection is possible even without clicking on the banner ads (Sore sites, December 2)? Users only need to visit a website hosting an infected banner - no need to actually click on it to become infected if their machine   is vulnerable! Clicking a banner ad that takes you to a rogue website has always been, and will continue to be, risky. The iFrame vulnerability has made things much worse as you can now become infected by visiting a "well-respected" website that just happens to host banners co-opted into a malicious purpose.Sean JonesCardiffProper coupMicrosoft seems to have pulled off a propaganda coup in its war against Linux by getting a number of stories in the press about the Isle of Man government's decision to use Microsoft software exclusively (Jack Schofield, December 2). The clever part lies in getting the word government into the headlines, obscuring the fact that the Isle of Man has a population of around 70,000 and the government is equivalent to a small local council.Jim SmithLondonSurrender controlThe decision by the Isle of Man IT director, Allan Paterson, to go with a 100% Microsoft solution is typical of the lazy thinking prevalent with senior IT management in these islands. I am not privy to the terms of the contract but it seems by making this decision, Paterson has surrendered control of a large chunk of IT policy to the supplier. Support for open standards and interoperability will be one casualty, thereby achieving the sort of lock-in so desired by suppliers.The irony of this decision is that one of the reasons he is able to cut such as deal is the competition that Microsoft fears from Linux and open source technologies - particularly in the public sector market. In years to come, the decision he has taken may not seem such good value for money.John SinhaLondon&#183;online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
It's always nice to put a face to a voice - or to an algorithm. The US media recently found the human behind Amtrak Julie, the computer-based voice response system the national rail company uses to automate many of its support calls. She is Julie Stinneford, whose dulcet Bostonian tones were immortalised by ScanSoft, the speech recognition firm. Now, an automatic speech recognition (ASR) system recognises what customers are saying and responds in Julie's voice."We got payback on our investment in around 18 months," says Matt Hardison, chief of sales, distribution and customer service for Amtrak, which spent $4m launching the system in 2001. Replacing a touch-tone automated phone service, Amtrak Julie could only offer arrival and departure information, but in 2002, she was enhanced to take online bookings. Today, she handles a quarter of the firm's 20m annual phone calls.Customer service operations using human agents drain resources, so automating the process saves money. But traditional technologies such as interactive voice response (IVR), where users push phone buttons in response to prompts, can be frustrating, especially when the menu system has too many levels.Like IVR, technologies such as ASR, SMS-based support and automatic email response systems promise to serve customers at a fraction of the cost of a voice call. Unlike IVR, these systems let people ask questions without waiting for menu options, so they can handle complex interactions in a more intuitive way. The promised result is increased call throughput with a better success rate.Even online support sessions are getting the robot treatment. Talisma, which sells integrated automated support systems, offers text chat as an option on its website. "It's a portal that drives you to the answer without having to interface with a human," says Dan Vetras, Talisma's chief executive. The chat sessions use a combination of keyword searches and other algorithms to help the software pull pre-written pieces of text into the conversation. Up to 50% of the agent's dialogue is automated - the person you are chatting with is half person, half script.Online chat is cheaper for companies because even though an agent is still needed, they can handle multiple chat sessions, says Vetras. "Some of my kids have eight chat sessions going on. These are just kids using Instant Messenger, but they are the future workforce."Forcing customers to interact without speaking to an agent could make a company seem faceless, but the key is for support centres to choose their battles and realise which interactions can be automated effectively, says Tony Hill, marketing director at Telsis. Telsis sells products that let mobile telecommunication companies offer services via SMS. The company's natural language processing software can interpret answers to basic queries, even in text lingo, and send back an instant SMS answer."The majority of customer care calls are people asking the same questions: What's my balance? How many loyalty points do I have?" says Hill. He argues that a quick, automatic answer is best for these types of query, as long as your system can process natural language.By automating online chat, Vetras is trying to raise the threshold between automated and live calls. Talisma includes a telephone option on its website, but this is not the preferred route for customer interactions. "I'm not going to hire more agents to support them in a medium which is the costliest, and a lot of other companies are thinking like that," he says. So if you insist on speaking to someone in real life, be prepared to wait.Many customers won't wait, says Neil Miron, head of customer interaction management at call centre provider Cable and Wireless Services. The company commissioned a survey of 1,000 respondents this summer and found that one in three would wait no longer than two or three minutes calling their bank before hanging up. So, whether they like automated support or not, it seems customers will often put up with it if it gets things done more quickly.But companies considering how much to invest in live agents versus automated systems should consider another factor: the sales opportunity. Some phone queries provide support centre staff with a chance to cross-sell or up-sell, generating revenue from more product sales in the course of solving a service problem. Nationwide's internet banking system answers natural language queries automatically via the website using software from CRM (customer relationship management) firm Rightnow, but Paul Towers, head of electronic channels, still gets sales through live calls. "Someone phoned us needing to reorder their debit card because the dog had chewed it. We sold them pet insurance," he recalls.Even mock-human systems such as Amtrak Julie won't react in a way that gives customers the emotional experience of speaking to a human. But wait a few years, say scientists inthe computer laboratory at Queen Mary, University of London. Peter McOwan, a reader in computer science, is researching systems that aim to detect a person's mood from facial   expression and tone of voice."We built a robot head and trained it to react to expressions in people's voices," he says. "It became anthropomorphised. You felt sad when you shouted at it and it began to look unhappy." His colleague, Lourdes de Agapito Vicente, is working on 3D avatar technology that could provide realistic facial expressions on screen.Rodney Brooks' Kismethttp://tinyurl.com/5qds6IBM's Blue Eyes projecthttp://tinyurl.com/6mjo7HUMAINE computer emotion research projecthttp://emotion-research.netTalismawww.talisma.comPeter McOwanwww.dcs.qmul.ac.uk/~pmco/Lourdes de Agapito Vicentewww.dcs.qmul.ac.uk/~lourdes/
95% spamSpam reached almost 95% of email traffic in the UK over the weekend of November 6 (94.94%) and November 7 (94.97%), according to Email Systems' traffic monitoring. However, the monthly average for November was just 83.21% spam, which was only slightly worse than October's 82.03%. About 5% of UK email contains viruses.www.EmailSystems.comFree RexxIBM has made the source code of Object Rexx Interpreter Edition for Windows, AIX (IBM's Unix), Linux, and Sun Solaris available under the Common Public License. IBM will withdraw the product, which will be available from the Rexx Language Association. Rexx, a scripting language, was developed in the UK by an IBM Fellow, Mike Cowlishaw.www.rexxla.orgCourse for concernThe British Computer Society (BCS) is offering a course covering public sector information access. Successful candidates will receive a certificate showing they are familiar with the issues covered by the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOIA) and the Scottish equivalent FOISA 2002. The five-day course will teach the history, requirements and implementation of the legislation. The BCS says it addresses the concerns of public sector workers who will be susceptible to fines or imprisonment when the acts become law next month. The BCS is also expressing concern that IT systems will not be in place in time to meet the deadline.http://tinyurl.com/5qodaClusters' last standHewlett-Packard is abandoning its clustering project for HP-UX in favour of technology from Veritas Software. HP had planned to port the file system and clustering from its Tru64 Unix operating system to its HP-UX 11i V3 Unix, but this has proved more difficult than originally thought. Looking at the bright side, HP says it will enable the new version of Unix to be released in mid-2005, almost a year late, rather than in 2006. It will be a setback for its aims to migrate users of Tru64, formerly known as Digital Equipment Corp's OSF/1 Unix, on Alpha computers to HP-UX.http://tinyurl.com/436r6Open assuranceThe Open Source Consortium (OSC) is promoting open source software adoption in the public sector by acting as an   intermediary. The consortium of 60 members plans to encourage local councils seeking open source alternatives to tender through the OSC to reach small vendors with suitable offerings. The organisation will also try to ensure projects are seen to fruition by offering support and assistance. Public sector bodies are concerned about the financial standing of their suppliers, and the OSC also plans to offer guarantees of support if a company folds.www.opensourceconsortium.orgIntel outsideIntel is considering changing its marketing strategy following the success of its Intel Inside and Centrino branding for wireless-enabled notebooks. The plan is to create two labels for machines targeting the digital home and the digital office. Just as Centrino covers three interlinked Intel technologies - the processor, its support chipset and the wireless component - the new brands will cover the use of Intel technologies that will be introduced next year. These include dual-core chips supported by LaGrande technology (LT) hardware security for protecting data, and Intel Active Management Technology (iAMT) for remote systems management.www.intel.comMail bondingT is planning to make Microsoft.net central to its value-added services for small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs). The first offerings will be pay-as-you-go shared email and scheduling services based on Microsoft's Hosted Exchange platform. The BT Connected and Complete development will provide SMBs with access to the advanced features that larger corporates take for granted but are too complex for smaller companies to maintain. Neil Macehiter, research director at Ovum, says: "While this announcement may look unexciting, this is good for SMBs and the companies that plan to serve them in the UK."http://tinyurl.com/5c4vqStaff reductionsUp to half of today's IT jobs will disappear over the next decade, according to Gartner analyst Donna Scott. At Gartner's Data Center Conference in Las Vegas, Scott claimed that technology developments in self-healing systems, hardware redundancy and load balancing across clustered servers will significantly reduce the number of staff required. This change to the "real-time infrastructure" will enable companies to move their best workers into the development and project management fields. New skills in understanding and translating business objectives into IT implementations and services will become more important as hardware and software maintenance becomes automated.www3.gartner.com/2_events/ conferences/lsc23.jsp
How does a psychodynamic perspective help us understand our ever-increasing reliance on technology?Computer designers have focused on the instrumental computer, which does things for us, but users are frequently more in touch with the subjective computer, which does things to us, to our ways of seeing the world, to the way we think. Technologies are never just tools, they are evocative objects. They cause us to see ourselves, and our world, differently.So we are becoming increasingly attached to our computers?Contemporary computational objects are increasingly intimate. Designers of   devices such as the Palm Pilot may view them as computational devices to help people better manage their lives: users see them as extensions of self.For example?I've been studying machines designed to serve as companions, pets and tutors. The plan is to introduce them to the elderly and the very young - groups that need care and companionship. Today, even the youngest children use email, word processing,etc. They are absorbing more than the content of what appears on their screens. They are learning new ways to think about what it means to know and understand.Do online avatars and anonymity bring out the best or worst in us?On bulletin boards, news groups or in chat-rooms, the creation of personae may be less explicit than in virtual worlds or online games, but it is no less   psychologically real. They enable multiple aspects of self to emerge.Is online addiction a growing problem?People are learning to interact with computers through conversation and gesture; people are learning that to relate successfully to a computer you have to assess its emotional "state". The language of internet addiction limits our perspective, shutting down crucial questions about why some people can use online experiences to "work through" problems, whereas others "act out" in unconstructive ways. If we stigmatise the medium as "addictive" and try to strictly control it, we'll never learn how to nurture this self-reflection.Have your studies of Sony's Aibo and MIT's Cog - examples of what you call relational artefacts - led to any conclusions about robots?Rodney Brooks (www.ai.mit.edu/people/brooks/) developed a robot infant, which has baby "states of mind" that change with your actions to the doll. Rosalind Picard (http://tinyurl.com/4o2sk) at MIT's Media Lab is developing "affective computers", designed to assess the user's emotional states and respond with their own emotional states. Aibo and Matsushita's robot cat Tama are relational artefacts designed to evoke a sense of connection. The question for the future may not be whether children love their pet robots more than their parents, but what does loving come to mean? What is an appropriate relationship with a machine?http://tinyurl.com/7xa9k&#183;Professor Turkle's autobiographical essay, How a Child Becomes a Scientist, is out nowSherry Turkle's bookmarkswww.aibo-europe.comwww.kurzweilai.netwww.omron.comhttp://web.mit.edu/sturkle/www/techself/
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukPlease include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
"The EU Council will not propose software patents -- at least not this year. According to politicians familiar with the process, the past qualified majority for software patents has eroded, and no decision will be taken under the current Dutch presidency. The latest development is that members of the European Parliament are looking at the possibility to restart the entire legislative process," according to Florian Mueller, the Campaign Manager atNoSoftwarePatents.com.The campaign is supported by three IT companies: 1&amp;1, Red Hat, and MySQL AB.
Home-loving, vegetarian singletons beware. Admit your true character on an internet dating website and you may be in for a lonely Christmas, according to an analysis of the personal ads most and least likely to prompt a flood of responses from online suitors.Those seeking to tempt the maximum number of replies should not bother listing hobbies or subtle nuances of personality, the research concludes.Instead they should go straight for the physical, describing themselves as sensual, wild, tactile and sexy, before awaiting a torrent of replies. Ads featuring the word sensual were viewed 167 times, compared with an average of 60 for each profile.The breakdown of top online dating buzzwords, published by Friends Reunited Dating, 
 comes amid a continuing rise in the popularity of online dating, in which users post virtual personal ads and make email contact with fellow members.According to one figure, some 6 million Britons under 55 have tried internet dating, with users insisting the concept has helped shake off the slightly sad image of artificial matchmaking. Research by the University of Bath suggests that one-third of all net users turn to 
 the web in order to establish some sort of relationship.The personal ad analysis suggests that page three-style adjectives may lure the most responses, but are not enough for many would-be daters.Those describing themselves as honest, loyal, considerate, and admitting to enjoying staying in also prove attractive. Trustworthy, caring rugby fans with a good sense of humour, are also likely to enjoy a flurry 
 of interest - though football fans might want to keep their hobby quiet.The worst phrase of all is home-lover, followed by veggie, while self-confessed shy daters also find themselves on the online shelf. Reading, culture and holidays are all out, and it's best to avoid dwelling on body shape - neither slim nor cuddly prompts replies.Rhoda Moore, Friends Reunited Dating's "head of romance", said the most commonly used words in daters' profiles fitted neither the most nor least popular list. Those looking for romance were more likely to describe themselves as shy (possibly the reason they are in cyberspace in the first place), but also honest, caring and happy.Least popular of all with net daters, she said, were those who did not fill in a profile beyond the obligatory basic details. "Leaving a blank suggests laziness," she said.
"An identity-stealing e-mail Trojan horse that disguises itself as the Lycos Europe antispam screensaver is being distributed around the Internet, an antivirus company has warned. F-Secure said Tuesday that the key-logging Trojan steals usernames, passwords, credit card details and e-mail addresses, and travels as an e-mail attachment," reportsCNet.The subject of the Trojan e-mail reads: "Be the first to fight spam with Lycos screen saver." It comes with an attachment file labeled, "Lycos screensaver to fight spam.zip."
"Musicians believe the internet is an essential tool to help create and market their work, but at the same time more than half of artists say file sharing of unauthorized copies of music should be illegal, according to a new report" from thePew Internet &amp; American Life Project, reportsWired News."The report, called Artists, Musicians and the Internet, found that only 28% of all artists surveyed consider file sharing to be a major threat to creative industries -- contradicting the official stance of the lobbying arm of the record companies. About 43% agree that 'file-sharing services aren't really bad for artists, since they help to promote and distribute an artist's work to a broad audience'."Among the findings from the phone survey:• Only 3% of online artists said the internet has had a major negative effect on their ability to protect their creative works.• 52% of artists said it should be illegal for internet users to share unauthorized music files, compared with 37% who said it should be legal.• 64% of artists said they think the copyright owner should have complete control over the use of a work.• 77% of artists use the internet.
IBM, which revolutionised the global computer industry when it launched its first desktop in 1981, has sold its PC business to a Chinese group in a $1.75bn (£900m) deal, it was confirmed today.The acquisition makes the Beijing-based Lenovo Group the world's third-largest PC maker, and is the latest in a series of overseas buyouts by Chinese companies. It is expected to quadruple Lenovo's sales."This acquisition will allow Chinese industry to make significant inroads on its path to globalisation," the Lenovo chairman, Liu Chuanzhi, said. "It has changed the structure of the global PC manufacturing business."Lenovo, which is Asia's biggest computer manufacturer, will take over IBM's desktop PC business - including research, development and manufacturing - for $1.25bn in cash and shares, with IBM retaining an 18.9% stake. Lenovo, formerly known as Legend, also agreed to take on liabilities raising the value of the deal to $1.75bn.A statement issued by Levono today said the acquisition would bring "IBM's leading enterprise-class PC technologies to the consumer market and give Lenovo global market reach beyond China and Asia ... Lenovo will have combined annual PC revenue of approximately $12bn and volume of 11.9m units, based on 2003 business results - a fourfold increase in Lenovo's current PC business."The Chinese company will be allowed to use IBM's brand name under a licensing agreement, Mr Liu said. The companies appear to have structured the deal to ensure that IBM retains some influence in the PC making business, despite its small stake.Lenovo, which was founded in 1984, will move its international headquarters to New York. The company was initially set up to distribute equipment made by IBM and other companies, but was selling PCs under its own brand name by 1990.IBM's first computer went on sale for $1,565 in early 1981. The processor chip came from Intel and the software from a fledgling Microsoft. By the late 90s, however, the company's PC division had run up huge losses, leading it to pull back from the retail market and focus instead on corporate and government clients. As a result, its share of the global PC market fell to around 6%.The company now focuses on consulting and software, outsourcing much of its manufacturing. The sale to Lenovo is expected to cut production costs and breathe new life into the PC unit, which now accounts for only 12% of group revenues and is barely profitable."The IBM brand will gain great recognition in China, the world's fastest growing economy and the world's fastest growing market for PCs," John Joyce, the IBM senior vice president and group executive of IBM global services said.The transaction is expected to be completed by the second quarter of 2005. Until then, both companies expect their existing PC operations, including customer service and product availability, to continue as normal. Once the transaction has been completed, these operations will be gradually integrated.Around 10,000 of IBM's 320,000 employees will move to Lenovo, joining the Chinese company's current staff of around 9,000. Fewer than a quarter of those 10,000 are based in the US, and 40% already work in China.Lenovo said the new PC maker's chief executive would be Stephen Ward Jnr, an IBM senior vice president. Lenovo's current president and chief executive officer, Yang Yuanqing, will be chairman of the PC business.The company would need to branch out in services and other areas as profit margins for manufacturing shrink, Duncan Clark, managing director of the consulting firm BDA China Ltd, said. "It's not going to be easy, but they're certainly not shying away from any of these challenges."He suggested that Lenovo name the new venture Big Red, a play on IBM's Big Blue nickname and China's red national flag.Lenovo's shares were yesterday suspended in Hong Kong pending announcement of the deal, and were to resume trading tomorrow.
The eternally hard-working Brad King at Variety's gameswebloghas pointed out a great story fromReutersdemonstrating the level of international diplomacy that games makers must consider when releasing their products to an audience of a different ideological system.The Chinese government has banned the game Champion Soccer Manager 2005 because of the inclusion of "Chinese Tibet", "Hong Kong", "Macau" and "Taiwan" in the line-up of available football teams, suggesting that these diplomatic hotbeds are equal in status to China herself.The country has a strange relationship with computer gaming, both embracing it with a substantial portion of the population playing online games in numbers that significantly dwarf those in Western regions, and rejecting those titles with content which the government views as undermining their ideological control. Games like Project IGI2 and others have been banned in the past for "hurting China's national dignity and interests". Earlier this year, theBBCreported that China was to begin censoring online game content, starting with another title which included the disputed regions of Tibet and Manchuria.However, considering the live debates on sites likeTerra Novaand at conferences likeState of Play, both of which consider the real-life social, economic, political and legal implications for gaming in online multiplayer spaces, is the Chinese government right in looking out for its ideological interests? Might the future of revolutions be internet-ised?
The results of the games of the year poll will be in Online on Thursday, but I've just had a sneaky look. Great to see that so many of you voted and very interesting to see what did well. Of course, it's even more interesting to see which big names didn't do so well. Also, it seems that Online'sissues with Football Manager 2005, haven't put some of you off...
It seems that gamesblog'spredictionsabout the imminent saturation of advertising in games were correct.The Registerreports that start-up company Massive is about to invade our gamewaves with billboards of well-known high street brands, acting as an agent for companies concerned with the rapid decline of target audience TV viewing figures.Some argue that such a presence will increase the immersion of the playing experience. Funnily enough, I play games to escape from the real world and don't want the latest Hollywood blockbuster vying for my attention when I have some important gold coins to collect.The company are working on gaining a monopoly over what gamers get to see in future releases from current joiners Konami, Vivendi, UbiSoft and Atari, signing multi-year exclusive contracts with these publishers. Furthermore, they're in on the networked components, which screams digital tags, cookies and targeted ads. With the aim of getting PlayStation in on the act, who knows what kind of access they'll be after with the help of the EyeToy.Are games really more engaging with real world advertisements in place, and is it really worth it?
Things are a bit busy here at Online Towers, so I'm just going to give you the press release gumbo on this one:"TheMozilla Foundation... today announced the worldwide availability of theMozilla Thunderbird 1.0 email client. Thunderbird focuses on new features and settings to help stop spam and prevent viruses, the two biggest problems facing email users today. Mozilla Thunderbird follows last month's highly successful release of Mozilla Firefox 1.0 that has been downloaded by over nine million users."Today's announcement marks the immediate availability of Thunderbird 1.0 for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux-as a free download from mozilla.org and by CD from the Mozilla Store. Thunderbird is now available in English, German, Greek, and Turkish with more languages on the way.""Thunderbird 1.0 marks another successful product milestone for the Mozilla Foundation, made possible by hundreds of community volunteers and developers around the world," commented Mitchell Baker, president of the Mozilla Foundation. "Thunderbird is the perfect companion to Firefox and demonstrates another success of the open source development model.""Update:I'm very disappointed that they've chosen to use the slogan "THUNDERBIRD 1.0 HAS LANDED!" on their website instead of my cleverly crafted homage to Gerry Anderson. Pff.
Dipexwww.dipex.orgWhen Oxford GP Ann McPherson was diagnosed with breast cancer, she wanted to know what lay ahead. Thus her brainchild, Dipex (database of individual patient experiences), was born. Now three years old and the recipient of several awards, Dipex is the largest collection of patient experiences on the net. The site contains 85 hours of audio and video clips on 14 health topics, including cancer, heart disease, terminal conditions and depression.Personal stories are supported by information and signposts to resources, and there is informative debate in the growing Dipex community. A patient with lung cancer explains: "When you're feeling down, you can tap in and find someone else out there with your problem. It can also help friends and family understand what a cancer patient goes through."Limited time and money mean that Dipex is currently far from comprehensive, and some users with slow connections report difficulties accessing parts of the site, but it aims to cover 100 illnesses and topics including parental decisions about immunisation and reports on clinical trials. McPherson hopes it will be made more widely accessible via hospitals and GP surgeries, but funding is a big issue. "We have a module on the experience of carers of people with Alzheimer's, including a testimony from Iris Murdoch's husband," says McPherson. The research and interviews are done, but we need &#163;20,000 to put it on the site."McPherson may be familiar to many as co-author of the popular Diary of a Teenage Health Freak, and also runs a children's site atwww.teenagehealthfreak.org.Children First for Healthwww.childrenfirst.nhs.ukChildren First for Health was born last year at Great Ormond Street hospital in London. The 4,000 pages of content include health information, personal experiences, games, competitions and practical information about UK hospitals. The site is divided into sections for tots (0-3 years, with guidance), juniors (3-6), kids (7-11), teens (12-15) and "16+".The information on the site, which is financed by the charity Wellchild, is provided by children's writers, NHS professionals, charities and support groups. As site manager Gary Loach says: "We don't reinvent wheels. Our work involves identifying good content and much of the site development happens with children who provide, assess and endorse content and who are involved in building online communities."Here's a sample first-person story, by a teenager called Clare: "I have and hate acne. People insult your looks with rude comments. You feel as if you're not as good as everyone else. You get self-conscious. Skin is a very important part of your appearance. It's not easy for people to look past appearance; they focus on it a lot."Being a teenager can be hard enough without red spots all over your face. Sometimes I find it very hard. I'm on antibiotics but they haven't worked very well so far for me. I've had spots since I was 10."National Voices Forumwww.voicesforum.org.ukThe Voices Forum describes itself as "run by mad people for mad people", and states: "You can rebuild your life into something meaningful and fulfilling ... assisted by those who have been there - and done it!" Supported by the charity Rethink (formerly the National Schizophrenia Fellowship), it is a gateway to hundreds of pages, from poems to reviews of conferences, books and films.Personal pages allow people to make their own websites and tell stories of living with severe mental illness, such as this woman's experience of schizophrenia: "I first began to show signs of schizophrenia in 1966, at the age of 19. I was admitted to my local psychiatric hospital - a large Victorian ex-workhouse with over 1,000 patients ... I was to stay for five years! ... I realised I had sunk as low as I could go, and something just told me that I had to get out of the system. If I didn't, I would be institutionalised for life. I married the following year. The marriage did not last, but it produced three lovely children."I have slowly rebuilt my life - there is no magic formula. I weaned myself off drugs when the children were small. I haven't, at least, needed formal psychiatric care of any sort. Nowadays I have a support system of family and friends, and am helped by religious belief. There can be life after schizophrenia: in my case, nearly 30 years of a satisfying, rewarding (though not always easy) existence."Best Treatmentswww.besttreatments.co.ukA good bet for more conventional information. Very patient-friendly, the site draws from Clinical Evidence, the BMJ's survey of medical research. "We can help you understand how treatments work and help you decide which are best for you," it says. "We'll also tell you about the causes and symptoms of your condition. And we'll let you know what you can do to help yourself."There are frustrating gaps, but it hopes to expand to provide coverage of 77 conditions, from gastric reflux to impacted wisdom teeth. It has a good section on what doctors mean by risk (www.besttreatments.co.uk/btuk/howtouse/7434.html). For example: "A risk is the chance that something (usually bad) will happen because of something else. For example, if you smoke a packet of cigarettes a day for 30 years, you have a 10% risk of dying of lung cancer."If you're a man and your surgeon says you need your prostate removed, there's a risk you'll have erection problems afterwards. Your surgeon may think the risk is too low to worry about. But you may think any chance is too high. This is why you need to understand what risk means - so you can take part in treatment decisions."Dr Fosterwww.drfoster.co.uk"Your definitive source of information on UK healthcare services", as Dr Foster describes itself, was launched in 2001. It collects and analyses information on the availability and quality of health services in the UK, and encourages patients to use it "to make the most informed decisions on how to access the right healthcare".Dr Foster also works with the NHS to analyse and improve patient care, in part through the Dr Foster Unit at Imperial College, and content includes guides to services from births to complementary therapists. Patients' Association president Claire Rayner says of it: "This is a truly remarkable resource. It's the most authoritative measure of healthcare standards anywhere in the world."If you're interested in birth statistics, Dr Foster gives you, for example, all the facts and figures on giving birth in the UK, covering every maternity unit in the country, allowing you to compare everything from numbers of caesarean sections to home birth rates.Cochrane Collaborationwww.cochrane.orgThe comprehensive and authoritative Cochrane Collaboration reviews and updates evidence of effective treatments. An international charity, Cochrane is supported by funders worldwide and reviewers often volunteer time to collect data. However, it is not designed to tell individuals what to do, and its reviews aren't exactly bedtime reading. Offerings include "Antibiotic regimens for suspected early neonatal sepsis".Bandolierwww.jr2.ox.ac.uk/bandolier/Bandolier attracts over a million lay and professional visitors each month. The impetus behind it was to find information on effectiveness (or lack of it), and put the results forward as bullet points of things that worked and those that did not. Information comes from systematic reviews, meta-analyses, randomised trials, and high-quality observational studies.Much of the content comes from "translating" Cochrane, as the site admits: "Those &#91;reviews&#93; that look interesting are read, and where they are both interesting and make sense, they appear in Bandolier."Bandolier is free to users, dependent on sponsorship and the goodwill of Oxford University medical school IT resources. Currently available are studies on fruit and vegetable intake and cancer risk, diet and prostate cancer risk, and electronic pain diaries for children.HealthWatchwww.healthwatch-uk.orgHealthWatch supports scientific testing of conventional, complementary and alternative treatments, and one of its main aims is explaining why clinical trials - often portrayed as dangerous games for human guinea pigs - are the fairest way of distinguishing bad treatments from good. It features newsletters and on-site debates, including a correspondence about whether analysing hair can reveal zinc deficiency. While the argument remains unresolved, fascinating nuggets have emerged, such as the fact that zinc deficiency may be linked to conditions from autism to hyperactivity.Quackwatchwww.quackwatch.orgHealthWatch has a link to the antiquackery ring, of which an established example is Quackwatch. Run by an American doctor and his technically supportive son, the site describes itself as "a nonprofit corporation whose purpose is to combat health-related frauds, myths, fads, and fallacies". Quackwatch, which has attracted accusations of being a front for industry and too ardently in favour of conventional medicine, currently includes a debunk of the myth that wild yam cream protects against osteoporosis and a section called Why Ear Candling Is Not a Good Idea. A doctor explains: " 'Ear candling', also known as auricular candling or coning, refers to various procedures that involve placing a cone-shaped device in the ear canal and supposedly extracting earwax and other impurities with the help of smoke or a burning wick", and concludes that it is ineffective and dangerous, mostly because you could end up getting burnt by the wax.Hitting the Headlineswww.nelh.nhs.uk/hthIf you're suspicious about health stories, this is the site for you. HtH scans the media for stories about treatments or tests and puts a summary on site within 48 hours, the idea being that it will take you a couple of days to get to see your GP after reading the story, and the digest will help them help you. Each entry unpicks the evidence, questions the reliability of the conclusions, and gives references and consumer information.Part of the NHS National Electronic Library for Health, the archive stretches back to May 2001. Subject-matter includes whether water is better at staving off dehydration than other drinks, such as tea and alcohol, and its latest story, on whether bad breath really can be "zapped by a laser". In case you're wondering whether the laser works, the site concludes: "All things considered, including the small sample size of 53 patients, this study does not provide strong evidence about the effectiveness of the procedure."
Speculation surrounding the sale of part of the IT company IBM today intensified as the Lenovo Group, China's leading PC brand, said negotiations with another manufacturer were at an "advanced stage".The Hong Kong-listed Lenovo confirmed it was in acquisition talks with a major IT company following reports it could buy IBM's personal computer business for $2bn (£1bn).In a disclosure statement released by the Hong Kong stock exchange today, Lenovo declined to name the other party. It described the negotiations as "confidential", but revealed it was in talks with a "major international company in the information technology industry"."Such discussions are at an advanced stage, but no definitive agreement or letter of intent has yet been signed," the statement said.Lenovo shares today remained suspended for a second day pending further announcements about the possible acquisition. Some analysts believe a deal could be confirmed today. The New York Times, citing unnamed sources, last week reported that IBM was in serious discussions with Lenovo about the sale of its PC unit.Although IBM emerged as an early leader in the home and business PC market, it is now understood to be increasing its focus on consulting, outsourcing and software. Its PC business now accounts for a small portion of its total sales and profits, according to analysts.IBM today declined to comment on Lenovo's statement. The Wall Street Journal said IBM would retain a minority stake in the PC business, which is estimated to generate around $10bn a year in sales.The company's move to dispose of its PC business, launched 25 years ago, is part of a long-standing effort to reduce its exposure to the market. It already relies on contract manufacturing partners, including a joint venture with the Chinese company Great Wall Technology, to produce all its PCs.Lenovo's reported interest in IBM's PC unit comes as it faces increased competition in the Chinese market from foreign companies such as US computer manufacturing giant Dell. It would also make the company part of a small but growing group of Chinese manufacturers buying overseas brands.A deal would propel Lenovo from eighth place among PC makers to the number three position, combining its own 2.2% share with the 5.5% held by IBM. Dell leads the market with a 16.7%, followed by Hewlett-Packard  at 15%.
We all have our favourite sites for particular things, whether it's for paying your bills or buying presents for friends.We're currently hard at work (*kof*) compiling our favourite websites for a special Christmas edition of Online... but as always, there are bound to be sites hidden in corners of the web that we haven't come across before.So, what are your favourite websites? Are there any you think we - and everyone else - should know about?Update:Thanks for the suggestions so far. As much as I appreciate the good folk of Webland promoting their own sites, this is about the really good sites you use a lot. If you are, however, alerting us to your very own slice of web wonder then please be aware that a URL and one sentence is more friendly than a 1,000 word press release...
Lloyds TSB has signed up to a $1bn with IBM to replace its existing communications infrastructure with heavy duty bandwidth and VoIP, reportsInformationWeek."IBM on Monday disclosed a seven-year, $1 billion deal with Lloyds TSB to enhance the bank's voice and data services."The project will reduce the bank's incremental bandwidth costs, allowing it to consider alternative Web-based or other high-bandwidth apps that previously weren't feasible, Lloyds said in a statement. The new infrastructure, which will be rolled out over the next 20 months, will feature a single high-capacity fiber network for voice, data, and video, with direct links to mobile and call-center services. It will include almost 70,000 voice-over-IP telephones."
Orange joined the Christmas scramble for customers willing to experiment with new 3G services yesterday, offering four handsets, a competitively priced service and a target of four million customers, split between Britain and France, within two years.The mobile phone operator, owned by France T&#233;l&#233;com, is the third to launch the new multimedia phones in Britain, behind 3 and Vodafone. While O2 has already indicated that it will not launch until next year, Orange's move increases the pressure on its rival, T-Mobile, to announce its 3G consumer offering.Earlier this month, the consumer champion Which? advised buyers to hold off signing up to 3G until next year. Orange's UK head, Bernard Ghillebaert, said yesterday that while the technology worked, in the short term the company's 3G services - allowing video calling, full-track music downloads and faster viewing of film clips and internet browsing - were aimed at so-called early adopters."What we are really interested in is educating the market - we want the early adopters to use these products and then spread interest by word of mouth," he said. "It will take years for 3G to go everywhere but we think now the customer experience is OK for early adopters and now is the time to go."In Britain, where Orange is hoping for 1.5 million to 2 million customers by the end of 2006, its 3G offering has been pitched to compete with 3 and Vodafone on price and the number of "free" services customers can access. Vodafone is aiming for 5 million European customers for its 3G service by March 2006 while 3 already has more than 1.2 million customers in Britain.A spokesman for 3 said: "We welcome the arrival of Orange in the market but still believe that we have the best value 3G service."Orange's entry level tariff, at &#163;30 a month, is &#163;10 cheaper than the basic package from Vodafone but still twice what customers would expect to pay for a basic 3 package. Confusingly, Orange has opted to stick with charging customers for the amount of data they download, rather than adopt the "free" browsing approach of Vodafone and 3.Both Orange rivals allow customers to access their own 3G portals - which contain news, games, listings and sports - for nothing and merely pay for what they download in terms of video clips and music.Orange, whose 3G network covers 70% of the British population, offers its 3G customers up to 50Mb of data usage per month. This equates to about 20,000 emails but few customers but the very tech-savvy will have any idea exactly how much information is contained within either the Orange World 3G portal pages or websites outside Orange's listed sites that can be accessed through their phones.Others in the mobile phone industry suggested that Orange had retained this rather archaic pricing structure because its cash-hungry parent, France T&#233;l&#233;com, had not signed off on the significant investment in billing systems needed to deliver true "free" browsing."I would be surprised if any of the other companies, even O2, decided to charge in this way," said one rival operator.But at least Orange allows customers free rein to move outside the list of content options offered on its own Orange World portal. Customers on 3 are unable to look at web pages that have not been accepted by 3 as suitable for its site, while Vodafone Live's 3G customers are charged for leaving its "free" selection.Orange has also collected a range of content for its service including exclusive content from the Star Wars films and a library of 3,200 downloadable full-length music tracks - slightly more than Vodafone had for launch.Its four initial handsets - from LG, SonyEricsson, Sanyo and Samsung - are priced from nothing to &#163;119.99, depending on which tariff customers pick. Two more phones, from Motorola and Nokia, will be available over the coming weeks.
SCi Entertainment, publishers of Conflict Desert Storm, have reported record turnover and profits, with pre-tax profits up 29% to £4.5m. With all the shenanigans and rumours of an Eidos sale, SCi seem to be quietly flying the flag for Brit publishers. I've never enjoyed the Desert Storm games myself but they must be doing something right. Chief executive Jane Cavanagh puts it down to, "investing in high quality licences, brands and developers."
Slightly old news, but some interesting "artist's impressions" of PS3/Xbox 2 graphics arefloating around. While impressive, I'm too scarred by the promises made pre-PS2. Anyone else remember the "thousands of individual blades of grass" description aboutThe Bouncerand the graphical powers of the then forthcoming PS2? Anyway it's the game and not the graphics that matter - right?
Onlineblog is on the shortlist for Best Tech Blog in the 2004 Weblog awards,here, and you have until December 12 to vote. There are many worthy contenders with a much better chance of winning (basically it's between Engadget and Gizmodo), so do go and vote, even if you vote for a different site.There are also lots of other categories to explore, including one forBest UK Blog.
"Each year Tate Britain invites an artist to create a Christmas Tree. This year sculptor Richard Wentworth has dressed a traditional Norwegian Spruce tree with broken halves of plates and strings of dimmed domestic light bulbs. Text panels on the base describe the histories of the tree's four elements: the lightbulb, the plate, the Christmas tree and the plinth," reportsArtDaily.com"Visitors are invited to interact with the tree by leaving digital presents (photos, movies, texts etc) via the Christmas tree's bluetooth antenna. If your phone has bluetooth you can send a file to the tree, choose the send via bluetooth option on your phone and choose Christmas tree from the available devices. If you cannot connect to the tree you can send your file via email to christmastree@untitledfolder.org. The digital presents will be unwrapped at www.untitledfolder.org/christmastree on Christmas day."[Thanks toGizmodofor the link.]
Further to the recentblogabout video game industry stars, a little bit of cynicism has floated blog-way about the decline of the video game mascots. Mario, Sonic, Lara Croft, are they all passé?Access Gamer(viaJoystiq) has a great, in-depth article on the history of the mascot and posits a few reasons for their cataclysmic decline. I'd like to add another: games aren't just for kids any more, and while I'm not averse to a bit of fun and hilarity at a mouse-centred theme park, many grown ups would rather gag themselves with spoons.Are we justsoover cute gaming characters?
TheSan Francisco Chronicleran a piece at the weekend looking into the recent success of Apple."In the past three weeks, shares of Apple Computer Inc. have flirted with all-time highs after a wave of reports from investment houses like Piper Jaffray, Merrill Lynch and JP Morgan issued glowing projections about the Cupertino firm's future."Why? The iPod family of digital music players has become seminal icons of consumer electronics, a status that Wall Street analysts believe has finally given Apple the means to preach beyond its small but fanatic customer base of Macintosh computer loyalists.""What's interesting here is that the phenomenon of the iPod has really brought a lot of people into the Apple world,'' said Darcy Travlos, a senior vice president and mobile multimedia technology analyst for Caris &amp; Co. of New York. "With people having experience using Apple (iTunes) software and going out into the retail stores and seeing the iMacs and PowerBooks, more people are becoming aware of the capabilities of Apple products. The iPod was really the item that got people to notice Apple again.''"There's no doubt that the double whammy of iPod and iMac over the past few years has helped Apple make huge strides forward. They managed to align innovative product with good marketing and break open relatively niche markets into the mainstream.But I'm particularly interested in how Apple deals with its success in the future, given that its previous business model has relied heavily on producing lots of revenue from a relatively small pool of customers (mainly by encouraging existing users to upgrade regularly or buy new hardware).Apple products have style and cool value - but is that brand value in danger if its products become ubiquitous?
You may have noticed that it now takes a bit longer for comments to register. This is because we are now pre-screening them to eliminate comment spam. So far the new system is working very well so please just take the time to relax, look away from the screen, and have a stretch after hitting Post....
In the old newsreel, he looks like the kind of man you might have invited home to dinner - smiling, relaxed, well-groomed, good suit.But it is the little blobby moustache, the weirdly shaped searchlit crosses his followers carried and, above all, the knowledge of what he did afterwards that makes the image compulsive.Almost 60 years after his suicide in a Berlin bunker, Adolf Hitler is still the prime figure most people associate with the 20th century.The Nazi leader today emerges far ahead of Winston Churchill, John F Kennedy, Mother Teresa or the discoverer of penicillin, Alexander Fleming, in the 20 most popular film clips viewed on the Pathe News online film archive. Eighty seconds of footage catches Hitler in his first moment of national triumph as newly appointed German chancellor in 1933. The headline says: A Wondering World Awaits ... What?It has attracted more than four times as many downloads as the next two most popular clips of world leaders: Churchill viewing the Empire State building in 1932 and Kennedy's 1963 assassination.It comes second in the Pathe top 20: footage of the launch of the Titanic in 1912 received three times as many, no doubt thanks mainly to the Hollywood film of the ship's sinking by an iceberg.Also highly ranked are D-Day, the Blitz and the Beatles. The Pathe website is ranked by Google as the world's third most popular online news archive. Pathe News - with its motif of a crowing cockerel - was the dominant UK newsreel for much of the century.Two years ago, its stock of 3,500 hours of film covering the period 1896-1970 was digitised with help from a lottery grant. So far, the website has had four million visitors. Under an agreement with the lottery, downloads will remain free for another year.Higher resolution images than those on the public website are fed directly to 15,000 UK schools through the National Education Network and are in wide educational use in the United States.Peter Fydler, Pathe's marketing director, said Hitler's prime place in its ratings was "no more sinister than the habit people have of arriving on the site and realising the period it covers. The first thing that pops into their head to search for is 'Hitler' - proving that, as an individual, he's etched on the memory more than, say, Churchill or JFK".One of the list's quirks, in 11th place, is Grandma's Corsets, an innocuously well-clothed mannequin parade, staged in 1950, of underwear fashions through the ages.Mr Fydler said: "This shows that internet pervs can even find something to titillate in an old newsreel archive."Biggest hits of the 20th centuryPathe News top 15 downloads1Titanic sets sail (1912), silent2Hitler elected Chancellor of Germany (1933)3D-Day: world's greatest combined operation (1944)4Titanic disaster - events surrounding sinking (1912), silent5Beatles win Radio Caroline award (1965)6Review of the year (1940)7London, City fire and damage (1941)8Trains old and new (1957)9Rolling Stones at Hull ABC cinema (1964)10Ramsey's men see how they won World Cup (1966)11Grandma's Corsets (1950)12Fans welcome Beatles at London Airport (1965)13Tanks in action - army demonstration (1961)14Beatles receive MBEs (1965)15The railway today - new technology (1960)
Advertisers are increasingly worried about 'click fraud', reports today'sFinancial Times."Under the Google Adwords advertising scheme, advertisers bid for certain search terms in an auction ... the highest-ranked adverts are displayed first, and advertisers pay Google according to the number of people who click on their ad when it is shown."It is possible, however, for the number of registered clicks to be artificially inflated. A rival company, for example, can programme a network of computers to automatically click on these links."This increases the amount a company has to pay Google, and in some cases causes the advert to stop being displayed, as the company burns through its agreed advertising budget with Google.""We used to have a click-through rate of 1 to 2 per cent for each time one of our ads was shown," said Oscar Jenkins, chief executive of Dynmark, a company that sells bulk text messaging services. Then suddenly in October it increased to around 60 to 70 per cent. We had exceeded our advertising budget by 10 in the morning.""
Despite not having launched a consumer 3G service yet, the mobile phone operator mmO2 will announce today that it is already planning to launch the "next generation" of the next generation technology.The company, formerly part of BT, will install high-speed download packet access (HSDPA), which allows customers to download video and access the internet at a rate at least three times faster than with the existing 3G networks already being used by its rivals 3 and Vodafone.While many of Europe's large players in the mobile market are interested in the potential of HSDPA, mmO2 reckons it will be the first major European operator to roll it out, even though it will not offer current 3G services in Britain, Ireland and Germany until February.With its network partner Lucent, mmO2 plans to offer super-fast HSDPA 3G initially to its customers in the small market of the Isle of Man, where it owns both the mobile and fixed-line networks, in the spring. An offering in Britain, Germany and Ireland is likely to follow later in the year, said mmO2's group technology officer, Dave Williams."When we launch 3G it will not include HSDPA but by the end of 2005 we will probably be in a better position to launch," he said.Initially, this super-fast 3G service will only be available to customers with laptops and special plug-in wireless cards, allowing them to experience the fast internet access speeds they get through residential broadband providers while on   the move. Handsets that are able to use HSDPA are unlikely to make an appearance until 2006.MmO2 is the only major UK operator that it not planning to have a 3G consumer offering in stores in time for Christmas. Observers reckon news of its HSDPA plans is something of a spoiling tactic intended to detract attention from Orange's announcement today of its plans for a consumer 3G service aimed at the festive market.Despite a recent report from the consumer magazine Which? that recommended shoppers wait until after Christmas before buying 3G phones, Orange will today unveil its plans for 3G in France and Britain with a smaller range of handsets than the nine that its rival Vodafone announced last month. The company has signed up LG, Motorola, Nokia, Samsung, Sanyo and SonyEricsson to supply phones.Separately, mmO2 has been trialling so-called "TV-on-the-go" in the Oxford area.It has been experimenting with the service over a testband of the digital TV signal rather than the traditional portion of the airwaves reserved for mobile phone companies.Using prototype handsets produced by Nokia and Samsung, the test has allowed consumers to access TV content on the move. Mr Williams said such services, combined with HSDPA, represent the evolution of mobile devices away from being merely phones."What we are starting to see here is how do we really make serious money out of data services," he said.
America is the world's first connected nation. Some 70% of households are now wired. Universal connectivity is predicted by 2010. Only the homeless and the jobless will be webless.Poor them. A recent "Internet Deprivation Study" of 1,000 households by Yahoo! explored the horrors of weblessness in modern America. It was significant that Yahoo! found it "incredibly difficult to recruit participants for this study, as people weren't willing to be without the internet for two weeks".Those brave souls who enrolled for a fortnight's abstinence suffered classic withdrawal symptoms (sleep disturbance, anxiety, mood swings, and "phantom computer syndrome"). Some found life "impossible, because the internet was so firmly ingrained in their daily lives." It was, they reported, the "disconnectedness" which upset them most. The net wasn't a utility (like electricity, or water) - it was their life-support system.Some would say their drug of choice. According to Dr Kimberley Young, the country's leading cyberpsychologist, an epidemic of internet addiction is sweeping America. Not to worry. Her Center for Online Addiction (www.netaddiction.comoffers (for a fee) "comprehensive information and recovery resources including online counselling for those who suffer from cyber-triggered problems such as online sexual addiction, virtual adultery, compulsive e-auctioning, and obsessive day trading." How long before computers, like liquor bottles, carry a health warning?Healthy or unhealthy, this national dependence on the web has happened in the 10 short years since IBM targeted the domestic consumer with PCs powerful enough to connect with the web. The automobile took three times as long to become a necessity of American life. More significantly, children don't drive the family car. Young people are the heaviest users of the home computer.By the time they get to college, America's young people are net veterans. Campuses are 24/7 online communities. Connection costs nothing, every student dorm is hard wired, there is no parental snooping, and the university supplies state of the art equipment. According to some pessimists, web-addiction is up there with binge drinking as a campus problem. Young is currently touring universities lecturing (for the usual fee) on the evils of the Demon Web.America, from kindergarten to old folks home, is caught in the net. It's likewise hooked on pills. A new survey revealed that 44% of the population take at least one prescription drug on a long-term basis. One-in-six pops three or more. We're not talking baby aspirin but cholesterol-lowering, diabetes-controlling, and mood-stabilising chemicals. Powerful stuff. There's probably a medication for internet addiction somewhere in the national pharmacopeia.It's great news for the manufacturers. National expenditure on prescription drugs has risen 15% a year for the past decade, as has the gross national dosage. A quarter of Americans under 18 are on long-term medication. Most started in childhood. Universities, if they are honest, will testify to the terrifying intake of anti-depressants among the student community. They walk up to collect their scrolls on chemical crutches. The lifelong prescription drug user will, on present trends, soon make up half or more of the American nation.And then, of course, there are the burgers, sodas, and french fries. According to the National Institutes of Health, two-thirds of Americans are overweight or clinically obese - that too is on the increase, particularly among the young. Morgan Spurlock, the endearingly self-abusive glutton of Super Size Me, is currently touring schools in Los Angeles, urging kids to kick the fast-food habit. His movie may win an Oscar (no hope, after Election 11/2, for supersized Michael Moore) but Spurlock isn't going to disconnect kids from their favourite grub. The profits of McDonald's swell every year and with it the American butt.There are two ways of looking at all this. America, with its ubiquitous fast-food, universal net connectivity, and wholesale chemical fix is the first nation fully to embrace the 21st century. It's the future. A future in which total self-indulgence is the rule.Alternatively, you can see the Big Mac, AOL, and Prozac as what the warm bath was to Rome - the unmistakable signs of an empire in decline. If so, the solution is obvious: "Only disconnect" (as EM Forster didn't say).
The collective confidence trick has been around a long time, underpinning one or two world cultures along the way, and the internet, with its ease of publication, has proven to be particularly fertile soil for recent incarnations. It is fitting then that there should be a website reminding us of just how gullible people can be. Museumofhoaxes.com is a humorous, if sobering catalogue of the folly of man.Established in 1997 as a spin-off from American student Alex Boese's PhD dissertation, the museum lists hundreds of celebrated    hoaxes, as well as many more obscure ones. Though there is, as of yet, no reference to WMDs, one does learn of some other ingeniously disingenuous ruses, such as Jonathon Swift foretelling the death of astrologer John Partridge in 1709, thus putting   paid to the latter's soothsaying reputation. The great Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus, who devised the modern system of scientific classification, mischievously faked two species of butterfly by painting their wings. Scientists were baffled for more than 100 years after his death.You would, however, need to be a misanthrope to rival Swift to take pleasure in all the deception, particularly as two recent examples - "the Taco Liberty Bell" and Burger King's "left-handed Whopper" were part of April Fool advertising campaigns. It makes you worry about how   much consumers are willing to believe. Boese provides a number of gullibility tests to humble anybody who laughs too loud (and believe me, they will be humbled).Not that readers of this newspaper are immune to deception, as an entry in Boese's top 10 April Fool hoaxes shows. On April 1 1977 the Guardian published a seven-page supplement on the island of San Seriffe (consisting of the islands Upper Caisse and Lower Caisse), resulting in much excited interest from readers. It is hard to believe, but...
It didn't take long for this to spring up again. Thegovernment has decidedthat it is unclear videogame ratings on the packaging, and not ill-informed parents, who are responsible for children playing violent games. To be honest this is getting tedious. The ratings on game boxes seem clear enough to me, but it is obvious that some parents need educating. After all, the general consensus is still that games are relatively harmless - Mario and Lara, with a bit of Pac-Man for afters. And anyway, surely the box cover art of games like the Getaway and GTA: San Andreas hints that their content may be less than fluffy. Chances are the Daily Mail et al will be all over this in the next few days. Yippee.
Last week, The New York Times floated the idea that IBM wasnegotiating to sell its PC businessto China's biggest PC manufacturer, Lenovo -- formerly (and better) known as Legend. It now has a follow-up piece about the company:An Unknown Giant Flexes Its Muscles.
Fortune magazine has a long but pretty dull interview with Google bossEric Schmidt.
Violent video games are to be given with clearer warning labels, amid growing concern over their impact on children.The move follows a campaign by the mother of Stefan Pakeerah, the 14-year-old beaten to death by a friend who had become obsessed with a video game called Manhunt, in which players score points for committing murder.Trade Secretary Patricia Hewitt and Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell will hold a summit with retailers, manufacturers and video experts next week to tighten the rules on the sale of games classified as for over-18s only. A recent survey found that children as young as 11 were able to buy them, and up to two thirds of under-18s admitted regularly playing them.The summit will also discuss an extension of 'mystery shopping', where trading standards officers use teenagers posing as customers to test whether retailers sell banned products to children.With about 10 million games expected to be sold in the run-up to Christmas, Hewitt said many parents were unaware of what they were buying for their children. 'Not all parents have grown up playing video games in the way children do,' she said. 'We need to look carefully at how we improve content warnings and strengthen sales enforcement.'She was backed by Jowell, who is jointly responsible for regulation of the industry. 'You wouldn't let your child watch  Texas Chainsaw Massacre, you wouldn't let them go to a strip club, so you shouldn't let them play an 18-rated game,' Jowell added.Although only about 1.6 per cent of games are 18-rated, they represent 8 per cent of the market.Alarmed by the bad publicity that followed the Pakeerah case, the industry has now begun talks on bringing games into line with films. That would mean more prominent labels, explaining to parents why a game has been rated for over-18s, and training for shop staff.Although the Pakeerah family described  Manhunt as being a 'manual for murder', police have said that there was no evidence it influenced the boy's killer, Warren Leblanc.Selling an 18-rated game to a child is punishable with up to six months in prison or a &#163;5,000 fine.
'Tis the season to be merry. In fact, so merry that as we stagger out of our Christmas parties, an odd compulsion comes upon us. We need to talk.Once there was a cooling-off period between the final drink and getting to a telephone. By the time we had staggered into a cab, fumbled with house keys and tripped over the cat, the thought of contacting the boss, former lovers or latest object of desire would have been dismissed from our sobering mind. Not any longer. Our mobiles have become weapons of social disaster.And so, the morning agony of checking the 'dialled numbers'. The boss (slurred threats), partners and exes (protestations of love, lust, hate plus lengthy psychoanalysis), parents (ditto), the plumber (why? just why?).One mobile phone company is offering to bar certain numbers before a night out. We would go further. Someone should invent a breathalyser for mobile phones that would progressively shut down address books in appropriate order as alcohol levels rise. In the meantime, we respectfully advise our readers not to drink and dial this party season.
Apple's iTunes online music service has been referred to the European commission after a complaint that it overcharges British customers.Competition authorities in Brussels will ask Apple why iTunes tracks cost 15% more to download in Britain than in France or Germany.If Apple is found guilty of breaching European competition law, it faces a maximum fine equalling 10% of worldwide turnover: around &#163;430m. But legal experts said Apple would probably just be ordered to bring British prices in line with the rest of Europe.An iTunes track costs 79p in Britain, but &euro;0.99 (68p) in France and Germany, and 99c (51p) in the US. British consumers can only download from iTunes sites in cheaper territories if they have a bank account registered there.Philip Evans, principal policy adviser at Which?, the consumer body that made the original complaint, said: "The online music market is a huge growth area. The single market should work the same in this market as in others ... We'll take on any company, or group of companies, that seek to carve up the market to their benefit."The government's consumer watchdog, the Office of Fair Trading, dealt with the original Which? complaint. Yesterday it said it had passed the case on to the commission because it affected more than three member countries.Apple declined to comment yesterday, but it previously told Which? that downloads in Britain were more expensive because the economic model of the record industry in this country was different."Look at the price of CDs in the US versus the UK," it said. "We believe the real comparison to be made is with the price of other track downloads in the UK."The service has sold 150m tracks around the world, but its dominant position has attracted controversy. Its British launch in June saw a boycott by independent record labels which said big labels were offered better deals. A compromise was eventually reached.Around 70% of the global online music market is controlled by iTunes, but it faces growing competition in the UK. BT, the easyJet founder, Stelios Haji-Ioannou, and Tesco are all launching rival services. Established competitors to iTunes include MyCoke Music, HMV and Microsoft's MSN.Napster, the former scourge of record companies and now a legitimate online service, operates the second largest online record store in the UK. It is charging 99p a track and &#163;9.95 for a monthly subscription.
Shawn Fanning, founder of Napster and former scourge of the music industry, has set up his own firm in an attempt to legitimise online file-sharing.Mr Fanning, 24, was demonised by the industry while a teenager when Napster became hugely popular in the late 1990s. It enabled internet users to swap songs for free, undermining CD sales. His latest venture, Snocap, has developed technology that would identify digital music tracks shared online and create a system to collect royalties for copyright owners. The aim is to build online communities where users can legally swap songs.Although Napster was stamped out, other peer-to-peer networks such as Kazaa and Grokster still flourish.Universal Music endorses Snocap and is registering its music on Snocap's database. Talks are ongoing with other majors. But Snocap's success will depend on the willingness of peer-to-peer networks to adopt its technology.
IBM is reportedly in talks to sell its personal computer business. It would mark the end of an era for the company that brought the computer into the mainstream when it began selling its desktop PC to corporations and consumers in 1981.A decision to sell the division would reflect the long transformation of IBM into a computer services business, helping clients to better manage their technology.IBM's PC unit, including desktops, laptops and notebooks, now accounts for just 12% of group revenues and is barely profitable. Analysts have put the company under pressure to offload the business for years.According to the New York Times, IBM is in talks to sell the division to China's top PC-maker, Lenovo, for up to $2bn (&#163;1.03bn). The report said at least one other unidentified party was interested in acquiring the business.IBM sparked a technological revolution when its first computer went on sale for $1,565. The PC had 16Kb of memory, two floppy disks and an optional colour monitor. The processor chip came from Intel and the software from a fledgling Microsoft.A year later Time magazine chose the personal computer as its "person of the year".In time though, IBM fell behind and today is a distant third in market share. IBM has about 6% of the global PC market, behind Hewlett-Packard with 16.1% and Dell with 18%.The sale of the division would underline the evolution of the computer into a commodity where competition is intense and margins thin.In the late 1990s, IBM's PC division ran up huge losses. It stabilised the unit by pulling back from the retail market and focusing on corporate and government clients. IBM now   largely confines its role in the PC business to design and development after selling most of its manufacturing plants to the San Jos&#233;-based Sanmina-Sci in 2002.Last year the division posted revenues of $11.6bn and an operating loss of $118m. This year it is expected to make less than $100m.Lenovo, which controls more than a quarter of China's computer market, said earlier this year that it hoped to move into the international market through acquisitions. But the company is not immune to price pressures and falling margins, this month reporting flat profits in the first half.An IBM spokesman declined to comment on what he called a "speculative" story.Sam Palmisano, the chief executive since 2002, pushed IBM into the services business by buying PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting for $3.5bn.Shares in IBM yesterday rose 1.6% in early trade to $97.28.
Free gameXbox LiveThe process of word-of-mouth as defined by marketers is when one consumer says something nice about a product to another one. Naturally, for an organisation the size of Microsoft, this "positive brand advocacy " must be happening way too slowly, so now if you recommend Live, their excellent online gaming network for Xbox, to a friend who then signs up (by January 31 2005), you'll get a free game. Aside from the clear benefits of expanding your friends list and actually having someone to talk to while searing their simulated corpse with hot lead, games available include the fabulous Crimson Skies, Fable, Counter Strike and Top Spin, as well as the non-fabulous Midtown Madness 3 and Sudeki.&#183;Visitfriendsforlive.comfor details
Half-Life 2PCIn development longer than either Halo 2 or GTA: San Andreas (two more of this season's quadruple-A blockbusters), Half-Life 2 surfs in on a wave of hype that's been building for several years, and while it would have been possible to squander this enormous time and effort on a Daikatana-style mega-flop, the most anticipated PC game of all time earns its respect from the start. From your low-key arrival in resettlement camp City 17 to your eventual banding together with other rag-tag survivors from Earth's decimated population, Gordon Freeman's journey is littered with revelations and smart uses of the Havok physics engine that make practically every scenario a master class in creativity. The wonderfully real and expressive faces of the cast and staggering detail in its levels make even the backgrounds bewilderingly beautiful. Just don't expect last year's PC to be up to the job.&#183;Vivendi, £40X-Men: LegendsGamecube, PS2, XBoxFor a comic book legend of such promise, the X-Men franchise has been responsible for games almost as awful as the Star Wars series. X-Men: Legends bucks this trend with a confident and well thought-through role-playing game. Choosing from old friends like Wolverine, Cyclops and Storm, you pick a team to fight the Brotherhood and to do battle Baldur's Gate-style in a series of chunkily represented but somehow miniature-feeling environments. At its Gauntlet-reminiscent best in four-player mode, it also features a solo challenge that will keep superhero fans off the streets till the new year.&#183;Activision, £40
To some, a discarded chewing gum wrapper with a mobile number scrawled across it is litter; to others, it's a delicious mystery. It is upon such serendipitous articles of cast-off ephemera thatfoundmagazine.comis based - among their recent finds is a note that reads "Make Dummy for Grand Prize". Hmmm?Elsewhereisthisyou.co.ukis a site that seeks to reunite folk with photo booth snaps that were thrown away (possibly because they looked like freaks in them), whilegrocerylists.orgdiscovers magic in shopping lists - who goes out for strawberries, squirt gun and bee trap (list No 382)?To even things out, there is a whole subculture of people deliberately leaving things in the street, like art (adamneate.co.uk), books (bookcrossing.com), money (findmyfiver.com) and treasure (geocaching.com).
And here we are again. Another Friday, another week's worth of gaming goodies. If you missed anything and want your news in bite-sized chunks, keep reading for illumination and electronic enlightenment.SaturdayPro Evo woe?SundayConsole game of 2004 - the first round of contendersTuesdayGTA: The after-school special?Viewtiful Joe 2 demo deletes memory cardsDragon Quest - are Western gamers being short-changed?WednesdayRidley Scott to bring Halo to a cinema near you. Excited?DS SalesThursdayVote for your console game of 2004Vote for your Stink3r of 2004FridayHappy Birthday PlayStation!
Tim Berners-Lee "will take up a chair in computer science at the University of Southampton's School of Electronics and Computer Science, holding this position as well as being senior research scientist at MIT, and director of W3C," reportsComputer Weekly."Professor Wendy Hall, head of the School of Electronics and Computer Science at Southampton, said, 'Many of the staff in the school have worked with [Berners-Lee] on the development of the World Wide Web over many years, and we are now closely involved with the evolution of the Semantic Web, which is Tim's vision for the future of the web'."
"Unlike Napster, which Fanning created in 1999 in his Northeastern University dorm room, Snocap isn't offering software that can be downloaded and directly used by consumers. Instead, Snocap has created a database platform to be licensed by record companies, individual musicians or other copyright holders to manage the sale and distribution of their work. The technology is designed to let copyright holders set prices or other terms of distribution," reports theSan Francisco Chronicle."Universal has agreed to register its entire catalog of songs with Snocap. How those songs will be sold online is unclear, but Fanning is using Snocap's database as the first step in what he hopes will be the creation of a single worldwide clearinghouse for online music distribution, whether through a Napster-style file-sharing network or an online service like iTunes Music Store."
It was on this day 10 years ago, that Sony launched its PlayStation to the Japanese public. Its release ushered in a gargantuan phenomenon which has revolutionised the idea of entertainment - interactive or otherwise - for grown-ups and kids alike.Love it or loathe it, the PlayStation has been responsible for a cataclysmic shift in leisure. With its clever marketing, depth of content and saturated presence in the world's living rooms the console and it's console's children have brought play back into the lives of countless adults. Let's hope this trend continues far into the 21st century.TheBBChas a good featured story picking over the console's cultural contributions, from broadening audiences to making gaming "cool". We thought it would be nice to propose a few specific things that PlayStation has done for gaming in its first decade, and how its legacy has paved the way for the innovation of the future.Innovative marketingWhat really pushed the boat out for the PlayStation was its innovative way of targeting the right people in the right age group. With a combination of surrealism and humour, as well as clever product placement in the correct avenues (from stadiums to clubs), PlayStation set the bar for the quality of computer games advertising, positioning itself - not its games - as a uniquely cool brand for anyone over the age of 14.Games for grown-upsWhile PC-based products had been testing the waters for years, mature gaming didn't "grow up" until it reached into the living rooms of millions of homes with titles like GTA III, Silent Hill, SOCOM, Resident Evil and, er, BMX XXX.Innovation in designOnly a behemoth the size of Sony could introduce groundbreaking alternative entertainment to the masses and succeed. Let's not forget Parappa the Rapper, Rez, EyeToy, Ico and SingStar, to name a few. With their continued financial capital and the future fusion of multimedia entertainment, the limit for what's possible with games is being blown away.Club cultureFrom the sounds of futuristic racer WipEout to the placement of PlayStation pods in club land, Sony situated itself in the hearts and minds of the Ibiza generation. It also tapped into the careers of countless performers in and just below the public radar, including the Chemical Brothers and The Prodigy, and continues to inspire contemporary wanabees through its revolutionary MTV Music Generator series.Pop iconsTwo words: Lara Croft. From her cover shots on iconic mag The Face to public debates about her preposterous proportions, Sony introduced a gaming megastar. Critics might complain, but the world would be a duller place without our Lara. We'd still be playing with plumbers and hedgehogs if she hadn't Tomb Raided into our hearts with the launch of the PlayStation, addicting us to her unique and revolutionary brand of action-adventuring. Thankfully she wasn't just a pretty face, the Tomb Raider series set the limits of puzzle-solving beyond the reach of previous titles, aiming for brains of adult audiences. This direction continues to create enormous waves through contemporary game design.PiracyIt may have been happening as far back as the Amstrad, but piracy has become a megabucks industry since the launch of a machine which played crackable code. A dodgy contention, but some suggest that the PlayStation's success is in part due to the ease with which punters could purchase ripped off games from 'round the back of a van.And finally,Gaming as mainstreamThere would never have been a tampon ad featuring a computer game theme if it hadn't been for the surge of computer gaming in the public consciousness after the release of PlayStation.What have we missed? How has the PlayStation phenomenon changedyourlife?
"Sun Microsystems has quietly begun seeking official open-source status for a new software license that likely will be used to govern its Solaris operating system. But the license may inhibit cross-pollination between Solaris and Linux--a sacrifice Sun appears willing to make in its effort to attract developers and revitalize its version of Unix," reportsCNet."On Wednesday evening, CNET News.com has learned, Sun submitted a description of its Common Development and Distribution License, or CDDL, to the Open Source Initiative. The nonprofit group reviews licenses and bestows official open-source status on those that meet the Open Source Definition requirements."
The leading Hollywood studios are resorting to streaming free chunks of new releases online as competition heats up for audiences' eyes and ears.Disney recently ran a free 10-minute trailer of National Treasure, currently the No 1 film in the US, on AOL's Moviefone website in a bid to lure filmgoers into cinemas.The move is the latest in a series of advertising ploys designed to make a title stand out from the torrent of marketing and entertainment news that engulfs web users each day.According to Variety, extended trailers for Richard Linklater's romantic comedy sequel Before Sunset, which starred Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy, and Michael Mann's thriller Collateral, with Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx, have both played on Moviefone, Yahoo! Movies and other sites recently.In some cases the studios' sister companies have run online, or distributed via DVD, entire TV episodes as a way of sampling a new title. Other tactics  include attaching a micro "making of" documentary to a clip for online viewers.
Yes, you ca sell almost anything oneBay....This auction allows you to utilize this blogger for 3 months. He will produce between 5-10 posts a week. In addition, the blogger will work with you to see what potential there is for blogging for you and your company - in effect acting as a blogging consultant for you for the period.If it is a fit, the blogger is happy to negotiate a deal to make the position a more permanent contract position for a reasonable fee.Note: I have explainedmy reasons for doing thismore fully at my blog.
