Tens of millions of children are using tablets, but this does not yet mean a lucrative market for the companies making apps for these digital kids.The most prominent independent developer of children’s apps, Swedish company Toca Boca, has published its financial results for 2014, revealing revenues of SEK 82.2m (£6.1m) for the year.Related:Children's apps maker Toca Boca gets into video with Sesame Street veteranThat’s up 28% on its sales the previous year, although the company’s net profit narrowed from SEK 13.5m in 2013 to SEK 11.5m in 2014 – £0.8m.On the plus side, Toca Boca is making a profit from children’s apps, which is more than can be said for most developers in this area. The company runs a lean ship, ending 2014 with 23 employees, up from 16 at the end of 2013.Its financial results are put into perspective, however, by the much greater turnover of mobile games like Candy Crush Saga, whoseplayers spent £865m on in-app purchases in 2014– making a year’s worth of Toca Boca sales every three days.It’s an unfair comparison, though: while it shows the gap between the top children’s apps and the top all-ages freemium games, Toca Boca’s direct rivals are publishers like Disney, which does not break out its revenues from children’s apps.Toca Boca’s apps, which focus on creative play while avoiding in-app purchases, have been downloaded more than 85m times on iOS and Android devices since 2010 – a figure that includes free downloads as well as paid apps.Dr Panda and Outfit7 are among its larger independent rivals, while Angry Birds maker Rovio might also be seen as a contemporary: that firmreported £114.3m of revenues for 2014, albeit with its games aimed at adults as well as children.Toca Boca is following Rovio’s path into merchandise – it hasan online store selling clothing and other physical products– as well as online video.In April 2015Toca Boca created a digital video division, hiring Sesame Street digital veteran J Milligan to run it, with an app due to launch in the coming months.Related:Bigger than X Factor: YouTube channel Little Baby Bum moves into toys“We have this opportunity: once we’ve built it, we’ll have our own distribution platform,” he told the Guardian, describing Toca Boca’s desire to offer parents and children an alternative to Netflix and Amazon.“If there’s a family iPad, there’s some point at which the kid takes control over it, and that’s their screen, even though there’s still a TV in the corner,” he said. “Toca Boca’s first screen is the tablet, and that’s what the video experience is like for kids already.”Rovio’s ToonsTV network, which includes Angry Birds cartoons as well as series from partners in the children’s TV world, generated 4bn video views by the end of 2014.Toca Boca’s new division could also make hay on YouTube, wherefour of the five most popular channels are aimed at children. One of them, British channel Little Baby Bum, has justannounced its own expansion into plush toys.
Music discovery site This Is My Jam is to close after four years, citing the difficulty of running the music-focused startup in an age of increasing online centralisation and ever-stricter copyright regimes for embedded audio.The site, founded by London-based former Last.fm employees Matt Ogle and Han Donovan, allowed users to highlight a single song as their “jam”, and share it on other social networks, as well as listen to a playlist of all their friends’ selections. That approach,described by Donovanas “notable data” rather than big data, made the service popular with fans eager to explore niche favourites as well as keep up with the latest releases.But the service has been on the back foot for the last year, withOgle joining SpotifyandDonovan heading to Drip, and now the pair say it’s impossible to keep the site running as a going concern.In a post on the site,they wrote: “Keeping the jams flowing doesn’t just involve our own code; we interoperate withYouTube,SoundCloud,Twitter,Facebook,The Hype Machine,The Echo Nest,Amazon, and more. Over the last year, changes to those services have meant instead of working on Jam features, 100% of our time’s been spent updating years-old code libraries and hacking around deprecations just to keep the lights on. The trend is accelerating with more breaking/shutting off each month, soon exceeding our capacity to fix it.”On top of those issues, they also highlight the difficulty in porting the service to mobile devices, where streaming rights are significantly more restricted, and the death of music streaming on the open web. “Online music habits change quickly, and our specific approach doesn’t suit today’s users very well,” the pair write.Donovan worries that Jam’s closure could be the first of many indie firms working in music. “For any service that interoperates with content on the open web, yes, we think this is going to get more common, for the next little while anyway. Trends tend to be cyclical. We can all see where the current one is going, but it’s hard to say what the next swing of the pendulum might look like.”Ogle added a note of hope: “It took, what, 15 years at least for the web to get to what is now thought of the glory days of the ‘open web’. I’d like to believe that we might have a similar golden era of interoperability around the corner for our post-web, device-led world, but it’s anyone’s guess.”While Jam is shutting down, the pair are eager to reassure users that their data isn’t going anywhere. Unusually for a deceased social service, the full content of the site will be archived permanently, ensuring that links continue to work for the foreseaable future. Donovan said: “It’s pretty exciting to try and set a new bar for discontinuing something digital. It’s a cool opportunity to design something permanent (an anomaly in our industry!) and we want to look back on this and feel proud of the final state we left things in.“In the physical world, when a manufacturer wants to discontinue a product, eg industrial design or fashion, they just do. Super fans and collectors can always find that thing on eBay if they’re desperate. This paradigm doesn’t exist in the digital world yet. We wanted to create the equivalent of that, a place where the people who love it most could access it.”“Linkrot is pretty awful,” Ogle added “I guess we’re a bit Grumpy Old Web People about that.”For distraught fans looking for an alternative to the site, music sitePopjustice has annointed a successor: mobile app Cymbal. “We’ve seen a few ‘WhatsApp for music’ / ‘Tinder for music’ apps floating around over the last year or so but this looks like it’s a lot better,” the site reports.
N++PS4, Metanet Software, cert: 7Don’t expectN++to present an easy ride. This is a platformer that boils down the central elements of the genre to a pure, minimalist offering and never shies away from asking more from its players, insisting you overcome a barrage of seemingly impossible jumps spread over thousands of single screen 2D stages.N++, which extends a series that began life as a flash game, is a lesson in mastering momentum, precision and inertia, arming players with only a jump and basic movement controls. There are towering difficulty spikes too, that suddenly crumble as you learn ever more aboutN++’s nuanced input system.An ample selection of modes are buoyed by an already abundant stream of user-created levels, the most interesting of which actually play themselves automatically, using captivatingly clever level design. Visually,N++is understated and sharp, while the music capably lends weight and momentum to the action. Certainly, most of the mechanics on offer will be familiar to platformer veterans, but the combination here is a superb blend.Will FreemanTembo – Rambo as an elephant.Tembo the Badass ElephantPS4, Xbox One, PC, Sega, cert: 12Unfathomable as it may seem, in 1986 an animated spin-off to the movieRambowas created, but unlike most cartoons of the era the Vietnam vet did not have a comedic animal sidekick. Though if he had, it would probably have been Tembo, a headstrong elephant with military training and a headband sharp enough to make Stallone jealous. True to genre convention,Tembo is called in for one last job, helping the military repel the invading militia of Phantom and save Shell City. That calls for a decidedly unpachydermic set of skills and gameplay as old school as its cinematic influence: dashing about at incredible speed, bashing evildoers or putting out fires with a trunkful of water and rescuing civilians.That retro approach isTembo’s greatest strength – and weakness. While levels are impressively designed, and the task of defeating every enemy soldier and finding each citizen adds a satisfying challenge, it also feels like a remix of titles you’ll have already played. Fantastic animation and great visual humour provide saving graces.Matt KamenAngry Birds 2 – another winner.Photograph: PRAngry Birds 2iOS, Android, Rovio Entertainment, cert: 4After a whole catalogue of spin-offs, finally a genuine sequel asAngry Birds 2updates Rovio’s feathered-flinging app fun with a visual makeover, new characters and fresh challenges. Levels now offer multiple firing points, with a growing deck of birds to inflict maximum destruction on the truculent porkers, while an arena mode extends this by offering more open gameplay and online leaderboards.New birds are earned by completing levels with minimal turns and maximising damage to fill a destruction meter. There are also gems to buy with real-world money to add more birds at the end of levels, rather than waiting for them to regenerate. But parents should be aware that these in-app purchases are optional and the game can be completed for free.The visual finesse and game-play tweaks ofAngry Birds 2make it another hard-to-put-down mobile title. While some may find it too similar to the original, the changes are coherent and create an experience well matched to the competitive app marketplace.Andy RobertsonStar ratings (out of five): N++ ****, Tembo ***, Angry Birds 2 ****
Fresh from overtaking Ed Sheeran, the BBC and X Factor in YouTube’s all-time video views chart, children’s nursery-rhymes channelLittle Baby Bumis moving into the toys market.Its videos have been watched more than 3.6bn times since it waslaunched in 2011 by a UK-based couple, and is currently one of the top five channels on Google’s online videos service.Now Little Baby Bum has signed a licensing deal to launch a range of plush-toys based on its animated characters, including nursery-rhyme staples like Incy Wincy Spider and Baa Baa Black Sheep.Related:Little Baby Bum: how UK couple built world's fifth-biggest YouTube channelThe toys will be made by Commonwealth Toy, which also made the popular Angry Birds plush-toys, as well as products for brands including Care Bears and SpongeBob SquarePants.“We’ve got some prototypes being made at the moment, and we’ll concentrate on between five and eight characters initially,” Little Baby Bum co-founder Derek Holder told the Guardian.“We will probably do a soft launch first online including our own website to see how they fare and understand which characters are most popular, which will give us a bigger story to take to retailers.”Angry Birds and Talking Friends have made the transition from children’s apps brands to physical toys, but Little Baby Bum’s deal is the first time a children’s YouTube channel has made such a move.“It’s big news for us, and for YouTube as well: this hasn’t really been done before,” said Holder. “This is hopefully the first of many licensing deals, and a really important one as it’s the first domino to fall. We’ll hopefully be getting [book] publishing deals as well.”One of Little Baby Bum’s latest nursery-rhyme videos.Little Baby Bum continues to be one of the most popular YouTube channels, with 393m video views in the last month alone.These kinds of numbers are what attracted licensing firm Surge Licensing, which brokered Little Baby Bum’s toy deal, having previously turned Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles from an indie comic-book into a global entertainment brand.“I noticed the view numbers and I had to blink several times. In fact the numbers seemed so huge that I thought I was mis-reading them,” said Surge president Mark Freedman, adding that Little Baby Bum’s production values also made it stand out from the YouTube crowd.“I felt that Little Baby Bum was destined for greatness beyond the digital landscape. I had the same feeling 29 years ago when I discovered a fledgling independently-published comic-book series entitled Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.”Holder said that Little Baby Bum will flesh out some of its characters to make them more appealing as toys. “We’re toying with the idea that Baa Baa Black Sheep might be an explorer of some kind, as we’ve always got him flying around in spaceships,” he said.Related:Four of the top five YouTube channels are for kids (and the fifth is Taylor Swift)“Maybe Incy Wincy Spider is a scientist. These are public-domain characters that have been around for hundreds of years, but we want to give them a bit more personality that children can latch on to.”Holder added that Little Baby Bum’s growth on YouTube shows no signs of tailing off, with the channel’sWheels On The Bus compilationnow the service’s 20th most popular video of all-time.“We’re rubbing shoulders with the big guns. It’s Miley Cyrus’ Wrecking Ball, videos by Eminem, Shakira, Rihanna... and Little Baby Bum!” said Holder. “We’re also the fourth biggest channel of all-time in the UK: a few months ago we jumped over Britain’s Got Talent, X Factor, the BBC and Ed Sheeran.”Little Baby Bum is now setting its sights on overtaking the second and third most popular British YouTube channels, Minecraft gamers Stampy and The Diamond Minecart, as well as top-ranked One Direction.“If things carry on as they have been, maybe by Christmas we’ll be number one,” said Holder. “This is a train that doesn’t seem to stop running. It just gets faster and faster, and more exciting.”
Monday again! Today’s screenshot comes fromHeavy Gear Assault, a mech battle game from Canadian independent developer Stompy Bot Productions. It’s currently in early access.
Wearable technologies and big-data analytics are enabling coaches, trainers and general managers to analyze previously unquantifiable aspects of athletic performance in fine detail. But as more technology gets strapped on to professional athletes, some are beginning to express concern over how such devices could be used to track their diet, sleep patterns and life off the field.“The pros have to be careful,” said Brian Bulcke, a defensive lineman in the Canadian Football League. “They’re working in a very small cluster of highly competitive people, they’re highly monitored and highly scrutinized.”As technology continues to penetrate arenas, training facilities and even the daily lives of athletes, Bulcke anticipates a continued debate over the role of such innovations in sports moving forward.“I feel like a guinea pig sometimes when we talk about athletes and technology, and I stress that we’re people too,” he said. “We’re professionals, so I think the respect line on privacy, security and all that kind of stuff needs to be maintained in athleticism, despite being entertainment.”While many franchises are introducing new technologies to their athletes, Bulcke has a more intimate knowledge of the changes coming to his sport. During the off-season he serves as business development lead for the sport innovation program at Ryerson University in Toronto, providing mentorship to 10 early-stage sports technology companies operating out of the university’s Digital Media Zone incubator program.In this position Bulcke says he is able to pursue his passion for engineering and begin planning for his life after football, while also ensuring that athletes don’t become “guinea pigs” in the experiments of the technology industry. “I guess I’m a walking contradiction,” he jokes, adding that it’s important for athletes to play a role in the inevitable proliferation of technology in sports.Related:Wearable technology and apps could yield leap forward for PE, says charityNew innovations are poised to forever change the sports landscape, and while technology has the potential to improve performance and training, reduce injuries and enhance the fan experience, concerns abound over security, privacy, and how a galaxy of new information will affect athletes on a personal level.There’s big money in wearable technology. Global revenues for sports, fitness and activity monitors are expected to grow from $1.9bn in 2013 to $2.8 bn in 2019, according to technology industry analysis firmIHS Technology.“It’s the athletes and the people on the frontlines that will help define the industry. We’re the early adopters but we’re also a megaphone for the rest of the athletes in the market,” adds Bulcke. “Over the years we’ll see more and more athletes permeate into the wearables space.”Bulcke says that conversations in the locker room regarding this influx of new technologies are mixed. Both athletes and coaches want players to remain at the top of their game and reduce injuries, however players remain concerned over the blurring line between their personal and professional lives.“I do think there’s a line there, and we focus purely on when you’re at the workplace, and the workplace for athletes is when you’re practicing or playing games or doing rehab and assessments,” said Brian Kopp, president of the North American division of Catapult, an Australian company whose wearable devices are used widely among professional athletes and major league teams in the NFL, NHL, MLB, NBA and college-level sports programs. “When you go home and you’re doing whatever on your own time, you’re not wearing our device, but certainly there are other devices that could track those [personal] things, and I tend to agree that there is a line, and to me I would draw the line at the workplace.”What’s more concerning to Bulcke and other athletes, however, is that as more metrics are tracked and run through big-data algorithms, technology will not only detect minute changes in player ability, but could even predict future declines in performance. For example, an athlete at the top of their game could see a pay decrease during salary negotiations not based on their performance, but on macro patterns related to age, injury history and previously undetectable biometric data.While sports are often reduced to numbers, Bulcke stresses that the most inspiring moments are unquantifiable. “There’s an element of art that needs to be preserved, and general managers and coaches need to respect that,” he said.Kopp, however, suggests that there has been an ongoing trend in major league sports toward using hard data to inform coaches and general managers, and technology is simply providing new metrics to enable better decision-making. He explains that the trend began in Major League Baseball following the publication of Michael Lewis’sMoneyballin 2003, and quickly extended into nearly every other major sport.“All teams are looking for ways to maximize how they make their decisions,” said Kopp. “If you take wearables out of the mix, the decisions will still be made, it’s just a lot more guesswork.”Many also consider the often-extreme salaries enjoyed by professional athletes as justification for tightly monitoring their performance during competition, especially if it can enhance the fan experience. Sports are a form of entertainment, and providing new insights to spectators can increase their engagement with the game.“The insights that come from the data that evolve and advance the story and make the game potentially more interesting for fans – that’s where I see one of the big opportunity areas, and we’re already starting to see that,” said Stacey Burr, vice-president and general manager of Adidas’s digital sports business unit.Burr’s department has helped develop products ranging from heart rate-monitoring sports bras and T-shirts to soccer balls that track speed, distance, trajectory and rotation. “We can see the power metrics of cyclists, we can see the heart rate data of car racers when they’re in dangerous situations – all of that lets the fan see and feel what it’s like for the athlete in that situation.”Burr explains that technology and sportswear companies are enabling access to new insights and data points for coaches, trainers, athletes and general managers to draw from, but it is not their place to weigh in on how that data will affect salaries and contract negotiations.“I don’t know how that whole world works, to be honest with you; we’re just providing facts and figures, and I think there’s somebody else that has a set of mental models that they use in terms of what the future opportunities are for individual players,” she said.
You’ve forged a successful career writing about gaming culture for publications such as theNew YorkerandNew Statesman. What made you want to write a book?The past few years I’ve been doing a fair bit of reporting about video games, and what particularly interests me are the human stories in and around them – both about the people playing them, who do interesting things, and those about the community built up around games. I just really wanted to formalise that into a book. I wanted to ask the question: why do people give so much of themselves to this medium in particular?Video games generally get a bad reputation from the wider – non-playing – world, especially when compared with other forms of culture. Why is this?I think it’s rooted in the idea of play. Play is viewed as something childish and childlike and something that you should move on from. But it’s slowly changing. Video games can very often be childish and dumb and the subject matter can be grotesque, but there’s also immense scope for other things you can experience within video games. Most people in their 30s and even early 40s these days grew up playing video games as just part of their entertainment diet, alongside literature, film, music and all the rest. I think that generational distrust is going to go away eventually.Does the existence of “death by video game” – particularly prevalent in Asia – surprise you?No, because if the right video game comes into the right person’s life at the right moment, it can provide them with all kinds of things that can lure them to spend their time in that game. They are a form of escape, but so is a bottle of red wine at the end of the evening; so is a Netflix series.In the book, you talk about the launch ofThe Sims– why was it so significant?The Simsis a game that was designed in the early 1990s by someone calledWill Wright, who is interested in games that simulate discrete aspects of the real world. You’re given a virtual doll’s house and you create characters and influence their behaviour – they strike up relationships and romances and have children, get jobs and get depressed. During the development of the game, the team was debating whether or not they should allow same-sex relationships in the game – a very controversial matter at the time.The game was shown off at the video game conference, E3, which happens every year in Los Angeles, and the version of the game that was shown didn’t have the programming code that forbade same-sex relationships. While the game was being demo’ed live to an audience of press, two of the characters – women – just happened to fall in love on screen and they kissed one another. None of this was scripted, it was just all happening live. It became the story of the event.I wrote a story about it for theNew Yorkera couple of years ago, and subsequently loads of people wrote in about how, when they were teenagers, and really wrestling with their own sexual identity, this game came into their lives and allowed them to explore their sexuality and helped them with what they were going through.Why do you think video gaming seems to encourage more extreme behaviour than other art forms, such as the case ofKurt J Mac, who plans to spend decades walking to the edge of the online gameMinecraft?Kurt decided that he was going to walk in one direction, every day, according to his digital compass, until he reached this place where the world breaks up, which is known as the Far Lands. It’s a tremendously long way away, thousands and thousands of virtual kilometres. He started a YouTube channel calledFar Lands or Bust[371,811 subscribers], which is just him playing the game while talking about what’s going on in his life, current affairs and what’s going on in the landscape. It sounds very novel, but really this endeavour is a cousin of the explorers of the past hundreds of years, such as the Elizabethans who would go out to find new lands and then report back on what they were seeing. That’s almost impossible to do on our planet now because Google satellites map every inch of terrain.You mention the misogynistic controversy ofGamergatein the book – does the gaming industry have the capacity for progress in gender and racial equality?Absolutely. There’s a researcher in Spain who is working with virtual reality at the moment. He’s done a few tests whereby he makes white people feel as if they are inhabiting the body of a person of colour, and has other characters in the virtual world hurling racial abuse at them. They found that people who go through this come out of the game with a new understanding of what it is to be the subject of racial abuse. So I think the ability that video games have to allow us to inhabit another person or another position in life, or another race or gender, is hugely powerful, and something that we’ve only just started to explore.What are your favourite types of games and why?I enjoy games across the full spectrum. A game such asTetris– the block-tidying game designed by Alexey Pajitnov in the Soviet Union – is almost perfect. It’s a sport-like game, but with such tremendous beauty and elegance.You’re a father. Do you have concerns about your kids gaming?My eldest is 10 and then I’ve got a seven-year-old and a five-year-old. The middle child is really into games – he will get up in the morning and if I let him we will just play games until he gets hungry and can’t play any more. The other two are not that interested. So, I think to blanket distrust video games is the wrong approach – there is often something educational or enriching in them. It’s something to educate yourself about, to embrace, and to be smart with.
What are escape games?Not for the claustrophobic. You are in a locked room, or series of locked rooms, with a limited amount of time to get out before you are visited by some unpleasant fate: death, permanent incarceration, mild embarrassment at your failure to escape. Extracting yourself involves teaming up with fellow inmates to identify clues and solve various puzzles.Sounds stressful.But they’re incredibly popular. The concept, which evolved out of online games and harks back to TV shows such asThe Crystal Maze, is believed to have originated in Japan; the earliest known real-life escape room opened in Kyoto in 2007. It’s taken off in the US in the past three years and it’s having a moment over here too: according to theEscape Room Directory, there are more than 60 sites around the UK. Target audiences include students, stag parties and companies in team-building mode.Is there more to it than solving problems?Many of them take basic cues from immersive theatre – thinkPunchdrunkwith jigsaws and combination locks. At Time Run, a well-regarded example of the genre in east London, an actor in Victorian garb ushers contestants into a room done up as a steampunk laboratory. We’re spun a tale about a time-travelling scientist and her robot sidekick before being thrust into the distant reaches of time with just 60 minutes to make it back to the present day. The story is a bit of fluff – our freedom depends on the recovery of a magic lance – but the challenges are imaginative enough to keep us occupied for the full hour (we escape with seconds to spare).How much does it cost?Time Run is £24-£29 per person, though you can pay as little as £12 outside London. Its value depends on how much you enjoy puzzles – and whether you feel indulgent towards actors gamely striving to keep preposterous storylines in the air.Time Runis at 9-15 Helmsley Place, London E8 3SB
Price £25,495MPG 58.9Top speed 129mphThere are a few shameful episodes hiding in my motoring memory bank (the reckless speeding on country roads, the KFC family bucket emptied out of the window at 60mph, the middle finger to that old lady), but this was a real low-point. I’d been on the road all day lugging my daughter’s stuff home from university (where did she get all this junk?) and was reversing into a tight spot outside our house. I noticed in my mirror that there was a bloke waiting behind me in a new Jag. He took exception to something, I’m still not sure what, and decided the best course of action was to pull alongside me and shout through my open window: “ARSEHOLE!”I was incredulous – and then incensed. I rammed the car back into gear and drove after him, grinding both my fists into the horn as hard as I could. It was a weird slow-mo chase as he kept braking in front of me to go over each speed bump. After about 200 yards I started to feel a bit foolish as he had no intention of stopping to discuss the matter further. Then I realised the horn had got stuck and wouldn’t stop blaring its head off. I sheepishly took the next right while Jag Man went straight ahead. It was only when I got back home and turned the engine off that the horn stopped… Anyway, that showed him!The ironic thing is that the car I’d spent the day in, the Seat X-PERIENCE, is a calm, unruffled all-rounder which ate the miles to Bristol and back and swallowed all my daughter’s worldly goods without a murmur. I should have been feeling relaxed and tranquil rather than going all Roy Keane.The X-PERIENCE (novelty car names are so X-ASPERATING) is the newest member of the Leon branch of the Seat family. It has permanent four-wheel drive. The ride has been jacked up and it’s been kitted out with metal bash plates, front and back, as well as plenty of plastic cladding around the bumpers and wheel arches. This makes it look like a bit of a bruiser – or a large Tonka toy at least.Well put together: the roomy interior.We’ve become obsessed with these soft roaders or “faux-by-fours”. The Volkswagen Group, which owns Seat as well as Skoda and Audi, can’t churn them out fast enough and the family estate in each range now comes with this “meaner” option. There’s the Audi Allroad, VW Alltrack, Skoda Scout and now the Seat X-PERIENCE. The growing segment reflects the rugged, outdoorsy, triathlon-bragging lifestyles of those who buy them. But unlike most of these athletes, the cars actually deliver on their tough looks.The X-PERIENCE costs £3,000 more than its weedier Leon ST sibling and it comes with a choice of two 2-litre diesels, either a 148bhp six-speed manual or a pokier 182bhp six-speed DSG twin-clutch automatic. In the flesh it exudes a resolute robustness. Despite the fact that Seat is officially at the bottom of the Volkswagen pecking order, everything feels well put together. Corners have not been cut. It’s unexpectedly roomy inside and with the back seats folded the storage area is enormous. On the road, its extra height and the smooth, easy striding diesel make for a wonderfully fulsome ride.My wife, who never comments on the cavalcade of cars that pass across our driveway, climbed out and said: “This is a nice car.” Praise indeed. The new Porsche 911 she drove the week before elicited nothing. Maybe Jag Man was just jealous…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Katy Perry winks … so that you don’t have to.Dotcom fashion has left hordes of trends and hot names in its impatient wake but there is hope for those cast out of the digital mainstream: the gif is back.The gif format – a compressed image file that appears on computer screens as a two- or three-second video that is constantly repeated – was initially created in the 1980s, and is becoming the latest online phenomenon.The gif, which stands for graphics interchange format and was originally pronounced “jif”, is behind a new wave of technology start-ups that are attracting tens of millions of dollars in funding from venture capitalists.Earlier this month,Riffsy, which has developed an alternative keyboard of gifs for smartphones,raised $10m (£6.5m)in funding, just over a year after being created. The money will finance the launch of a version of its app for smartphones that use Google’s Android operating system.The gif format was initially created in 1987 and used on loading screens, helping to demonstrate to a user that their computer was actually working. But gifs dropped out of fashion and were confined to use in internet chat forums as the increasing power of computers and the rise of broadband meant standard videos became easier to load.Now the rise of smartphones has given gifs a new lease of life. The brief animations are increasingly being used to express emotions instead of words, with users sending their friends clips from television shows or films, often with a caption attached, to demonstrate how they are feeling.For example, the gifs being promoted on Riffsy’s home page includepop star Katy Perry winking, actor Brian Blessed getting very excited on an episode ofHave I Got News For You, andJennifer Anistonscreaming “No” in a clips from TV showFriends.Riffsy has said that its gifs areviewed more than four billion times every month, while rivalGiphysays it has more than 50 million unique users. Investors in the companies are betting that gifs will become a global craze in the same vein as emojis, which are symbols that smartphones can use in place of words.The use of gifs has been boosted by Apple opening up its iOS operating system so that developers can build alternative keyboards that make it easier to send the animations.Facebook also started supporting gifs in March, with Mark Zuckerberg showing them off at a developer conference. More than five million gifs are already being sent through Facebook’s messaging app every day.Riffsy and Giphy are now looking to collaborate with film studios and television shows to use gifs to promote new releases. This would allow them to become an internet-age trailer that can be sent between friends and family.“Gifs are a visual format – not only do people get a tease of the show but they use moments of the show to express emotions and interests in their conversations,” David McIntosh, the founder of Riffsy, said in a recent interview withThe Drum.“On desktop, gifs have long been a novelty on forums and websites like Reddit and Tumblr. Now Riffsy is spurring a surge in gif usage by making it fast and easy to share gifs everywhere on mobile. The length of the gif is perfectly suited for short mobile attention spans, and gifs capture feelings and emotions by tapping into shared cultural moments and interests that are difficult to express by typing on a qwerty keyboard, particularly in a constrained mobile environment.”McIntosh’s comments highlight how far gifs have come since they were created by Steve Wilhite, a programmer at CompuServe, in the last 1980s. The launch of gifs sparked a row with rival technology group Unisys, which claimed it had patented the technique used to compress files for a gif in 1985. This eventually led to the creation of an alternative file format, portable network graphics (png), which is also still in use today.
Friday afternoon, the day before the big day, and the crowds are out on the beach at Bournemouth, making the most of the sun and sand. Kids are doing the hokey cokey in the bandstand, Harry Ramsden’s is enjoying a thriving trade in fish and chips, and the screams of thrill-seekers ring out as they plummet down the zip wire between the pier and the beach.“I’m sitting here looking out of my window and I can see the seafront,” says Mark Cribb, owner of Urban Guild, which runs restaurants and a hotel. “There are California-style lifeguard huts, swimming schools, surfers. It’s got a vibe and an energy that most people don’t know about.”Cribb is one of Bournemouth’s entrepreneurs making the most of the town’s imminent entry into the big time. AFC Bournemouth’s Premiership debut on Saturday made them the latest minnows to live the dream – even if they did lose 1-0 to Aston Villa. But it’s not really about the football. For many who live, work and study in Bournemouth, it is about the next stage in the seaside town’s development, about seizing the attention to highlight a small town on the south coast with lofty ambitions.“Bournemouth is moving up from a place where people came to die – or to build sandcastles – to a place that will be at the cutting edge of creativity in the 21st century,” says Deryck Newland, artistic director of Pavilion Dance South West, which has its base just opposite the town’s main pier. “There is a real sense that the town is on the move, which is quite a nice phrase for us, because dance is all about movement.”Newland praises the vision of the council, which offered the company a home. “The council put in £3.2m five years ago,” he says. “They recognise that these are the sort of cultural markers that carve out a new identity. It presents a real opportunity if the council is brave enough and rides the wave that the football club is going to bring.”Wave riding has something of a mixed history in Bournemouth. Six years ago, the council invested in an artificial reef off Boscombe pier, a mile east of the town centre. The intention was to revive a downtrodden area. It didn’t go to plan. “It was a bit of a disaster,” says Cribb. “It’s probably floating off France somewhere. It hasn’t worked, but it did its job as a catalyst for development.”Bournemouth seems to hum to the tune of regeneration; even the population is unusually young, with the average age of 34 set to stay the same for the next 20 years. If there is a prosperity index, Bournemouth is at or near the top, and it boasts an array of blue-chip companies calling it home: the JPMorgan financial services group, and insurers Arthur J Gallagher, LV and Ageas among others. The borough council’s head of economic development, Chris Shephard, is enthused by the potential.“It’s Bournemouth’s time now,” he says, sitting in the sunshine outside the council’s offices. “I think there’s something about telling a story through business about what this place has to offer.”Beyond the cafes and bars, cranes and hard hats that are the traditional indicators of regeneration, a greater force is at work in Bournemouth. Matt Desmier runs the annual Silicon Beach gathering, the focal point for the town’s ambitions to be not just one of the leading digital hubs in the country, but in the world, boosted by a Tech Nation report this year naming Bournemouth as the UK’s fastest-growing city in the digital economy. “The council has a vision to be one of the top 20 global digital hubs by 2020,” he says. “That’s wildly ambitious but, you know what? Shoot for the moon.”Desmier found that there was another Silicon Beach gathering, in Santa Monica, California, and took himself and 20 of his cohorts out to meet them. “We could see the synergy between that southern Californian vibe and what we’ve got here,” he says. “People in Santa Monica were really interested in what we were doing, but they’d say, ‘Bournemouth? Where’s that?’ I said, we’re like you, we’re a digital hub in the shadow of something bigger, in their case Silicon Valley and in ours London. I told them that Bournemouth is like a suburb of London – we’re the London beach suburb.”Bournemouth’s main pier.Photograph: Adrian SherrattHe lists some of the 400 digital agencies that are based in the Bournemouth area – “that’s one for every 1,000 people,” he says – Amuzo, creators of Lego computer games, 3 Sided Cube, Redweb, Thinking Juice.Desmier has a vision. “I want to create a global community of Silicon Beaches, these places that live in the shadow of somewhere else, a global community of also-rans. We’ve got an opportunity here. We need to make the most of it and I’m personally going to make the most of it.”Andy Martin, acting editor of theBournemouth Echo, has lived in the town for 25 years. “It was the next step for Bournemouth,” he says of its football team’s success. “There are two big hotels being built, there’s lots of construction, the university has a massive reputation, and Flybe has just moved in to the airport. The town is changing out of recognition.”Jim Cregan embodies the laid-back surfer dude, get-up-and-go entrepreneurial spirit of Bournemouth. With his sister, Suzie, he launched Jimmy’s Iced Coffee, a simple concept – small cartons of iced coffee – that has made it big and, if not already, will shortly be in a store near you. Cregan stars in his own publicity video, a freewheeling homage to early 90s hip-hop videos, complete with endearingly goofy rap about the product (“Keep your chin up!”), a speedboat, the protagonist and his homies getting pulled over by a traffic cop, and aerial shots of the glistening shoreline.“Bournemouth does have that California beach promenade thing to it,” says Cregan over iced coffee in the town’s South Coast Roast cafe. “When it’s good, it’s unrivalled. It’s just really awesome.”He doesn’t, however, buy into the football regeneration thesis.“We really love business here, and that has got absolutely nothing to do with football,” he says. “Personally, I don’t think the football has any major effect. The only thing it means is that it will bring tens of thousands more people into the town. You’re either beach side, and you suit and like the outdoor lifestyle, or you’re on the football side.”Claims to fameOldest beach hutBournemouth is home to Britain’s oldest beach hut, which dates from 1909 and still has its original structural foundations. The wooden chalet, known by number 2359, was also the first council-owned hut in the UK.Seven miles of beachesBournemouth has seven miles of curved, sandy beaches, which attract as many as 100,000 visitors on a typical busy August day.The Great Train RobbersRoger Cordrey, the first gang member to be arrested, was caught in Bournemouth in 1963 after he rented a lock-up from a policeman’s widow.Mary ShelleyThe English novelist Mary Shelley, who died in 1851, is buried at St Peter’s church in Bournemouth along with her parents, the writer and feminist Mary Wollstonecraft and political philosopher William Godwin.This article was amended on14 August 2015 to remove a reference to Poole harbour.
It used to be that if you wanted to meet someone of a certain caliber, you would venture to a particular bar. There would be a line at the door with a strict doorman and inside would be a collection of beautiful people, all deemed special because they’d made it past the velvet rope. Now there’s an app for that.Forget Tinder. Forget OkCupid. Who has time for all that swiping? Instead, young professionals looking for a suitable mate are flocking to apps like The League and syncing their LinkedIn profile in the hopes that their resumes will help seal the deal and find them someone special.“The brand of The League is really for these ambitious driven, young professionals that want to date other ambitious, driven young professionals,” explained Amanda Bradford, founder of The League. And you’ll have to be driven to make it into The League – there’s a waiting list 100,000 people long.“Our requirements for women are just as rigorous as our requirements for men. The men know that women they meet in The League are career oriented, intelligent, ambitious and are working just as hard. That’s the kind of ethos that we want our community to have.”‘You’ve been drafted into The League’Amanda Bradford, founder of The LeaguePhotograph: Travis W Keyes/The LeagueThe League has been described as Tinder for the elites. In order to join, potential users are screened and selected based on their education and professional history. Not everyone gets in – only the cream of the crop get the email informing them that they have “been drafted into The League”.Once part of The League, its members receive five new matches every day at 5pm – the so-called “happy hour”.Linking online dating apps to LinkedIn was “a stroke of genius”, according to Rick Nguyen, a 28-year old entrepreneur and co-founder of Spot Trender.“A lot of dating sites are trying to distance your professional life and your dating life as if they were two separate things. But to understand someone fully, I think you need both aspects of them, because as much as we try to say we are not our job, a part of us is our job,” he told the Guardian.Bradford became interested in online dating after becoming single following the end of a five-year relationship. She started her online hunt while finishing her master’s degree in business at Stanford and found she was running into the same problem over and over again. She had no control over who could view her profile, including potential business connections, bosses and coworkers. She also felt like she had no idea who the people she was being matched with were. There was no context to their profiles – just their name and their photo. She wanted more.Related:The $8000 course on &quot;how to commit&quot; and other expenses of online dating“I felt like I should just go ahead and create an app that I myself wanted to use and solve all the pain points I had identified on the other apps,” she said. And so, The League was born.Launched in San Francisco in November 2014, it has since spread to New York and is expected to launch in Los Angeles and London in the coming months.What makes The League special, according to Bradford, is that it is synced with LinkedIn and Facebook. This way the app can ensure your profile is not visible to your professional connections, while at the same time giving potential matches a better idea of who you are as a person based on your education and professional experience.If you’re not a Goldman banker or a tech entrepreneur, don’t worry. Bradford hopes the dating pool represents many different industries. “We don’t want everyone from one type of school. We don’t want everyone that’s an MBA or a doctor,” she told the Guardian.According to Bradford, the recipe for getting into The League is not “cut and dry”. The main thing is you have to bring something special to the table.“Let’s say you didn’t go to college or you went to college that is not known for being a Tier 1 establishment, that’s OK. But we are going to be expecting you to have accomplished something in your professional career to compensate for that. Maybe you didn’t go to Oxford, but you started a non-profit to help underprivileged children in Africa and you’ve run that company from the ground-up. That to me is a just as impressive, if not more, than someone who went to Tier 1 university.”That’s not to say The League isn’t exclusive. In New York, the acceptance rate is about 20%. In San Francisco, about 25%. Each community is capped at about 10,000. “We don’t plan to grow that number until we have the product,” said Bradford.The League: date. intelligently.Photograph: The LeagueDo you have what it takes to make it into The League?Krista White, 23, lives in Silicon Valley, California and works in public relations. She studied theater at Columbia University. She has been on the waitlist for The League since February.“Right now I am like No 8,000 out of 100,000,” she told the Guardian. “This must not be for me. I don’t know.”Unlike White, Nguyen spent just “a couple of days” on the wait list before getting drafted into The League. “I didn’t wait that long. Thank God,” he said, laughing. He too lives in Silicon Valley.Daniel Ratcliffe, 25, also did not have to wait too long before making it into The League. “When you first sign up for it, it puts you on a waitlist. I was like No 11,000 and I thought: ‘Oh, I guess this isn’t going to happen’,” said Ratcliffe, who lives in East Village in New York City and works in digital entertainment and media. “Then a couple of days later, I got an email saying that I had been approved and I have been on it ever since. I am not sure what their criteria is for accepting members.”Ratcliffe said he wondered if he would get in – after all, he did not attend an Ivy League college. He did attend New York University for his master’s degree. He, too, likes that his dating profile on The League looks more professional and that he is able to connect with other hard-working people his age.“I am a hard worker. I worked hard. I have my master’s,” he points out. He adds that he has never heard of people “catfishing” on LinkedIn, creating a fake online profile to trick people in romantic relationship. “I think because you have to go on the waitlist, everyone is more serious about dating and about sending messages.”Nguyen, who said his response rate on other apps was about 20% to 30%, said: “On The League, I have got close to a 100% response rate with my matches.”The League allows users to sync their dating profile with their LinkedIn to avoid connecting with their professional connections as well as to best display their accomplishments.Photograph: The League‘We let them be picky and have high standards’The League also comes with a number of filters that allow members to select their ideal date’s education attainment level, height, age and ethnicity.“We really believe that people know what they want and we let them be picky and have high standards,” Bradford told the Guardian. “We do let users set preferences on ethnicity. We don’t see a ton of users doing that – probably about 10% or so do have strong preferences around ethnicity.”According to her, the members will first be showed matches that fit their preferences, “but once they run out of those matches, then we will show them everyone. It’s just a matter of prioritization”.Ratcliffe said that he did not use the ethnicity filter.“I think that’s absurd and ridiculous, but as an African American woman in the dating pool, it would be nice to know that someone I was matched with doesn’t not like black girls,” said White. “It’s really problematic, but I would want to know if someone is not into me for that reason because that’s definitely not someone I would want to talk to. It would just be a waste of both of our time if he is racist.”Would she still join The League if she was “drafted” now? “I don’t know. I have a little bit of a cynical view on online dating. I mean, I’d give it a shot and see what happens,” said White, who has tried other apps like Tinder. “I always hold a little hope that this is going to be the lucky day and this match is going to be perfect.”Could ‘Tinder for the elites’ help young professionals find the one? 100,000 of them are waiting to find out.Photograph: Peter Dazeley/Getty ImagesFor those tired of waiting, there are other options likeBeLinked, which has more than 50,000 users in more than 100 counties. According to its founder Max Fischer, the app has seen a lot of traction in cities like London, San Francisco and New York.“We are pretty much the only application that ties directly to LinkedIn and only LinkedIn,” said Fischer. “Users are getting that true sense of who someone is through a highly accountable and trustworthy network.”Related:LinkedUp: a dating app for the most professional of networksDating sites for the 1%In addition to BeLinked, there are apps for those looking for an even more niche dating app than The League. Among them isLuxy, self-described as Tinder without the poor people.“Clearly we are having a bit of fun with the tagline and the headline to get people talking about our app,” said Darren Shuster, principal of Pop Culture PR and the spokesman for Luxy. “However, instead of saying ‘It’s Tinder for rich people’ we simply decided to say that we are Tinder minus the poor people. It’s certainly exclusionary.”The app has had 300,000 downloads around the world and, according to Shuster, 50% of Luxy’s verified users have $500,000 in assets or more.“We have seen their tax records,” he said. Is that a requirement? “No, it’s optional.”Luxy: Tinder without the poor peoplePhotograph: LuxyThe app “unapologetically” caters to the 1%, said Schuster, who insists that he is not the CEO. The identity of the CEO has not been disclosed and he is known simply as Tim T due to the negative attention such apps can attract.While not everyone might see the appeal of Luxy, Shuster says its users “get it”.“They love it. It attracts other people that are looking to lead the same lifestyle as they have been leading,” he explained. “When they go on a date, they don’t want to be picked up in a 1975 VW bug and go to McDonald’s drive through. That’s not the kind of dates these guys or girls are looking for.”But be warned, exclusivity is no guarantee of success. Bradford herself has yet to find her perfect man. “I’ve been very busy so I have not been accepting very many dates,” she said.
You really can’t keep passionate creators down – and even after the unceremonious culling of the rhythm-game genre by publishers Activision (Guitar Hero) and EA (Rock Band) five years ago, developer Harmonix has never lost the faith.By October of this year we’ll be able to see just why the studio has revived its series with Rock Band 4, and Harmonix is hoping by then we’ll all see just how much it truly, genuinely cares about the strumming-and-hitting-plastic-instruments genre.The core experience will be familiar to anybody who played the numerous Rock Band and Guitar Hero games released between 2005 and 2010, but this time around we’re all going into it relatively refreshed. With around 23 of the titles released in just five years on near enough all formats, it wasn’t surprising people lost interest, sales dived and, eventually, the genre dropped off the map.Harmonix is cognisant of that fact, as well as that many of us still have our old Rock Band/Guitar Hero guitars, drum kits and microphones stored somewhere in the back of a cupboard,andthat a lot of us forked out a lot of money to download new tracks for many of the games.You will be able to use most of the instruments from the Xbox 360 and PS3 releases with the new game.Photograph: PRAs such, the studio is going to great lengths to clarify just what it is doing with Rock Band 4: you will be able to use most of the instruments from the Xbox 360 and PS3 releases with the new gam, and every song you own, downloaded for previous Rock Band titles, will be still be useable.This attitude is refreshing, frankly, as well as absolutely necessary – people were bored of what was just too many releases in quick succession, and didn’t want to spend more, more and more on their games. Harmonix understands this and is doing its best to cater for former players (and, of course, current ones).There will be new songs in Rock Band 4, though the final tracklist hasn’t yet been released – and you can pick up a “band in a box” edition of the game, with new peripherals created by publishing partner Mad Catz. At £230, it isn’t cheap, but it does actually cost the same as what Rock Band’s original instrument-heavy release cost in 2008, with inflation taken into account.Rock Band 4 will be the only game in the series released this generation – all additions, new tracks, updates and so on will presumably arrive digitally, with the game itself (as with many others these days) seen more as a platform than an individual title.This means it should feasibly last you five-to-10 years. How much use you’ll get out of it in that time is, of course, up to the individual. And how many parties you host. But it’s a positive step, and it feels an order of magnitude less cynical than Guitar Hero Live, with its emphasis onmicrotransactions and “day passes”.There are changes to the central experience, of course – this isn’t just recycled from five years ago, even if it might appear so at first glance. Vocalists will be able to freestyle their lyrics at certain times, being rewarded for singing whatever they like, as long as it fits within the correct pitch-level for the song.Drum fills have also been updated, offering a system that feels less random and more dynamic, fitting the song in a much more organic way. It’s certainly a step up from previous games’ tendency to encourage players to just wail on the drums for a few seconds – it’s far more tuneful and respectful of the fact that you’re supposed to be in a band.Rock Band 4 is out in October – but will it spark a return of the rhythm game?Photograph: PRBut Harmonix has focused most of its work on the fantasy of being a true ... well, guitar hero. Aiming for the fantasy of being a rock god over the authenticity of actually having to learn an instrument – it’s a game for everyone, after all – has seen the introduction of freestyle guitar solos.Popping up at certain points in a song, these solos allow players creativity within some slight, guiding constraints. Absolute freedom is avoided, according to Harmonix, as it often leaves people bewildered, not knowing what they should really do. Instead there’s a gentle pointer towards, for example, quick chord strumming, holding an extended note or tapping.While you’re playing whatever you want in these solos, Rock Band 4 is doing the hard work behind the scenes – everything you play works with the song being played, changing dynamically and being altered on the fly. It’s hard to explain, but it’s a near-revelatory experience when you realise just howgoodthe game is making you feel about playing it.There is still challenge there for the players hunting the high scores – it wouldn’t be Rock Band without that - and following the loose instructions in solos, for example, will see you rewarded with more points at the end. But you won’t fail if you want to go off piste and shred it up to some Fleetwood Mac.There’s little about Rock Band 4 that’s brave, or – aside from the soloing elements – particularly new. But it’s still utterly refreshing: a developer keen to share its vision of what the music genre could be, released in a way that walks a tightrope between making the companies involved some money while also not fleecing its customers.Yes, £230 is still a lot, especially when compared to the US price of $249.99 (£161) – but this could still be the triumphant comeback a lot of players hoped for. And a cheaper one, too, if you’ve got some old instruments in the loft.Rock Band 4 is released on 6 October on PS4 and Xbox One.
Virtual reality is the future. It must be: I read it in Time magazine. And if Sony, Facebook and Google all agree that something’s the next big thing, they’re unlikely to be wrong.But if that’s the case, why do so few people actually care?The stats don’t lie: VR is a turn off. You, the typical reader, would rather hear about the latest games, new smartphones, or even miniature spaceship combat than another piece about head-mounted virtual reality, and how it will change the world. There’s one big exception, of course:everyonewants to read about how VR will change the world of porn. Sex sells.But how can the industry and the public disagree so much? The problem is VR’s not-so-secret weakness: the dork factor.Don’t get me wrong: Modern virtual reality is good. Very, very good. Even the Oculus DK2, now over a year old, provides an experience which is functionally unmatched by any non-VR platform. Not just in traditional style games such asEve Valkyrie, where a game of dogfighting spaceships is elevated to something utterly immersive and faintly terrifying; but also in uses that push the boundaries of what could be done beforehand, such as the co-operative bomb-disposal game Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes.And as the platform matures, some of the downsides of the early generations will disappear. The low resolution of many current headsets, which makes the world feel like you’re viewing it through a screen door, will improve; the headsets themselves will get less bulky, and eventually lose the wires; and even gaming computers themselves will get faster and cheaper.The problem is that, until you’ve used virtual reality, you have to take it on trust that it’s actually any goodThat last one is more important than it sounds: it goes under-discussed in most VR coverage, but the cost of a gaming PC that can run games for the Oculus Rift at the resolution and frame rate they demand is easily upwards of £1,000. Sony’s forthcoming Morpheus, which hooks up to the PS4, cuts that cost by a third – but the company has not yet made the device widely available to testers, and many are concerned that the Playstation won’t be able to push 120 frames-per-second at a 4K resolution.These things shall pass. What won’t pass – what is intrinsic to the whole concept of VR – is that you will will still be sitting in your living room with a visor strapped to your head, oblivious to the world around you.Take the cover of this week’s Time, seen above. Palmer Luckey, the young, successful founder of Oculus, leaps in obvious joy. And yet, the second the cover was released, it became a laughing stock. Because despite the bombastic coverline, despite the technological prowess, despite one of the most iconic magazines in the world endorsing it,the cover imageis the dorkiest thing ever printed.That could be fine! After all, people do lots of things that make them look stupid, like playing Wii Tennis, eating footlong hotdogs, or having sex.But those things all have something that virtual reality doesn’t: they look fun to do even if you’re not actually involved. Watch someone playing Wii Tennis, and you probably want to have a go; watch someone having sex, and you definitely want to have a go. Watch someone playing on VR, and you’re as likely to come away feeling a bit embarrassed for them.The problem is that, until you’ve used virtual reality, you have to take it on trust that it’s actually any good. Screenshots of VR games don’t show why you would want to play them, pictures of people playing just make you cringe, and so all you have left is faith in the hype. And if there’s one industry where people are rightly suspicious of hype, it’s gaming.That problem is confounded by the pseudo-VR doing the rounds, in the form of things like Google’s “Cardboard” kits, which let you mount a phone in front of your face and experience a simple virtual world. They mean that for thousands of people, their only experience of VR is profoundly underwhelming.Try as I might, I can’t think of a single example of a successful consumer technology which has these twin downsides, of being impossible to accurately demonstrate without the physical object present,andof being unappealing to experience second-hand. Retina displays had the former – you really had to use it to experience it – while video gaming itself has the latter (pictures of people playing video games really don’t make you want to play video games).Something that did have both those flaws is 3D television. A few years back, it was the future of TV, but manufacturers never actually managed to convince anyone that it was worth it. And we all know how that ended.I could be wrong; it could be that the lure of being transported into virtual worlds is enough that people will splash hundreds of pounds sight unseen, or that the initial models will be so successful amongst early adopters that people will buy them after using a friend’s unit. Or it could be that this wave of VR will be the second big attempt to make the technology happen, and then we’ll have to wait another 20 years for the third.
It’s the sportiest in the Hyundai range; it has sportier wheel arches, a sportier, more shapely grill, an all-round aura of sportiness.But I wasn’t struck by it, not at first. Who reads a car’s personality in its grill? Then I got in and it all changed: the steering wheel is leather with red stitching. Visible stitching shouts “fun”, because it subconsciously reminds you of saddlebags and other horse paraphernalia. It shouts, speed for the hell of it, speed you didn’t know was coming; it has been yelling, “You are about to go much faster than walking” since the 1880s.The sports-bucket seats have a leather effect, so feel like being held by a giant, determined glove. The pedals are silvery and dynamic, and gleam. The three-door design sends the message that you don’t want passengers if you can help it. The ignition is with a button, which I’ve come to prefer, and the binnacles protrude in an ironic, Back To The Future sort of way. It’s the kind of car you expect will start making arch remarks at you.I didn’t get to the top speed of 136mph, but I had no doubt at all that it could make it. The 1.6-litre petrol engine tops the range, and is a blast. It swam into sixth gear with discernible enthusiasm; the torque could blow your cheeks back. It’s pretty unusual to be able to entertain children by going from first to second in a 20mph zone, but even its zero to 18 felt pretty sudden. Acceleration in the higher gear is not as good; the changes are smooth enough, but you’re not going to sail past an Audi on the motorway, which, let’s face it, is the car you habitually want to sail past. The Flex Steer system means you can choose between comfort, normal and sport: I couldn’t tell a huge amount of difference between them, but they’re all sharp and neat. Road imperfections are damped, the brake feel inspires confidence. Maybe the steering response is a bit jerky, but more in the service of mischief than by accident.It’s not immediately clear what driver this car has in mind. It was, plainly, exciting enough for me, but it’s not the hottest of hatches. It’s roomy – the space in the boot is a surprise – but it’s not what you’d call a family car. The engine comes at a price for emissions and efficiency: 149g/km is a little bit last century, ditto 44mpg on the combined cycle. So it’s not emphatically one thing – family, sporty, titchy, eco, ergo – over another. But it’s fun, goddamit.Hyundai i30 Turbo in numbersPrice£22,500Top speed136mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8 secondsCombined fuel consumption44mpgCO2emissions169g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Tim Cook’s security expenses cost Apple almost $700,000 (£450,000) a year, according to new figures filed with America’s securities and exchange commission.The docs,discovered by news site Patently Appleburied in a SEC filing from March, count the security detail among the Apple executive’s benefits in kind. Under the heading “all other compensation”, the filingbreaks down the figure of $774,176 for 2014.(i) the Company’s contributions to Mr Cook’s account under its 401(k) plan in the amount of $15,600; (ii) Company-paid term life insurance premiums in the amount of $2,520; (iii) vacation cash-out in the amount of $56,923; and (iv) security expenses in the amount of $699,133.”Elsewhere in the filing, Apple elaborates on Cook’s security expenses: “The Company generally does not provide perquisites to its officers that are not available to employees generally. Although the Company does not consider it to be a perquisite for his benefit, the Company provides home and personal security for Mr Cook because his personal safety and security are of the utmost importance to the Company and its shareholders.”It adds: “The Company considers the security measures to be a reasonable and necessary expense for the benefit of the Company.”
If you have an Android smartphone you are probably vulnerable to a security bug that could allow anyone to take over your phone using just a multimedia message.For users there’s not a lot you can do. The bug, calledStagefright, affects the multimedia handling capabilities of every Android smartphone using the mobile operating system, of which there are over 1bn in circulation.It has been described as “Heartbleed for mobile”– after the major vulnerability that affected desktop computers – by security experts and has promptedGoogle, Samsungand LG to promise regular monthly security updates.After being notified about Stagefright in April, it was fixed by Google in the open-source version of Android (AOSP) in July, but was not pushed out to other smartphones such as Google’s Nexus line of devices.Most updates for Android are passed from Google to device manufacturers such as Samsung and then on to mobile phone operators before being pushed out to customers.That long chain has meant that the vast majority of Android smartphones have not been updated.But now an app has been released by a mobile security company, Zimperium, that specifically checks to see whether the Android device it is installed on is vulnerable to the bug or whether it has been updated already.The free app, calledStagefright Detector App, performs six checks for the bug and reports back. Users who are using a vulnerable device are advised to disable multimedia messaging (MMS) and to be careful about opening messages sent to them by unknown contacts.•Stagefright: new Android vulnerability dubbed ‘heartbleed for mobile’
Frontier Developments’ slow march towards the complete Elite: Dangerous package will take a huge step forward this year, with the arrival of Horizons, a “second season” of expansions for the gigantic space-exploration game.The first of these expansions will be Planetary Landings, and allows players finally to touch down on the celestial bodies littering Elite’s universe. It’s a feature that has been craved by players – and the game’s creators – since Dangerous first launched back in late 2014.While it might have seemed like this should have been a feature in the game from day one, the approach Frontier is adopting for the additional method of space exploration shows that just isn’t the case. Whereas, for example, in Frontier: Elite 2 every planet with a solid surface could be landed on – in a 20-plus year old game – they were lacking in detail, essentially giant green, grey or red orbs with little action on the surface.In the Planetary Landings expansion, players will see a fair bit more than vast nothingness: as well as terrestrial bases and shipyards, there will be areas of interest to explore, loot to discover, mining to profit from and some overwhelmingly vast areas to explore. And as with the vanilla Elite: Dangerous release, it’s all going to be up to the player how they go about things.You won’t be jumping out of your spaceship straight on to terra firma, however – instead using a surface landing vehicle to navigate the procedurally simulated worlds. The first revealed, the Scarab, is a nippy six-wheeler able to fit inside most ships as an optional add-on.I wasn’t privy to seeing exactly what things are like on planetary surfaces – apparently everything is working as planned and explained, it just needs to be textured before it’s shown off to the public. But the description from series creator David Braben had everyone in the room beaming from ear to ear with excitement.Each planet is modelled using a first principle system – what this means is their creation, their orbit, their tectonic plates, weather, geothermal activity and countless other elements are simulated to create every uninhabited planet (inhabited planets are still a no-go for the time being, but it’s coming).Basing procedural generation on such rigid, scientific formula – I was told – results in planets that are as accurate to the real thing as they can be, with all manner of scientific minds working behind the scenes with real world(/universe) data to create planets. They’re not bespoke, but then there are many millions of them … this way saves time, let’s say.All of the expansions for the Horizons season will be compatible across the board with all players, meaning you will still be able to form wings with other players to explore the universe together. Or to be a pirate, of course. But while owners of Planetary Landings will be able to travel into an orbital cruise and explore the surface, those without will just be left in outer orbit, twiddling their thumbs.Back on the surface, though, Horizon owners will be able to land, fly around the surface, turn around and leave, remain in their wings (with other Horizon-owning players, of course) and generally play an incredible-sounding addition to an already impressive game.I’ve used the word ‘owners’ a couple of times up there, and the reason is this: Horizons is not a free set of add-ons. It will cost £40 for those who do not own Elite: Dangerous, and £30 at the pre-order stage for those who do own the first release.There has been uproar in online communities because of this pricing, with the simple fact being a fair few people believed the ability to land on planets would – and should – be a feature in the vanilla Elite: Dangerous.But Braben is convinced this is the right approach for Horizons, offering it up as a premium selection of additions and expansions, not just one new feature. With the effort going into it and the huge introductions being made to the established formula, it’s hard to argue with him. Either way though, its release won’t stop anyone from playing together – at least not until they get into orbit.There’s another little element being thrown in to sweeten the deal, too, with players owning both the original release and Horizons being able to purchase a Cobra Mk IV in-game (with in-game cash, that is). It’s not a huge feature, but it deserves mentioning as the first new Cobra ship in decades, something that gets us Elite fans all excited.It’s easy to see why people are annoyed about Elite: Dangerous - Horizons’ price, and it will take a lot of work from Frontier to win back those who feel wronged by the move. But all signs so far are positive, and with the studio’s steady pace of releases and improvements for the game over the past year-plus, it’s safe to assume the team won’t be short-changing its fans.The Horizons season of expansions will release towards the end of 2015, in the holiday season window. It will also arrive on Xbox One at some point, though there isn’t a set date for that just yet.
The Pro Evolution Soccer series has had a rough time of things over the last decade. Confused aims and a focus on areas that didn’t deserve attention saw the series slip from the top of the football simulation game league to be just solidly mid-table. But that has been changing since PES 2014, and last year’s effort was the soccer title of choice for a lot of players. PES 2016 is even better.You start a match and can see from the very first kick of the ball that this is a much-improved beast. It’s snappy, offering an immediacy even the current king of the genre, Fifa, has seen fall by the wayside in recent years.Passing is quick, sharp and something that needs to be carried out frequently and handled with care. The opposition is quick to close down, snapping at your heels and trying to nick the ball away. It’s a welcome aggression and one that makes the defensive side of the game a lot more enthralling to play, especially compared to the somewhat lacklustre off-the-ball play of PES 2015.But it’s not just a case of specced-up defenders and an attack that can’t cope. Passing – at least when you do it right – is crisp, meaning you can play your way out of trouble if careful (and quick) enough, but the biggest tweak to the formula is the increased importance and realism of players’ physicality.When off the ball, it becomes a game of almost strategic qualities, requiring you not only to line your player up in the best position they can be to receive a corner, for example, but also for them to jostle with the opposition for supremacy in the area.This is carried out with a quick flick of the right stick – a new control to learn for veterans but one that’s unobtrusive and, after a very short period of time, something that becomes second nature. And the feeling when you overpower a defender before rising to meet the ball and bury it in the back of the net ... well, that’s something PES has always done very well.But this physicality also blends nicely with the regular flow of play, helping to make players other than quick-and-tricky ones useful in a dribble. I took the towering Robert Lewandowski of Bayern Munich on a merry dance through the opponent’s defence not by tricking and jinking, but through sheer strength, balance and tenacity.It adds a dimension to PES 2016 – and to football games in general – that never seems to have been handled quite right. Fifa’s body physics, for example, have often been about show – about making the tackle look crunching and the fall realistic – but have rarely impacted play in such an impressive way.From there it’s a host of smaller changes and fixes to the PES formula, building on PES 2015’s fine in-game action and resulting in something that immediately feels impressive, vital and surprisingly different. Best of all, though, it’s a hell of a lot of fun.Konami has been making efforts outside of the game to make it something the casual player will want to get involved with, but the past few years have seen very clear attempts to draw in even more South American players – a region in which PES still reigns supreme. This year, though, Konami has scored a bit of a coup by landing the official license for the 2016 European Championships. This means the tournament will be inextricably tied in with PES 2016, represented in all its glory in the game – and waved as a carrot in the face of all those disappointed by the series’ lack of official licenses in the past.That’s still the case in a large part, mind, with only two Premier League teams officially represented, and not every league in the world included. But it’s a step in the right direction – and I’ve heard from a source close to the matter that PES 2016 will be more customisable and editable than in recent years, so the many committed fan communities out there will be able to edit everything and introduce (un)official teams, kits, stadia and so on.It’s become such a cliche to say “PES is back” each and every year that even pointing out it’s a cliche hasitselfbecome a cliche. But there’s no other way I can think of saying it: after some time with PES 2016, successful dribbles under my belt, stinging shots palmed away and brute forcing my way through a defence with Mr Lewandowski, I’m left with the very strong feeling that ... well, PES is back.
Has Uber exorcised its phantom cars from the street?A week after the company denied claims that the cars displayed on its app were a misleading “visual effect”, the researcher who brought the initial accusation now says the phantoms have vanished.Where previously, the Uber app had shown Alex Rosenblat a number of cars in one location even as it reported a 17-minute wait for a pick-up, it now accurately shows no nearby cars for an 11-minute wait.The Guardian has heard from other Uber users who report a similar decline in the number of cars displayed on their apps. But Uber, which has always denied that it deliberately displays phantom cars, says it has not made any changes to its system.An Uber spokesman told the Guardian: “The cars you see in the app are the cars on the road. The 17-minute wait screenshot was a rare occurrence that could have been caused by latency or a bug, but is not a representative example.”Rosenblat, a researcher for New York-based thinktankData &amp; Society, first reported the existence of the cars in July.Writing in Vice, she cited the testimony of multiple Uber passengers and drivers who had all reported seeing cars displayed on the app’s pick-up screen which didn’t seem to exist in the real world.One passenger even said that an Uber customer service representative had told her by email that the app’s display was “more of a visual effect letting people know that partners are searching for fares”.In the email, the Uber staffer continued: “It would be better of you to think of this as a screen saver on a computer.”But Uber officially denied that the phantom cars were deliberate, telling the Guardian that “our goal is for the number of cars and their location to be as accurate as possible in real time”.It said: “Latency is one reason this is not always possible. Another reason is that the app only shows the nearest eight cars to avoid cluttering the screen.”
Struggling Taiwanese smartphone manufacturer HTC is cutting staff and shrinking the number of smartphones it makes, as its profits nosedive.HTC, once a key player in Android and Windows Phone smartphones, has stumbled in recent years as competition from the dominant player Samsung and smaller, cheaper rivals has cut its market share.The company announced on Thursday that it had suffered its biggest ever quarterly loss of Tw$8bn (£163m, $253m) in the three months to June, down from a net profit of Tw$2.26bn for the same period last year and a TW$360m net profit in the first quarter of the year.The deficit was triggered by “weaker than expected demand at the high end ... along with weak sales in China”, the company said in a statement, which said third quarter revenues were forecast to fall to between TW$19bn and TW$22bn.Chinese homegrown brands such as Xiaomi, Lenovo and many smaller players have undercut HTC with similar devices, while Apple and Samsung have squeezed the top end.“Like Nokia and Blackberry, few smartphone makers are able to turn around once they lose in the battle for marketshare. Consumers quickly forget you,” said Jeff Pu, analyst at Yuanta Securities Investment Consulting.Pu said he did not see an end to the company’s downward trend. Unlike BlackBerry or even Microsoft’s Nokia, HTC does not have other businesses or services to fall back on.As global market demand declines, the company has pinned its hopes on new product areas like virtual reality, includingforthcoming headset HTC Vive.HTC said: “The company is working with over 1,000 developers on content creation over a wide spectrum of applications including gaming, entertainment and education, to ensure a compelling ecosystem ahead of the highly anticipated launch of HTC Vive at the end of the year.”But even in the virtual-reality space HTC faces stiff competition from Samsung, Facebook and Google.•HTC Vive: developers react to Valve’s virtual reality headset
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest new iPhone and iPad apps and games. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if Android is your platform of choice, check theBest Android Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection.APPSRuby by Glow (Free)Glow started life as a startup (and app) for women wanting to track their periods and fertility, before spawning Glow Nurture for pregnancy-tracking. Now there’s Ruby, which focuses more on sexual health – so not just for women who are trying to conceive, in other words. Its release comes ahead of Apple finally adding these kinds of features to its own Health app.iPhoneRelated:The best iPhone apps of 2014A Game of Thrones: Get into the Books (Free)The Game of Thrones TV show is finally overtaking the books, leading to a smugness-reversal in terms of people’s ability to deliver plot spoilers. This, from HarperCollins, isn’t smug though: it’s an app aimed at TV fans who want to explore the books now, with extracts and introductions, plus “anti-spoiler” settings to avoid any nasty surprises.iPhone / iPadMyHeart Counts (Free)This isn’t new, but it’s new to the UK, marking the expansion of Apple’s ResearchKit initiative for people to share their medical data with academic researchers. As the name makes clear, this is all about your heart: an app to track your physical activity and test your fitness levels – then share that with Stanford University researchers.iPhoneNational Theatre Backstage (Free + IAP)If you’re a theatregoer in the UK, you’ll want to check out this official app from the National Theatre, offering digital programmes for its plays, but also updates on current productions, including rehearsal shots and videos and interviews with the likes of Benedict Cumberbatch and Danny Boyle.iPadAxel Scheffler’s Flip Flap Jungle (£0.79)This is the third time children’s publisher Nosy Crow has explored the idea of a digital flip-book: here using the marvellous illustrations of Axel Scheffler for an array of weird and wonderful animal hybrids, with poems accompanying them. Kids will love it – and parents will appreciate the way it encourages them to read, not just flip.iPhone / iPadNumerous (Free)Numerous is a good idea, promising a fast way to check “the most important numbers on your life” in one place. Which can be personal stuff from Fitbit activity and Twitter followers to stock prices, through to work stats drawn from services like Salesforce and Google Analytics.iPhone / iPadYahoo Livetext – Video Messenger (Free)Apparently Livetext is “the most natural way to have REAL conversations”, which suggests someone in Yahoo’s marketing department needs to get out and speak to people in the REAL world a bit more. But this is interesting: a neatly-designed video messaging app with text-chat built in.iPhoneRelated:The best iPad apps of 2014FLIO - The global airport app (Free)If you spend a lot of time kicking your heels in airports wondering whether you can get online, FLIO could be a useful tool. Initially focused on European airports, it helps you find free Wi-Fi, offers discount on food and shopping, and will point you to everything from power sockets to children’s amusements in each airport.iPhoneBestie by Camera360 (Free)Few slogans are as 2015 as “Best Selfie Every Time!”. If the quality of your selfies is worrying you, Bestie is worth a look: it may sound silly but there are serious features from respected photography app Camera360 here to touch up your self-shots. And filters, obviously. Always filters.iPhoneGousto (Free)This may be today’s peak Guardian moment, but Gousto is a good idea: an app that shows you new recipes every week, then lets you order the ingredients and have them delivered (within the UK) so you can make them. Expect 10 recipes a week, with the option to rate dishes if you are (or aren’t) impressed.iPhonePrune for iOS.GAMESPrune (£2.99)No clashing clans or matching candies here: just a beautiful, relaxing game that sees you growing your own plant with careful swipes on the touchscreen, while blissing out to the background music. The antidote to any mobile game that’s ever stressed you out with frustrating difficulty-ramps or needy notifications.iPhone / iPadSpider: Rite of the Shrouded Moon (£3.99)Back in the day, Spider: The Secret of Bryce Manor was a critically-acclaimed iOS hit. Now its sequel is here, and it’s just as worthy of praise. You play a spider, again, trapping insects in an abandoned mansion, solving puzzles and getting to the bottom of the secret society that built your abode. Beautifully-done, and hopefully a big hit.iPhone / iPadFive Nights at Freddys 4 (£2.29)The Five Nights at Freddy’s games have been making scaredy-cat gamers jump for a while now. This latest game is creepier than ever, moving the demonic-animatronic-animals action to the home of the child hero, with you having to fend them off overnight. Excellent, as ever.iPhone / iPadAngry Birds 2 (Free + IAP)As our full review explained, some of Angry Birds 2’s freemium features will grate on players who enjoyed the original games, but are unlikely to put off the Candy Crush crowd. The bird-slinging pig-exploding action looks better than ever, with some neat gameplay touches. Hopefully some of the wait-timer aspects will be tweaked in the coming weeks.iPhone / iPadRoald Dahl’s Twit or Miss (Free)For everyone who grew up with Roald Dahl stories (which is essentially everyone, certainly here in the UK) this will bring back fond memories of two of his foulest creations. The game sees you flinging food morsels back at Mr Twit to ensure Mrs Twit doesn’t wake up, with some well-tuned scoring making it a fun challenge for parents as well as kids.iPhone / iPadRelated:The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014Paradise Bay (Free + IAP)Paradise Bay is the latest game from Candy Crush publisher King, and it marks the company’s move beyond puzzle games to… well, basically to a FarmVille-esque resource management game, albeit set on an island rather than a farm. Grow crops, manage animals and cultivate your mini-world. The production values are very good, and while some gamers will balk at the freemium features, many more won’t mind at all.iPhone / iPadAdventure Time Puzzle Quest (Free + IAP)Once upon a time – pre-freemium boom – Puzzle Quest was the only blend of match-three puzzling and RPGs that you needed. Is it still a hit in 2015 though? This is pretty fun, blending Puzzle Quest with the (ace) kids’ show Adventure Time. The odd bug aside, it’ll please fans of either brand.iPhone / iPadOperation Dracula (£4.49)This will bring pangs of nostalgia for anyone who grew up in the Amiga era of computer games: an old-school shoot ‘em up with bold, 16-bit graphics and bullets by the dozen. But this doesn’t require rose-tinted specs to enjoy: in 2015, it feels fresh and challenging. Plus, who could fault a game that makes “wailing Japanese guitar solos” one of its App Store selling points?iPhone / iPadCosmonautica (£4.99)This space-strategy game has been billed as a blend of Elite and The Sims, which sets it apart from clones in both those genres. There’s a zip and sense of humour here too, as you wander the galaxy trading and managing your crew.iPhone / iPadFarming Simulator 16 (£3.99 + IAP)Finally: farming. The Farming Simulator series has built a fervent base of fans, and while it’s a more serious take on the area than the likes of FarmVille and Hay Day, the rhythms of managing your crops and livestock work perfectly for mobile play with a bit more meat to it.iPhone / iPadThose are my choices, but what have you been impressed by oniOSin the last couple of weeks? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All these apps have been released for the first time – ie not updates – since the last roundup. All prices are correct at the time of writing, with “IAP” indicating use of in-app purchases.You can read the previousBest Android Appsroundups for more recommendations, but if iOS is your platform of choice, check theBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundups. On with this week’s selection!APPSNumerous (Free)Numerous is a good idea, promising a fast way to check “the most important numbers on your life” in one place. Which can be personal stuff from Fitbit activity and Twitter followers to stock prices, through to work stats drawn from services like Salesforce and Google Analytics.Yahoo Livetext - Video Chat (Free)Apparently Livetext is “the most natural way to have REAL conversations”, which suggests someone in Yahoo’s marketing department needs to get out and speak to people in the REAL world a bit more. But this is interesting: a neatly-designed video messaging app with text-chat built in.Related:The best Android apps of 20145K Runner: Couch to 5K (Free)Having gone from 5k to couch over the past year and a half, any app that can reverse my slide back to blogger-physique is welcome. This has been popular on iOS, and is now available on Android: a running-trainer with an exercise programme promising to have you scampering 5km at a time within a couple of months.Bestie by Camera360 (Free)Few slogans are as 2015 as “Best Selfie Every Time!”. If the quality of your selfies is worrying you, Bestie is worth a look: it may sound silly but there are serious features from respected photography app Camera360 here to touch up your self-shots. And filters, obviously. Always filters.Sainsbury’s Magazines (Free)To me, Sainsbury’s Magazines is the aisle I have to steer my six year-old son away from to avoid ‘no you can’t have another thing with a plastic toy on the front’ tantrums. Here, though, it’s the supermarket chain’s app for reading a range of popular (grown-ups’) magazines digitally, with a decent range to choose form.The Best Song (Free)The best song of 2015, as any fule kno, is Hot Chip’s Huarache Lights. But on the tiny chance that you disagree, this music-discovery app will help you find alternatives. A Tinder-style interface sees you swiping through hand-picked tunes to find new ones you like.Push ups 0-100 Pushup Trainer (Free)This comes from the same developer as 5k Runner, and as the title makes clear, is all about push-ups. Again, there’s a goal and timescale: 100 push-ups at a time within 10 weeks, as long as you follow this three-times-a-week programme.Kaboom (Free)Snapchat may have popularised the idea of self-destructing social media posts, but other developers are exploring how it can work elsewhere. Kaboom, for example, lets you post to Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp, but specify a time for them to be deleted.V – Live Broadcasting App (Free)Periscope for Korean and Japanese pop stars, in a nutshell. As such, it’ll only appeal to K-Pop and J-Pop fans for now, although given that it’s made by the parent company of messaging app Line, which has huge followings for the likes of Taylor Swift and Katy Perry, perhaps some Western stars will give it a go too. Anyway, expect live broadcasts and lots of interaction with stars including Bigbang, Jun Hyo Seong and Wonder Girls.Disneyland (Free)Finally, an official app for Disneyland, which should come in handy if you’re planning a visit. You can buy tickets, peer at maps of the attractions, and see how long you’ll have to queue up for them – all the better for gauging whether your restless children will put up with the delay.Five Nights at Freddy’s 4 for Android.GAMESFive Nights at Freddy’s 4 (£2.32)The Five Nights at Freddy’s games have been making scaredy-cat gamers jump for a while now. This latest game is creepier than ever, moving the demonic-animatronic-animals action to the home of the child hero, with you having to fend them off overnight. Excellent, as ever.Angry Birds 2 (Free + IAP)As our full review explained, some of Angry Birds 2’s freemium features will grate on players who enjoyed the original games, but are unlikely to put off the Candy Crush crowd. The bird-slinging pig-exploding action looks better than ever, with some neat gameplay touches. Hopefully some of the wait-timer aspects will be tweaked in the coming weeks.Related:The best Android games of 2014Earthcore: Shattered Elements (Free + IAP)The card-battling genre can be intimidating for newcomers, and this is definitely one of the richer (but thus more complex) examples. Even so, it’s well worth a look as an alternative to something like Hearthstone, as you get to grips with elements and skills, as well as crafting your own cards.Piloteer (£2.33)A “physics-based game about learning to fly”? Don’t worry, this is no Flappy Bird clone. Instead, this is a characterful actoin game that sees you flying a jetpack around and trying not to crash it (note: you will crash it though, but the ragdoll physics make that quite fun too).Roald Dahl’s Twit or Miss (Free)For everyone who grew up with Roald Dahl stories (which is essentially everyone, certainly here in the UK) this will bring back fond memories of two of his foulest creations. The game sees you flinging food morsels back at Mr Twit to ensure Mrs Twit doesn’t wake up, with some well-tuned scoring making it a fun challenge for parents as well as kids.Super QuickHook (£1.91 + IAP)Would it make the wrong impression to call this an endless swinger? Super QuickHook sees you running and swinging your way through a colourful world, using a grappling hook for the latter. The levels are varied, and there are plenty of secrets to explore: it’s not as one-dimensional as some in its genre.A Day in the Woods (£3.80)Little Red Riding Hood is the inspiration for this quirky puzzle game, which is beautifully realised. You have to slide tiles around a board to help Red collect flowers and berries, while avoiding things that want to eat her. It looks great, and plays just as well.Adventure Time Puzzle Quest (Free + IAP)Once upon a time – pre-freemium boom – Puzzle Quest was the only blend of match-three puzzling and RPGs that you needed. Is it still a hit in 2015 though? This is pretty fun, blending Puzzle Quest with the (ace) kids’ show Adventure Time. The odd bug aside, it’ll please fans of either brand.Cosmonautica (£4.99)This space-strategy game has been billed as a blend of Elite and The Sims, which sets it apart from clones in both those genres. There’s a zip and sense of humour here too, as you wander the galaxy trading and managing your crew.Farming Simulator 16 (£3.99 + IAP)Finally: farming. The Farming Simulator series has built a fervent base of fans, and while it’s a more serious take on the area than the likes of FarmVille and Hay Day, the rhythms of managing your crops and livestock work perfectly for mobile play with a bit more meat to it.That’s my choice, but what Android apps and games have you been enjoying this week? The comments section is open for your recommendations.
It’s Friday!
Motorola’s budget Moto G has grown up, but does a better camera, waterproofing and new features justify a more costly price tag?Theoriginal Moto Gredefined what a budget smartphone should be, when it launched in 2013. It was the first Android phone under £150 that wasn’t slow and infuriating to use, and it didn’t skimp where it matters.Fast forward two years and thethird generation Moto Gprovides much of what the original did right. But as smartphone technology has improved so has budget hardware. Where the Moto G stood alone as a beacon of good in a sea of rubbish, there are many more worth buying today.So Motorola has pushed improved features, build quality and battery life, but in doing so it pushed the price to the very edge of the budget market.Updated designThe Moto G inherits Motorola’s new curved design from its high-end Moto X smartphones with a removable back.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto G’s design has been refined and takes afterMotorola’s Moto XandNexus 6 phones. The glass screen is surrounded by metal-like plastic. The back now has a removable ribbed, curved plastic back and a silver metal bar that holds the camera.It’s a simple design that’s easy to hold and won’t slip out of the hand. The build quality is also noticeably improved over last year’s model.Waterproofing to IP67 standards means drops into 1m deep water for 30 minutes aren’t an issue, while a removable back hides a microSD card slot for more storage, but not a removable battery.The curved back and sides are ergonomic, but at 11.6mm thick the phone is quite chunky by today’s sub-10mm standards. It isn’t noticeable in the hand, however.The Moto G’s 5in screen has a resolution of 720p HD with a pixel density of 294 pixels per inch. It is noticeably crisper than thelower resolution Moto E, but not as sharp as more expensive smartphones with 1080p or higher resolution screens, such as theOnePlus One,Samsung Galaxy S6orLG G4.SpecificationsScreen:5in 720p HD display (294ppi)Processor:1.4 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 410RAM:1GB of RAM (2GB on 16GB storage variant)Storage:8/16GB + microSD card slot (up to 32GB)Operating system:Android 5.1.1 “Lollipop”Camera:13-megapixel rear and 5-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:4G, wifi, Bluetooth 4.0, FM radio and GPSDimensions:142.1 x 72.4 x 11.6 mmWeight:155gDay-plus batteryThe removable back hides the micro SIM and microSD card slot.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe third generation Moto G has an upgraded 1.4GHz quad-core Snapdragon 410 and a choice of 1GB or 2GB of RAM depending on the storage variant.The version with 16GB of storage and 2GB of RAM, as tested, feels slightly snappier than the previous generation Moto G, and is easily on par with all but the very fastest of smartphones.The multitasking menu, which brings up a stack of cards showing previously used applications, is particularly snappy – something even smartphones costing £500 or more struggle with.The Moto G consistently lasted one full day of use up at 7am with around 25% of battery left by 10pm in my testing, with constant push email, lots of notifications, 60 minutes of music playback over Bluetooth, 1.5 hours of browsing and a bit of light gaming.Lighter usage should see the Moto G easily through two days between charges.Google’s AndroidThe Moto G runs standard Android 5.1.1 Lollipop, with only a few of Motorola’s apps marking the only additions.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto G comes pre-loaded with Google’s latest version ofAndroid 5.1.1 Lollipop, which is a refined, easy to use and attractive mobile operating system.Motorola also provides a few of its apps, which can either be used or replaced with others from Google or third-party developers. Of note is Moto actions which allow users to set up automated tasks such as silencing their phone when they get home or while in meetings, or motion controlled gestures such as a karate chop, which turns on the flash for a torch. All work well.Motorola’s Migrate utility also helps switch from an iPhone, transferring contacts and calendar entries as well as almost everything from another Android phone.CameraThe Motorola camera app simplifies photo taking, with a slide out settings wheel and tap-anywhere-to-shoot.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto G’s camera is much improvedover last year’s model. The 13-megapixel camera is thesame as used in the Nexus 6and produces decent images with good detail, colour and good low-light performance. It is considerably better than most of the competition.The five-megapixel selfie camera is solid, producing decent photos for viewing on the phone. The photos lack detail at full resolution, however.The simple Motorola camera app can be rapidly activated by a twisting gesture even when the phone is locked. Unlike most other camera applications, by default tapping the screen takes a photo rather than focusing. Holding down the screen activates burst fire, while sliding out from the left displays options and from the right the gallery.It’s simple and works well most of the time, although occasionally it would miss what I was trying to focus on. Manual focus and exposure controls are available, but better third-party camera apps exist such as Google’s Camera app.PriceThe third generation Moto G costs £159 for 8GB and £209 for the 16GB version with 2GB of RAM.The Moto G can also be customised using Motorola’s Moto Maker, to change the phone’s back, front and side colours starting at £179.VerdictThe Moto G inherits a 13-megapixel camera from the 6in Nexus 6.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe third generation Moto G is the best yet. The build quality is excellent, the screen decent, the phone’s performance snappy, and the camera is solid.It feels great in the hand and the ribbed back makes it easy to grip. The battery life is also solid and waterproofing means it’ll survive a trip down the toilet. Not many Android phones come with screens as small as 5in, meaning the Moto G is arguably one of the best.The biggest problem is the price. The 16GB version with the 2GB of RAM is recommended, but at £209 it is no longer very cheap, verging into the price range of the likes ofthe OnePlus One. Hopefully, like previous versions, it will drop in cost from third-party retailers soon.As it stands the Moto G is arguably still the best budget smartphone available, even if it’s not quite as cheap as it used to be.Pros:solid build, decent camera, good battery life, waterproof, decent screen, microSD card slotCons:not as cheap as it used to be, 8GB model only has 1GB of RAM, plastic edging easily damagedMoto Actions provides two quick gestures for launching the camera or lighting the flash as a torch, both of which work well.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviews•Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphone•Which is the best 2014 smartphone for less than £150?•Top 5 phablets: Which is the best for big-screen smartphone lovers?•Huawei P8 review: thin, powerful and undercuts the competition
Does nagging work? My mother would say so, and indeed her reminders to wear a helmet when cycling probably saved me a cracked skull a few years back. But what if the pokes and prods to do better and be better are coming not from someone who truly cares for your well being, but from a gadget programmed in Silicon Valley?That’s the promise – and threat – of the internet of things, from wearable devices such as fitness bands to smart home gadgetry including connected scales and fridges. Here’s the idea: that fitness band will count your steps and inspire you to walk more. Or, in the future, your scales will tell your fridge you’re above your goal weight, and suggest a salad for dinner rather than pizza – even if the latter is exactly the mood-boosting treat you need after a stressful day.It’s the “nudge” effect, a behavioural psychology idea that has some grounding in reality but also has its critics. (The government’s own Nudge Unit has claimed successes with a wide range of areas from tax collection to organ donations, though aHouse of Lords committee has raised doubts.)One critic is professor Evan Selinger, of the department of philosophy at Rochester Institute of Technology, who noted that “even when it comes to cases where health tools can do some good, serious questions need to be asked about literacy” when it comes to IoT nudges. “Specifically, how informed are consumers about how [these] products work and the meaning of the outputs they yield?”While my own anecdotal data suggests an app’s going to have to do more than send me a daily notification to counter my laziness, there’s evidence that shows data-driven gadgets work for some people. A 2013Indiana University studyfound pedometers did encourage office workers to go for a walk, helping them shed an average of 2.5 pounds. But while fitness bands may get you out of your chair, they may not be accurate: astudy by Iowa State Universityfound they were between 10% and 15% incorrect on calorie counts and daily activity measures.Accuracy aside, why are we striving to hit these goals, anyway? Take the 10,000 step target: it’s anarbitrary figure created by a Japanese firm to sell its pedometer. There’s no real reason that specific number should be your target, rather than getting 150 minutes of exercise a week, asadvised by the NHS.We’ve long been marketed vibration plates and ab rollers and other fitness foolishness to help us slim down with less effort, and most are likely gathering dust, like the step machine I use as a footstool.In the end, fitness bands and other connected gadgets may well not prove any different. “On the hype side of the equation, the consumer market has long been flooded with fitness products that folks expect way too much from: new gear, exercise videos, the latest supplement craze etc,” said Selinger. “Digital products are easy sources to project similar hopes and dreams – perhaps even easier, given the powerful hold of things associated with ‘innovation’.”Even if they do work, for those with more discipline than me – is personal surveillance the best way to reach our goals, be they set by us, the NHS, or a Japanese tech firm?For example, many fitness bands will report how well you slept – not only how long, but how deeply, based on how much you moved at night – a measurement which isn’t necessarily a symptom of sleep quality. A better judge that you’ve slept poorly is your own body. Feel tired? You didn’t sleep well.Selinger suggested we’re simply looking for confirmation of our own experiences, rather than trusting our own bodily awareness. “In some instances, it would seem that a fetish for numbers is leading people to have insufficient [faith in] their own abilities to perceive and judge,” he said.Of course, fitness isn’t the only self-optimisation that technology is willing to help us with. ANetatmo Welcome camera currently lives on a shelfin my flat. Its facial recognition lets me know who’s come home, without having to speak to them. Are such automated notifications any better than sending a message to your partner to say “honey, I’m home”?“The crucial thing, here, is that beneath the veneer of convenience lies a desire to remove effort from social interaction,” said Selinger. “That’s a problematic goal precisely because, as I’ve argued, effort isn’t an interpersonal bug.”We also need to address privacy. Data is always a Pandora’s box: once it’s out there, it’s out.“While any particular app or gadget may be worth using, it’s worth thinking about the type of society we’re building if citizens are encouraged to put themselves under constant surveillance and respond to an ever-expanding array of tech-produced cues for what to do to meet goals and avoid doing putatively self-destructive things,” Selinger said.“Once that can of worms is opened, issues of governance become salient that go beyond self-management and touch upon fears that activities which begin as opt-in choices become imposed upon us by employers and insurance companies.”We need to carefully consider nudge tech, and we can’t until we as consumers understand how such gadgets work and why they’ve set the goals for us that they have. The downsides could well outweigh the benefits – even if they do help you weigh less.
With series creator Hideki Miyazaki back at the helm for Dark Souls 3 expectations for the latest in the notoriously difficult action-RPG series are probably higher than they’ve ever been.While Dark Souls 2 was respected – loved, even – as a very good game, it always felt as though it was lacking something. There were elements that didn’t suit the mood, the notion always hovering about that this was a series that needed its original creator in the role of director, but Miyazaki was busy making Bloodborne.Sitting down with Dark Souls 3 at Gamescom – even surrounded by the hustle, bustle and general loudness of Europe’s biggest gaming convention – shows one thing for certain: the Miyazaki touch is a magical one.The detail that struck me immediately (and stuck with me throughout) was just how much smoother and quicker Dark Souls 3 is when compared to its predecessors. That’s not to say it’s now a twitch-based, reactions-heavy brawler; merely that the entire thing runs without any discernable chugging or slowdown as you make your way through the vast, gothic landscape.What this means for the game itself is genuinely important: there’s even less excuses to be thrown about when you die – again, inevitably. The Dark and Demon’s Souls games - even Bloodborne, to an extent - suffered with some technical hiccups that could, sometimes, spoil the fun.With the improved fluidity also comes the ability to work on your skills of taking on the armies of (possibly) undead creatures. When you’re unable to blame the game for failures, it means you really do have to hunker down and challenge yourself to improve. It’s always been true that the Souls games usually leave the blame for failure at your feet, but this time it feels even more apparent.Little of this will matter a huge amount to the army of existing Souls experts out there; they’ll likely just be hankering for another helping of one of the most highly-respected series in recent memory. So it’s good news, then, that the central formula to Dark Souls 3 remains the same as ever.Choosing your character – the Gamescom demo being limited to just two, but more will be available at release (along with customisation options, naturally) – you step out into an unforgiving world, light a bonfire, tentatively make your way down an ancient stone staircase, don’t notice the reanimated corpse sneaking up behind you and then … well, die.This familiar rite of passage might make it sound like everything is the same once again, but it’s not. One big new addition to Dark Souls 3 is Arts, a triggered ability that allows you to carry out different attacks with your weapons, without having to change them. The “trick” weapons from Bloodborne are a clear inspiration, though naturally the Arts are in a form more suited to the Souls setting.Limited to 20 uses, Arts can only be recharged at bonfires – just like life-restoring Estus Flasks, it adds an element of strategy and conservation to an otherwise straightforward element of the game, and manages to bridge the gap between feeling both new and familiar at the same time.Familiar systems, like life-saving dodge-rolls and parry/riposte, of course make a return. And, again, the improved speed of Dark Souls 3 has an impact: you need to be ready and able to use these skills at the drop of a hat. At an even quicker drop of a hat than before, actually. Before you know it a knife-wielding beast will have chased you down and attacked, and without swift, decisive reactions you’re going to die. Again.That’s where the feel of Bloodborne wafting about the place comes up again. While by no means the quick, aggressive play-style of Miyazaki’s other game, Dark Souls 3 has definitely taken a few pointers from its stablemate. It lands solidly in the middle of Dark Souls 2 and Bloodborne, offering a quicker, more fluid game than the former but a far more defensive and considered one than the latter.If Miyazaki and his team can truly pull off what they hope to – a game that brings together the best features of both the original Dark Souls and its sequel – then this could well be one for the ages.But half an hour with a game that committed players put literally hundreds of hours into is simply not enough to get a good grasp of how Dark Souls 3 will turn out. It is, however, enough to see that there are a lot of neat tricks, tweaks and touches coming to such a beloved series.There’s still another year or so before Dark Souls 3 hits, and I’d fully expect there’ll be a lot more revealed about it in that time. But even now, with such a vague grasp of what’s truly going on in the third game, I’m already hooked.
Google and Samsung will release new security updates for Android phones every month, in an attempt to prevent the platform from falling behind in the fight against malware.The two companies’ announcements come in the wake of an embarrassing bug in Android’s media handling framework, called Stagefright, which had been dubbed “Heartbleed for mobile” after the desktop virus of that name. Despite being warned about Stagefright in April, the vast majority of Android phoneswere weak to the vulnerabilitywhen security researcher Joshua Drake went public with it 90 days later.Alongside the new frequent security updates, Google has finally released a patch for Stagefright for its own Nexus line of phones, which it sells directly to customers. The company argues that the majority of users weren’t at risk, however, with application sandboxing limiting the amount of damage an attacker could do.Adrian Ludwig, lead engineer for Android Security, said: “From this week on, Nexus devices will receive regular OTA updates each month focused on security, in addition to the usual platform updates … Nexus devices will continue to receive major updates for at least two years and security patches for the longer of three years from initial availability or 18 months from last sale of the device, via the Google Store.”Samsung partially matched Google’s offering, confirming that users of the company’s mobile phones would receive their own security updates once a month. Dong Jin Koh, Samsung’s head of mobile research, said: “With the recent security issues, we have been rethinking the approach to getting security updates to our devices in a more timely manner. Since software is constantly exploited in new ways, developing a fast response process to deliver security patches to our devices is critical to keep them protected.“We believe that this new process will vastly improve the security of our devices, and will aim to provide the best mobile experience possible for our users.” Samsung has not, however, matched Google’s promise to patch devices for at least three years from release.The Android platform has been regularly criticised for the time it takes for it to get critical security updates to users. Google, which runs the Android Open Source Project, the coding initiative at the heart of the operating system, does not have direct relationships with the vast majority of Android users. Instead, it fixes the open-source part of Android, before passing the fixes on to device manufacturers such as Samsung.Frequently, those manufacturers themselves then have to check with the mobile phone carriers before they are able to push out updates to the devices. Given the low profit margins on many Android phones, support dries up quickly.In July, security reporter Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai wrote that these problems had led him to ditch the platform entirely for Apple’s iPhone.He wrote: “This is the fundamental difference between Android and iPhone. When there’s a bug on iOS, Apple patches it and can push an update to all iPhone users as soon as it’s ready, no questions asked.“When the same thing happens with Android, Google patches and then … God knows when the AT&amp;Ts, Verizons, HTCs, and Sonys of the world will decide it’s important enough that they should care and send you the update with the patch (though, to their credit, they’re starting to care, mostly because having an updated OS is now seen as a competitive advantage). Hell, even Google-owned Nexus phones, which the company has full control over, haven’t been patched for Stagefright yet.”Following Google’s announcement, the most popular Android are, or will be, fixed this month. The company confirmed fixes for the HTC One M7, One M8, One M9, LG Electronics G2, G3, G4 and Sony Xperia Z2, Xperia Z3, Xperia Z4, and Xperia Z3 Compact.
Ustwo had a big hit with mobile game Monument Valley, but now the company is moving into a new apps area: mental health and wellbeing.The UK-based studio is releasing an app calledMoodnotesfor people to track their moods and develop “healthier thinking habits”, as part of a joint venture with US developerThriveport.The £2.99 app, released initially for iPhone, is based on cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) principles, with its developers hoping it will appeal beyond people diagnosed with depression and similar conditions.Related:From MouthOff to Monument Valley: ustwo's path to apps fame“One of our primary goals is to go beyond the clinical sphere, and not just limit this to people who’ve been diagnosed with a mental health problem or difficulty. We know that the wisdom of the field has relevance to every-day life,” Thriveport co-founder Dr. Edrick Dorian told the Guardian ahead of the app’s launch.“By combining the expert psychological content with the premium design and engaging, enjoyable interface that Ustwo brings, we are hoping to change the face not just of CBT, but also the relevance of psychology – and even clinical psychology – for every-day life.”Moodnotes works by getting people to regularly log their moods by swiping an on-screen face – on their iPhone or, if they have one, their Apple Watch – between seven stages of happiness, and optionally adding notes about how and why they are feeling that way.The app will then try to identify patterns in their moods, prompt them with questions to help them understand those feelings, and suggest CBT tactics for identifying and avoiding “thinking traps” that may lead them into a slump.“We wanted it to be simple but not patronising, intelligent but not academic, and personal but not over-familiar,” said Alana Wood, studio design lead at Ustwo.“We also realised that it was key that we have some science behind this, and really meaningful content. A lot of brain training apps have come out with no credibility and no experts involved in the design process.”Moodnotes is the second example of Ustwo blending its design experience with external expertise in a joint venture, followingmusic ticketing app Dice, which launched in 2014.Moodnotes also has a companion smartwatch app.Photograph: PRDorian and his Thriveport co-founder Dr. Drew Erhardt are both clinical psychologists – Erhardt is also professor of psychology at Pepperdine University – and drew on that experience for a previous app calledMoodKit, which was first released in 2011.“It’s common to have people in therapy track their moods and behaviour, but in traditional psychotherapy getting people to adhere to that using paper journals has been understandably challenging,” said Erhardt.“The idea that you can incorporate these tools and methods into the one device that we typically have with us almost 100% of the time is very exciting, including the ability to have the device remind you to do a quick mood-rating, which really improves people’s ability to stick to that kind of self-monitoring.”Related:Why CBT is falling out of favourMoodnotes users will be able to export their data as CSV or PDF files to share with their doctor or therapist, but both Ustwo and Thriveport are stressing that all this data will otherwise remain on the device, for privacy purposes.“Edrick and Drew were both adamant about how important it was that we keep the integrity of the data, and keep it private. We are very respectful of the fact that this is a very personal application, and not like your typical [physical] fitness tracking quantified-self app,” said Wood.“Nothing is stored in the cloud, it is completely stored on your device. We would only add features to integrate it into the cloud if that was what customers wanted.”Wood added that Moodnotes is not part of “the happiness industry” – a burgeoning sector of the apps market – in terms of any promise to make its users happier over time.“There are a lot of happiness apps out there, and we have specifically steered away from that. It’s important to recognise that positive and negative emotions are part of our lives: we didn’t want people to think that the goal is to be happy all the time,” she said.“That would be quite unnatural! It’s important that we recognise and celebrate that you have negative emotions as well as positive ones, even if we are providing some help in breaking the cycle that you might be in if you’re mulling over something too much, or thinking negatively.”Moodnotes is a joint venture between Ustwo and Thriveport.Moodnotes is a business in terms of the app being sold for £2.99 upfront, but both Ustwo and Thriveport have other motivations for the joint venture.As a company, Ustwo wants to work more in the healthcare sector, and Moodnotes will be a showcase for the studio that could bring in more projects for its division that focused on work for clients.(In fairness, Ustwo’s business director Nicki Sprinz stressed the project’s more personal roots: a group of employees started work on what became Moodnotes as one of their “downtime” projects. “We talk a lot about emotional health at Ustwo: we’re quite a touchy-feely studio!” added Wood.)Dorian and Erhardt, meanwhile, hope that by spreading CBT principles to a wider audience, far from persuading people to ditch traditional therapy in favour of an app, it may encourage more people to seek out professionals.“The fear that these mobile devices are aiming to, or have the potential to replace therapy sometimes leads certain mental health professionals to be loath to adopt them, or be prejudiced against them,” said Erhardt.“We are making a clear disclaimer in the app that this is not a replacement for therapy. It would be foolhardy to expect an app to provide the depth and nuance that are part of therapy.”Erhardt suggested that only 20%-30% of the people who could benefit from psychotherapy actually receive it, and hopes that apps like Moodnotes can appeal to a proportion of the 70%-80% who do not.“If we can expose this content to people who wouldn’t normally encounter it because they aren’t having contact with mental-health professionals or even resources, we think there is potential to draw even more interest in obtaining those professional resources,” added Dorian.Related:Sky teams up with Monument Valley game-maker for kids TV app“By interacting with and enjoying that content, and understanding the value of CBT or psychology, people may wonder ‘What else can I learn? What else can this field offer me? And theoretically that could draw more interest in obtaining professional services.”One devil’s advocate question: smartphones can have a negative impact on your mental wellbeing – think notifications raining in throughout the day, or being so addicted that you end up cycling between your inbox and social networks on the toilet or in bed – so by encouraging people to log moods in an app, is Moodnotes possibly part of the problem?“It’s definitely something we considered, but while other apps are competing for your attention, this is quite different: it’s really about growing your emotional intelligence and self-awareness, and giving time back to people,” said Wood.“We did a lot of thinking about how we wanted notifications to behave, for example, to avoid adding to that stress. People can customise how often they want notifications, based on when they’d like to be reminded to log.”“The short answer is that these [smartphones] are tools, and much like any tool in life, they need to be used responsibly. Do we feel like we’re contributing to the problem by developing apps? Absolutely not,” said Dorian.“If anything, if mobile devices are to be used, it’s nice that they can be used in ways that are empowering and contribute towards people’s health.”
The success of the podcast Serial is part of a wider “radio renaissance” that goes well beyond traditional broadcasters, according to streaming service Mixcloud.The company has just announced the winners of its secondOnline Radio Awards, which aim to spotlight the best internet shows, with NPR Radio’s whodunnit documentary winning the best online talk radio show category.“We’re in a bit of a radio renaissance. Apple’s Beats 1 is the big news story this year, but we’ve also seen the incredible growth of podcasts in the last couple of years,” chief executive Nikhil Shah told the Guardian. “Serial is going to be just the first of many viral, audio-only drama shows.”“There’s been this one flagship show with Serial, and that’s created such a big conversation around the area, and inspired a lot of people who had previously discounted podcasts as a thing of the past,” added co-founder Nico Perez.“This format makes a lot of sense, especially for the huge number of people who commute to work every day. And a host of new apps are making it easy for them to get the latest episodes of their favourite shows.”Mixcloud is one of those apps. The British startup launched in 2008 with an emphasis on streaming DJ mixes, although it has since broadened its focus to include radio-style shows and podcasts.It now has 12 million monthly listeners, and a catalogue of more than 8m shows and mixes uploaded by more than a million DJs, podcasters and media partners.With Apple recently launching its own radio station, and Spotify and Deezer both adding podcasts to their services, it’s an intimidating time for a 12-person startup to be operating in a similar field.“We’ve been talking about the importance of curation for some time now, and with the launch of Beats 1 and the human curation and radio anchors front and centre, it validates what we have been saying for 4-5 years now about the importance of humans,” said Perez.Mixcloud is improving its service to make shows more easily discoverable.Are those humans paying off for Mixcloud? The company has not published financials, but Shah said that a third of its revenue comes from standard advertising, a third from branded shows and sponsorships, and the final third from users upgrading to its £9-a-month Pro account for more uploading features and analytics.The company hopes that the wider surge in podcast and online radio listening will fuel its future growth. Hence the Online Radio Awards, which Shah said aim to highlight the best online shows, whether they are available on Mixcloud or not.Key winners in 2015, besides Serial, includeRed Light Radiofor the best online radio station, and theThe Selector– produced by the British Council as a showcase for British music globally – for the best online music show.“There’s a hell of a lot of amazing stuff out there: really cool specialist stations and shows from all corners of the world, including Africa, the Middle East and Asia. There are stations popping up everywhere, and they’re not necessarily about the most polished, over-produced ident-style radio shows,” said Shah.“They’re often passionate music fans turning up in a studio with a bag full of records, and presenting with a huge amount of passion. The quality might start off pretty flaky, but you see the presenters evolve over the course of time: they learn as the station grows.”Related:Serial podcast is an iTunes record breaker as it passes 5m downloadsShah sees this as part of a broader trend for self-publishing that takes in platforms like Medium for blogging, and YouTube and other services for video production. “The growth of audio programming follows a broader trend,” he said.For now, Mixcloud – unlike Spotify – is resisting the temptation to expand into video, focusing instead on improving its smartphone apps and making it easier for listeners to discover new shows they’ll like.“It’s something that’s crossed our mind, but as we move more and more towards a mobile-first culture and mobile forms of consumption, actually, we are still listening in terms of an audio experience,” said Perez.“A lot of the time, you don’t want to look at your screen. You want to hit play, put your smartphone in your pocket, and get on with things. For what we’re doing, video doesn’t make that much sense.”
Tesla’s much delayed electric sports utility vehicle is due to finally reach customers, starting in September, Elon Musk has announced.The Model X was originally unveiled in 2012 alongside the first deliveries of the Model S sedan and was expected to go into production in 2013. Musk announced two subsequent delays as the company struggled to meet demand for the Model S and the motoring company’s expansion plans.The Model X has a higher ride height, all-wheel drive and can seat up to seven, making it the largest vehicle available from Tesla Motors. More than 20,000 people have already paid a $5,000 deposit to reserve one of the new models. Pricing is expected to be similar to the Model S, which starts at £50,000 in the UK.Musk confirmed that the company’s Model X car configurator would be available online in the next three weeks and that customers will start recieving new cars by 30 September.The Roadster, Tesla’s first car, the Model S, and now the Model X, are being used to pave the way for Tesla’s Model 3, which is Musk’s vision of a mass market“The goal at Tesla is to produce a mass-market electric car, but we can only get there one step at a time by selling the Roadster and now the Model S to fund the mass market,” said Musk at the UKlaunch of the Model S.The Model 3’s design is expected to be unveiled in the first quarter of next year and delivered to customers by the end of 2017, priced at around £30,000.Tesla also said it expects to ship a further 12,000 vehicles in the third quarter of this year, 2,000 up onthe first quarter, matching the second quarter and up 60% year-on-year.Tesla Model S.•Elon Musk: upgrade to Tesla Model S car makes it ‘faster than falling’
Social news site Reddit has banned six forums, or “subreddits”, that form the core of its white-supremacist community.The banned subreddits included “CoonTown”, “WatchNiggersDie”, “bestofcoontown”, “koontown”, “CoonTownMods”, “CoonTownMeta”, although more have been banned since, as users attempt to recreate them and get shut down in turn.Reddit said the forums exist “solely to annoy other redditors, prevent us from improving Reddit, and generally make Reddit worse for everyone else”.The company’s new chief executive, Steve Huffman (who posts as spez), announced the bansin a post on the site, alongside the introduction of a new form of sanction for “extremely offensive” subreddits.“One new concept is ’quarantining’ a community, which entails applying a set of restrictions to a community so its content will only be viewable to those who explicitly opt in. We will quarantine communities whose content would be considered extremely offensive to the average redditor,” Huffman wrote.“Coontown” and the other white-supremacist subreddits, which their users refer to collectively as the “chimpire”, have long been beneficiaries of the site’s light-touch approach to moderation. Before it was banned, the main group had over 20,000 subscribers, making it one of the largest white-supremacist communities on the internet, after notorious race-hate forum Stormfront.But, Huffman explained, the subreddits weren’t banned for their content. “We didn’t ban them for being racist,”he wrote. “We banned them because we have to spend a disproportionate amount of time dealing with them. If we want to improve Reddit, we need more people, but CT’s existence and popularity has also made recruiting here more difficult.”Even as Reddit tightened up its moderation policy over the last few years, Coontown avoided moderation. First the site banned sexualised images of minors, in response to the “jailbait” subreddit; then it banned sexualised photos taken without permission, in response to the “creepshot” subreddit; then “involuntary pornography”, in response to a number of “revenge porn” subreddits and the“fappening” subreddit’s central role in 2014’s iCloud photo hack.In June, Reddit’s administratorsbanned five subredditsover harassment concerns. Arguing that “we’re banning behavior, not ideas”, the site removed “fatpeoplehate”, “hamplanethatred”, “transfags”, “neofag”, and “shitniggerssay”. All five subreddits had been directly accused of encouraging harassment and “doxing” – the sharing of personal information – but the bans sparked complaints from users at their seemingly arbitrary nature.In the process, a campaign against Reddit’s high-profile interim chief executive, Ellen Pao, was started, which eventually led to her departure in July. When Huffman took over as chief executivehe confirmed those bans would stay in place.Another controversial subreddit, “Rapingwomen”, was banned shortly after Huffman became chief executive, but some of reddit’s most notorious subreddits have continued to avoid both closure and quarantine. Groups such as “killingwomen” and “cutefemalecorpses”, which has over 4,000 subscribers, continue to operate as they did before this latest announcement.
I have an HP laptop running Microsoft Windows 8. As recommended by many sources, I created separate user accounts for my wife and myself, and I have not needed to log in as admin for a while. Now I have simply forgotten the password. I’ve tried all of the obvious variations, which followed a pattern I used for my old iMac. I’ve also tried some processes mentioned online, with no success.It’s easy enough to back up our personal data, so I have considered a factory reset, but I am certain it is going to ask for an admin password. The obvious thing I have not done is pay for some commercial cracking software, but I have no idea which (if any) are reputable and effective. Please suggest a solution, as I would like to upgrade to Windows 10.StephenDid you set up the original administrator account using a Microsoft email address as your MSA (Microsoft Account), which is what I strongly recommend? If so, your logon password is the same as your email password, and this is something you might still remember. You might even have written it down somewhere.If you did use a Hotmail, Live or Outlook.com account, you have a good chance of getting access to your admin account, by resetting your email account password from theMicrosoft Account Password Resetpage. There arestep-by-step instructionsat About.com.Your PC has to be online so that Microsoft can update the admin password on your laptop. However, if you are resetting the password from your standard account, then you will obviously be online.Reset your PCAnother idea is to back up your data and then reset your PC to factory condition. This should be possible on all Windows 8 PCs that still have their recovery partition intact. It also works with Windows 10 PCs. These don’t have a recovery partition, but they have a special system for rebuilding the operating system when required.Unfortunately, I don’t think you can reset a Windows 8 PC from a standard user account. You can’t even see “Reset my PC” from a standard account on Windows 10, and fellow journalist Simon Bisson confirmed this was also the case on Windows 8.1. (Thanks to Windows 10, I’m temporarily out of Windows 8 PCs.)Other methods of resetting a Windows admin password ultimately boil down to changing files on the hard drive before the admin account gets control. The traditional approach was to interrupt the startup sequence, but you can also restart your PC from your Windows recovery DVD or a bootable USB thumb drive. Another alternative is to load Linux from a “Live CD” or USB drive. I suspect this is how most commercial “cracking” programs work.Advanced Startup OptionsMany Ask Jack readers will be familiar with interrupting the boot sequence of a Windows PC by hitting a function key, and then starting Windows in safe mode or changing the boot order in theBIOS(Basic Input/Output System) chip. Windows 8 and Windows 10 PCs no longer use the very old and slow BIOS, they useUEFIwith an Advanced Startup Options (ASO) screen.Many PCs have retained the concept, so that pressing,say, the F11 key or Esc during the Windows 8 boot sequence will take you to the ASO screen, where you can start a command prompt window (cmd.exe) aka “DOS box”. Check the user guide for your HP laptop (on your hard drive or online) to see which function key to press.Otherwise, you can get to the ASO screen by holding down the shift key while clicking on the power icon and selecting Restart. The long-winded alternative is to use the Charms bar to select Settings, click Change PC settings, and then go through Recovery to the Advanced Startup option, “Restart now”.When you get to the ASO page, by whatever route, select Troubleshoot, and then Reset your PC. This should return it to factory condition.Sadly, I’m not sure it will do a reset without an admin password – and I don’t have a machine to try – but it’s worth a go. (I have never been asked for a password when resetting a Windows 8 PC, but I suspect I’ve always done it from admin accounts.)Breaking inYou can also start your laptop from a Windows DVD or a bootable USB thumb drive and then change the password on the hard drive. Ideally, use the recovery DVD that Windows suggested you create in case you ran into a major problem. (Of course, if you have one of those, you can just reinstall Windows 8 from scratch.)If not, it doesn’t really matter what you boot from, because you’re not going to install the operating system. It could be almost any Windows DVD or a Live Linux CD.You “break in” by renaming one of the ease-of-access files. There are half a dozen available, including sethc.exe (Set High Contrast), utilman.exe (Utility Manager), and osk.exe (On-Screen Keyboard). You rename one of these to stop it working: for example, rename osk.exe to osk.exe.old. After that, you rename the Command shell from cmd.exe to osk.exe (or whichever file you chose).Now, when you start Windows 8, you can run the on-screen keyboard from the utilities icon, but the command shell will load instead. This lets you assign a new password (eg 123) to your admin account, so that you can log in. (Remember to clean up by renaming osk.exe back to cmd.exe and osk.exe.old to osk.exe, and set a new password.)Lots of YouTube videos show how it’s done. The best one I’ve found is Wesley David’sHow to Reset a Windows Password Through a Backdoor. He’s very clear.If you want to try a Linux-based “rescue CD” then have a look at theTrinity Rescue KitandOphcrack v3.6.0 (LiveCD v3.6.0). Both are free.If you want to try a paid-for cracker,Windows Password Keylooks a reasonable bet. I’ve not tried it, but the website is well designed, it has atutorial, and theFAQ Centerarticles are sound. Although Windows Password Key is a free download, I assume you end up paying $19.95, though I don’t know how.I’d just follow Wesley David’s tutorial.PreventionThere are ways to avoid getting into this situation in the first place. I use a Microsoft email address with a long password, but I set up a 4-digit PIN so I can log in quickly. I also have two admin accounts, in case one of them goes bad. Finally, I note that Microsoft allows you tocreate a password reset disk(or USB thumb drive or floppy disk) so that you can reset your password if you forget it. It’s a simple menu item with a wizard to guide you.Windows 8.1works the same way.You should also follow Windows’ directions to create recovery media and back-ups so that if your hard drive fails, you can reinstall Windows from scratch and get your stuff back.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
It’s Thursday. Sorry I’m late!
Taxi-app Uber is losing millions of dollars every year, despite the company’s rapid growth and international notoriety, according todocuments obtained by US news site Gawker.The financial reports, which span Uber’s history from the beginning of 2012 to the second half of 2014, show the company’s revenue rising from just $1.4m a quarter to almost $57m in just over two years. But in the same period, the company’s overall profits, taking into account all of its expenses, fall from a loss of $3.5m to a loss of $108.8m in the second quarter of 2014.In fact, throughout the period, the company’s losses grow faster than its revenues.The documents do, however, tell another more positive story about Uber: the company’s gross margin, which is the profit it makes after paying drivers, began negative in 2012, but quickly became positive. It now has a gross margin of over $20m a year, the documents show.But that gross margin only includes the cost of paying drivers as a cost of revenue, classifying everything else, such as operations, R&amp;D, and sales and marketing, as “operating expenses”.For many analysts, the figures were not a surprise – a fact that Uber itself was keen to play up in a statement given to media organisations on Wednesday.“Shock, horror, Uber makes a loss. This is hardly news, and old news at that. It’s a case of business 101: you raise money, you invest money, you grow (hopefully), you make a profit and that generates a return for investors”, the statement read.And Uber defenders point to much larger, public companies, which still operate under much the same model: Amazon, for instance, has a market cap of $250bn, but regularly reports annual losses, and rarely reports enormous profits. In its most recent report,Amazon revealed that it lost $188m in the year leading up to 30 June.In that view of the company, the question is less whether Uber is making a profit right now, but whether the company could, if access to capital dried up, retool it’s aims and become profitable overnight. If the company’s losses are entirely due to it reinvesting money in growth, it could easily turn a profit if it so desired. But if its losses are more intrinsic to the style of its business in 2015, they could spell trouble down the line.But whatever happens, Uber has a cushion against failure: the company’s documents also show that its balance sheet has swelled, even while it’s been reporting on-paper losses. It now has over $1bn in cash and cash equivalents stored away for a rainy day, up from $236m in 2013.
Apple’s new music streaming service, Apple Music, has attracted 11 million trialists since its launch at the end of June, the company has announced.The figure was revealed by Apple executive Eddy Cuein an interview with USA Today. “We’re thrilled with the numbers so far,” said Cue, who added that 2m of those trialists have opted for the service’s family plan rather than an individual account.How do Apple’s figures compare to its music-streaming rivals?Spotify has 75 million active users, with 20 million of them paying for its premium service, and the rest listening for free.Other rivals include Deezer (16 million active users and 6 million subscribers), Rhapsody/Napster (3 million subscribers), Tidal (770,000 subscribers) and Google Play Music and Rdio (which have not announced figures).The danger in such comparisons is that Apple Music is still in its three-month free trial period. The figures released by Apple cover people who have tried the service, but they have not yet been prompted to pay for it.Only once that starts happening on 30 September will Apple and its music industry partners start to understand how successful Apple Music is likely to be.“Assuming all the trial memberships are converted into paying customers come October, Apple would already boast half the paid memberships of reigning streaming champ Spotify,” noted USA Today. Quite the assumption.If anything, 11 million seems like quite a low figure, given other stats like Apple’s 800 million iTunes account holders, or the hundreds of millions of iOS devices in use in the 100+ countries where Apple Music launched on 30 June.The 2 million family-plan signups is the unknown element for now: those users are able to add up to five extra family members to their accounts, who will not show up in the 11 million figure. So Apple Music has more “listeners” than 11 million, but we do not yet know how many more.Music labels and publishers are keen for Apple Music to fuel a surge in the global number of music-streaming subscribers beyond the41 million reported by industry body the IFPIat the end of 2014, rather than simply attract existing subscribers from Spotify and other rivals.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'Apple Music’s launch has encountered a number of challenges, starting with strong criticism of the company by independent labels and Taylor Swift over its plans not to pay royalties during the free-trial period - and asubsequent u-turn over the policy by Apple.The service has also been criticised for its quality. The Loop blogger Jim Dalrymple, who is not usually seen as an Apple-basher, wrote a widely-sharedApple Music is a Nightmare and I’m Done With Itarticle slamming bugs in the service, including the deletion of thousands of previously-purchased songs from his collection.However, Apple Music has also won praise from early reviewers for the quality of its programmed playlists, as well as for its Beats 1 radio station.The company haspushed out an iOS and iTunes update to solve some of the early bugs, and this week beganoffering some Beats 1 shows to stream on-demand, rather than forcing people to tune in live.Spotify has been making its own product moves,expanding into video and adding features for runners in May, beforelaunching a “Discover Weekly” playlist of new songs personalised to every userin July.In the USA Today interview, Cue added that Apple’s App Store generated $1.7bn of transactions in July – a new record – taking its total payments to iOS developers to $33bn.
Angry Birds 2? This is actually the eighth sequel to Angry Birds, following the Seasons, Rio, Space, Slingshot Stella, Friends and two Star Wars games.That’s just counting the ones that followed the original’s form: spin-offs exploring other forms of gameplay include Angry Birds Transformers, Angry Birds Epic RPG, Angry Birds Pop, Angry Birds Fight and Bad Piggies.By calling this new game Angry Birds 2, though, its developer Rovio is signifying its status as something of a reboot: getting back to bird-slinging basics while bumping up the production values, and designing it from the ground up as a freemium game.It’s the latter element that is both the biggest risk and biggest opportunity for Rovio. It’s a chance to catapult Angry Birds into the lucrative, billion-dollar-revenues world of mobile games like Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans. Yet if it’s bungled, also a chance to alienate fans – and their parents, in the case of kids who’ve made Angry Birds one of the biggest new children’s brands in recent years. A challenge Rovio has been grappling with for some time now: all those recent spin-off games have been freemium.Related:Angry Birds movie: Peter Dinklage and Maya Rudolph revealed in cast announcementHave those lessons paid off? As a game, Angry Birds 2 does a lot of things really well, reminding you why the original hit was fuelled by word-of-mouth about its fun factor, rather than hype or blanket marketing.On the freemium side, it’s far from the most aggressive mobile game in terms of forcing players towards in-app purchases, with video advertisements – hailed as a player-friendly device in recent mobile hit Crossy Road – taking some of the strain.The way that Angry Birds 2 pulls on every freemium lever sucks some of the fun out of it for players who loved the franchise’s paid era (Angry Birds, Seasons, Rio and Space), although early reviews on Apple and Google’s app stores indicate no such qualms from the newer wave of mobile gamers.And the kids thing? That’s still awkward, although not outrageous – and something for Rovio to worry about more than parents. But we’ll get to that later.Angry Birds 2’s graphics are impressive – as are the little touches.Back to Piggy IslandAngry Birds 2 is on familiar ground with its plot: Piggy Island is full of villainous green pigs with two key interests: stealing eggs, and building an array of towers from wood, ice and stone to protect themselves from the furious birds.As before, your job is to slingshot the birds – Red, Chuck, Matilda, the Blues and the rest all reappear, each with their own special power – to destroy the pigs and towers. The game is launching with 140 levels, and more to come in future updates.Related:My favourite waste of time: why Candy Crush and Angry Birds are so compulsiveThere are some new twists. Levels can now have multiple stages: once you destroy one set of pigs, you move on to the next part of the level. There are boss battles in the form of larger, harder-to-destroy Foreman Pig, Chef Pig and King Pig enemies.The birds you have available to fling are now represented by virtual “cards” which can be shuffled at will, enabling you to choose the order in which you use them.Meanwhile, the game’s power-ups system takes the form of “spells”: an airstrike of rubber ducks; a blizzard turning towers into (easily-breakable) ice; a hot chilli that makes one of the pigs explode, and so on.All of this is showcased with panache: Angry Birds 2 looks great, from the level backdrops through to the little touches: pigs quivering as you prepare to launch a new bird, and then zooming out of the screen towards you as nearby objects explode.As far as longevity goes, 140 levels is plenty to grapple with before the next update, and once you complete level 25 you unlock an “Arena” section that will offer daily challenges and tournaments, competing against friends to level up your birds.Paying and playingWrapped around all this are the freemium aspects. For starters, there’s a system of lives, represented by hearts. You start with five but lose one every time you fail to complete a level, gaining one back every 30 minutes.Spells are a consumable resource: you get a few of each as it is introduced, but once they’re used up, you’ll need to buy more using Angry Birds 2’s gems virtual currency, sold for between £0.79 for 80 and £39.99 for 5,700 in an in-game store. Gems are also dished out for free once a day, with extra earned through playing, and for daily “quests” like popping 30 pigs.Gems can also be spent to continue a level if you fail it. And a certain number of times a day, you can watch a video ad – invariably for another freemium game – to earn an extra bird in a specific level, or earn an extra life to play again.As a guide to how this plays out in practice, in my first play through the game, I’d used up all my lives and daily video ads by level 22, reaching the wait-or-pay moment. Frustrating for a reviewer, but perhaps less so in real-world play patterns, when all five lives would replenish in two and a half hours.More annoying was the random element of the levels, where structures can change shape and material every time you play: an easily-destroyable wooden Eiffel Tower one time, then a tougher, squatter stone-heavy structure the next.That dials down the try-learn-repeat dynamic of older Angry Birds games in favour of … well, it feels like it’s in favour of nudging you to buy spells. It’s the Candy Crush school of power-ups counteracting randomised levels and limited lives.I’m not a fan, but judging by Angry Birds 2’s app store reviews – 4/5 from tens of thousands of reviews on Apple’s, and 4.5/5 from hundreds of thousands on Google’s – most mainstream mobile gamers don’t have a problem with the model.Angry Birds 2 uses a system of lives, gems and video ads to keep people playing.Time for a kids’ spin-off?I know someone who does have a problem with it, though: my eight-year old son, who’s a genuine Angry Birds fan. He hit the wait-or-pay moment on level 16, found the level difficult, and after trying for a couple of days, drifted back to Minecraft during his tablet time.That’s why the freemium/kids aspect of Angry Birds 2 is something for Rovio to worry about, not parents. Children aren’t fools: if a game actively stops them from playing, they’ll play something else instead.Related:Angry Birds revenues fell in 2014 due to sharp decline in merchandise salesAs long as parents’ in-app purchases settings are locked down, the only danger here is to Rovio if children drift away from Angry Birds.Its non-gaming business, from toys and merchandise to its ToonsTV video network and upcoming film, relies heavily on its appeal as a children’s brand. Perhaps now’s the time for a separate strand of Angry Birds ‘kids’ games, either as paid titles or completely-free games, to promote those other products.That would leave Angry Birds 2 and subsequent sequels to the grown-ups, who can decide whether to play (and, indeed, pay).And remember, pretty much every freemium lever can be tweaked in response to data on how people are actually playing the game – which unlike many of the wargames and match-three puzzlers on mobile, has strong characters and an engaging sense of fun at its core, rather than a hollow business model.Angry Birds 2 is a free downloadfor Androidandfor iOS.
Smartphones are the UK’s most popular device for getting online for the first time, according to industry monitor Ofcom.The change has largely been driven by our increased appetite for video, and its availability with the expansion of high-speed 4G data networks. Over the past 12 months this has allowed many more people to watch video clips from YouTube or Vine and TV on-demand services such as BBC iPlayer and Netflix on the go.Smartphones are now responsible for a third of internet access, up from 23% in 2014. Ofcom’s 2015 Communications Data Report shows the success of the devices has been at the expense of laptop computers, the latter dropping from 40% of online connections in 2014 to 30% in 2015.Two-thirds of adults now have a smartphone, up from 39% in 2012, and the amount of time we spend using them to go online has risen to one hour and 54 minutes per day.Jane Rumble, director of market intelligence at Ofcom, said the change in internet access was a “landmark shift”.She said: “You can see these devices are becoming more and more an important vital hub of information and communication throughout the day, with smartphone owners spending almost two hours (on them) each day, almost double the amount of time that those people are spending on their laptop or desktop.She said younger age groups were driving the change. “Those aged 16 to 24 are much more likely, as well as 25 to 34, to say their smartphone is the most important device to get online, whereas for the older age groups, they are much more likely to be sticking with their laptop. This is a landmark shift.”Amongst the 55s to 64s there has also been growth, with half the older age group now owning a smartphone.Smartphone addictsMore than a third of all adults (34%) use their smartphone within five minutes of waking up, a figure that rises to almost half (49%) of those aged 18-24, the report’s research found.But the big difference from the previous year’s report was down to 4G. Subscriptions to the high-speed mobile internet, which was first introduced in the UK in 2012, rose eightfold from 2.7 million in the last quarter of 2013 to 23.6 million in the last quarter of 2014, as it became more widespread.The 4G technology allows video content and streaming services to be watched on the handsets, which older, slower connections could not handle without irritating buffering, and that leads to a big difference in how people use their smartphones: almost two-thirds (62%) of 4G phone owners told Ofcom they “couldn’t live without” their phone, compared to 52% of all smartphone users.Rumble said: “It really is becoming an important and vital device throughout the day. The increase in 4G subscriptions has been very stark in the last year.”It was not just smartphones which reported increased use for online access, as tablets rose to 19% in 2015, up from 15% in 2014 and 8% in 2013. Both laptops and desktop computers declined, with desktops now accounting for just 14% of internet use.Wired internet has sped up too, with superfast broadband now available to 83% of UK premises (still 12% short of government targets) while around a quarter of homes are actually subscribed to a service delivering speeds of 30 megabits a second or more, the speed required to gain the “superfast” label.Perhaps as a result, the report also showed society’s increasing digital connectivity. The total amount of time people spent online rose from 9.9 hours per week in 2005 to 20.5 hours per week in 2014.However, traditional television remains the entertainment king. The average adult watched three hours and 40 minutes of television per day in 2014, 11 minutes less than in 2013. Last year was the second year in a row that watching time had declined.
The cleverest thing in your smart fridge may not be anautomated re-ordering button, web-connected camera that tweets when your milk is off, or some other silly convenience system, but the food itself.Agriculture has been quick to trial internet of things (IoT) technologies: already, sensor-controlled rooms are growingaltered lettuce, cows are connected to improve milk, and the all-important bee is getting a boost from automated heaters.For food production, the IoT makes sense. Not only does it have the potential to cut costs and boost food production – with areport by Beecham Researchpredicting that the use of IoT techniques for farming could boost food production by 70% by 2050 – but the use of sensors can also improve animal welfare and reduce the use of resources such as water.Plus, unlike the other areas of our lives where the internet of things is creeping in, there’s noprivacy concerns– unless you’re worried about cows being surveilled. Agriculture is one area of the IoT where there’s little downside, and a host of benefits.The internet of things next trick? Improving lettuce ...As it turns out, lettuce isn’t good for everyone. It’s high in potassium, so can be unhealthy for people to eat when on dialysis or suffering chronic kidney disease. To make salads for those with kidney problems, Fujitsu and Microsoft teamed up to grow high-tech lettuce.As odd as it sounds, the project highlights how sensors can be used to help agricultural plants grow faster and better, creating higher yields as well as unique specialisations – if they can do this with lettuce, imaginewhat they can do with wine grapes.The potassium in lettuce is bad for people on dialysis or suffering chronic kidney disease. Thanks to IoT, Fujitsu has produced a raw lettuce with less than 80% of potassium as a traditional lettuce.Photograph: Hiroshi Higuchi/Getty Images“The hardware sensors are similar to what you see in any semiconductor plant,” said Enrique Andaluz, Director of Strategic Business Development for Worldwide Discrete Manufacturing at Microsoft. Indeed, Fujitsu’s test bed is a chip plant that’s been converted to grow IoT-managed plants. “The information is picked from building sensors that control temperature, humidity, CO2, light intensity and other factors that affect the ‘perfect conditions’ to grow crops.” That data is handed to Microsoft’s Azure cloud, where it’s analysed for reports and to send alerts about its care.All this data means it’s possible to fine tune the conditions to grow low-potassium lettuce. “To reduce the level of potassium at home, you typically cook the raw vegetables to change their internal chemical composition,” said Andaluz. And who wants cooked lettuce? “Fujitsu has been able to produce a raw lettuce with less than 80% of potassium content as compared to traditional grown lettuce.” Thanks to the IoT, crunchy salads for all.Connected cowsUp there with smart fridges, connected cows are a staple of IoT stories, and with good reason – the idea of web-connected cows is hilarious.The cows aren’t simply tweeting their position to online followers, however. Under a project run by Dr Jonathan Amory at Writtle College, sensors are tracking dairy cows to help farmers spot illnesses earlier, creating an early-warning system for disease that hopefully cuts suffering for the animals and improves milk yields. The researchers say lameness and diseases such as mastitis cost the dairy industry as much as £100m annually in the UK alone.“Lots of diseases are tricky to spot and time consuming to monitor formally, so having a tool which could flag up cows with possible problems sooner and allow earlier treatment would be really valuable,” said Zoe Barker, the post-doctoral research assistant who runs the project, and is now an expert in sticking sensors to cows.Under a project run by Dr Jonathan Amory at Writtle College, sensors are tracking dairy cows to help farmers spot illnesses earlier, creating an early-warning system for disease.Photograph: Graham Turner for the GuardianFor this research, she said the cows were given a collar that included a positioning sensor, with an accelerometer and magnetometer – though, sadly, no adorable little cow bell.The collars were fitted to a group of more than a hundred cows for six months, with the sensors returning a position on the beasts every 10 seconds, generating data sheets with a million rows of data for each day.Why does it matter where cows are? Simply put, a cow that’s lying down away from the others is more likely to be sick. “We felt that position was important to understand not only the behaviour of the individual cows but also their social behaviour,” Barker said. “Without position, it’s not possible to know how the cows are interacting with each other and how this changes with health status or other management influences.”The researchers had to adapt a system that had been used previously to track carts in mines and to follow firefighters – beasts on a farm is a very different environment indeed. “Once we sorted the optimum tightness of the neck collars, we reduced the number of whole collars lost by the cows in their shed,” she said. “A bigger issue was the cows ripping the plastic box we were using to house an external battery, and ripping the sensor off of the collar and losing that somewhere in the house.”Cows weren’t the only problem. “In addition to our destructive cows, the large amount of metal in a modern cow shed caused a moderate reduction in accuracy due to the potential for deflection of radio waves on the metal,” she added.The huge quantity of collected data now needs to be analysed – mathematicians are creating algorithms, and Barker is in the middle of writing up her paper on the project now – but the hope is it can be used to predict when cows get sick, she said. “If we can create the predictive model then we will be able to detect the changes in individual cow behaviour and social behaviour changes that are associated with the onset of disease, and therefore inform the farmer,” she said. “For diseases such as lameness, where the onset is slow and where clinical symptoms may be masked for a time, we can flag up the issue sooner. Sooner treatment usually means less severe symptoms, less pain, faster recovery and less risk of having a repeat treatment.”These aren’t the only connected cows trodding fields. Alongside its smart lettuce, Fujitsu has given cattle step trackers. “By using pedometers in the cows and bulls farmers are able to predict the best time for mating and to determine whether cattle has healthy living conditions,” said Microsoft’s Andaluz. “For instance, now we know that when cows are in heat, they walk longer distances at a faster pace. By analysing the data on the cow pedometer, it is now easier to find that unique moment for both the cow and the bull to be put next to each other to increase impregnation chances. This translates [to a] 50% increase of meat production as well as to the eliminate risk of disseminating diseases due to prompt diagnosis of diseases in the farm.” Plus, you can find out how many cows pass the 10,000 step count goal.The internet of beesAgriculture is doomed without bees, and so are we. Without bees to pollinate, crops don’t continue and we can’t feed our connected cows.Butbees are in trouble. Their numbers have been in sharp decline, and no one is entirely sure why. One explanation for colony collapse disorder (CCD), as the disaster is known, is a type of mite – and researchers at the University of Minnesota and a firm called Eltopia have a solution that pops the plague like popcorn while keeping bees and hives safe.Eltopia chief executive Will McHugh started his career on his family cherry farm, working with local bee keepers on tech even then to alter how the trees were pollinated. While working on that project, the keepers mentioned a mite that was attacking their bees. Those mites can be killed by heat, which doesn’t bother the bees but does melt the wax that makes up their hives.So MacHugh and his fellow researchers developed a way to heat up specific spots in a hive from the inside, rather than heating the entire structure, using circuitry that’s screen-printed on to a hive base, called the foundation.“We have printed circuitry on PLA (corn-based) plastic film that is coated with beeswax and impressed with a honeycomb pattern upon which the worker bees can draw out the comb,” said co-founder Aaron Seelye. “The ink is a special type that can both act as a temperature sensor one moment, and a heater the next. By taking cues from the environment, we can interrupt the reproductive cycle of the Varroa Mite, which is widely considered the leading cause of CCD.”There are points when the mites can be interrupted by temperature changes. When worker bees see that viable larvae are in a spot in the honeycomb, they top it with a wax cap to protect the offspring. That means the temperature stabilises – and when that happens, Eltopia’s MiteNot tech kicks into gear.“What our electronics do is two things: they monitor temperature and they produce heat,” he said. When the temperature stabilises, sensors spot it, and the electronics automatically start generating heat, killing the mites without harming the bees. “If you heat the mites up to 107 degrees or 108 degrees, all the mites die,” MacHugh said. “The bees actually kind of like it. The mites, because they’re so much smaller, it almost pops them like popcorn.”Alongside killing off the troublesome mites, the system also collects other data. “In conjunction with this application, we’re working on things such as audio sensors, temperature and humidity, and durable scale, to tell honey gain [or] loss in a given timeframe),” added Seelye.MacHugh pointed out that it’s “too early in the game” to say if Eltopia’s MiteNot is solving the CCD problem, as the technology has only been rolled out in the last month or so, and it’s not clear whether mites are entirely to blame for the mass deaths of bees. “Removing [or] reducing the mites as a parasitic influence on the colony can only serve to do good for the overall health of our bee colonies, which are a critical component of our food supply,” added Seelye.But Eltopia’s technology could be a first step in changing how we keep pests off the plants we intend to eat. MacHugh pointed out that much of the discussion around food supply centres on pesticides.“There’s a real battle in agriculture – over organic v inorganic, pesticides v GMO, etc,” he said. “I would just say that we’re really focused on not giving in to those arguments and coming up with a solution that’s sustainable.” He stressed he has nothing against pesticides – they were engineered for reason – but it’s understandable that some people don’t want their food covered in chemicals, either. “And it turns out we may not need them.”
For as long as there have been competitions, there have been people trying to break competitions. After all, who wouldn’t pass up the chance to win something for free? Competition clubs, for example, take the idea on an industrial scale, allowing people to pay a fee for a third party to enter a whole load of competitions on their behalf.But no one has broken the concept quite so majestically as US coder Hunter Scott, who managed to win almost 1,000 competitions over the last nine monthswith the help of a single twitter bot.The phrase “retweet to win”, or similar, is used hundreds of times every day on Twitter. And even if many of them aren’t real competitions, or are competitions you aren’t eligible for, some of them are. Just recently, you could havewon cinema tickets from O2,a barbecue from a tyre firmora weird christmas tree thing from a lighting company.So Scott’s idea was simple: what happens if you enter every competition on Twitter? The answer, it seems, is “you get a load of junk smattered with some cool stuff”.“Over the nine months I ran my script, I entered approximately 165,000 contests,”Scott writes. “Of those, I won around 1,000. So that means my win rate was just over half a percent, which is pretty miserable, especially when you consider that a good portion of those winnings were things like logos and graphics, which is Twitter slang for a customized image for use in a gaming or YouTube profile.”“Another very large percentage of the things I won were tickets to events. I did manage to go to an event that I won tickets to, but the majority of them were for concerts and events in other countries that I obviously couldn’t go to. I also won a lot of currency to online games (like FIFA). And when the game Destiny was giving out beta codes, I won about 30 of them through as many contests. I won a lot of cool stuff too though, and getting mysterious things in my mailbox each day was pretty fun.”Scott says that the most valuable prize was a trip to New York Fashion Week with spending money, worth $4,000 – but he didn’t take it, because he couldn’t get to New York and didn’t want to pay taxes on the prize. In fact, he says: “I ended up not claiming the majority of the things I won because I wasn’t able to use them or attend them. In those cases, I just messaged them back and told them to give the prize to someone else.”The success rate may be low, but he still came back with more stuff than British YouTuber Andrew Lloyd, whomanually entered 1,000 competitions in 50 days(at a cost of £50) and won some snacks, a DVD, and tickets to a football game and a motorhome show.
EE has issued a recall notice for a batch of its free Power Bar battery packs due to overheating concerns that can cause the batteries to explode.The mobile phone network said it had “identified a very small number of incidents” where the battery packs could “pose a fire safety risk”.EE has distributed over 1.5m of the free Power Bars, which prove popular with users suffering from poor smartphone battery life. EE customers can use the portable batteries to recharge their smartphone and either charge the battery pack at home or swap in store for a fully charged one.The recall could affect up to 500,000 of EE’s Power Bars, of which half have already been taken out of circulation. Six out of the seven batches of EE’s Power Bar in circulation have not been found to have the same fire risk. SMS text messages have been sent to users to notify them of the faulty devices.Inits recall noticeit said: “EE has identified a very small number of incidents where Power Bars have overheated, all of which relate to batch E1-06 (written as Model: E1-06 on the side of the device), and could pose a fire safety risk,.”The recall was triggered by investigations into the cause ofa Power Bar explosionthat set fire to a student’s bedroom carpet and caused burns to her hands.The battery pack was charging at the time of its overheating. Lithium-ion batteries, like the one inside the EE Power Bar, can become dangerous if they overheat in a process calledthermal runawaythat leads to swelling or exploding batteries.The chemicals within the battery are caustic and can cause burns to skin.EE: “It’s our intention to replace these chargers once we’ve completed our investigations; we’ll be in touch once these have been concluded. We’re really sorry for any inconvenience this may cause.”•Fiat Chrysler recalls 1.4m vehicles in wake of Jeep hacking revelation
Yahoo users have become the target of one of the biggest “malvertising” attacks every, after a malware company bought advertising space on the company’s websites to deliver malicious adverts in an attempt to install malware on users’ computers.The malvertising campaign attempted to use a vulnerability in Adobe’s Flash to install the software, which tends to be a mixture of ad fraud and ransomware programs.Malwarebytes, which discovered the campaign,says that the attack is“one of the largest malvertising attacks we have seen recently.”“Malvertising is a silent killer because malicious ads do not require any type of user interaction in order to execute their payload. The mere fact of browsing to a website that has adverts (and most sites, if not all, do) is enough to start the infection chain.”Yahoo pulled the malicious adverts as soon as they were alerted by Malwarebytes, and told the research firm: “Unfortunately, disruptive ad behaviour affects the entire tech industry.”The statement continued: “We’ll continue to ensure the quality and safety of our ads through our automated testing and through the SafeFrame working group, which seeks to protect consumers and publishers from the potential security risks inherent in the online ad ecosystem.”The attack highlights the weakness of multisite ad networks, which allow advertisers to algorithmically buy slots on major websites. While the networks attempt to filter out malware before it hits end-users, they are often unsuccessful. In November 2014,an attack by the Syrian Electronic Armyused a major content delivery network to make it appear as though it had “hacked” sites including the Independent and Telegraph newspapers, while in January that year,as many as 2 million Yahoo customersmay have received PC malware that turned their computers into bitcoin miners.The serious attacks also need to exploit some other vulnerability to make the leap onto users’ computers, however. In January 2014, the Yahoo attackers used a flaw in Java to install software. This time, the weakness was with Adobe’s Flash, which has been in the headlines multiple times for vulnerabilities in the past few months. For some, this has been the last straw for the ageing content delivery framework: theApple blogger John Gruberhas argued that “the sooner we completely eliminate the use of Flash, the better. Just get rid of it.”
There’s two ways a conversation about the internet and parenting can go: the first way, which is also the stupid way, is to focus on how to stop kids from accessing the Bad Internet and doing Dumb Things there.This is the David Cameron approach. David Cameron has proposed that all the porn sites in the world should check and record incoming UK visitors’ ages – in practice, this means getting their credit-card numbers (and, inevitably, leaking them, tied to their porn preferences). Sites that don’t comply will be dealt with: in practice, this means being blocked by the Great Firewall of Cameron, a foolish errand begun in the last parliament whereby an unaccountable, non-adversarial process is used to arbitrarily block websites at the border.This is the stupid way. Firewalls don’t work. Kids evade them. One of the UK’s tech success stories is Jack Cator, an entrepreneur who launched the Hide My Ass proxy service when he was 16 to allow children to evade the firewalls deployed by their schools. Great Firewalls are great failures. In China, the birthplace of the Great Firewall, the major online control strategy isn’t censorship, it’s disinformation: the Chinese politburo employs a vast cadre of trolls who rubbish anyone who talks about things the government dislikes, discrediting them and muddying the waters. In China, which has the world’s largest population of network engineers, where the majority of the world’s routing equipment is made, where the law provides for penalties up to and including having your organs given to party members -- in that China, they can’t make firewalls work.This is the stupid way – but not just because it doesn’t work. Even if it did work, is there anyone who believes that your kids will never get unfiltered internet access? When (not if) they do, how will you have prepared them to use it responsibly? What life-skills will you have equipped them with? Abstinence-based education is not evidence-based education.Then there’s the smart way: “I will hang out with my kid while she uses the internet.” This approach emphasises being in the room, working in partnership with your child, trying to instill trust and establish a relationship through which your kids will know that they can come to you when (not if) they find themselves out of their depth online (or off). The only way to prepare kids for online danger is to give them the life-skills to come to you when they get out of their depth.Now, I like the smart approach. But there’s a smarter approach, one with real historic precedent, and if I was setting out to make the internet a better place for kids, it’s where I’d be putting my effort.This is the smarter way: making things on the internet that parents enjoy with their children.When Sesame Street first launched, it was all about kids: the whole thing was designed to be as compelling as possible for children, especially the vulnerable kids of the job-juggling urban poor who were finding themselves being babysat by the TV. But Jim Henson and the Children’s Television Workshop scrapped that whole design and started over, remaking the show as something that had jokes that parents would enjoy, songs that could please the adult ear as well as the kid’s.The key insight was that whatever pedagogical value Sesame Street held, it would be multiplied if it opened a conversation between kids and their carers. The kid might enjoy singing the ABCs along with Big Bird, but what if Dad or Mum could be persuaded to sing along with her, after the show was over, reinforcing the lessons and shaping them around the kids’ own life and circumstances.This is the gold standard of kids’ media. Shows like Barney the Dinosaur and Horrid Henry might appeal to kids even more than Sesame Street (or its much-missed older sibling, The Electric Company), but adults flee the room when the are on. Sitting with my daughter while Horrid Henry shows on her tablet is like getting a fiberglass enema, without the charm.The case for kid/adult media is not just about doing good: it’s also a way to do well. Walt Disney started Disneyland partly out of frustration at being stuck on a park-bench while his kids rode the carousel at Griffith Park. Disneyland’s mission was to produce entertaining experiences that adults and kids could enjoy together.Minecraft is amazing. 3D printers are astounding fun. Makerspaces and lock-picking workshops are great ways to entertain the kids. To some extent all of these can be enjoyed by adults and kids alike. But even then, they’re activities you do next to your kids more than with them.There’s an opportunity out there, a chance to do real good in the world: make online media that kids and adults enjoy and participate in together. The smarter way.
Thousands of female engineers have taken to Twitter to dispel the myth that all engineers are men.Posting under the hashtag#iLookLikeAnEngineer, women working in science, technology, engineering and associated subjects have been posting selfies of themselves and describing what they do.Just updated my Medium post!#iLookLikeAnEngineerpic.twitter.com/szMTCuRVu0&mdash; Isis Anchalee (@isisAnchalee)August 3, 2015The campaign was spurred by an advert to recruit new developers for OneLogin a security company in San Francisco, which used a photo of Isis Wenger one of its female platform engineers.Wenger took toMediumandTwitter, signing up for an account on 3 August, to post a picture of herself with the#iLookLikeAnEngineerhashtag and within a day it had gone viral and far beyond the advert that spawned it.I am a systems engineer &amp; an engineering educator#ILookLikeAnEngineer!@swetalk@isisAnchalee#BeThatEngineerhttp://t.co/GV51x5stIZ&mdash; Rebecca M. Reck (@RebeccaEE)August 5, 2015Ladies and gents, let&#39;s see your#ILookLikeAnEngineerpictures! Us engineers don&#39;t all look the same now do we?pic.twitter.com/gfNF8JAWDh&mdash; Roma Agrawal (@RomaTheEngineer)August 5, 2015I love fluid mechanics&amp;engineering, rock, cats, make up, cars, yoga and books, because why not?#ILookLikeAnEngineerpic.twitter.com/An9LOR3Afh&mdash; Jeyna The Warrior (@je_vitamini)August 5, 2015Engineers took to Twitter and other social platforms posting similar pictures of themselves, forcing #iLookLikeAnEngineer into Twitter’s trending list. A website was set up to support the new campaign and an app for creating and sharing their photos on social media was created.MSc in Communication and Information technologies, and an ABAP Developer#ILookLikeAnEngineerpic.twitter.com/20CwKHzi22&mdash; Ana (@Shopovska)August 5, 2015Studying automotive engineering at Sunderland Uni, and a proud formula student team member  😊#ILookLikeAnEngineerpic.twitter.com/rgShVqZehw&mdash; Beth Harrod (@harrod_beth96)August 5, 2015The campaign also attracted misogynist comments directed at Wenger’s appearance and doubting her credibility as an engineer. But the outpouring of support came from all over the globe, including within Silicon Valley.Intel’sWomen at Intel Networkbegan supporting the campaign, as did various other women in technology groups, universities, software and engineering companies.12 years in IT. Developer-&gt;Team leader-&gt;Software engineer-&gt;Project manager-&gt;Envato author&amp;mother.#ILookLikeAnEngineerpic.twitter.com/Jd2g2J1RRv&mdash; ramona_morea (@ramona_morea)August 5, 2015Others who also felt they didn’t fall into the “cookie cutter” mould of what an engineer should be joined in, posting photos of themselves and moving the campaign beyond just sexism and in the direction of greater diversity across the technology, science and engineering industries.The outpouring of posts illustrate the diversity issues currently facing workers and companies within the technology, science and engineering industries.At Google, for instance, only 30% of its entire workforce is female and only 18% women in its technology divisions, according to its diversitydata from January.PhD in mech eng and curious about cats#ILookLikeAnEngineerpic.twitter.com/gGF72DtsFX&mdash; Canan Acar (@cananacar)August 5, 2015Facebook has a32% female workforce, but only 16% of its female employees are involved in technology related jobs. Other large Silicon Valley companies have similar statistics as do engineering firms and science institutions.Without asking for it, Wenger has been thrust into the spotlight in what she describes as a “hastily planned and executed” campaign. But she and the others who have taken up the charge hope that they can change the assumed sexist appearance of engineers.•Facebook only hired seven black people in latest diversity count
Apple is to fix a bug in its Mac OS X operating system as soon as possible amid concerns over the security of its desktop and laptop computers.The tech company will patch a serious “privilege escalation” bug in the next security update to its desktop operating system, Mac OS X 10.10.5, the Guardian has learned. The initial beta of the next update to the Mac operating system did not include a fix for the bug, in a component known as DYLD, leading to concerns it would not be fixed until the Autumn when the next major OS release, El Capitan, is planned.A second serious bug, Thunderstrike 2, which can allow attackers to overwrite a computer’s firmware using a malicious webpage, has already been partially patched in Mac OS X 10.10.4.The two bugs haveled to concernsthat Apple is losing its historic lead in security. The company has long emphasised its safety compared to rivals operating systems, highlightingits resilience to viruses in ad campaigns.The most notable part of the Thunderstrike 2 vulnerability – which lets attackers create a “worm” which can spread from computer to computer without human intervention – remains unfixed, though some experts have questioned its seriousness. Rich Mogull, a Mac security expert who covers the platform on the TidBITS news site,wrote that Thunderstrike 2is less severe than it was made out to be.“In this case, an infected computer will infect something known as the option ROM on any vulnerable Thunderbolt device that’s attached. Then that device can infect any computer it’s connected to, and so on.“Yes, it’s a worm, and that’s the most interesting part of the research. But especially with the new patch in place, and the generally limited use of Thunderbolt, it would be hard for even a malicious version of this attack to spread very far.”Mogull concluded that “nearly everyone can ignore Thunderstrike 2 entirely.”For typical users, the worm is a mostly hypothetical threat compared to the already-patched web infection vector. Thunderbolt devices, which are required to spread the worm, are rarely used outside of a few niche applications, and they are shared between multiple computers even less frequently.The DYLD vulnerability, which remains unpatched in the latest versions of Mac OS X, is a more pressing concern. It allows a program to run as though it has administrator access without needing to ask the user to input their password, and has already been seen “in the wild”, withat least one adware installerusing it to increase its capabilities.The Guardian understands that Apple has taken interim measures to prevent further exploitation of the vulnerability, including revoking the credentials of developers who use it, and including any app which does so on the company’s regularly updated list of malware. As such, unsuspecting users should be protected against specific attacks until a broader patch is released.
It’s my birthday today! So to celebrate, here is a screenshot from ScaleBound.
The prospect of Taylor Swift and music streaming service Spotify everevergetting back together looks remote, after Swift negatively compared the company’s response to her withdrawal of her music in 2014 to that of her recent criticism of Apple.“Apple treated me like I was a voice of a creative community that they actually cared about,”Swift told Vanity Fairabout the latter dispute, which sawApple change its plans not to pay rightsholders for streamson its Apple Music service’s free trial shortly after she criticised them in a blog post.“And I found it really ironic that the multi-billion-dollar company reacted to criticism with humility, and the start-up with no cash flow reacted to criticism like a corporate machine.”Spotify chief executive Daniel Ekwrote a blog postin response to Swift taking her back catalogue off the streaming service in November 2014, in which he defended the company’s “freemium” model and its support for musicians, and arguably didn’t sound like a corporate machine.Swift is more likely to be referring to behind-the-scenes negotiations with Spotify, and background briefings given to journalists at the height of the dispute, however.For now, her music is available on Apple Music and other streaming services that are either subscription-only, or allow her to “window” her albums so that they’re not available to their non-paying users. Spotify remains a Swift-free zone, and judging by her latest comments, that is likely to remain the case for some time.In the Vanity Fair interview, Swift also admitted that she worries about the reaction whenever she comments publicly about digital music and artists’ rights.“My fears were that I would be looked at as someone who just whines and rants about this thing that no one else is really ranting about,” she said.Related:The future of music sales is here. So how CAN the artists make it pay?Even before the dispute with Spotify, Swift was making her views known - for example,in an opinion piece for the Wall Street Journalin July 2014 on the value of music in the streaming age.“Music is art, and art is important and rare. Important, rare things are valuable. Valuable things should be paid for,” she wrote at the time.“It’s my opinion that music should not be free, and my prediction is that individual artists and their labels will someday decide what an album’s price point is. I hope they don’t underestimate themselves or undervalue their art.”
For years, Mac users have been safe in the knowledge that their platform was relatively safe from malware. A combination of the lower number of users on the platform, less attention from security researchers and, in general, fewer security holes in the operating system than Windows has led to a history generally free of damaging viruses and malware. So proud has Apple been of its security that it even ran several spots in its Mac vs PC ad campaign dedicated to the idea that Macs don’t get viruses.But in quick succession, two new serious vulnerabilities in OS X have introduced Mac malware back into the conversation.One exploitsa weakness first confirmed in mid-July, which allows a malicious program that gains access to a Mac to run as though it is the administrator of the computer – a vulnerability known as “privilege escalation”. In doing so, it can bypass a lot of Apple’s security features, which rely on appropriately limiting the ability of downloaded code from affecting the deeper functions of the operating system.Stefan Esser, the German coderwho discovered the exploit, heavily criticised Apple for having already patched it in the beta versions of its next operating system, Mac OS X El Capitan. The company, which did not respond to a request for comment from the Guardian, still has not fixed the flaw in the latest current version of Mac OS, Yosemite, nor in the beta for the next Yosemite patch.“At the moment it is unclear if Apple knows about this security problem or not, because while it is already fixed in the first betas of OS X 10.11, it is left unpatched in the current release of OS X 10.10.4 or in the current beta of OS X 10.10.5,”Esser wrote.Later,he tweeted that“Apple was informed about said bug months ago and as usual did the irresponsible to fix it for some beta half a year in the future only.“That means Apple released the bug via a patch … 4 months before they want to ship the ‘fix’,”he added.Now, Esser’s bug has been seen in the wild for the first time.Researchers from Malwarebytesdiscovered a new adware installer doing the rounds, which allowed the adware to embed itself into the operating system, and – crucially – allowed the adware to install itself without requiring the user’s password.Malwarebytes, which also criticises Esser for releasing the exploit without giving due notice to Apple, says: “This is obviously very bad news. Apple has evidently known about this issue for a while now … Unfortunately, Apple has not yet fixed this problem, and now it is beginning to bear fruit.”At the same time,a very different exploitis about to be revealed to researchers at the Black Hat security conference in Las Vegas. It uses a bundle of weaknesses in the firmware of a computer, the embedded operating system which runs the lowest-level functions such as fans, power supply units, and USB ports, and lets the researchers overwrite that software with their own code, and five of these six weaknesses are present on Macs as well as PCs.The researchers notified Apple, which has patched two of the vulnerabilities, but three remain unpatched.Worse still, researchers managed to write a proof of concept attack which uses the weakness to create a “worm”: a virus which can spread from MacBook to MacBook directly. A deliberately infected email can infect the first MacBook, which then automatically attempts to infect any other hardware physically connected to it, such as Apple’s ethernet adapters. If that hardware is later plugged into an uninfected computer, the worm spreads further.“People are unaware that these small cheap devices can actually infect their firmware,”researcher Xeno Kovah told Wired. “You could get a worm started all around the world that’s spreading very low and slow. If people don’t have awareness that attacks can be happening at this level then they’re going to have their guard down and an attack will be able to completely subvert their system.”The worm, called “Thunderstrike 2”, bears a similarity to a previous proof-of-concept attackcalled BadUSB, which let attackers reprogram almost any USB device to attack hardware. But even that attack hadn’t been turned into a worm, limiting the potential damage.
A coalition lead by the US privacy pressure group the Electronic Frontier Foundation has announced a strongerDo Not Track standard(DNT), which it says is needed as current schemes allow advertisers to still track users who have opted out.The idea of a DNT setting within desktop browsers has been in the works for a decade. Most mainstream browsers support it, sending a DNT message to the websites the users visit, with Microsoft’s latest browser, Edge, the exception. But following a user’s DNT choice is voluntary, allowing sites and advertisers to simply ignore it.The EFF hopes this new, stronger DNT standard, coupled with software, will help better protect users’ privacy and stop their activity being unknowingly tracked across the web.EFF chief computer scientist Peter Eckersley said: “We are greatly pleased that so many important Web services are committed to this powerful new implementation of Do Not Track, giving their users a clear opt-out from stealthy online tracking and the exploitation of their reading history.”The new DNT coalition includes privacy company Disconnect, the Adblock browser extension, privacy-centric search engine DuckDuckGo, analytics service Mixpanel, and the website Medium.Resistance from the advertising industry to DNT practices has held back its implementation in the past.DNT essentially neuters an advertiser’s ability to profile users and serve ads based on their interests and behaviour. Google, Facebook, Yahoo and many others have built their advertising businesses on being able to serve ads to users that they are more likely to be interested in and therefore click on.Disconnect chief executive Casey Oppenheim said: “The failure of the ad industry and privacy groups to reach a compromise on DNT has led to a viral surge in ad blocking, massive losses for internet companies dependent on ad revenue, and increasingly malicious methods of tracking users and surfacing advertisements online.”The new DNT standard is still voluntary. The coalition is hoping that it will be enough to pressure advertisers to accept user wishes or risk a surge of users moving to privacy protecting software that both stops their ability to track browsing activity but also serve them ads.•How your smartphone’s battery life can be used to invade your privacy•Cybersecurity bill could ‘sweep away’ internet users’ privacy, agency warns•Windows 10: Microsoft under attack over privacy
Facebook has ambitions to compete with YouTube in the online video world, but one of the latter’s prominent creators has criticised the social network’s strategy.Hank Green is one half of theVlogbrothersduo, whose YouTube channel has more than 552m views and 2.6 million subscribers. He also co-founded the influential VidCon conference.As the title of hisTheft, Lies, and Facebook Videoblog post published this week makes clear, Green isn’t pulling any punches in his criticism of Facebook, although he also admits that it is an “interesting, emerging platform” for online video publishers.Related:Facebook's second-quarter earnings call points toward focus on video contentTheft and lies, though? The former relates to the issue of“freebooting”, where people rip videos from YouTube and upload them to Facebook without the original creator’s permission, while the latter relates to Facebook’s statistics on video views.Green is unhappy about the fact that videos uploaded natively to Facebook – which the social network says are being watched more than 4bn times a day – appear to be prioritised over embedded YouTube videos in its news feed algorithm.“A [Vlogbrothers] SciShow YouTube video embedded on Facebook will reach between 20,000 and 50,000 people and be viewed by hundreds of people. The same video uploaded natively will get a reach of between 60,000 and 150,000 and be ‘viewed’ by tens of thousands,” he wrote.Embedding a YouTube video on Facebook gets less views than a native upload.Green is also unhappy that Facebook’s public stats for video views count anything longer than three seconds as a “view”, including those that have played automatically in someone’s news feed before they scroll on past them.“This might seem a little like this is a victimless crime, but it fundamentally devalues the #1 metric of online video. The view is the thing that everyone talks about and it’s the thing creators sell to advertisers in order to make a living,” wrote Green.“Applying that word to something far less valuable is going to be extremely disruptive to creators. Ad agencies and brands are confused enough without Facebook muddying the waters by calling something a view when it is in no way a measure of viewership.”Green thinks these two issues are combining to fuel Facebook’s freebooting problem, as people – including media companies and brands – try to bump up their stats by ripping popular YouTube videos and uploading them to Facebook from their own accounts.He citedrecent research from Ogilvy and Tubular Labsclaiming that 725 of the 1,000 most popular Facebook videos in the first quarter of 2015 were freebooted.“This is not insignificant, it’s the vast majority of Facebook’s high volume traffic. And no wonder, when embedding a YouTube video on your company’s Facebook page is a sure way to see it die a sudden death, we shouldn’t be surprised when they rip it off YouTube and upload it natively,” wrote Green. “Facebook’s algorithms encourage this theft.”Green is not alone in criticising Facebook’s freebooting culture. In June, the chief executive of multi-channel network (MCN) Fullscreensaid his company was suffering from similar piracy.“I love FB video but getting very tired of seeing our videos ripped there with no way to monitor or monetize. Remember that YT was sued by Viacom for over $1BN for this,” wrote George Strompolos, as part of a Facebook-focused tweetstorm.Related:Facebook steps up competition with YouTube with ad-supported videos“I now regularly see our videos with 50M+ view counts that are stolen by individuals on FB ... sometimes by other media companies,” continued Strompolos. “It costs us a lot to hunt them down one by one. I’m a huge DMCA proponent, but this has to improve fast. Frankly, I’m shocked that a rights holder with deep pockets has not sued yet.”These issues are particularly sensitive in 2015, asFacebook is preparing to start selling advertising around videosuploaded to its network, and sharing the revenues with the uploaders – raising fears that freebooting may soon pay off in more than likes, shares and comments. Of course YouTube itself can also be criticised for hosting videos ripped from elsewhere and uploaded to the platform, a point that seems to have escaped Green.Green, Strompolos and others want Facebook to develop something similar to YouTube’s Content ID system, so that creators can automatically detect unauthorised uploads of their videos and either get them taken down, or claim any revenues being made from them.Facebook’s product manager for video, Matt Pakes, has sinceresponded to Green’s post on Medium with his own article published on the blogging site.Pakes defended the higher reach of native videos compared to YouTube embeds on Facebook, saying it’s simply because people are more likely to interact with the former than the latter.“Native video posts with auto-play tend to see better engagement, more watch time and higher view counts. It’s a nuanced but important point: native videos often do better than video links, but this is because people tend to prefer watching native videos over clicking on a link and waiting for something to load,” he wrote.Pakes also defended the three-second definition of a video view - “While there is no broad industry standard for view measurement, three seconds is one common choice, and gives us a consistent metric for all video on Facebook” - and hinted at plans to do more to fight freebooting.“We have used the Audible Magic system for years to help prevent unauthorized video content on Facebook. We also provide reporting tools for content owners to report possible copyright infringement,” he wrote.“As video continues to grow rapidly on Facebook, we’re actively exploring further solutions to help IP owners identify and manage potential infringing content, tailored for our unique platform and ecosystem. This is a significant technical challenge at our scale, but we have a team working on it and expect to have more to share later this summer.”
