A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDeaths at Samsung alter South Korea's corporate-is-king mindset &gt;&gt; BusinessweekJust inside his single-story home, built of concrete blocks and coated in turquoise paint, Hwang Sang-ki, a 58-year-old Korean taxi driver, sits on a floor mat. He's clasping a small handbag, once bright white and now dull after years on a shelf. He pulls out a snapshot of 13 smiling young women, all co-workers at Samsung Electronics, off-duty and posing in three rows, each embracing or leaning into the other. The leaves of a tree behind them are turning golden in the autumn chill."Here," says Hwang, pointing to two women in the center of the group. Both had the same job at the same semiconductor factory, on the same line, standing side by side at the same workstation, dipping computer chips into the same vat of chemicals. Both got a particularly aggressive form of the blood cancer known as acute myeloid leukemia. One was his daughter, Yu-mi. In South Korea, only about 3 out of every 100,000 people die of leukemia. "They worked together, and they died," says Hwang. The snapshot is among a few private memories Hwang keeps of his late daughter.Long, detailed look at the fight of a number of families to get clear answers on the deaths of children and siblings who worked on the semiconductor lines.300M downloads and $600M in revenue say Google is the 'loser's choice' in mobile games monetization &gt;&gt; VentureBeatVenturebeat surveyed a number of big-hitting games developers about how they make money:The results show not only which monetization methods are most effective at making developers money; they also show the least effective. The most-used monetization method, for instance, is the interstitial ad. But the way developers make more money is clear: freemium in-app purchases.Developers also told us which companies make them the most money — and which make them the least.The data clearly shows that game developers abandon Google once they hit 11 published games. While Google wins in the fat long tail of solo and small-team developers who have built fewer than 11 games, with 77% developer share there, game-makers who have made more than 20 games, have more than 20 developers, and bring in more than $50,000 every month are much more likely to not use Google.The report ishere.The director of IT for NASA JPL explains where tech is going next in the enterprise &gt;&gt; CITEWorldYou'll recognise them, but there were lots of other possibilities - which he effectively rules out.Infographic: Defining mobile penetration in India: population, subscribers and connections &gt;&gt; GSMAIn urban areas, there are an average of more than 2 SIMs per mobile subscriber - which tends to mean that the number of unique mobile subscribers is rather lower than the number of active connections.The real wakeup call from Heartbleed &gt;&gt; Dark ReadingToday, there are 648,740 different libraries in the Central Repository, a sort of open-source clearinghouse where developers can download software components for use in their applications. A typical web application or web service will typically use between a few dozen and a few hundred of these components. Remember, all of these components have the ability to do anything that the application can do. A component that is supposed to draw buttons is capable of accessing the database. A math library is capable of reading and writing files on the server. So, a vulnerability in any of these libraries can expose the entire enterprise.You can think of all this code as a sort of supply chain for software. Modern applications are assembled from components, custom business logic, and a lot of "glue" code. In the real world, supply chain management is used to ensure that components used in making products actually meet certain standards. They come with material data safety sheets, test results, and other ratings. This whole process is managed to ensure that the final product will work as expected and be safe to use.But there is no assurance in today's software supply chain.This is Nokia's encrypted tablets in 2001 - nine years before the iPad &gt;&gt; Helsinki Evening TimesHard to believe that they suspended manufacture after making just a thousand of these for testing. There'smore at Digit Today(in Finnish, but with more pictures).Modular smartphones are the building blocks of a tech shambles &gt;&gt; StuffCraig Grannell on Project Ara:From an industry perspective, the concept of modularity is an even bigger ask. It was hard enough for the EU to convince manufacturers to settle on a charging standard, and even then the likes of Apple wriggled out of doing so by selling adapters. Now imagine getting everyone to agree on a modular standard. And should that miracle occur, what then? Major jumps in technology around such limitations would be less likely, innovation stemmed if components all had to adhere to a strict interchangeable spec. Every phone would soon resemble every other, while economy of scale would counter-intuitively be given a beating as well; because although these devices would all be akin to Lego, everyone would be manufacturing their own bits and pieces, in a vastly fragmented ecosystem.So what first seems like a simple, obvious idea is in reality a mess waiting to happen, and one that will offer few benefits for the end user. They won't save a great deal of money, few will care about interchangeable parts anyway, some will wonder why there are big gaps on the back of their smartphones if they can't get the various bits to line up properly, and a few geeks will proclaim it the best thing ever, before getting distracted approximately eight seconds later by some great new Google robot that gets injected directly into your hypothalamus.Really, it's all a distraction anyway. What we should be doing is encouraging manufacturers, carriers and service providers to support gadgets for longer, and for developers to ensure apps are highly optimised to the point they'll happily run on years-old devices.Office 365 Personal now available – and unlocks editing and document creation on iPad &gt;&gt; Office BlogsOn 13 March, we revealed that a new consumer subscription offering, Office 365 Personal, would be coming this spring. Today we're announcing that it's available for purchase–$69.99/year or $6.99/month (ERP)1–online at Office365.com, at Microsoft Stores and through online and retail partners.An Office 365 Personal subscription allows for one PC or Mac, and one tablet (including iPad) to be connected to the service, and is the best option for individuals interested in using Office 365.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Google reported slower than expected growth in revenues on Wednesday as the company looked to push past rivals such as Apple and Netflix in the competitive advertising and mobile technology markets.The company&apos;s profits grew a modest 2.9% in the first quarter of 2014, to $3.45bn, but it disappointed on a key metric of earnings per share. Analysts expected Google to earn $6.41 per share but the tech giant’s delivered only $6.27 per share.Executives gave breathless updates of progress behind the scenes. Larry Page, Google’s CEO, said the 19% year-on-year climb in consolidated revenue, to $15.4bn, amounted to “another great quarter”, though investors seemed to disagree as the company’s stock fell 5% in after-hours trading.“We got lots of product improvements done, especially on mobile,” Page said. “I&apos;m also excited with progress on our emerging businesses.&quot;Observers of Google’s performance at the start of 2014 were watching particularly closely to see how well it is weathering the stormy transition to mobile, where lower ad rates are impacting the bottom line. Paid clicks on ads served by Google sites as well as by networked sites increased by 26% compared with the first quarter of 2013, though declined by 1% on the last three months of last year.Out of the overall revenues, the company paid $3.23bn in the first quarter to partners who brought traffic to Google’s sites. That reduced actual revenue to $12.2bn.But impressive growth in clicks was countered by Google’s ongoing difficulties in sustaining average cost per click in the wake of the exodus of users to mobile devices. Average cost per click fell by about 9% year on year, though the company will draw some comfort in the fact that it held steady compared with the last quarter of 2013.Nikesh Arora, Google’s chief business officer, admitted that “a whole lot of building blocks have to come into play before the gap can be closed” between mobile and desktop ad rates. But he predicted in the long run mobile would match and eventually exceed desktop averages, because of the added value that can be offered to advertisers through knowledge gleaned about the habits of mobile users.“There is a finite time when these building blocks will come into place and convergence [in ad rates] will happen between mobile and desktop,” he said.Though the 26% in paid clicks was a measure of the enduring health of online ads, this too was a disappointment. Analysts had expected the company to deliver 33% growth.&quot;Overall we think paid clicks remains the best indicator of a healthy ad ecosystem,&quot; Jefferies analyst Brian Pitz said in a note Tuesday before earnings. Pitz expected the company to deliver 28% growth in paid clicks.There is evidence that Google is becoming a reliably international company. While its revenues in the US and UK were both up 14%, the company&apos;s international growth was up 25% to $7.2bn. That international portion accounted for 47% of the company&apos;s overall revenue, according to chief financial officer Patrick Pichette.UK revenue of $1.58bn represented 10% of overall revenues in the quarter, down from 11% in the same period last year.Google emphasised progress in staffing up initiatives that compete with Apple&apos;s stranglehold on mobile applications. Executives said the company paid out four times as much to developers in 2013 as 2012 on its entertainment app, Google Play. They also said 3,000 developers signed up during the past few weeks to work on its television technology, Chromecast, which competes with streaming services at Amazon, Apple and Netflix.
The chief executive of Europe's largest newspaper publisher has accused Google of abusing a monopoly position in the digital economy to discriminate against competitors and build up a "superstate".In an open letter to Google's Eric Schmidt published in Wednesday's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, the head of Germany's Axel Springer SE publishing house, Mathias Döpfner, said the US company was operating a business model that "in less reputable circles would be called a protection racket", discriminating against competitors in its search rankings. Google's motto was "if you don't want us to finish you off, you better pay", he said.Döpfner – whose publishing portfolio includes Europe's best-selling newspaper, the tabloid Bild, as well as the centre-right broadsheet Die Welt – admitted that his own company was completely reliant on Google, a fact that made him and other publishers scared."Google's employees are always decidedly friendly to us and other publishing houses, but we don't communicate on a level playing field. How could we? Google doesn't need us. But we need Google."Döpfner argued that there had been a "fundamental shift in opinion" about Google among European citizens since Edward Snowden had revealed "close connections between big US online providers and the US intelligence agencies" last year. "No one knows as much about its customers as Google. Even private and business emails are read by Gmail and analysed if the need exists," he said. He described the view, which he attributed to both Schmidt and Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg in response to the NSA revelations, that "if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear", as disconcerting."It stands for a mental attitude and a view of the world that is common in totalitarian regimes, not in free societies. The head of the Stasi or any other secret service in a dictatorship could have come out with a line like that."Referring toGoogle's recent acquisition of drone manufacturer Titan Aerospacehe said: "Is Google really planning a digital superstate ... ? Please, dear Eric, explain to us why this interpretation of what [Google co-founder] Larry Page does and says is just a misunderstanding."Responding to an opinion piece by Schmidt published in the same newspaper, Döpfner denied that his concerns were born of a "Luddite conspiracy theory"."To criticise Google is not to criticise the internet. Those who are interested in a flawlessly functioning internet have to criticise Google. For us as a publishing house the internet is not a threat but one of the greatest chances in recent decades."Döpfner, a former journalist who wrote a PhD thesis on the history of German postwar music criticism before editing a string of newspapers, also took to task the work of the European competition regulators, who in Februaryreached a settlement with Google after investigating the company in an anti-trust inquiry."Will European politicians fold or wake up? Institutions in Brussels have never been as important as they are now," he said.In Germany, Axel Springer has in the past been accused of exercising a monopoly role similar to the one Döpfner accuses Google of benefiting from. Its newspapers' largely conservative views turned the publishing house into one of the main bogeymen of the 1968 student movement.Recently, Axel Springer SE has expanded to eastern Europe but closed down some of its magazines and local newspapers with the reported aim of concentrating on its expansion as a digital media company.
A federal appeals court on Wednesday upheld a contempt of court ruling against Lavabit, an email service that was used by the National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden.Lavabit founder Ladar Levison challengedthe contempt of court order issued to himfor refusing to provide the government with encryption keys to his secure email service. The fourth US circuit court of appeals Judge G Steven Ageesaid in the rulingthat the court’s decision was made because of a procedural error in the appeal.The government had issued a a so-called &quot;pen/trap order&quot; to access metadata from the account of a target,thought to be Snowden. The day the order was issued, Levison refused to comply, according to court documents. The decision was followed by another order stating that Lavabit would be in contempt of court if it continued to not comply.“As each day passed, the government lost forever the ability to collect the target-related data for that day,” Agee said in the court order.Levison said the government forced him to provide SSL encryption keys to his secure emailing service as part of its investigation into Snowden, leading him to close his business because he and his users rely on its secure messaging capabilities. His lawyers also argued that he was not required to provide investigators with the amount of information they sought.Instead of addressing the argument that providing such information could compromise his business, the court’s decision focuses on Lavabit’s procedural handling of its complaints.“At an absolute minimum, if Lavabit believed that the turnover of the keys was invalid under the pen/trap order, then it should have acted once the district court’s August 1 order issued,” the court said. “It did not.”Levison has said he couldhave given investigators access to a single account like he had done in the past, but the nature of their request for “live” access to user information would have compromised Lavabit’s entire system.The American Civil Liberties Union, which filed an amicus brief in the appeal, said the court focused on the procedural aspects of the case unrelated to Lavabit&apos;s claims.&quot;On the merits, we believe it’s clear that there are limits on the government’s power to coerce innocent service providers into its surveillance activities,&quot; said ACLU attorney Brian Hauss in an emailed statement. &quot;The government exceeded those limits when it asked Lavabit to blow up its business –and undermine the encryption technology that ensures our collective cybersecurity – to get information that Lavabit itself offered to provide.&quot;A similar FBI demand preceded the closure of Lavabit’s rival Hushmail, which complied with investigators seeking information on users in 2007.
He may have keyboard warriors taking him down in the comments section of his columns, but Charlie Brooker now has a new army of aggressors to face: the players of forthcoming video game Sniper Elite 3.Brooker will appear as a character in the latest instalment of the world war two shooting game, after the game's creators offered him the chance to be immortalised in pixels. His exact character is being kept under wraps, but he underwent full motion capture – complete with ball-covered Lycra suit – to recreate his likeness for the game. His voice was also recorded for the character, which can be shot and killed.Jason Kingsley, the creative director of the game's developer Rebellion, said: "We really appreciate Charlie championing a British-made game series. We had a fun time doing his motion capture scenes and in return have promised to give him one of the first copies of the game in June so he can shoot his character with a sniper rifle to his heart's content."Sniper Elite screenshot. Photograph: guardianBrooker's career began as a games reviewer on PC Zone, and he also presented one-off video game TV shows such as Gameswipe and How Videogames Changed the World. Rebellion reached out to him after his vocal support for the earlier titles in the series. "I will never tire of hiding in the mountains, blowing people's heads off from a distance with a high-velocity rifle," he wrote in the Guardian in March last year, calling Sniper Elite V2 "the Rolls Royce of sniping games." Here's what he hoped for in the third instalment of the game:Hopefully for Sniper Elite V3 there'll be an even more comprehensive kill sequence in which, after an even more explicit close-up of the bullet boring a path through some Nazi intestine, the camera hurtles to the other side of the world and shows his sweetheart's expression as she receives a telegram announcing his death. And then it shows his crestfallen kids being told daddy won't be home for Christmas. And then the camera follows them through their entire lives, in real-time, depicting them growing up despondent and angry and unfulfilled, and eventually all killing themselves in atrocious ways on the 50th anniversary of pop's murder. And then the camera whizzes back through time, back to the battlefield, back to the point where you're about to pull the trigger. Just so you can pull it again.Brooker isn't the first fan to subsequently get snapped up for some behind-the-scenes work. The comedy actor Peter Serafinowicz was asked to voice a character in the forthcoming Dark Souls II, after he became hooked on the original title whichhe describes as"the best game ever"; he was given the role after asking the developers if he could be involved. He also ended up voicing the various death rattles and exertion noises of the lead character.Sniper Elite 3 is released on 27 June, and will be available for PC, Playstation 4, Xbox One, Playstation 3, and Xbox 360.
The fingerprint security on Samsung&apos;s flagship Galaxy S5 phone has been hacked by a German team, who warn that its implementation is less secure - and its consequences potentially much worse - than on Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S.Security Research Labs, based in Berlin,posted a YouTube clip(included below) showing how they had used a rubber mould incorporating a high-resolution image of a fingerprint lifted from a smartphone screen. The same print and mould that wasused to spoof the iPhone 5S&apos;s fingerprint sensorwas used to fool Samsung&apos;s.But the researchers pointed to what they said are &quot;additional concerns&quot; about Samsung&apos;s security system compared with the iPhone&apos;s, because a would-be hacker can make an unlimited number of attempts at spoofing the fingerprint, and because it can be linked to payment systems such as PayPal - which could then be used to wire money to the attacker&apos;s account.&quot;Samsung&apos;s implementation of fingerprint authentication leaves much to be desired,&quot; the researcher from SRE said. &quot;They do not seem to have learned from what what others have done… while biometrics will always carry with them the trade of security for convenience, it is the manufactures responsibility to implement them in a way that does not put their users crucial data and payment accounts at risk.&quot;The group specifically highlights the absence of a &quot;lock out&quot; function compared with the iPhone 5S, the only other mass-market phone offering fingerprint authentication. Other manufacturers including HTC and Motorola have offered fingerprint unlocking, but with little takeup.Apple&apos;s implementation, called Touch ID, locks out the user after three attempts, if the phone has been turned off, if more than 48 hours have passed since the phone was unlocked, or to change or remove the Touch ID setting. Once locked out, the user has to enter a password or code to access the phone.Apple also only links its Touch ID system to unlocking the phone or its App Store, though once a phone is unlocked any app is accessible.But Samsung offers fingerprint authentication to unlock the phone, for Paypal payments, and to secure folders on the phone. &quot;This gives a would-be attacked an even greater incentive to learn the simple skill of spoofing fingerprints,&quot; said SRE&apos;s researcher, pointing out that they could use the Paypal implementation to send large sums of money while using the fake fingerprint as verification.The threat to both Samsung and Apple users seems to be largely theoretical, however. It requires a high-quality fingerprint lifted from clean glass, and scanned at high resolution, and then printed on to latex rubber. Since the iPhone 5S went on sale in September 2013, there have been no recorded cases of where the fingerprint has been spoofed to hack into the phone beyond laboratory tests such as those by SRE.In a statement, Samsung said: &quot;This is a scenario that is widely regarded in the industry as posing no critical risk for general consumers. This artificial experiment requires a rare combination of highly specialised equipment, materials and conditions. Samsung takes security matters very seriously. We are continuously taking measures to vigorously enhance the security of the device.&quot;Paypal said in astatement to Android Communitythat &quot;While we take the findings from Security Research Labs very seriously, we are still confident that fingerprint authentication offers an easier and more secure way to pay on mobile devices than passwords or credit cards.&quot; The Paypal integration adds a cryptographic &quot;key&quot;, not the actual password, it said: &quot;We can simply deactivate the key from a lost or stolen device, and you can create a new one.&quot; In the event of fraud, the company said, &quot;you are covered by our purchase protection policy.&quot;A researcher from SRE shows how to spoof the Samsung Galaxy S5 fingerprint sensor•Millions of Android smartphones vulnerable to &apos;reverse Heartbleed&apos; attack
MtGox, once the biggest bitcoin exchange in the world, is likely to be liquidated after a Japanese court denied it bankruptcy protection on Wednesday.The company&apos;s assets will be sold off and used to pay its creditors, including those with accounts on the site. But any creditor will now recoup less than their initial stake, although it remains to be seen how much the infrastructure of the firm, as well as intellectual property including the MtGox brand, is worth.Tokyo-based Gox made headlines around the world in Februarywhen it closed its doors without warning, holding millions of dollars worth of bitcoin as well as deposits in multiple conventional currencies.It revealed that it was missing almost 850,000 bitcoin, worth around £400m, and applied for a civil rehabilitation order, the local equivalent of bankruptcy. Since then,the firm has &quot;discovered&quot; 200,000 bitcoinwhich were sitting in an account it hadn&apos;t used for years.But that wasn&apos;t enough to convince the court that it could be made whole again, and looks likely that, following the dismissal of the rehabilitation order, Gox will be liquidated.•How a bug in Bitcoin led to MtGox&apos;s collapse• Are you directly affected by MtGox&apos;s collapse? Let us know in the comments.
London is starting a new property boom – on the web. But the launch of the new .london domain later in April will not, experts hope, see the same price spiral that bricks and mortar property is experiencing.The .london space already has its first occupants: Fortnum and Mason, Meantime brewery, and West Ham United FC are among the first 16 organisations to register a .london domain name, the capital&apos;s competitor to .com, .net and .co.uk.When the first websites go live on 29 April, visitors will be able to type in meantime.london for the brewer, WHUFC.london for the football club, and FortnumandMason.london for the luxury department store.London seems to be second in the world after New York, which has had .nyc since March.The new domain is being launched to let London businesses identify themselves directly in their URL as being based in the capital. An open letter written today by the mayor, Boris Johnson, and signed by executives of organisations ranging from Battersea Dogs and Cats Home to Liberty, calls on other London businesses to join up when signups open in late April.&quot;It is hard to imagine that 25 years ago few of us had heard of the internet,&quot; the letter says. &quot;Now we take it for granted: watching films on demand and buying the weekly groceries.&quot;A web address ending in .london says more about a business than just where it is – it is a statement about who they are and the aspirations they pursue.&quot;Deborah Meaden, the entrepreneur and Dragon’s Den investor, was at the launch for the domain on Wednesday, and told the Guardian that she is involved because &quot;there&apos;s going to be a revolution, and I think London should be proud to be part of the first phase.&quot;She said: &quot;London&apos;s a great brand to attach your business to. I&apos;ve told all 19 of my companies to consider whether they&apos;ll adopt it, and all of them are going to come back with a proposal. I&apos;m expecting a mixed set: some will feel very attached to the city, but others might have smaller elements of their business which they want to link with London.&quot;If you&apos;re a multinational, and you&apos;re doing some community work in the city, why wouldn&apos;t you want to link it to London?&quot;Meaden also dismissed concerns that companies would have to buy new .London domains to prevent &quot;domain squatters&quot; from purchasing their name from under them. &quot;If I&apos;m worried about someone else getting my name, I would think, why would they want it? Instead, I need to consider why I want it.&quot;Every business should be thinking to themselves about the part that they want to play in the revolution on the internet, but they shouldn&apos;t be driven out of fear.&quot;•Generic TLDs: is it worth getting one?
Twitter has acquired social data firm Gnip, one of the few companies to be allowed access to the microblogging service&apos;s &quot;firehose&quot;, for an undisclosed amount.Gnip uses its access to the feed of every tweet sent – known as the &quot;firehose&quot;, for the sheer quantity of data pumped out through it – to offer deep analysis of social media to companies in areas including marketing, finance and public relations.Chris Moody, Gnip&apos;s chief executive, welcomed the acquisitionin a blog post. &quot;We’ll be able to support a broader set of use cases across a diverse set of users including brands, universities, agencies, and developers big and small. Joining Twitter also provides us access to resources and infrastructure to scale to the next level and offer new products and solutions.&quot;Twitter&apos;s Jana Messerschmidt, the company&apos;s vice president for global business development and platform, said: &quot;Gnip has played a crucial role in collecting and digesting our public data and delivering the most essential Tweets to partners.&quot;As well as Gnip,Twitter recently acquired SecondSync and Mesagraph, two companies with a strong focus on Social TV. Those acquisitions let the company focus on &quot;second screen&quot; activities, where a user watches something on television while interacting with a tablet or phone.That area is one where Twitter has a decisive advantage over competitors such as Facebook, thanks to the company&apos;s focus on real-time communication. Facebook has been trying to enter the space, however, with the introduction of &quot;trending topics&quot;.Gnip&apos;s acquisition also followsApple&apos;s purchase in December 2013 of Topsy, another company with access to the firehose. Topsy became the first firm to offer full search of the entire eight-year history of Twitter in September 2013, and some have speculated that Twitter&apos;s acquisition of Gnip is a defensive move, designed to keep at least one of the firehose companies in-house.After the purchase of Gnip, just two independent providers of firehose data remain: Datasift and NTT Data.Erin Griffith, of Fortune magazine,says that the purchase of Topsy&quot;raised red flags at Twitter HQ. Twitter relies on its ecosystem of data resellers, however small… The company needs to protect its interests and keep the remaining few data resellers out of the hands of competitors.&quot;•Twitter buys UK &apos;social TV&apos; firm SecondSync
Parents and social media don't mix. A survey reported in the Times found that 25% of those polled had been embarrassed by photographs of them that their parents had posted online. Only slightly fewer, 21%, reported being embarrassed by parents' photos of themselves.Interestingly, mothers are more au fait with internet culture than fathers, which might explain the post by one mother on her son's Facebook wall that read: "I wanted to let you know he is no longer on Facebook due to choices he made today. He posted personal information about someone … I thought he should know how it feels when the tables are turned. He wet the bed until he was eight." Ouch.Do your parents routinely embarrass you on the internet? Is your mum a chronic oversharer, or has your dad proved hilariously useless with internet slang? Please share your stories below.
Google’s ambitiousmodular smartphone concept, an attempt to disrupt the market dominated by Apple and Samsung, could be available in January 2015 for as little as $50.Paul Eremenko, Google’s Project Ara head,told attendees of its developer conferencethat the modular device is scheduled to go on sale in January next year and will be essentially just a frame, screen, Wi-Fi connection and processor – ready for users to customise with different plug-in modules, colours and accessories.&quot;It&apos;s called the Grey Phone because it&apos;s meant to be drab grey to get people to customise it,&quot; said Eremenko.Modular, grey, disruptor?Project Arais Google’s attempt to make a mobile device where the major components, including the camera, speakers, GPS and other common features of modern smartphones, can be swapped out for new ones, mixing and matching modules to customise the phone to do what the user needs it to do.At the developer conference, the Ara team fleshed out their vision and a timeframe for development for the modular device, attempting to attract developers for both hardware and software to jump on-board the project.The core frame of the Grey phone will be built to last around five to six years, according to Eremenko, allowing users to upgrade their phones steadily, buying cheap individual components like a better camera, improved Bluetooth or new 4G radio from an app store-like shop.More than a smartphoneBut the basic framework and modular nature of Ara could be used to build any number of devices, far beyond a simple smartphone and wouldn’t require a mobile phone radio or Wi-Fi module, for instance.&quot;&apos;What is a phone&apos; can be challenged when you can pick and choose pieces on our platform,&quot; explained David Fishman, an Ara team manager. &quot;It would still be able to run an operating system and do what you&apos;d want to do without a connection.&quot;&quot;If it can be other things, we encourage that,&quot; said Eremenko but added that Google intends Ara to be &quot;ultimately a great smartphone first and foremost&quot; allowing &quot;developers to explore different branches&quot; of technology.&quot;We want to be as helpful but as hands-off as possible for the development of the ecosystem,&quot; Eremenko concluded, meaning that the more advanced technical features of modules will be left up to third-party hardware developers to create once the central frame of the Grey Phone is ready.Motorola hangoverProject Ara came as a result ofGoogle’s purchase of Motorolaand its Advanced Technology and Projects group, which was retained while other parts of Motorola’s businesswas sold off to Lenovoand others.The ambitious project could revolutionise the way smartphones are built and sold, providing a more renewable framework that would do away with the constant need to buy a completely new phone, and instead upgrade it through individual modules.• Motorola’s UK headquits after getting just 30 minutes noticeon the company’s sale to Lenovo from Google
This week on Tech Weekly withCharles Arthurwe hear from influential writerKieron Gillenas this year marks a decade since he published his manifestoNew Games Journalism, calling on games critics to embrace the art form and become as established as other forms of cultural criticism. Guardian games editorKeith Stuarttalks at length with Gillen about his early years working on computer games magazines and how his writing moved from games to music and eventually to an established comics writer now working for Marvel.  You can listen to the full unedited version of the interview on theTech Weekly SoundCloud page here.Also Charles is joined by Guardian tech writersAlex HernandSamuel Gibbsto discuss the Heartbleed security bug found in the ubiquitous OpenSSL and what lies ahead for XP users now that Microsoft have discontinued support for this version of their operating system.
BT is preparing a patch to fix the Heartbleed flaw on its Home Hub routers, the company has confirmed.But the flaw won&apos;t expose many customers to danger, the firm says, because for any attacker to make the most of it they would already have to have joined the BT Home Hub&apos;s wireless network, which is password-protected by default.&quot;BT customers needn’t worry about this,&quot; the company said in a statement. &quot;The risk is extremely low. It’s not possible for a hacker to gain access to your Home Hub unless they physically connect a cable to it inside your home or they have found out your Wi-Fi password.&quot;Even this would not give them access to your data, or allow them to make any changes to your Home Hub. We take internet security very seriously so despite this we will issuing a software patch for the affected Home Hubs.&quot;Netgear, the manufacturer whose routers are shipped by Sky Broadband, among others, confirmed to the Guardian that it does not suffer from the Heartbleed vulnerability, because it does not use SSL at all.&quot;We are aware of this Heartbleed bug and we have checked it with our engineers,&quot; a spokesperson told the Guardian. &quot;Our home devices such as routers are not affected by it because our routers are all using http locally. Netgear can confirm no vulnerabilities to the Heartbleed bug have been found in our routers.&quot;Routers from both providers are secure, provided users don&apos;t change the default settings, and don&apos;t share their wireless passwords too widely.But for users who have made the decision to have an open network, or who are using the less-secure WEP standard to protect their network, there is the risk that their administrator passwords may be easily stolen if they decide to log in.&quot;Manufactures need to come out and say what products are affected, ship updates, and encourage their users to update as soon as possible,&quot; said Lamar Bailey, director of research and development at Tripwire.Bailey pointed out a number of ways that such a lack of security, even against insiders, can backfire. As well as networks with open access, he warned that the flaw can exacerbate problems caused by malware infections.&quot;If a computer has been hacked, or is infected with malware or bots, it would be very easy for the attacker to launch the attacks from this infected computer on the private side of the network.&quot;•Heartbleed bug: what do you actually need to do to stay secure?
Some tools designed to detect the Heartbleed vulnerability are flawed and won&apos;t detect the problem on affected websites, a cybersecurity consultancy has warned.The Heartbleed flaw, which undermined the common security software for internet connections called OpenSSL,caused mass panic last weekdue to the ease with which it could be exploited to acquire passwords or encryption keys, potentially leaking sensitive personal data from popular consumer websites.A deluge of tools then hit the internet promising to help people determine whether the web services they were using or hosting were affected. But 95% of the most popular ones are not reliable, according to London-based security consultancy and penetration testing firm Hut3.&apos;Absolute panic&apos;“A lot of companies out there will be saying they&apos;ve run the free web tool and they&apos;re fine, when they&apos;re not,” Hut3’s Edd Hardy told the Guardian. “There&apos;s absolute panic. We&apos;re getting calls late at night going &apos;can you test everything&apos;.”Most of the tools checked by Hut3 rely on code designed to highlight the flaw created by developer Jared Stafford, which itself contained problematic bugs, said Hut3 penetration tester Adrian Hayter. These included tools created by major tech companies such as Intel-owned security firm McAfee and password management provider LastPass.Hayter uncovered three problems with the Heartbleed checkers, which could lead to many cases of sites remaining vulnerable. One of the issues was to do with compatibility with different versions of SSL, the Secure Sockets Layer kind of web encryption affected by the Heartbleed flaw.&quot;The Heartbleed Checker is designed to work with common system configurations found in the wild,&quot; said Raj Samani, CTO for Europe, the middle east and Asia at McAfee. &quot;There have been reports of detection failure rates of around 2.8% due to these configurations. We were aware of the possibility and have provided a disclosure directly above our checker. We are continually reviewing and revising our code and technique.&quot;Joe Siegrist, CEO at LastPass, said: &quot;Unlike all other tests, LastPass is not actually attempting to exploit the bug to test if it&apos;s currently present – we&apos;ve been unsure if that&apos;s legal for a US entity to do.&quot;Our focus has been in ensuring people are updating/revoking their certificates, and that we&apos;re reflecting what major organisations are saying about their exposure. Can you update or make a new certificate and keep the heartbleed bug in place? Sure, but that&apos;s what all the other tests are for.&quot;Widespread consequences&quot;It is yet another symptom of the &apos;hit the ground running&apos; approach that has characterised the response to this vulnerability,&quot; said Rik Ferguson, vice president of security research at Trend Micro.&quot;The consequences are so widespread and the technology involved so arcane or invisible to the average user, that knee-jerk reactions and well-meaning advice have been offered up with little planning. From the initial Tumblr blog advising user to change all passwords everywhere &apos;now&apos;, before most of the vulnerable services would have been patched, to self-confessed &apos;quick and dirty&apos; demonstration tools being incorporated into complete vulnerability scanning tools.&quot;&quot;The key to success with protection and mitigation of Heartbleed is more haste, less speed - otherwise you may well be sitting in the comfortable haze of a false sense of security. Ignorance isn’t bliss, it’s dangerous.&quot;There are various versions of SSL and servers hosting websites can support some or all of them. If the server doesn&apos;t support the version that the user machine selects, then it will respond by either dropping the connection or trying to use a different type of SSL which the server does support.•Heartbleed: routers and phones also at risk•Developer who introduced Heartbleed error regrets &apos;oversight&apos;•US government denies being aware of Heartbleed bugHerein lies the problem with the detection tools: in many of them, only one version, known as TLSv1.1, is checked. If the server being tested for Heartbleed doesn&apos;t support TLSv1.1, it will either reject the connection or suggest another version. But the failed detectors do not check for another version and assume any server that does not provide a successful response is not vulnerable, said Hayter.Similar problems lie in compatibility with “cipher suites”, the selections of algorithms used to set up a secure connection over the internet. “Once again, if the server does not support any of the cipher suites that the client sends, the connection will disconnect,” said Hayter.Most of the tools he examined only told the server they supported about 51 cipher suites, when there are at least 318 cipher suites that could be used by a website. “Granted, most servers will support at least one of the ciphers in the list of 51, but there could be instances where a server does not support any of them, and in these cases, the server would respond with an error, which the scripts interpret as ‘not vulnerable’.”The third bug was more simplistic: it meant that on slow internet connections some tools would stop working when processing the response of the server, as they would have a time limit. This would again interpret a server as not vulnerable, even if the partially downloaded response would have been enough to confirm the vulnerability, Hayter added.Given the panic around Heartbleed, with many prematurely being told to change passwords for all web services, even before those sites had been fixed, the latest findings will do nothing to appease the confusion.Hut3 has created its own toolwhich it believes could help alleviate some of the pain.•Heartbleed: what you need to know to stay secure
Witnesses at an upcoming trial over no-hire agreements in Silicon Valley should not be allowed to offer evidence that Apple co-founder Steve Jobs was &quot;a bully&quot;, four major technology companies argued in a court filing.Technology workers filed a class action lawsuit against Apple , Google , Intel and Adobe Systems in 2011, alleging they conspired to avoid competing for each other&apos;s employees in order to avert a salary war.The trial is scheduled to begin at the end of May on behalf of roughly 60,000 workers in the class, and defendants say damages could exceed $9bn.The case, which is being closely watched in Silicon Valley, is largely built on emails sent between top executives, including Apple&apos;s late chief executive Steve Jobs and former Google CEO Eric Schmidt, who is now the search company&apos;s executive chairman.When one Google recruiter solicited an Apple employee, Schmidt told Jobs that the recruiter would be fired, court documents show. Jobs then forwarded Schmidt&apos;s note to a top Apple human resources executive with a smiley face.In a joint court filing late last week, the companies told US District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California that they were not seeking to bar Jobs&apos; interactions with other witnesses about the no-hire agreements.However, opinions based on other evidence, such as Walter Isaacson&apos;s bestselling biography about Jobs, should be kept out of trial, they argued.An attorney for the plaintiffs could not immediately be reached for comment on Tuesday, nor could a representative for Apple. Representatives for Google, Intel and Adobe declined to comment.&quot;Plaintiffs&apos; only purpose for offering this testimony would be improper - to cast Mr. Jobs in a bad light,&quot; the companies said in the filing, adding that such evidence has no bearing on whether any defendant entered into an illegal conspiracy.&quot;Free-floating character assassination is improper,&quot; they wrote.Apple, Google, Adobe and Intel agreed to settle a US Department of Justice probe in 2010 that barred them from entering into such no-hire agreements in the future. The four companies have since been fighting the civil antitrust class action, arguing that the plaintiffs cannot successfully prove an overarching conspiracy to impact wages.In addition to evidence about Jobs&apos; character, the tech companies also asked Koh to prohibit discussion of the government probe at trial.&quot;To admit evidence of the DOJ investigation for any purpose would be unduly prejudicial,&quot; they wrote in the filing, &quot;because the jury might incorrectly assume defendants have admitted to or been found guilty of antitrust violations.&quot;At a hearing last month, attorneys for Google and the plaintiffs said they were &quot;making progress&quot; in settlement talks with the government.Walt Disney&apos;s Lucasfilm and Pixar - previously headed by Jobs - and the software company Intuit have already agreed to a settlement, with Disney paying about $9m and Intuit paying $11m. A hearing on final settlement approval is scheduled for 1 May.•Steve Jobs: The Exclusive Biography by Walter Isaacson – review
US Airways managed a doozy of a Twitter fail on Monday when itaccidentally tweeted a pornographic image in a reply to a customer.The American airline tweeted the explicit image to an unhappy customer by mistake – but it took the firm nearly an hour to remove the post.It&apos;s not the first time a corporate company has fallen foul of social media. Here are five of the biggest corporate Twitter fails:1. #AskBGTop tip for British Gas here: it&apos;s perhaps unwise to ask Twitter what they think of the company the very same day they announced an energy price hike of 9.2%. Except in October,they did exactly that.We are here with our Customer Service Director, Bert Pijls, answering your questions until 2pm#AskBGpic.twitter.com/csbaqTfWwu&mdash; British Gas  (@BritishGas)October 17, 2013What started as an innocent Q&amp;A with British Gas&apos; customer service director Bert Pijls soon turned into a Twitter free-for-all..@BritishGasdo u like strawberries also will the souls of hypothermic pensioners play on your conscience for eternity ?#AskBG&mdash; Matt Butler (@Mattbutler183)October 17, 2013#AskBGCan you recommend a good energy supplier?&mdash; 500ml (@ncguk)October 17, 2013Hi Bert, which items of furniture do you, in your humble opinion, think people should burn first this winter?#AskBG&mdash; Lee Vincent (@LeeJamesVincent)October 17, 2013Following the Q&amp;A, a spokesman said:&quot;We always value interaction with our customers.&quot;2. Angry HMV employee tweets during firingIf you&apos;re about to fire someone, it might be a good idea to change your company&apos;s Twitter password. HMV learnt this the hard way after an angry employee used the company&apos;s official Twitter account totweet about mass layoffs at the company.Screenshot of HMV's Twitter feed as an angry employee tweeted about being sacked. The tweets were later deleted. Photograph: /ScreenshotA woman named Poppy Rose Cleere, formerly the company&apos;s social media planner,later identified herself as the HMV employee behind the tweets. In a series of tweets, she said she felt someone had to speak and claimed senior employees &quot;never seemed to grasp&quot; the importance of social media.I would apologise for the#hmvXFactorFiringtweets but I felt like someone had to speak. As someone without a family to support/no mortgage&mdash; Poppy Rose (@poppy_powers)January 31, 2013I felt that I was the safest person to do so. Not to mention, I wanted to show the power of Social Media to those who refused to be educated&mdash; Poppy Rose (@poppy_powers)January 31, 2013A pub in Oxfordshire found itself in a similar situation after it sacked its head chef. Jim Knight was fired as the head chef of The Plough after he asked for Christmas Day off –except the pub forgot that he had access to its official Twitter account.3. MasterCard&apos;s #PricelessSurprisesIt was meant to be a great campaign for MasterCard, coinciding with the Brits. They&apos;d lined up all sorts of stars for videos, pictures and tweets before and during the ceremony.Except the PR company managed to wind up a journalist at a national newspaper by attempting to tell him what he should tweet in return for accreditation to cover the event.Please fellow journalists do not agree to the absurd conditions for covering@BRITAwards. I&#39;ve even just been told what I should tweet. No.&mdash; Tim Walker (@ThatTimWalker)February 18, 2014The demands sent by House PR included suggestions for tweets before, during and after the event, all with the hashtag #PricelessSurprises.After the story broke onPress Gazette, the promoted hashtag was soon the home of much mirth and mocking from journalists and the public alike.Good press coverage is hard to bribe. For everything else there&#39;s Mastercard.#PricelessSurprises&mdash; Felicity Morse (@FelicityMorse)February 19, 2014Sponsored trend from Mastercard is currently helping people to find this:http://t.co/E6gTRp7wMd#PricelessSurprisespic.twitter.com/itznLSB6hR&mdash; Matt Rhodes (@mattrhodes)February 19, 2014Bear in mind, you have to pay Twitter for a promoted tweet. Ouch.4. Tesco &quot;hits the hay&quot; after the horsemeat scandalIt wasn&apos;t exactly the best couple of days for Tesco&apos;s social media team after it was revealed the supermarket had sold burgers containing horsemeat. It got a little bit worse after the social media account tweeted an unfortunate and unintended pun:It&#39;s sleepy time so we&#39;re off to hit the hay! See you at 8am for more#TescoTweets&mdash; Tesco (@Tesco)January 17, 2013The customer care account later tweeted its apologies:@SophyRidgeSkyI&#39;m terribly sorry. That tweet was scheduled before we knew of the current situation. We&#39;d never intend to make light of it.&mdash; Tesco (@Tesco)January 18, 20135. #susanalbumpartyIt was meant to be an invite to the launch of Susan Boyle&apos;s new album. Instead, an unfortunate hashtag meant Twitter was invited toan entirely different kind of partythan the one the singer&apos;s PR team had in mind.Debunking siteIs Twitter Wrong? tracked down the original tweet from Susan Boyle&apos;s official Twitter account, noting it was hastily changed to the more family-friendly #SusanBoyleAlbumParty.Major discovery:#susanalbumpartywas real! But it wasn&#39;t this week; it was sent on October 30 (and quickly corrected):pic.twitter.com/W4iCzv4F&mdash; Is Twit Wrong?  (@IsTwitWrong)November 21, 2012By then, it was definitely too late and there were mock-invites to Susan&apos;s party popping up left, right and centre.Of course, we&apos;re sure there are plenty more where those came from. Share your favourite corporate Twitter fails in the comments below.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBuilding blocks: how Project Ara is reinventing the smartphone &gt;&gt; The VergeDieter Bohn:For example, having different components physically far away from each other should mean that they're slower to communicate (since the bits need to travel farther), but ATAP is trying to push a communication standard called "UniPro" into widespread adoption a year or two ahead of schedule. Eremenko says that once UniPro is utilized by modules, an Ara phone should be fast enough to overcome that speed issue, thanks to "10 gigabits of throughput to most modules from the on-device network with a couple-microsecond latency." That's good enough for things like storage and cellular radios but not good enough for RAM, which will need to be on the same module as the processor.Ara modules need to have a way to communicate with the rest of the phone, but physical contacts are often dirty and unreliable. So instead, the modules will use "capacitive interconnects," which are wireless and theoretically more reliable, especially at high speeds. The capacitive pads also will help save space on the modules, since they're smaller than physical pins.When it comes to keeping the modules in place, physical latches are fiddly and can easily break. Instead, Ara phones will use electropermanent magnets to hold them in place.The smartphone business is zero-profit for most players. How would a business made up of competing parts suppliers be any more profitable - even if the finished product can be made to work as well as a unified phone designed by a single company? It would either flop, or be driven to commodity (and so drive out suppliers) almost at once.GSMA reports on NFC adoption at MWC, SIM trends and HCE &gt;&gt; NFC WorldIn all, 10,000 of the event's 85,000 visitors used the NFC Badge service and a total of 51,000 NFC interactions were made across the Fira Gran Via venue. Last year, 10,500 people used the NFC Experience.Incipio distributed 12,000 NFC cases for iPhones free of charge in the "first couple of days" of the event. "That was a real positive," GSMA media director Claire Cranton told NFC World. "We heard a lot of very positive comments about the opportunity given to participate and it wasn't just tapping and downloading information, there was more interaction and networking."If you can't get a majority of people attending the premier mobile phone conference to use NFC, what hope is there of persuading any significant proportion of the general population?Hardware giant LaCie acknowledges year-long credit card breach &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityComputer hard drive maker LaCie has acknowledged that a hacker break-in at its online store exposed credit card numbers and contact information on customers for the better part of the past year. The disclosure comes almost a month after the breach was first disclosed by KrebsOnSecurity.On 17 March 2014, this blog published evidence showing that the Web storefront for French hardware giant LaCie (now owned by Seagate) had been compromised by a group of hackers that broke into dozens of online stores using security vulnerabilities in Adobe's ColdFusion software. In response, Seagate said it had engaged third-party security firms and that its investigation was ongoing, but that it had found no indication that any customer data was compromised.Seems to be the same gang which broke into Adobe, among others.BMW Organic Light: OLED Tail Light &gt;&gt; DisplayBlogBMW's release, quoted:Initial applications in production cars could see OLEDs taking over the function of the tail light as part of a so-called hybrid light, while brake lights and turn signals continue to employ LEDs...As development progresses, flexible OLEDs that are also transparent will be brought out. Three-dimensional OLEDs with freely definable shapes are a likely prospect in the medium term. The fact that OLEDs are formable and require neither reflectors nor lenses paves the way for a whole new range of uses that are not feasible at the current time.BBC iPlayer video downloads now available for all recent Android devices &gt;&gt; BBC Internet blogDavid Berlin, senior product manager:In response to public demand, instead of our previous policy of comprehensively testing specific devices before enabling downloads, we are now offering video downloads functionality by default to all Android devices running Ice Cream Sandwich (ICS) or above.The opening up of this feature to more than 96% of current users of the BBC iPlayer Android app is the result of development by the BBC iPlayer team and extensive testing via the BBC Mobile Compatibility Programme (MCP). We believe that the vast majority of devices will enjoy a great video downloading experience. However, with more than five thousand different phone, phablet and tablet models able to install the BBC iPlayer Android app, there are likely to be a number of devices that exhibit bugs concerning download behaviour.Blackberry CEO: Opting out of a BYOD world &gt;&gt; CITEWorldNancy Gohring:[John] Chen hammered home the idea that BlackBerry has lost interest in the consumer and thus the BYOD market when he discussed the falling out the company has had with T-Mobile. BlackBerry pulled its phones from T-Mobile following a T-Mobile promotion that rewarded customers for switching from BlackBerry phones.He told Bloomberg that cutting ties with T-Mobile was easier than with AT&amp;T or Verizon, given that T-Mobile is focused on consumers and not enterprises.In a world that's increasingly supportive of BYOD, it's hard to see how Chen's strategy will keep BlackBerry phones alive. He might be able to continue to develop BlackBerry's server products to attract the most security conscious businesses. But since the server now supports other handsets, there's little reason for buyers - be they companies that are issuing phones or individuals told they can buy what they like - to choose BlackBerry phones.The clock's ticking, she says.March 1998: How Yahoo! won the search wars - and could be the next America Online &gt;&gt; FortuneA stroll down memory lane with Randall Stross:Let's leave aside, for now, questions of whether Yahoo! will be around in ten years or whether there's any way its stock might be a good investment. This much is clear: Yahoo! has won the search-engine wars and is poised for much bigger things.Its triumph could hardly be less likely. Yahoo! has emerged from a crowded corner of the Web, where at least three other major services help people do the same thing--find things on the Internet. Type in "Pamela Lee" or "IBM" at any of these so-called search sites, and you'll find that the others-- Infoseek, Excite, and Lycos--tell you about more Websites faster than Yahoo! does. Its technology is not nearly as robust as that of its rivals. Yet Yahoo! gets twice as many visitors as its nearest competitor.At the time the "next America Online" tag was high praise. Now, however...A small tablet company brings high-tech hopes to Haiti &gt;&gt; NPRHaiti has struggled to rebuild since a devastating earthquake more than four years ago. Most of the population lives on less than $2 a day and there are few open jobs for the millions of unemployed.But there's a bright spot: The Western Hemisphere's poorest country is getting into the high-tech race thanks to Surtab, a Port-au-Prince-based company that makes Android tablets."Last month we [produced] 2,500. This month, as soon as we get components, we're now going to have a run rate of about 3,000-3,500," says Maarten Boute, Surtab's CEO. "So we're gradually ramping up."Google, once disdainful of lobbying, now a master of Washington influence &gt;&gt; The Washington PostIn May 2012, the law school at George Mason University hosted a forum billed as a "vibrant discussion" about Internet search competition. Many of the major players in the field were there -- regulators from the Federal Trade Commission, federal and state prosecutors, top congressional staffers.What the guests had not been told was that the day-long academic conference was in large part the work of Google, which maneuvered behind the scenes with GMU's Law &amp; Economics Center to put on the event. At the time, the company was under FTC investigation over concerns about the dominance of its famed search engine, a case that threatened Google's core business.In the weeks leading up to the GMU event, Google executives suggested potential speakers and guests, sending the center's staff a detailed spreadsheet listing members of Congress, FTC commissioners, and senior officials with the Justice Department and state attorney general's offices.A fascinating, in-depth article. (Side note: FTC staff were in favour of pursuing litigation against Google over search; the FTC commissioners disagreed, in a decision taken in late 2012.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Yahoo, the Silicon Valley tech giant that has been under pressure to show it can compete with aggressive rivals like Google, has bought more time for its turnaround with solid earnings and an 84% rise in income.The company said on Tuesday that it made $186m in income from operations in the first three months of the year – a big jump from only $30m at the same time last year. CEO Marissa Mayer said the company had moved past its period of decline and into growth.“While we believe the type of growth we’d like to see will take multiple years, this is a good start,” said Mayer on the company’s earnings webcast.While revenue for all of Yahoo dropped 1% to $1.13bn, the tech company’s investment in China’s Alibaba Group continued to pay off. Alibaba’s revenues jumped 66% to $3.06bn, and its net income soared 110% to $1.4bn.Yahoo holds a 21% stake in e-commerce site Alibaba.com, which has been a cash cow. The benefits of that, however, are likely to fade later this year as Alibaba goes public and Yahoo has to find another way to grow revenues. On the webcast, chief financial officer Ken Goldman said international markets will be an important source of growth for the company.Investors have been curious to see whether CEO Marissa Mayer can effect a turnaround as the company competes with Google and others on search traffic, display ads and video.Yahoo’s display revenue rose 2% to $409m and search revenue grew even more, by 9% to $444m.Tuesday&apos;s earnings show Yahoo crossed into 2014 with something to show for it – though investors and analysts are divided about the company’s overall strategy under Mayer, who joined the company in 2012 after 13 years at Google.Mayer said last year her priorities for the company were, in order, people, products, traffic andlastly, revenue. In a sales pitch to bring on talent from other tech companies in competitive Silicon Valley, Mayer boasted last year that Yahooattracted12,000 resumes a week from job-seekers.Analysts have tried to puzzle out the company’s strategy, which has been pointed in several different directions, from search to advertising to video. Mayer said on Tuesday that the availability and compatibility of Yahoo on smartphones is key to the company as well, declaring “mobile pivotal to our future growth”. She said the company more than doubled its mobile team and grew mobile users by 30% to 430 million people.“I would put mobile as one of the key, maybe even the most important of the four businesses to our overall growth,” said Mayer, citing native advertising, social and video as the company’s other sources of growth.Mayer also alerted investors that Yahoo is interested in creating more original web videos – some original with partners. The company has created 70 original shows, Mayer said. Yahoo, in its quest to compete in video, will be up against giants like Netflix and Amazon.Yahoo is also focusing on information security, hiring a new chief for the effort in the wake of widespread tech-industry concerns about hacking. “If we offer our users greater security for our products, they will use them more,” Goldman said.Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Youssef Squali said before earnings were announced that “2013 represented a year of right-sizing, investment and acquisition” for the company, which would indicate that 2014 is the year that Mayer and her team deliver growth.Of the 38 analysts who follow the company, 19 have a buy rating, which shows enthusiasm about Yahoo’s chances, and 18 recommend “hold”, a neutral judgment that is neither positive nor negative. There is a single “sell” rating.Yahoo’s stock has been one of the notable casualties in some weakness in the tech industry, dropping 17% over the course of the year. The company has been buying back its own shares to boost the price.“We have reduced the number of shares we have and we think that has been a very good use of our cash,” Goldman told analysts today.In the first three months of the year, Yahoo bought back 12m shares for $450m. That brings the tally of buybacks to $6bn since the beginning of 2012, according to Goldman. Mayer joined the company in July 2012.
Four black brick towers search upwards to an empty grey sky. Mounted security cameras watch on balefully. If it weren’t for all the cheery cyclists passing by, some with surfboards in hand, alleviating the unfaltering graveness of the place, Europol’s headquarters would strike any visitor as some post-apocalyptic Mordor.The interior, though, is more modern art museum than Kafkaesque bureaucracy. Expressionist paintings line the walls, clean cut modernist marble and pane upon pane of glass reflect the white light pouring in from outside. It’s all very plush. I’m told there’s a sauna somewhere around too.A charming PR officer takes me up one of the towers, having her palm scanned at the entrance of Europol’sEuropean Cybercrime Centre (EC3). Troels Oerting, who heads up the unit, greets me with a heart pressure monitor disconcertingly attached to his hip. I daren’t ask. After all, we’re here to talk about EC3’s role in the global fight against digital crime, whilst getting a tour of the team’s vast facilities.And vast they are, covering five floors where the EC3, founded just over a year ago, deals with three different kinds of illicit activity: online child exploitation, credit card fraud, and cyber crime services, traditionally offered by organised gangs offering hackers-for-hire or doing it themselves for their own profit.We pass the rooms where those unenvious men and women trawl through hours of child abuse images and video footage online. Oerting, a former Danish police officer, doesn’t lead me through those darkened doors.Then we head to the breakout rooms, where law enforcement agents from across the world come together, either in person or virtually, to tackle urgent cases. Souped-up workstations, mounted screens and videoconferencing gear fill the space. We interrupt three individuals having what appears to be a rather serious discussion in one of the meeting areas. “He’s a journalist,” Oerting says. “Thanks for warning us,” one of the team replies. We move swiftly on.An “unbreakable” door protects the EC3’s data centre, where all the servers powering worker systems can be found, alongside storage systems holding valuable case data, hidden away from any potential crook who manages to get through the hand scanners and security guards at the front gate. A little lab, where malware and other illicit virtual goods are analysed, is protected by two reinforced doors.There are bedrooms and shower facilities too, for when agents decide they need to stick around in case of any sudden call for action. Though they look like Ikea-funded prison cells, they’re useful for when investigations suck up officers’ time.In this togetherThe forensics room, a Faraday cage where no outside interference can penetrate the walls, is a clinical little area, panels emitting light from almost every corner of the room, helping those tinkering with suspects’ hardware obtain evidence. “A lot of the times these criminals will stamp on their smartphones,” Oerting says, giving me a demonstration of how one might do just that. “But it doesn’t matter, we can still find stuff [on the devices].”Amongst the 70 workers here, one is an FBI agent, whilst an officer from the UK National Crime Agency’s cyber unit will be joining the team soon. Oerting has a soft spot for the UK, largely because of its regimented approach to tackling all kinds of illicit activity. “What the UK is good at, and I think it&apos;s because they are an old empire, and what I admire about the UK, is that you sit down, you make a strategy and you follow it.“The UK, even being EU-sceptical, knows that if there is one thing you can&apos;t border yourself from it’s cyber crime ... the UK has seen we need to do this together.”Oerting wants to welcome police and other forensics investigators from across the world, as part of EC3’s mission to act as a hub for cyber sleuths looking into the most egregious of online crimes. One year into its existence, its efforts to foster collaboration have received plaudits from the industry.“Not only has there been greater collaboration with law enforcement agencies worldwide, but the development of the advisory boards and their collaboration with the private sector shows the value of the public-private partnership. Building upon the collaborative nature of the centre is critical in the fight against cybercrime, and one that I feel EC3 has already demonstrated great success to date,” says Raj Samani, CTO for security firm McAfee in EMEA and a cyber crime adviser for Europol.Agents can stay on the premises when investigations suck up their time.From Russia with little loveYet it’s clear all is not well when it comes to cyber relations between nations. Working with non-EU members such as Russia, where digital crime is rife, is far from straightforward.Collaborating with Putin’s cyber police is only going to get more difficult thanks to the standoff with Ukraine. Not only would Ukraine have been a useful addition to the EC3 membership, given the level of unlawful online activity in nations of the old Soviet Union, but Russia had started showing signs of greater cooperation, Oerting says. That progress looks likely to be put on hold, possibly indefinitely, especially with the sanctions being imposed by Europe and the US.“Russia is going through some things that will probably not boost our cooperation,” he says. “85 per cent of our cases are Russian-speaking organised cyber groups, so we need to cooperate with these colleagues ... but that&apos;s right now a bit complicated.”Countries where cyber criminals host their operations also tend to be those nations that do not have extradition agreements with Western powers. Trying to convince non-EU member states or those that don’t have information sharing agreements to make arrests is “very cumbersome”, Oerting notes.The leaks of Edward Snowden are also causing EC3 grief. Companies are now less willing to share data, even if it clearly relates to criminal activity, as noted in aprevious Guardian report. “We will of course see the unintentional downside of this,” the EC3 chief says. “Companies are much more cautious than they used to be.”Cops losing to robbersAnd despite all the money invested in digital policing, Oerting believes the criminals are still winning. The profits are high and the risk is low. Take Cryptolocker, one of last year’s most damaging threats. Known as ransomware, it encrypted users’ data and demanded money from users (usually around 0.3 Bitcoins, currently worth around £110) to unlock the infected system. It infected at least 250,000 machines in 2013. “It&apos;s a money machine. My experts tell me, ‘Troels, if you have 15,000 euros, you invest them here, in one week you will break even, in three months, you have 500,000 euros’.”On the underground forums, where many of EC3’s agents operate undercover, it’s become apparent just how grand the spoils have become for successful cybercriminals. In one case, officers came across a competition: the person who obtained the largest amount of money through a particular scam would win a Ferrari.Globally, police have not done a good enough job of deterring online crime, admits Oerting. Right now it is “too easy and risk free”. Legislative issues need to be overcome if law enforcement agencies are to offer real deterrents – a message Europol is spreading amongst European mandarins.Oerting’s boss, Europol director Rob Wainwright, this month called on MEPs and national parliamentarians for &quot;a fair deal from legislators in giving national and international police authorities the right tools to confront dangerous new forms of organised crime appearing online&quot;. Oerting and Wainright are concerned digital sleuths have not been given the same powers as their “real world” counterparts.“In the physical world, I&apos;m a cop, and according to Danish rules I am empowered to stop people, to frisk them, to arrest them and take away their freedom for 24 hours. I can take them without asking a judge. I can go to their home and [search] there. And I can eventually use force against them and in the end I can kill people,” Oerting says.“But if I want just half the same powers on the internet, everybody screams.”'A lot of the times these criminals will stamp on their smartphones...'Time to hack back?More aggressive measures may be required. Legislation should look at speeding up the process of cross-border obtaining evidence, Oerting adds. “Laws have a geographical limitation. If the Dutch or the Danes are looking at a case, they can only go to the border of this case if the server is in another country. How much will we allow this to be done? The security companies don&apos;t ask, they just penetrate and get the information, it doesn&apos;t matter where it is located. And if the door isn&apos;t open they will make sure it will open. We stop and say this server is not physically located on our territory, and we are not allowed to do anything.&quot;“Our mutual legal assistance process is not sufficient anymore. There is a big need for speeding up the judicial cooperation. One thing is that police cooperation needs speeding up, but also the judicial because [I cannot obtain evidence].”This may even stretch to “hacking back”, something Dutch politicians have been discussing. This would permit intrusion of servers across borders. Oerting believes this will one day become a reality, it’s just a matter of timing. “Now, when we have Snowden in fresh memory, how do you then persuade somebody that it&apos;s needed for someone in law enforcement to make intrusions?&quot;“I can see it will come ... but we will probably have to wait until there are bodies at the table.”The concept of hacking back sounds a bit bellicose. Yet visitors to Europol will note the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia just next door. That’s where Ratko Mladic is standing trial over orchestrating the massacre of more than 7,000 Bosnian Muslim boys and men. For all the current hyperbole around digital attacks, we should be thankful it has not brought about the horrors often delivered by real-world crime. Oerting and his team are hoping to keep it that way.
Google has clarified its email scanning practices in a terms of service update, informing users that incoming and outgoing emails are analysed by automated software.The revisions explicitly state that Google’s system scans the content of emails stored on Google’s servers as well as those being sent and received by any Google email account, a practice that has seen the search company face criticism fromprivacy action groupsandlawsuits from the education sector.“We want our policies to be simple and easy for users to understand. These changes will give people even greater clarity and are based on feedback we&apos;ve received over the last few months,” said a Google spokeswoman.‘Not the worst thing Google does’The automated systems scan the content of emails for spam and malware detection, as many other email providers automatically do, but also as part of Google’s “priority inbox” service and tailored advertising.“This is not the worst thing Google does,” said Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group. “But like anything like this, if people are concerned about it they should be able to completely switch it off if they want to.”Google’s ads use information gleaned from a user’s email combined with data from their Google profile as a whole, including search results, map requests and YouTube views, to display what it considers are relevant ads in the hope that the user is more likely to click on them and generate more advertising revenue for Google.Sent, received and storedThe updated terms of service were clarified to specifically state:“Our automated systems analyse your content (including emails) to provide you personally relevant product features, such as customised search results, tailored advertising, and spam and malware detection. This analysis occurs as the content is sent, received, and when it is stored.”Google’s email scanning practices stretch across consumer-facing Gmail displaying ads to support the service, as well as its products for business and education which have the option of being ad-free.Such scanning and indexing of emails, which cannot be fully turned off, could be in violation of a US law called Ferpa, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, which is the main law guarding student educational records and the law being used as the basis for alawsuit filed against Google in California.While email scanning has taken the headlines recently, leading from the revelations that Google considers that users have no “reasonable expectation” of privacy, the Open Rights Group considers other aspects of Google’s practices most troubling.“The really dangerous things that Google is doing are things like the information held in Analytics, cookies in advertising and the profiling that it is able to do on individual accounts,” said Killock.“It is the amount of information they hold on individuals that should be concerning us, both because that is attractive to government but also sometimes that information leaks out in various ways like the NSA’s use of cookies in general as a means to target users,” Killock explained.• Googlebuys drone heavy weight Titan Aerospaceto bolster project Loon
At least 4m Android smartphones in the US, and tens of millions worldwide, could be exploited by a version of the &quot;Heartbleed&quot; security flaw, data provided to the Guardian shows.Worldwide, the figure could be 50m devices, based onGoogle&apos;s own announcementthat any device running a specific variant of its &quot;Jelly Bean&quot; software – Android 4.1.1, released in July 2012 – is vulnerable.The figure, calculated usingdata provided exclusively by the analytics firm Chitika, is the first time an accurate estimate has been put on the number of vulnerable devices. Other estimates have suggested it is hundreds of millions, based on the number of devices running versions of Android 4.1. But most of those run 4.1.2, which is not at risk.Google has not disclosed how many devices are vulnerable, although it has indicated that the figure is &quot;less than 10%&quot; of devices activated worldwide.But that could be a huge number, given that Google has activated 900m Android devices worldwide. There are also hundreds of millions of handsets in China running Android without Google services, which would not show up on its systems, and which are also likely to be running vulnerable versions.The figure on the number of vulnerable devices comes from an analysis for the Guardian by the ad network Chitika of US network traffic. Looking at web traffic for the seven-day period between 7 April and 13 April, &quot;Android 4.1.1 users generated 19% of total North American Android 4.1 Web traffic, with users of version 4.1.2 generating an 81% share. Web traffic from devices running Android 4.1.0 made up less than 0.1% of the Android 4.1 total observed, so we did not include for the purposes of clarity,&quot; said Andrew Waber, a Chitika representative.Based on Comscore data which suggests there are 85m Android smartphones in use in the US, that means that there are at least 4m handsets which are vulnerable.The devices would be vulnerable to a hack described as &quot;reverse Heartbleed&quot; - where a malicious server would be able to exploit the flaw in OpenSSL to grab data from the phone&apos;s browser, which could include information about part sessions and logins.Although the risk is principally theoretical, it has focused attention on the security risk to Android devices which are running older versions of software but which are in effect abandoned by handset manufacturers and mobile operators, both of which have to process and pass on updates. Manufacturers typically provide updates for Android devices for 18 months after their release, despite efforts by Google in the past to provide a co-ordinated update scheme.Of the smartphones in use, only Android devices are vulnerable to this form of attack. Apple does not use the vulnerable version of OpenSSL on the iPhone or iPad, while Microsoft said that neither Windows Phone nor Windows is affected.Although the affected devices lie outside the18-month window under which Google says devices are &quot;traditionally&quot; updated, the company said that &quot;We have also already pushed a fix to manufacturers and operators.&quot; But it&apos;s unclear how quickly those will be implemented, if ever.The security firm Lookout, which provides Android security software, has produced a downloadable Android app which lets people check whether their device is vulnerable.More than 80% of people running Android 4.1.1 who have shared data with Lookout are affected, Marc Rogers, principal security researcher at the San Francisco-based company, told Bloomberg.The proportion of at-risk devices in Germany is nearly five times higher than in the US, probably because one of the popular devices there uses the 4.1.1 version of Android, Rogers said. Based on Chitika&apos;s numbers, that could mean up to 20% of Android smartphones there being vulnerable, a number that would run to millions.But Rogers also told Bloomberg that there are no signs yet of hackers are trying to attack Android devices through the vulnerability. It would be complex to set up and have a low success rate because the vulnerable devices would have to be targeted one by one, amid all the non-vulnerable ones. &quot;Given that the server attack affects such a larger number of devices and is so much easier to carry out, we don&apos;t expect to see any attacks against devices until after the server attacks have been completely exhausted,&quot; Rogers told Bloomberg.Google released the first version of Android 4.1 in July 2012. It was superseded in July 2012 by 4.1.1, which brought a bug fix for Nexus 7 tablets. A final version, 4.1.2, was released in October 2012.Only 4.1.1 uses the vulnerable version of OpenSSL. While Google noted in a blogpost about vulnerabilities of its products to Heartbleed, it didn&apos;t specify what proportion are running 4.1.1, and the numbers are not split out from its Android platform versions information for developers, which combines the data for all three versions of 4.1 to give a headline figure of 34.4%.•Developer who wrote code with Heartbleed bug regrets &apos;oversight&apos;
Mozilla has named the former chief marketing officer Chris Beard as its interim CEO, replacing Brendan Eich who resigned in early April.Beard also takes the place of Eich on the Mozilla corporation board.Eich, the former CEO and creator of Javascript, was forced to step down after just 11 days in the job when it was revealed that he had donated to a campaign to ban same-sex marriage.According to Mozilla, Beard&apos;s membership of the board was mooted even before Eich resigned. &quot;We began exploring the idea of Chris joining the board of directors some months ago,&quot; says the executive chairwoman Mitchell Bakeron the company&apos;s blog.&quot;Chris has been a Mozillian longer than most,&quot; Baker continues. &quot;He’s been actively involved with Mozilla since before we shipped Firefox 1.0, he’s guided and directed many of our innovative projects, and his vision and sense of Mozilla is equal to anyone’s. I have relied on his judgment and advice for nearly a decade. This is an excellent time for Chris to bring his understanding of Mozilla to the Board.&quot;While Beard is currently only interim CEO, holding the reigns while the board searches for someone who can take over Eich&apos;s job on a permanent basis, Baker describes him as &quot;a strong candidate for CEO&quot;.Brendan Eich was promoted to chief executive on 24 March. Mozillaimmediately faced criticismdue to a $1,000 donation Eich had made in 2008 to the campaign for California&apos;s Proposition 8, which sought to ban same-sex marriage in the state.The company prides itself on being an open and inclusive workplace, and many,including developers from within Mozilla, questioned how a CEO who had acted in a private capacity to remove rights from queer employees could uphold those values in the role.Ten days later, Eich stepped down.Even with the appointment of an interim chief executive, Mozilla faces a number of institutional challenges ahead.The firm has a desktop browser which is losing relevanceas users shift to mobile, an open-source operating system struggling to get adoption, and the bulk of its income comes from one company, Google, which may decide not to renew that arrangement in November 2014.•Mozilla still has three big problems – and now it needs a new CEO
The city of York is to have the fastest broadband speeds in Britain after four telecoms groups, led by Sky and TalkTalk, announced plans to build an ultrafast network.Capable of delivering speeds of up to 1 gigabit per second (1Gbps), the infrastructure project is the biggest challenge yet to BT's dominance of the UK's fixed-line telecoms infrastructure.York's network will be built by the Japanese electronics firm Fujitsu and CityFibre, a British firm which already owns 29,000km of fibre and sells high speeds to public sector, mobile network and business clients.The companies say they intend to bring ultra-fast broadband to two further cities – as yet un-named – across the UK.York's network will beat BT and Virgin Media's top speeds by running fibre optic cables all the way to buildings, serving tens of thousands of homes and businesses in the city.While the UK has pockets of fibre to premises – in areas such as Yorkshire and Hull, for example – this will be the first engineering project to install ultra-fast on a city-wide basis. The first phase will connect 20,000 premises – around 10% of York's population.BT's infrastructure mostly takes fibre as far as the street cabinet, relying on copper for the final mile to the doorstep, giving a top speed of up to 80 megabits per second (80Mbps). The company does offer fibre all the way to the premises at 330Mbps to consumers who request it - the product costs £38 a month plus installation but is not available from all exchanges.Targeting a city of 200,000 inhabitants, this will be one of the most ambitious infrastructure projects undertaken by Sky and TalkTalk, which until now have relied entirely on BT's own network to reach their customers.The project will give them the chance to test what they claim is a cost-effective approach to building a pure fibre network independently of BT. Details such as launch dates and pricing are still to be confirmed.Sky, TalkTalk and CityFibre will each hold a 33.3% equity stake in the joint venture. Sky and TalkTalk will each invest £5m, with CityFibre making its contribution in kind through the use of fibre it has already installed in York. This currently links public sector buildings in the city."TalkTalk has a long history and proven track record of disrupting new markets, and this is the next step in that journey," said the company's chief executive Dido Harding. "We are excited to be working in partnership with Sky and CityFibre to build this new network that will offer significantly higher speeds at much better value than is currently available. This marks TalkTalk taking its first steps into investing in building infrastructure as part of our mission to make British homes and businesses better off."She said the project marked a major change of direction for her company: "We're excited about this being the first step in our journey to becoming an infrastructure company."York city council leader James Alexander said: "This announcement makes York the digital infrastructure capital of the UK. Gaining ultra-fast broadband across the city is a huge boost for our economy, providing significant new opportunities for businesses based here and better quality and value to our residents."The next two cities are likely to be selected through a competition, with areas that show the most interest from potential customers chosen to be next on the list.The partners have taken inspiration from Google, which installed gigabit fibre in Kansas and is now looking at a further nine metropolitan areas in the United States. The speed is enough for 200 people in one house to stream HD video.Joe Garner, head of BT's Openreach division, which runs its network, said: "Openreach already offers Fibre To The Premises in parts of York. This means that customers and businesses in the city will have even more choice which can only be a good thing.  We will continue to respond to our customers evolving needs."The home of the future?From Kansas in the US to Seoul in South Korea – and now York – cities around the world are being wired up to ultrafast fibre optic broadband. One Gigabit internet, which Sky and TalkTalk are planning to offer in York, gives download speeds equal to 1024 Megabits per second, or 57 times what is available to a typical household – the average UK broadband service now downloads at 18Mbps, according to Ofcom.Such a connection is guaranteed to put an end to buffering, but how useful will it be in daily life, and what new technologies will it enable?Experience in Hull, where the local telecoms company Kcom has invested in thousands of fibre connections direct to buildings, suggests that the first thing people do once their property has a fibre cable running all the way to the exchange is upload lots of content.Fibre can upload much faster than the typical copper broadband service, so collections of music and videos, home movies and photo albums can all be painlessly stored and backed up on Cloud servers many hundreds of miles away. Transmitting 100 photos or 100 songs takes three seconds at the speed planned for York, and just 7 seconds are needed for a high-definition film. The same activities on an 18Mbps broadband connection via the phone line would take five to 10 minutes.With this kind of bandwidth, dozens of devices per household will be connected to the web, from smartphones, tablets and televisions to smoke detectors, baby monitors, security systems, boilers and even fridges or cookers.Schoolchildren will be able to pick up and spin three-dimensional models of the solar system stored on a publisher's servers, using giant screens that sense eye and hand movements. And with no delay between sound and image, virtual orchestras could be assembled from players in separate studios.Using the kind of immersive-technology headsets that are being developed by Oculus, the gaming company recently bought by Facebook, players will be able to walk, jump and turn through three-dimensional landscapes. Gigabit fibre will be disruptive to media, education, industry, and potentially to the living-room furniture.
Motorola UK’s managing director Andrew Morley is to leave the soon-to-be Lenovo-owned mobile phone company after seven years.Morley took over as Motorola’s UK head in 2010, after a stint as Motorola’s vice president of international marketing, responsible for its “Life Empowered” marketing campaign. Morley was a group marketing director at Harrods Group, marketing director at BSkyB and European marketing director at Ford, prior to joining Motorola.“It is the right time to move,” Morley said talking to the Guardian. “It is very difficult to commit to another three years at the company now that it is in the hands of Lenovo.”Morley discovered that Lenovo had acquired Motorola only 30 minutes before the public announcement in January.“Google was a great employer, and many people stuck around at Motorola because of Google, but now that incentive has gone,” explained Morley.Lenovo in, employees outMorley’s departure comes only three months after it was announced that Motorola would besold to Chinese electronics firm Lenovo for $2.9bn, two years after it was acquired by Google for $12.5bn.Despite jumping ship, Morley believes Lenovo’s acquisition of Motorola will be a winning one, citing the Chinese company’s purchase and turn around of the IBM ThinkPad laptop brand as an example of what Lenovo’s success, which has helped the company become one of the world’s biggest laptop manufacturers.Morley’s departure comes after Motorola’s chief executive Dennis Woodside left the company to become file-syncing service Dropbox’s chief operating officer in February.Motorola’s senior marketing director Marcus Frost will take on UK marketing responsibilities, while the company recruits a replacement for Morley as UK general manager.Morley said he is entertaining multiple high-level opportunities, one as UK managing director for another mobile company and another as a head of European marketing for a luxury brand. For now, Morley will be volunteering for six weeks at his local homeless charity, Watford New Hope Trust.“I didn’t take a gap year after university, and haven’t taken a break between jobs, so this is going to be my mid-life year out, or at least six weeks out,” said Morley.• Motorola’s bites into the UK budget smartphone market withdramatic impact on the company’s share of smartphone sales
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVinyl v CD v digital audioFormer trainee record producer Marc Edwards:Keep in mind that I say the following as an owner of lots of records and as someone who remembers my time with vinyl fondly. There was no greater feeling than receiving a test pressing of a song you've written — a physical representation of your work. I really miss that with software.• DynamicsIn terms of dynamics, vinyl is terrible and often our songs needed fairly drastic compression (the audio kind) and limiting to fit into what is acceptable for vinyl. Mastering for radio these days often uses brutal limiting, which raises the overall loudness, but vinyl had its own flavour of poor dynamics, which was a real issue for the kind of music we wrote. Softer passages of the music would often have to be made a lot louder, to keep them within range and well above the noise floor.• Frequency responseAgain, vinyl is terrible in this respect.And plenty more.Samsung Galaxy S5's first day sales were 30% to 100% higher than its predecessor's launch day sales &gt;&gt; Phone ArenaAccording to a report published Sunday out of Korea, first day sales of the Samsung Galaxy S5 beat out the launch day sales of its predecessor. In some countries, sales of the new model doubled the amount of sales that the Samsung Galaxy S4 drew on its first day of release. Overall, sales of the Samsung Galaxy S5 were 30% to 100% higher on its opening day, than the numbers achieved by the Samsung Galaxy S4.The Samsung Galaxy S5 was released on Friday in 125 countries, and will soon be offered in 150. Samsung says that it has received orders for millions of the device, and "the market is not yet saturated." Instead, Samsung appears to be worried about whether or not it has enough supply to go around…Last year, the Samsung Galaxy S4 got off to a hot start, selling 10m units in less than a month, before sales slowed down. The Galaxy S4's predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S III, took 50 days to accomplish the same sales total. The Samsung Galaxy S II needed five months to hit the 10m sales mark, while the original Samsung Galaxy S reached 10m in sales after seven months.Apple considering hiking price of iPhone 6 by $100, says analyst &gt;&gt; ElectronistaApple has been asking carriers for approval to raise the base subsidized price of the iPhone 6 from $199 to $299, claims Jefferies analyst Peter Misek. The carriers have allegedly balked at the idea so far. Apple could potentially justify the increase due to the phone's bigger size; it's unclear in fact if the hike would apply to the 4.7-inch model or the 5.5-inch one, since Misek refers to just one iPhone 6. Many shoppers would likely assume a 5.5-inch phone would be more expensive.Misek has awoeful recordon Apple predictions. Watching brief on this one.In emerging markets, there is no app store duopoly &gt;&gt; Jana MobileIn emerging markets, the app store ecosystem is more complicated than Google Play vs Apple App Store. According to a recent Jana survey, many consumers are looking beyond the big players for their download needs.This is huge news for developers with an eye on emerging markets. In countries such as Indonesia, where third-party app store GetJar is used by nearly one in five of our survey respondents, traditional app marketing is clearly not the only option. These are unique markets in which different approaches are necessary to reach consumers and drive downloads.Indonesia is going to be a gigantic market.TL;DR Wikipedia &gt;&gt; TumblrNot too long to read: the condensed sort-of Wikipedia.10 Rules of Internet &gt;&gt; Anil Dash1) Given enough time, any object which can generate musical notes will be used to play the Super Mario Brothers theme on YouTube.2) Judging by their response, the meanest thing you can do to people on the Internet is to give them really good software for free.3) Three things never work: Voice chat, printers and projectors.And seven more.4G LTE ZTE Redbull phone launches in China with a low price tag of $135 &gt;&gt; IntomobileJust the other day we've told you that ZTE is looking to launch a youth-oriented Redbull phone, and voila – it has been officially announced in China where it will compete with any number of devices made by the likes of Xiaomi, Lenovo and others.The price is set at 799 Yuan ($135) and that money gets you a decent mid-ranger called Redbull Youth with a 5-inch 720p HD screen, 13-megapixel rear camera with Sony CMOS lens with F2.2 aperture and 5-part sapphire glass lens, 5-megapixel front-facing camera with 88 degree wide angle lens, quad-core Snapdragon chip, 1GB of RAM, 4GB of expandable storage and a 2,400 mAh battery. Add another 200 Yuan, and you get Redbull Energy that has 2GB of RAM and 8GB of expandable storage.All this and LTE too. The colour choices are... familiar.Scale model WWII craft takes flight with fuel from the sea &gt;&gt; US Naval Research LaboratoryNavy researchers at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory (NRL), Materials Science and Technology Division, demonstrate proof-of-concept of novel NRL technologies developed for the recovery of carbon dioxide (CO2) and hydrogen (H2) from seawater and conversion to a liquid hydrocarbon fuel.Flying a radio-controlled replica of the historic WWII P-51 Mustang red-tail aircraft—of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen—NRL researchers (l to r) Dr. Jeffrey Baldwin, Dr. Dennis Hardy, Dr. Heather Willauer, and Dr. David Drab (crouched), successfully demonstrated a novel liquid hydrocarbon fuel to power the aircraft's unmodified two-stroke internal combustion engine. The test provides proof-of-concept for an NRL developed process to extract carbon dioxide (CO2) and produce hydrogen gas (H2) from seawater, subsequently catalytically converting the CO2 and H2 into fuel by a gas-to-liquids process.Fueled by a liquid hydrocarbon—a component of NRL's novel gas-to-liquid (GTL) process that uses CO2 and H2 as feedstock—the research team demonstrated sustained flight of a radio-controlled (RC) P-51 replica of the legendary Red Tail Squadron, powered by an off-the-shelf (OTS) and unmodified two-stroke internal combustion engine.Add this to the handheld jet engines from the other day, and you've got a way to fly across the sea.Samsung Galaxy S5 teardown &gt;&gt; iFixitSamsung Galaxy S5 Repairability Score: 5 out of 10 (10 is easiest to repair).The battery is incredibly easy to remove and replace.The display is now one of the first components out, making replacements a little faster. However, it is held in with a significant amount of adhesive and requires very careful and persistent prying and a considerable amount of heat to remove without cracking the glass or cutting cables.Once you get the device open, several components are modular and fairly easy to replace, such as the cameras, headphone jack, vibrator motor, and speakers.Replacing anything other than the battery requires first removing the display, risking extra damage on the way to a repair.5/10 is the lowest iFixit has ever given a Samsung Galaxy (the S4 got 8/10). TheHTC One M8 gets 2/10: "display assembly cannot be replaced without tunneling through the entire phone".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
The parenting website Mumsnet has become one of the latest high-profile organisations to warn that users' data had been obtained by hackers exploiting the so-called Heartbleed bug, a vulnerability to the open-source code used by thousands of websites  which became apparent last week.The site, which has 1.5 million registered members, said it had no way of knowing who had been affected before the security hole was patched up and had decided to require all users who created passwords on or before Saturday to change them."The worst-case scenario is that the data of every Mumsnet-user account was accessed," Mumsnet said in a statement, which added that it had become aware of the bug on Thursday.Canada's tax agency also said on Monday that the ID numbers of roughly 900 people were stolen from its systems as a result of the Heartbleed vulnerability. Among other systems confirmed to have been affected are Imgur, OKCupid, Eventbrite, and the FBI's website, all of which run affected versions of OpenSSL software.Mumsnet's founder, Justine Roberts, told the BBC that it became apparent that user data was at risk when her own username and password were used to post a message online.The statement issued on Monday by the website said that the bug allowed access to the information submitted via the login page, which included users' usernames, emails and Mumsnet passwords."It is possible that this information could have been used to log in as you give access to your posting history, your personal messages and your personal profile, although we should say that we have seen no evidence of that thus far," it said.The Mumsnet statement added, however, that no site could give a cast-iron guarantee that data would be safe if users changed their passwords."We've installed the patch that fixes the known vulnerability in OpenSSL, and together with forcing a password reset, we think this makes MN [Mumsnet] users as safe as we can make them. But if there's one thing we've all learned from Heartbleed, it's that there may be security vulnerabilities out there that nobody knows about."The statement went on: "To the best of our knowledge, so long as you have changed your password, the Heartbleed bug can no longer affect your personal data on Mumsnet. But of course, if you would like to close your Mumsnet account, you can do so any time."
Facebook is preparing a money transfer service in Europe that would allow it to compete with the likes of Western Union, while giving users the option of storing money with the social network or buying items online.The US tech firm is seeking regulatory approval in its European base in Ireland for "e-money" status, which would see it issue digital credits that can be converted into cash by recipients.The firm already has permission for some forms of money transfer in the US, which allow payments within apps, including the Candy Crush Saga and Farmville games, from which Facebook takes a 30% cut. The company facilitated $2.1bn (£1.3bn) in transactions across Facebook in 2013, primarily to games publishers.Approval in Ireland would allow Facebook to operate an e-money service throughout Europe using "passporting", which allows digital payments to be used across EU member states without having to gain regulatory approval from each one.Facebook declined to comment on the development, which first emerged in the Financial Times, but the move highlights the scale of the global money transfer market. "The market for money transfer is very, very large," said Taavet Hinrikus, co-founder of TransferWise – one of three payment services reportedly in partnership discussions with Facebook.Hinrikus declined to comment on the reported partnership discussions but said:"For remittance alone the market is worth around $500bn, according to the World Bank, but for money moved between developed nations, as well as between developed and developing individuals and business, the market is valued at an estimated $5tn to $10tn, based on our analysis of global money flow data."Facebook has made mobile platforms the focus of its expansion strategy in developing markets such as India, which accounts for more than 100 million of the firm's 1.2 billion users. Mobile broadband subscribers far outstrip fixed-line ones in developing nations."Could Facebook become some sort of utility in the emerging markets? It's certainly possible," said Brian Blau, a director at the research firm Gartner."Facebook has a lot of ambition here and they certainly see the benefits of helping the next 2 billion people make it on to the internet, which they're happy to subsidise for a while, but at some point they have to become paying customers."In developed nations, Facebook is in competition with established technology platforms such as Apple's iTunes and Amazon's online stores, which have millions of customers with credit cards attached to their service."Payment schemes are the equivalent to credit cards in emerging markets and here is where Facebook can make progress … especially in those places where banking infrastructure is not as mature as it is in Europe or the US," said Blau.Regulatory approval from Ireland would subject Facebook to the same controls as a bank, requiring it to segregate funds equivalent to the amount of e-money it issues.Payments and e-money services are an expanding area of the financial services and technology market, though Facebook's rivals have been more focused on payment systems than money transfers.Amazon's chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has reportedly made payment systems a&nbsp;priority focus, saying his company's payments team should "go faster" in its efforts to be successful in the space.Google has made strides in mobile payments, with its Google Wallet services in the US. The search firm is registered as a payments provider in the UK, similar to the authorisation Facebook is seeking in Ireland, although its services have yet to see widespread adoption by consumers.PayPal has also been moving towards mobile payments with its apps and one-touch payment services, most recently using the  fingerprint scanner in the latest Samsung Galaxy S5  smartphone to authorise payment.
It may take the lion's share of advertising spending online, but Google is also raising its spending on adverts in the UK, which was up by 50% last year to £45m, ahead of telecoms firm O2, National Lottery operator Camelot and confectionery firm Mars.After five years of advertising in Britain Google is at No 31 in the top 100 UK advertisers, according to Nielsen Ad Dynamix – which monitors ad spending on TV and radio, in print, online and direct mail.Google may beusing technologythat can track the "viewability" of online adverts to help it lure big brand advertisers away from television but according to industry estimates in 2013 it spent £15m on traditional TV adverts. But it does not give a breakdown on where its ad spending goes and declined to comment.Google began advertising on television in 2009. Since then it has used traditional media to promote products such as its Chrome browser, although it still pursues a "digital first" approach to marketing and advertising.Much of last year's increase in Google's ad spend was on promoting its Chromecast media player and Nexus 7 tablet, particularly in the Christmas period.According to Nielsen's Rob Tavendale there was a marked rise in the advertising of smartphones and tablets in 2013, with Google and Microsoft both increasing their year-on-year spending by 50%, and Sony Mobile by 108%.Google's spending on promoting the Nexus 7 rose by 170%, while Sony and Microsoft increased their smartphone advertising by 162% and 484% respectively, Tavendale said.Last year, Microsoft spent £60m on advertising in the UK – putting it in 18th place. Sony Mobile came in at 77th in UK ad spend with £24m.The biggest UK advertiser in 2013 was BSkyB, spending £264m.Tavendale said: "In the fiercely competitive telecoms sector, BSkyB's spend was up 10%, as it faced increased competition from BT, while TalkTalk recorded a 90% increase."But despite the launch of its sports channels, BT reduced its spending by 16% to £150m, putting it in third place – behind household products group Procter &amp; Gamble (£177m) and ahead of Unilever (£119m)Neilsen's research also revealed that the total amount spent on UK advertising fell by 2.35% compared with a year earlier. In 2012 spending had increased 2.4% on the previous year.
Heartbleed, the software vulnerability in hundreds of thousands of web servers which laid their contents open to attackers, also affects consumer devices, security experts have warned.Hardware including smartphones, routers and cable boxes are all potentially affected, posing the risk of anything from data theft to attackers seizing control of the vulnerable device.&quot;Network-connected devices often run a basic web server to let an administrator access online control panels,&quot; says Philip Lieberman, president of security firm Lieberman Software. &quot;In many cases, these servers are secured using OpenSSL and their software will need updating.&quot;However, this is unlikely to be a priority. The manufacturers of these devices will not release patches for the vast majority of their devices, and consumers will patch an insignificant number of devices.&quot;Some manufacturers have confirmed that their devices are not affected. Belkin says that its routers, as well as those of its Linksys subsidiary, are safe: one range does use OpenSSL, the software which contains the Heartbleed vulnerability, but uses a version which predates the flaw.But others are not so lucky. Networking giant Ciscohas confirmedthat a number of its products are vulnerable, including desktop phones, video conferencing hardware and VPN software. It is investigating a further 83 products for potential vulnerabilities.Neither Netgear nor BT returned requests for comment, and have not spoken publicly about whether or not their devices are vulnerable.For affected devices, operators are slowly releasing patches, which must be downloaded and installed. But many users will not apply the updates, warns Lieberman.&quot;The list of compromised devices is huge,&quot; he says. &quot;Most of the devices are not going to be patched because their users do not know how to do it since they bought a router or firewall, not OpenSSL (as far as they are concerned).&quot;Many of the devices are from manufacturers that are no longer supporting the previously shipped devices as a matter of policy and business model,&quot; he adds. &quot;What do you expect in the way of support when you buy a device or embedded system for less than $100 and the company is making $10.00?&quot;As with affected websites, users should not change passwords until they are sure the vulnerability has been fixed. The best way to be certain is to wait for the affected company to specifically say it is time to change passwords: examples of companies who have done so include Tumblr, Flickr, IFTTT and Dogecoin service DogeAPI.SSL keys stolenOne potential avenue of hope was blocked off on Friday, when online services company CloudFlare confirmed that four people had successfully stolen SSL certificates from an affected server.SSL is the basis of security online, and is the protocol that leads to browsers displaying a padlock icon to show that a given website is secure. One of the attacks that the Heartbleed vulnerability allows is theft of the private key for SSL, allowing an attacker to decrypt intercepted messages or impersonate the site.Cloudflare had previously written that &quot;we have reason to believe… that it may in fact be impossible&quot; to steal the keys from their servers, in contrast to claims made by the researchers who uncovered the flaw. But the company issued a challenge to the outside world to prove them wrong, and four separate researchers managed to steal the information over the next 48 hours.The result of the challenge underscores that it&apos;s not enough for a site vulnerable to Heartbleed to fix the server: it also needs to treat the SSL key as stolen, and issue a new one. Cloudflare described the possibility of a stolen key as &quot;the disaster scenario, requiring virtually every service to reissue and revoke its SSL certificates. Note that simply reissuing certificates is not enough, you must revoke them as well.&quot;Since the news of Heartbleed broke on April 6, more than 10,000 sites have revoked and re-issued their certificates, giving some idea of the scale of the problem.•Heartbleed: what you need to know
Microsoft has officially stopped providing support and security updates for XP, its ubiquitous 13-year-old operating system.The &quot;XPocalypse&quot; officially began on Tuesday 8 April when support officially ended, but security companies have repeatedly warned of the inevitability of a zombie army of hacked XP machines that will stalk the internet, dooming us all.Except that nobody seems particularly worried. The businessman Derek Olsen wasn&apos;t even aware that Windows XP had reached the end of its life, and the computers running it at his company, Olsen Environmental in Perth, Australia, still seem fine. &quot;We&apos;ve got four or five running it, and six or seven PCs running Windows 7,&quot; he says.Nor are the ones running XP antiquated: &quot;All our PCs are less than four years old. We grabbed some ahead of them stopping selling models with XP.&quot; There are no compatibility issues, he says.The 18-strong company is typical of hundreds of thousands – perhaps millions – of small businesses around the world. There are an estimated 430m PCs still running some version of Windows XP, first released in 2001, and whose last formal Service Pack 3, released in April 2008, is approaching its sixth birthday.Olsen says the only difference he&apos;s noticed is that &quot;the spam levels have picked up a bit, but we haven&apos;t seen anything else relating to XP.&quot; The programs the company is using – AutoCAD, Microsoft Office 2003 and 2007 – to provide engineering and technical services are still functioning fine. &quot;There&apos;s no call to update,&quot; says Olsen. &quot;Windows 7 doesn&apos;t offer any particular features we need. We&apos;re looking for stability and reliability. This stuff runs seamlessly. The only annoying thing is the dialogue boxes telling us to update our version of Office. That&apos;s annoying.&quot; But in general, he says, the approach is that &quot;if it ain&apos;t broke, don&apos;t fix it.&quot;Removing the limpetAnother corporate user who got in touch with the Guardian, from a much larger organisation with tens of thousands of PCs around the world, said that despite a long-running effort it still has hundreds of machines.They&apos;re used in complex manufacturing and calibration systems: &quot;the equipment is not old but the software is,&quot; they said. But it would be &quot;complex to upgrade&quot; the remaining systems, and persuading the company to make the investment has been hard: &quot;Business users do not generally understand the IT risk to business continuity.&quot;And XP is limpet-like.Netmarketshareputs XP&apos;s share this month at more than 27% of all desktop operating systems (compared with 48% for Windows 7, 6.4% for Windows 8 and 4.9% for Windows 8.1); Statcounter, which uses a slightly different methodology,puts itat 54.9% for Windows 7, 17.8% for XP, 7.9% for Windows 8 and 5% for 8.1.Many of those are probably in businesses: a survey by Spiceworks found that 76% of IT professionals run Windows XP on some devices today, and of those, 36% will leave Windows XP on at least one device as the operating system EOLs; 96% of IT professionals said they’re running Windows 7 on their network today; of those IT professionals who still run Windows XP on company desktops and/or laptops, 49% plan to upgrade at least some of their devices to Windows 7. Only 7% of these IT professionals plan to upgrade to Windows 8 or 8.1. (This leaves 8% apparently undecided about what they will do, or perhaps migrating to Mac OSX or Linux - though the former seems more likely.)When asked why they haven’t already migrated their company’s XP devices, the IT professionals cited lack of budget (55%), lack of time (39%), and lack of resources (31%) - the latter being the problem that the person quoted above had found.Cheapest optionSome are moving: &quot;our company stuck with XP because it was the cheapest option,&quot; said Richard Blechinger, who works at ncm.at, in Salzburg, Austria. Now the 30-odd machines, mostly around three or four years old, are being upgraded to Windows 8.1. &quot;The move is mostly painless,&quot; Blechinger reports. &quot;The people are complaining about the user interface, but otherwise it all worked out well so far.&quot;Even so, XP&apos;s resilience has Microsoft, and security researchers, worried: they argue that the end of support means that XP users are now wide open to the next security vulnerability discovered in XP&apos;s base code, or Internet Explorer, or the widely-used Adobe Flash software. With Microsoft no longer patching the OS, the effects could be dramatic. Couldn&apos;t they?&quot;For home users, it comes down to a lack of awareness around the fact that sticking to Windows XP effectively opens a backdoor to their PCs,&quot; says Paul Martini, chief executive at Iboss Network Security. &quot;This means, hackers can gather their data, such as email, bank details and use that data at their own will.“For enterprise, the delay comes down to five core things; cost of the upgrade, activation of the migration path, risk of data loss during the migration and lack of security awareness and in some cases security inertia.“While updating security hot fixes are a core component of cyber security protection today, they are not a silver bullet. Cloud and mobile opened up thousands of new ways to break security defences, so the shift to closing specifically known holes isn’t as attractive as before.&quot;Certainly governments are taking the end of support seriously: the UK and Dutch governments are paying millions of pounds while they shift their systems to something newer – almost certainly Windows 7, which offers better security while also having compatibility with pretty much anything that runs on XP.But for many small businesses, the process of shifting from XP is too much hassle. Ditto for users, who don&apos;t like the idea of spending on a new computer and then having to shift their files over from an old machine.What about the ATMs?One of the commonly heard warnings is that huge numbers of bank ATMs run on Windows XP. This, a number of security companies have suggested, means that everyone who uses an ATM might be at risk of being hacked - or that banks might be, by some clever hacker typing code into an ATM.But that theory is quickly shot down by Ian Byrne, head of UK banking for Wincor Nixdorf, which makes ATMs. &quot;Working with Microsoft, the industry has embedded a version of XP particularly for ATMs,&quot; he explains. &quot;We have a security set for locking down access.&quot; Have there ever been any instances of an XP ATM being hacked? &quot;Not that I&apos;m aware of,&quot; he says.Byrne says that the fears about ATM hacking are overblown. &quot;Look at the context. On a normal PC, people are doing email and Office and web browsing. An XP ATM doesn&apos;t have common external connections, and it&apos;s pretty well locked down.&quot; Only three or four of the 65,536 &quot;ports&quot; that Windows XP offers to the world are typically open on an ATM, he says: &quot;So that exposure, to start with, is much, much more limited.&quot; And they don&apos;t connect to banks over the open internet; they use dedicated leased lines.As for upgrading to Windows 7 (or even 8), Byrne says &quot;there&apos;s no business driver or external functionality in Windows 7 to make it a compelling case. The only thing here is that the software vendor has announced the EOL. We haven&apos;t seen any business benefit in shifting.&quot; Banks need to see a business reason – not just vague worries – to invest in an expensive, time-consuming and potentially customer-frustrating upgrade.Even so, Byrne reckons that they will move to an embedded version of Windows 7 for ATMs over the next 18 months or so. But he doesn&apos;t think criminal gangs will be hacking into them.Even so, the risk of a flaw being found in XP exists; and the fact that there are so many machines out there, ostensibly without support, means that hackers are sure to be targeting them more rigorously.Extended support - but no extension to consumersOf course the governments and businesses which are paying Microsoft thousands of pounds per machine for &quot;extended support&quot;, which lasts another year, should be secure. But this raises a moral hazard for Microsoft.As one business user commented to me, &quot;This, I think, presents an interesting PR challenge for Microsoft. In the event of an XP flaw which is exploited they will be developing and releasing patches to large corporates who pay them big sums of money while letting home users and small business hang out to dry. They are bound to come under pressure to release patches they have already coded to the general public. But that would not play well with the corporates funding the custom support program.&quot;Asked about this head of the end-of-life date for Windows XP, Microsoft told the Guardian: &quot;After 8 April Windows XP users will no longer receive new security updates, non-security hotfixes, free or paid assisted support options, or online technical content updates from Microsoft.&quot;PCs running Windows XP after 8 April, 2014 should not be considered to be protected, and it is important that consumers migrate to a current supported operating system such as Windows 8.1 so they can receive regular security updates to protect their computer from malicious attacks.&quot;Custom Support is provided to large customers whose migration from Windows XP will not be complete by 8 April, 2014. It is not an extension of support. It is a temporary measure designed to help large customers with complex migrations. It should be considered as a last resort for customers in the process of migrating from Windows XP to a modern operating system.&quot;Our guidance to consumers is to move from Windows XP as soon as they can and ideally before support ends on April 8 2014. We provide a range of resources and tools for consumers, include an upgrade advisory tool to see if their current PC can be upgraded, a free tool to move their files and settings from Windows XP to Windows 7 or Windows 8.1 and other resources and tutorials to ease the migration.&quot;It&apos;s hard to square the expectation that large organisations and governments have that any security flaw will be patched with the phrase that they are not getting &quot;an extension of support&quot;. But the message is clearly: those who pay will get the fix; you will not.As the business user commented, &quot;Microsoft can&apos;t win either way.&quot; Another concern is that up to 200m of those Windows XP machines are based in China, using faked licences; there might not be any way of upgrading them legally, or of persuading the people using them that they have a problem.But maybe the message is going to permeate through to some at least. The day after we spoke by phone, Olsen said that the top banner on The Australian&apos;s digital edition was a banner ad from Microsoft about the end of XP (and Office 2003) support. Is he going to update? That&apos;s still not decided. But at least he knows what&apos;s happened.•Which computer should I buy to replace a Windows XP PC?•Can I upgrade my old Pentium 4 PCs to a new Windows?
Technology may have introduced us to a brave new world where anything is possible. Unfortunately, it&apos;s also increased our capacity to make utter fools of ourselves.We asked you for your worst tech mishaps– and boy, did you deliver. From forgetting the all-important step of clearing your browser history to the classic dropping your phone down the loo, our readers certainly weren&apos;t short of red-faced technological mishaps.Using your submissions, here are the 10 tech commandments you should follow if you want to avoid eternal shame online. All we need to do now is carve them into some stones.1. Thou shalt clear thy browser historySometimes, this Google Chrome screen can be a little more revealing about your browsing history than you'd like.It&apos;s a simple step to take, but all-important. Especially as you never know when someone will want to borrow your laptop. One Guardian reader, who contacted us under the pseudonymLarsvonTon the condition we wouldn&apos;t reveal their identity, found out the hard way:Why it&#39;s important to remember to clear your browser historyIn an effort to help a tutor out with some computer/projector issues, I offered to lend him my laptop – which had the required software on it. 5 minutes later, and a quick trip to the tech cupboard to fetch the right lead, and the contents of my laptop&#39;s screen were being projected six foot wide onto the whiteboard.As I had a number of tabs open in Google Chrome that I wanted to read later, I quit Chrome and opened up Firefox instead, which went straight to Google – my homepage.What I (crucially) forgot, however, was that the keyboard shortcut to open up a new Firefox tab didn&#39;t take my tutor to my Google homepage, but rather to a 3x3 grid of website thumbnails that I had been looking at last – all of which were porn videos.For a couple of seconds I couldn&#39;t work out why my tutor had collapsed against the wall and my classmates had fallen off their chairs fighting for breath, but then the penny dropped...And the one video title I caught a glimpse of before my tutor honourably closed my laptop&#39;s lid?&quot;Big busty teacher makes sure detention is worth the risk.&quot;Sent viaGuardianWitnessByLarsVonT24 March 2014, 12:532. Thou shalt not mix up thy contactsAlways awkward when you get the wrong number.Plenty of our readers have been burned by this one, especially now plenty of phone have pesky touchscreens where the slip of your thumb is basically the difference between texting something funny to your mate and eternal shame.Oh Dear!Sent an &quot;amorous&quot; text message to a girlfriend, but as they were adjacent in my phone contacts, and in a somewhat innebriated state, it was sent it in error to a work collegue with whom and between us was mutual loathing.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByDavidMillipede26 March 2014, 13:30Why are plumbing bits never cheap and on the van?I sent the plumber a text saying that the (apparently very ordinary) tap was leaking. He replied saying that &#39;special parts needed/have to order from Germany/very expensive&#39; and so on. I replied &#39;Whatever - needs doing&#39; and then proceeded to text my wife with what I was really thinking, only I actually sent it to the plumber. Oh dear….Sent viaGuardianWitnessByGus Murphy24 March 2014, 18:043. Thou shalt double-check that Google searchThis is the Boyzone you were looking for. Photograph: Ilpo Musto/Rex FeaturesThink about Google search termsA few years back I helped my daughter and her friend find pictures of their favourite band on Google. I sat these 10 yr olds down, typed &quot;boyzone&quot; into Google and left them to look.Too late the first 2 pages of pic results were for &quot;Boy Zone&quot;. Quite different content!Sent viaGuardianWitnessBycjwinyorks26 March 2014, 9:09This is an especially important rule if you&apos;re about to show the results of said search to a class full of pre-teens.What NOT to Display on a Whiteboard to a Year 7 Class!I was teaching a novel set in Glastonbury to a Year 7 English class. I asked if any of them had seen Glastonbury Tor and when no-one had, I did a Google Image search and clicked on the first image in the row without looking at it too closely and  thus displaying it on the Whiteboard for all the class to see. I heard gasps, and a student cried....&quot;Miss - look at the board!&quot; I turned and there was a shot of Glastonbury Tor, but a drawing of a fertility goddess giving birth had been superimposed over the photograph; the view being pretty much the one a midwife would see during a delivery! The horror!Sent viaGuardianWitnessByredvalerian25 March 2014, 12:214. Thou shalt remember: thy phone doesn&apos;t belong in the toiletThis is not where your phone lives. Photograph: Martin GodwinThis happens to our readers a lot. What is it with phones and loos?Easy - mobile down looI heard a splat but didn&#39;t realise what had hit the water as there are lots of bottles and stuff in the bathroom which could have dislodged.  When I looked I found my phone had slipped put of the back pocket of my jeans and was submerged.  I rinsed it, whipped out the battery, SD card and SIM and put the lot in a bowl of rice to hopefully dry it out.  This was just a week ago and, although it has recovered somewhat, it has a few issues still!Sent viaGuardianWitnessBytynegal21 March 2014, 17:135. Thou shalt not open that dodgy email&quot;I love you&quot;I received an email from a female colleague who I really liked, and as far as I knew liked me. The subject was &quot;I love you&quot;. You&#39;ll agree this is the sort of subject that grabs your attention, so without thinking I opened the email, and realised almost immediately it was a virus. The virus then sent out hundreds of emails from my account, all saying &quot;I love you.&quot; Some of the responses I received were interesting, particularly those from male colleagues.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByonomatopoiia25 March 2014, 12:486. Thou shalt take care on FacebookAlways a bit awkward when you post the name of the person you're stalking in your Facebook status.When it comes to social embarrassment, Facebook seems to be the social network of choice.Got ex- invited to &quot;Ex-boyfriends&quot; eventMy best friend saw that I had categories for my friends on Facebook, and that I posted my updates to specific categories (blocking others from seeing them), so she wanted to do the same.But for some reason, she ended up creating Events with the name of the categories she wanted to create and inviting the people! I only noticed this when I received an invitation for &quot;Close friends&quot; and &quot;Friends from College&quot; events. But by the time she understood what was happening, she had already sent out invitations to events like &quot;Weird people from work&quot;, &quot;People who don&#39;t know who I am&quot; and - what&#39;s worse! - &quot;Ex-boyfriends&quot;.She was so embarrassed after it happened, it was a long while until she logged in to Facebook again.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByJuliana Piesco25 March 2014, 2:137. Thou shalt reply all at thy perilOh it seems handy at the time, but reply all can be the devil in disguise. One slip and suddenly you&apos;ve sent your entire office including your boss that embarrassing anecdote from your weekend&apos;s antics. Or, likerandomangles, you&apos;ve accidentally invited your entire office to a small get together:Friendly invitationI accidentally invited everyone at work - about 2000 people - to my parents house for Easter Sunday lunch when I posted to a work forum instead of sending an email to my girlfriend. I added a couple of kisses at the end of the invite for good measure.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByrandomangles27 March 2014, 0:00Worse still, you could have ruined someone&apos;s chances of promotion. We&apos;re looking at you,John Gibbons.How ruin promotion prospect by emailMy wife was involved in a discussion at work with several colleagues via email. Her boss had a view that she disagreed with and she forwarded the messages to me. I made a very good character assassination of her boss, and then clicked &#39;reply to all&#39; - her boss got a copy.Still cringing about this ten years later.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByJohn Gibbons22 March 2014, 7:548. Thou shalt turn off autocorrectAutocorrect: making texts to your parents that much awkward.Autocorrect is meant to be a godsend, yet somehow it causes more hassle than it&apos;s worth.autocorrect, obvs...in response to my lovely, retired mum&#39;s query as to what I was up to that weekend, my phone translated &quot;just some gentle cycling with the kids&quot; into &quot;gentile fucking with the kids&quot;. Not my finest moment.Sent viaGuardianWitnessBySophie Ddg21 March 2014, 21:289. Thou shalt not throw hardware across the roomMaybe you could just turn it off and back on again before you chuck it across the room? Photograph: Imagehit Inc./AlamyBecause you never know, you might just need to turn it off and back on again.The simplest of problems...As an IT guy and Church/Theatre technician, this is a horrifically embarrassing and simple and I haven&#39;t actually told anyone yet. Whilst trying to work out why there was no sound going through the PA system, mid service, I frantically picked up the headphones to hear what was going on. Not a sound.  In a small fit of semi-controlled rage, I unplugged them and through them across the floor, thinking they were broken. I&#39;d forgotten to turn the headphone volume up. I worked that out two weeks after replacing them with a new pair...Sent viaGuardianWitnessByJosh Halsey25 March 2014, 11:3710. Thou shalt not print weird things on thy work printerThere&apos;s a reason Christian Grey used his own printer...Kinky office print out....My partner and I used to be quite into the whole BDSM thing, before &quot;50 Shades of Grey&quot; made it  seem as unsexy as gardening (well, you&#39;re on your knees and get wet... ).I had created a multi-page &#39;Slave Contract&#39; for my lover to sign, as is common in such a dynamic to make sure the subs limits are respected... and printed it at work.This was back in the days of print servers, and to cut a long story short, it didn&#39;t print out and remained an undeletable job in the print queue for literally weeks... and during this period I never knew when I would get a tap on the shoulder from HR (or round of applause from the IT department).Sent viaGuardianWitnessByMontyLovering26 March 2014, 10:42You can read the rest of our readers&apos; submissions onGuardianWitness. Want to share your own tech fails? Feel free to add them in the comments below.
Android mobile phone software did not add support for touchscreen technology until Apple released its iPhone model, according todocumentsreleased as part of the Apple vs Samsung patent trial.The “Android Project Software Functional Requirements” document detailed Android’s supported hardware features and the basis for how the new mobile software would operate in 2006.“Touchscreens will not be supported,” saidGoogle in the specification documentthat was given to potential hardware manufacturers in 2006 prior to the iPhone’s announcement the following year. &quot;The product was designed with the presence of discrete physical buttons as an assumption.”“However, there is nothing fundamental in the product&apos;s architecture that prevents the support of touchscreens in the future,” Google continued.Touchscreen disruptionThe iPhone was announced in January 2007 by Steve Jobs at the Macworld convention with touchscreen control.Android prototypes at the time resembled BlackBerry smartphones with no touchscreen and physical keyboards and buttons, but by the time the first Android handset was commercially available in the form of the HTC Dream or T-mobile G1 in 2008, touchscreens were not only supported but specificallyrequired by Android.The document also shows that many of the mainstay features of Android were set in 2006, including removable storage, third-party application support, which Apple’s iPhone lacked until July 2008, homescreen widgets, notifications and a plethora of Google applications.• Apple sues Samsung for $2bn – $40 per device –for ‘systematically’ copying featuresto use on its own devices
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy the web still matters for writing &gt;&gt; Matt Mullenweg's blogBen Thompson (making a guest post):Many were quick to once again declare "The Web is Dead," but I'm not sure that conclusion makes sense, at least for writing.First off, Flurry's numbers don't account for webviews within mobile apps. On my site, Stratechery, 37% of my iOS traffic comes from webviews (Android doesn't break out the difference), which on Flurry's chart would fall mostly in the Twitter slice. More mass market sites likely take up some percentage of Facebook time, as well.That said, it's striking how little written content appears on Flurry's chart; the only category that is primarily about written content is news, and even that includes video. And yet, pageviews on WordPress.com and Jetpack are up 27% year-over-year, new sites ranging from small blogs like Stratechery to huge sites like FiveThirtyEight continue to launch and grow, and multiple startups (and competitors!) continue to find writing something worth investing in.So is the web dead or not?Ubuntu One : Shutdown notice &gt;&gt; CanonicalWe are sorry to notify you that we will be shutting down the Ubuntu One file services, effective 1 June 2014.It is no longer possible to purchase storage or music from the Ubuntu One store. The Ubuntu One file services apps in the Ubuntu, Google, and Apple stores have been removed.As always, your content belongs to you. If you have already uploaded any content you can simply download your files onto your PC or an external hard drive. While the service will stop as of 1 June, you will have an additional two months (until 31 July 2014) to collect all of your content. After that date, all remaining content will be deleted.Explanation given: "the free storage wars aren't a sustainable place for us to be, particularly with other services now regularly offering 25GB-50GB free storage.  If we offer a service, we want it to compete on a global scale, and for Ubuntu One to continue to do that would require more investment than we are willing to make."So long, and thanks for all the wooden, scotch-taped, leather-stitched, linen-backed fish &gt;&gt; Skeu It!We missed this going quiet at the end of 2012, but the wider range is still hilarious. Compiled by an ex-Apple staffer who now works at Google on... user experience design.Samsung's Galaxy S5 has plenty of upgrades — so why does it feel so meh? &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWe grabbed a real medical pulse oximeter that a medic would use in the field to compare the measurements to the S5. While the S5 is capable of an accurate bpm measurement, its biggest problem is that the "one shot" style of measurement leads to a lot of inaccuracies. Even while doing our best to follow its don't-move-and-don't-make-noise instructions, we found the bpm measurement would wildly swing by up to 20 points while doing back-to-back readings.If you're relying on the Galaxy S5 for an accurate bpm, at minimum you'll have to take a "best of three" approach to find consensus. We find a 50% failure rate unacceptable for any tool that claims to measure something, so you can throw the Galaxy S5's heartbeat sensor onto the "gimmicky nonsense" pile.Even if this worked reliably, what would the point of it be? Anyone interested in keeping track of their heart rate would be much better served by a fitness device that can perform measurements while the wearer is moving and making noise. One-shot monitoring just isn't very useful.451 Research's latest ChangeWave survey finds record consumer interest in next gen iPhone &gt;&gt; ChangewaveHard to get the URL to stick, but here's the relevant part:The results show very strong advanced interest for a next generation iPhone – 14% of respondents say they're Very Likely and 26% Somewhat Likely to buy the "iPhone 6" in the future.(By comparison, the figures for March 2013 were 9% and 17%, and for March 2012 15% and 18%.)While the "iPhone 6" findings are still speculative, they point to enormous consumer interest in the next gen Apple iPhone.Meanwhile, Apple's biggest competitor – Samsung – is seeing a burst of momentum in planned smart phone buying over the next 90 days, led by demand for the new Galaxy S 5.A total of 28% of respondents who plan to buy a smart phone in the next 90 days say they'll purchase a Samsung – a 9-pt surge from our previous survey in December.As the following chart shows, this is the second jump in a row for Samsung – and it's now at an all-time high for a ChangeWave survey.What mobile can learn from the PC Industry &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBen Bajarin:The two largest markets from an install base standpoint of smartphones are China (approx 525m currently) and the US (approx 225m currently. Per my PC observations I'll focus on these two markets.They're very, very different.Mobile games, living room entertainment, and a market that might not exist &gt;&gt; MediumMichael Dempsey (a New York-based writer, not the UK journalist):With Amazon launching Fire TV this morning, a set-top box that doubles as a gaming console, I couldn't help but think: Will Amazon be the ones to crack the non-mobile Android video game console space that people are so positive exists, even though Ouya, with plenty of press and support, is failing? Or is the gaming industry still years away from getting to where the film industry is today? A place where independent no longer means lower quality or less entertaining.Handheld jet engines take extreme sports to the next level &gt;&gt; DVICESpeed demons, take note: your ship has come in. Whether you're into skateboarding or skiing, there is now a device that will let you do it faster than ever. The Thrusters, by Dreamscience are basically four tiny jet engines that you strap to your stomach and turn on when you want an extra burst of speed.Powered by an on-board battery pack, the four electric jet engines have already been tested by paragliders, skaters, skiiers and snowboarders. In fact, snowboarder Jamie Barrow hit a top speed of 50 miles per hour when he took the Thrusters prototype out to a frozen lake near St. Moritz, Switzerland."Strap these to a skateboard and I think you're sorted, Mr McFly."A galaxy of loopholes greets Samsung's S5 launch &gt;&gt; WSJJonathan Cheng and Min-Jeong Lee in Seoul:That brings us to SK Telecom, whose storefront in downtown Seoul was free of Galaxy S5 promos, though an employee snapped to attention at the mention of the device. There were plenty of loopholes, he explained, pointing the reporters toward a Galaxy S5 on display by the front door.Korean regulators technically allow anyone whose two-year contract has expired to upgrade to the new smartphone. Alternatively, anyone who has lost a phone can replace it with a new Galaxy S5, even during the carrier's sales blackout.Although any phone registered as "lost" has to stay out of sight for at least six months, he said that he had done just that for a few customers the other day. Would we be interested? (The reporters declined.)An SK Telecom spokeswoman confirmed the rule, but emphasized that the phone has to be properly documented as lost before a customer can buy a new phone through the carrier.SK Telecom's more open-minded approach may be one small reason why it's the dominant player in the market here. According to South Korea's Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, SK Telecom accounted for 49% of the country's smartphone subscribers, as of the end of February. KT is next with 30% of the market, while LG Uplus brings up the rear with 21%.Officially, only UPlus can presently sell the S5. Unofficially...Exclusive: Apple vs. Samsung docs reveal Galaxy Tab was a flop and Samsung knew it &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderSamsung's internal documents indicate that the company's own public representation of its competitive position in the tablet market was not true, and that the company appears to have intentionally misled its own investors and the analysts covering its business with false statements about the health of its tablet sales.Shocker; based on documents released in the latest Apple-Samsung patent trial. Samsung doesn't include figures for smartphone or tablet sales in its official financial documents; it "guides" analysts towards the figures that are publicly announced.Heartbleed, explained &gt;&gt; xkcdPut like this, it's amazing that it has taken two years to discover this bug.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday.
• Samsung's last smartphone watched your eyes; its new one will also listen to your heart. The Korean company's new flagship Galaxy S5 packs a heart rate monitor and will track your motions and monitor your steps, as part of a push into the health and fitness market. The innovation comes after Samsung introduced eye-tracking technology last year to pause your phone when you looked away. Samsung's new Gear smartwatches will also measure your heart rate and order you to step up the pace when out for a run. The future, it seems, will not only be watching us closely but will also be nagging us into better health.• Recharging your smartphone could stop being an overnight process and become a sub-minute one. Israeli startup StoreDot has demonstrated a charger the size of a laptop power supply capable of fully juicing a smartphone in just 30 seconds, and reckons it will be able to offer a $30 (£20) charger in just three years.• In the spirit of making everything tech smaller or faster, the desktop printer has not been pronounced dead: mini-robot printers are the future. A little bot from Zuta Labs looks like a small puck shuffling across a piece of A4 leaving a trail of ink, but will autonomously print a full page in about 40 seconds. It takes its orders from an iPhone over Bluetooth and costs £120 from Kickstarter.• Hearing aids have become smart. The ReSound Linx hooks up to an iPhone and will not only pipe the phone's audio from calls, music, navigation and videos to the hearing aid, but also allows users to tweak their audio settings. Bass, treble and volume can be altered and associated with a specific location so that it automatically adjusts to the right settings as a user enters their favourite coffee shop.• The end of struggles with wrong-way-up USB connectors is nigh. A new reversible USB plug is on its way. It is identical at both ends, so it does not matter which way up it is or which end goes in where. The new "Type-C" connector the one connector to rule them all, eventually.
Philipp Laude and his neighbour Matthias Roll were 15 years old when they made their first YouTube clip: a shaky parody of the scene in Cast Awaywhere Tom Hanks starts talking to a volleyball, which descends into an absurdly drawn-out water pistol fight.Something clicked, and so did more than 6,000 users: "We suddenly realised: that's half of the population of our hometown," said Laude.Eight years later, Laude, Roll and schoolfriend Oğuz Yılmaz are the most successful act on Germany's fast-expanding YouTube comedy scene. Via their channel Y-Titty (a play on YTD, short for YouTube Dummies), they churn out at least one new clip every Friday afternoon to almost 3 million subscribers.These clips include film parodies, computer game voiceovers and comedy songs. One of them,Halt Dein Maul,entered the top 10 of the German charts, and at the end of last year they went on their first national stadium tour.Understandably, the big TV networks have been knocking on Y-Titty's doors. But if the three twentysomethings were at first slightly embarrassed to point out that they could earn more via YouTube ads (1,000 clicks are roughly worth €1.50 (£1.24) and some of the site's biggest stars are rumoured to earn six-figure sums), they now turn down offers on principle."'This is TV, you'll get famous', they told us," said Laude. "But on YouTube we can do what we want."Musicians and comedians may be using YouTube tokickstart their careerson YouTube all over the world, but there is a uniquely German dimension to the rise of Y-Titty,iBlali,LeFloid,ApeCrime,AlbertoorGronkh, most of whom are based in Cologne."Of course the success of Germany's YouTubers has to do with the poor offerings on terrestrial TV here," says Y-Titty's manager Christoph Krachten, a former TV producer who now runs his own science show on the network."I don't watch German TV any more," Laude adds. "I keep on trying, but I can't."With an annual budget of €8bn (£6.6bn), its two main channels may be the richest public service broadcasters in Europe, yet German television has for years been struggling to shake off the impression of an industry in deep crisis.Middle-aged viewers are deserting national TV in favour of American, British or Danish dramas. Among the educated bourgeoisie in the big cities, not owning a TV set has become a matter of pride."German TV is caught in an age trap," said Hans-Peter Siebenhaar, media correspondent for Handelsblatt newspaper. "The average age of German TV viewers is 60. Producers are trying to rejuvenate their output, but we lack the innovation culture here that you find in Britain, Scandinavia or the Netherlands."One of the few remaining success stories came to an end last Saturday, when it was announced that the entertainment showWetten, Dass ... ?would be shelved at the end of the year, after 33 years on German screens.Even the public broadcasters' private competitors are facing declining audiences: only 1.66 million 14- to-49-year-olds watched the most recent episode of the German equivalent of Pop Idol,Deutschland sucht den Superstar.Young viewers in particular are desertingLagerfeuerfernsehenor "bonfire TV": entertainment shows that could bring together the entire family. According to research carried out by the networks, 14- to 19-year-oldsspend two hours less in front of the TVthan their parents, on average.Instead, they turn to YouTube, which is used by86% of 14-year-old Germans, and where the humour is more in keeping with teenagers' tastes.It is "a bit bawdier and a bit less polished" than what you see on TV, said Laude. There are few genuine punchlines, lots of toilet humour and plenty of silly voices.Women are rare on the most popular channels, and if they do appear, they often wear bikinis. And product placement is rife. Acts like Y-Titty are open about making money this way, with certain brands of soft drink  featuring with noticeable frequency. Unlike most TV channels, YouTube has no rules curbing surreptitious advertising."Our advantage is that we don't have to focus group our target audiences – our target audiences make the programmes", said Krachten, whose multi-channel network Mediakraft manages and cross-promotes most of the key YouTubers in Germany."I don't think that in the entire history of television there has ever been a programme likeDieLochis,which doesn't just star 14-year-olds, but is also produced by them."
Price from £28,959MPG up to 65Top speed 155mphI have an old annual calledMotoring Through Punch– it's a charming collection of cartoons (car-toons!) gathered from each decade of the past century. One of my favourites is from the 1930s. It shows an old lady wearing a flowery hat, white gloves and a bemused expression. She's gripping a steering wheel as if her life depends on it. The caption says: "And do I have to keep hold of this thing?"I had the same feeling while drivingInfiniti'shyper-sophisticated new hybrid saloon, the Q50. Even the name sounds space-agey, as if it isn't a car at all but some dark star from a fathomless galaxy. It also has an extraordinary secret up its sleeve: it is the first car in the world to do away with the steering column. That round thing in your hands, formerly known as a steering wheel, now transfers your movements electronically to a high-response actuator which connects to the steering rack and thus causes your wheels to turn… that's the theory anyway.It's not unheard of – aeronautics have used fly-by-wire technology for years. But drive-by-wire cars, in which mechanical linkages are replaced by electro-magnetic hocus-pocus, are pretty newfangled. And to sit gripping the steering wheel, knowing a little black box is going to interpret my wishes and pass them on to another black box, is unnerving. It's all too easy to imagine plunging down a country lane, eyes bulging, teeth bared, the limp steering wheel lying in your lap, your screams muted by the Q50's suede interior, like some video game gone rogue…The technology is calledDirect Adaptive Steeringand the idea is that the digitally enhanced steering connection allows for better, sharper handling as it filters out all unwanted vibration. And it really works. Steering can hardly ever have felt lighter or more responsive. It does also raise the question, could the wheel be replaced with something else altogether? A&nbsp;banana-shaped joystick, maybe? Could you sit in the back and steer? Back-seat driving becomes a reality…The futuristic cockpit of the Q50.So much for the steering, what about the rest of the vehicle? Infiniti is the posh arm of Nissan, in the same way that Lexus is Chelsea to Toyota's Essex. The firm was only set up in 1989 and it makes just six high-performance yet discreet vehicles. The Q50 is the cheapest, starting at £29,000, while the QX70 is the most expensive, going for over £54,000.The Q50 seems to be on a quest to be different – both inside and out it stands out from the crowd. Inside there arethreetouchscreens with a&nbsp;bewildering display of information and driver aids. The entertainment and online package looks more like the welcome screen of an iPad than anything you'd normally find in a&nbsp;car. Outside every panel is creased and pillowed, bulged  and curled with almost wilful disregard for the norm. It's as if the designers have looked elsewhere  and thought: "If they curve that way, we'll go the other."It is powered by a great surging 3.5-litre V6 petrol engine and an electric motor via a seven-speed automatic box. With its featherlight controls joyfully harnessing the heavyweight powerplant, it all feels dizzyingly effortless – as if it's found an antidote to gravity. Sitting in the futuristic cockpit, surrounded by blinking screens and holding your unchained steering wheel, it's easy to imagine you are in some sort of space fantasy… Is that George Clooney floating past the window?The Tweed RunThe Tweed Run: where style meets cycling.On Saturday 17 May people dressed in tweed and riding lovely old bicycles will be spreading their particular brand of charm and eccentricity through the streets of London as they take part in the 6th annualTweed Run. It's a spectacular social bicycle ride through the capital's historic streets, and all the riders wear their best tweed 1920s and 30s cycling attire. If you possess such garments, it'll certainly be the place to be. Participants can expect a day of leisurely riding in the company of fellow ladies and gentlemen exceptionally dressed in plus-fours, Harris tweed jackets, merino wool team jerseys, silk cravats, bow ties and flat caps. It's been hailed as "the metropolitan bicycle ride that brings sartorial elegance back to the bicycle." From penny-farthings to customised vintage two-wheelers and contemporary pedal-powered contraptions, prizes are awarded to the best-dressed, best moustaches and best vintage and decorated bicycles on the day. For more information, go toTweed RunEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on twitter@MartinLove166
The last time London mayor Boris Johnson took to the skies, he wasleft dangling. Perhaps he should have flapped his arms a bit more. Now he has the chance.Johnson is the star of the latest Flappy Bird clone game,Flappy Mayor, released this week for iPhone and iPad, putting Boris alongside Justin Bieber and Miley Cyrus, who&apos;ve also received their own flappy tribute games.It&apos;s fair to say that the game&apos;s developer, Pranadev, isn&apos;t a paid-up member of the BoJo fanclub. &quot;How to play? TAP TAP TAP TAP to make the mayor flap around a lot! (Like his day job),&quot; explains Flappy Mayor&apos;s listing on Apple&apos;s App Store. The game also features the late RMT leader Bob Crow, as an obstacle for the flying Johnson.The company&apos;s own website hints at distinctly less ambition than the game&apos;s subject, too, cheerfully admitting that &quot;Flappy Mayor is a silly game&quot;. Pranadev has previously released one iOS app:a revision guide for anatomy and physiology students.The original Flappy Bird game became a sudden global craze earlier this year, although its developer Dong Nguyenremoved it from Apple and Google&apos;s app storesafter complaining of the pressures caused by having such a big hit.Since then, a wave of clones has been released by other developers, including thechart-topping Flying Cyrus, and a clutch of Justin Bieber tributes. Johnson isn&apos;t even the first city mayor to be given the Flappy treatment: controversial Toronto mayor Rob Ford stars in a number of examples including Floppy Ford, Farty Ford and Chubby Mayor – The Legend of Rob Ford.In one 24-hour period in February alone,The Guardian counted 95 new Flappy Bird clones released for iOS. A poll in March, meanwhile, found80% of British children citing Flappy Birdas one of their favourite apps.The key question now: will Boris be playing Flappy Mayor on his own smartphone? Possibly not: &quot;I&apos;m not a great advertisement for apps myself,&quot;he admitted in March. &quot;I used to know how to get the apps but it&apos;s something to do with my daughter&apos;s birthday and I&apos;ve lost it.&quot;Prime Minister David Cameron may be more likely to download the new game, having alreadyprofessed his admiration for mobile games like Angry Birds and Fruit Ninja.•Flappy Bird is dead, but brilliant mechanics made it fly
Motion control systems all need a killer app to prove their worth, so it's unsurprising that Microsoft are looking toSports Rivalsto step up for Xbox One. But while it makes a decent fist of ensuring that lurching about in front of the telly is fun, it's not there quite yet. With an island setting of clear blue skies, brash characters and bellowed audio commands typical of 90s arcade games, this compilation gathers a sextet of sports – tennis, football, bowling, climbing, shooting and jet-ski racing – and a wealth of contexts in which to tackle each one. It's a pretty, if slightly overwhelming, place to spend some time.The sports are presented as heavily simplified versions of their real-world counterparts, and through such a ruthless boiling down the developer, Rare, has done a brilliant job of reappropriating the rudiments of each pursuit. As with all motion-based games, however, it's the quality of the actual control that matters most. In a well-lit room the game does largely function ably, but, crucially, misreads of player movement are too common – enough to ensure that Microsoft must continue looking for next-gen Kinect's defining moment.
Space combat games used to be a hugely popular genre, but they've drifted into the abyss of late.Strike Suit, originally a Kickstarter-funded PC title, sets out to bring back the glory days amid the stars. Wearing its influences heavily – right down to theBattlestar Galactica-infused backing music – it's a tale of dissident Earth colonies taking on their home planet in intergalactic warfare.You play as a mute pilot named Adams, slap bang in the middle of the conflict, with backstory fed to you via the radio. The twist is Adams's transforming ship – one minute a nimble, if underpowered, spacecraft, the next a humanoid mech with massive guns that can take on seemingly unbeatable odds. Mission types vary from protect to destroy, and if not offering much variety through the main campaign and the Heroes of the Fleet expansion, they provide a stern test, with various challenges, such as eliminating all missiles, to be completed in order to unlock ship upgrades.The PC version was criticised for a its unforgiving difficulty, and although checkpoints are more frequent now, it's still no cakewalk – no bad thing if you fancy spending a few hours revelling in the zero-gravity pyrotechnics.
Were you a thriller writer seeking a name for an apocalyptic software security flaw that&nbsp;threatened the future of civilisation as we know it, then "Heartbleed" would be hard to beat. Last week saw the discovery of such a flaw, andHeartbleedwas the name assigned to it.Most security flaws are of interest only to specialists, but this one was different. Why? Because it's been around for something like three years, during which time it could have exposed the passwords and credit card numbers that countless millions of people had provided to online stores and other services. Heartbleed would enable attackers to eavesdrop on online communications, steal data directly from services and users, and impersonate both servicesandusers. It could have affected up totwo-thirds of the world's internet servers. And unlike some earlier such problems, the solution isn't as simple as immediately changing one's password. It was, saidBruce Schneier, a security expert not much given to hyperbole, a "catastrophic" flaw. "On the scale of one to 10," he wrote, "this is an 11."Heartbleed is a flaw in the computer code that encrypts your personal data while it's in transit from your computer to an online service. When you buy something from Amazon, say, or proceed to the checkout on any reputable site, then the URL you're dealing with will change from one prefixed by "http" to one prefixed by "https". This indicates that the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol has been invoked and that your personal data will now be transmitted only in encrypted form.SSL is an essential component of the global e-commerce system, and the most common implementation of it is an open-source version calledOpenSSL. Any flaw in it could indeed be catastrophic – which is why there was such a furore a while back when it was revealed that the National Security Agency had apparently been working actively to weaken the cryptographic protection that SSL offered. Not surprisingly, therefore, the default assumption when the Heartbleed story first surfaced was that the NSA must be behind it. But this comforting conjecture was rapidly discounted when it was realised that the flaw was most probably the result of arelatively mundane programming error.It turns out that within OpenSSL there is something called the"heartbeat" protocol. This is needed to ensure that communications between user and site are kept alive even when the line goes quiet. What seems to have happened is that when one of the programmers who works on OpenSSL was doing a software update in 2011, he made a coding error which then – unusually for open-source software – went undetected for several years.The implications of this are both intriguing and troubling. It's possible that the flaw – and the opportunities it provided for undermining the protections offered by SSL – was indeed undetected by anyone and that therefore the world of online commerce was safe even though the door to the safe was swinging open in the breeze. But most security people are unwilling to make that bet. Instead they are assuming that some people knew about Heartbleed and have been either quietly exploiting the vulnerability or using it to hoover up personal data for later nefarious uses.An equally troubling implication is that huge online companies, instead of developing their own SSL code, simply lifted the OpenSSL code and just bundled it into their web-service software. They are perfectly entitled to do this, provided that they adhere to the terms of open-source licensing. But in behaving as they did they have in effect been free-riding on the public domain.Most open-source software – and Open SSL is no exception – is produced voluntarily by people who are not paid for creating it. They do it for love, professional pride or as a way of demonstrating technical virtuosity. And mostly they do it in their spare time. Responsible corporate use of open-source software should therefore involve some measure of reciprocity: a corporation that benefits hugely from such software ought to put something back, either in the form of financial support for a particular open-source project, or – better still – by encouraging its own software people to contribute to the project.If the giant internet companies had taken the latter approach to OpenSSL, then they might have spotted the Heartbleed vulnerability earlier. In which case we wouldn't be in the mess that we are in now. Sometimes the ethical thing to do turns out also to be the prudent thing to do.
A double bill of sorts seesThe Allianceencouraging children to run around with the Vita camera to find colours, surfaces and sounds that unlock creatures within the game, while the more sedentary, but no less involving,The Lost Kingdompresents a platform adventure requiring the use of different Invizimals to solve problems. Playable entirely separately, the pair come together for a battle mode offering a four-player "cross-play" challenge. Beyond this crossover,&nbsp;however, it's&nbsp;the periphery elements ofInvizimalsthat make it more than a simple video-game refresh. There's a TV show coming, and collectible stickers, both of which unlock new creatures when placed in front of the Vita camera. Although the Vita's features are less of a novelty now,Invizimalsstill plays to them well, making extensive use of touch screen, microphone and camera, while Brian Blessed's in-game presence as Professor Dawson underlines the high production values Sony have invested in the titles.
New life-saving surgical techniques are not being adopted quickly enough in British hospitals. That is the stark conclusion of a report by theRoyal College of Surgeons(RCS) which warns this week that patients are missing out on new procedures because the NHS is failing to set up programmes to promote their use in the UK.The report,Innovation to Adoption: Successfully Spreading Surgical Innovation,stresses the need to find ways to introduce new surgical techniques as quickly as possible, thus saving lives and helping the NHS to save money.New surgical techniques – involving robotics, 3D-imaging and lasers – have been developed in recent years, but in many cases have only been introduced in a haphazard manner in British hospitals. This failure to act coherently is now causing concern among surgeons."Many patients are not benefiting from ground-breaking procedures, even when surgeons firmly believe that they can save or extend lives. This cannot continue," said Professor Norman Williams, the RCS president. "We cannot afford to neglect the kind of surgical innovation that has made such a difference to survival and recovery, such as keyhole surgery and advancements in transplant surgery." He added that the NHS, the government and doctors had to understand how to accelerate innovative surgical practices in the UK.The point was backed by David Neal, professor of surgical oncology at Cambridge University. "The NHS is the perfect place to test new technologies," he said. "It covers the whole country and gives us an ideal platform for showing the worth of a new surgical technique. Unfortunately, this is not being done. The NHS does not seem to be able to tackle this sort of thing. Instead, we are relying, in many cases, on tests being done in the US, where there are commercial pressures involved."Neal has been involved in using a semi-automated technique known as robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (Rarp) to treat prostate cancer in the UK. "The technique greatly improves a human surgeon's performance," said Neal. "Using current methods, a patient is typically in hospital for around five days, while around 20% of them need blood transfusions. With Rarp, they can leave the next day and only about 1% of patients need a transfusion."About 200 prostate cancer patients are now being treated every year using the new technique. "That is far to low a figure," Neal added. "We need to introduce the technique to enough hospitals to treat around 10,000 patients a year, but that is not happening." He added that the UK needed a network of about 10-15 hospitals where new medical techniques would be taught to surgeons.The need to promote robots in medicine is seen as being particularly important in future. The first robot procedure was offered to NHS patients in 2004, but the NHS has yet to fund the purchase of a single surgical robot and has relied instead on charities and endowments to provide cash to buy them.A programme to help surgeons learn  keyhole colorectal surgery for patients with bowel cancer and other conditions was set up in 2007. Mark Coleman, a consultant at Plymouth Hospital involved in creating the programme, said: "In 2008, 10% of operations on the colon involved keyhole surgery. Now that figure has reached 50% and the saving for the NHS over that period has been calculated as being around £11m."
The American intelligence community isforcefully denyingreports that the National Security Agency haslong knownabout the Heartbleed bug, acatastrophic vulnerabilityinside one of the most widely-used encryption protocols upon which we rely every day to secure our web communications. But the denial itself serves as a reminder that NSA&apos;s two fundamental missions – one defensive, one offensive – are fundamentally incompatible, and that they can&apos;t both be handled credibly by the same government agency.In case you&apos;ve spent the past week under a rock,Heartbleedis the name security researchers have given to a subtle but serious bug in OpenSSL, a popular version of the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol – successor to the earlier Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) – that safeguards Internet traffic from prying eyes. When you log in to your online banking account or webmail service, the little lock icon that appears in your browser means SSL/TLS is scrambling the data to keep aspiring eavesdroppers away from your personal information. But an update to OpenSSL rolled out over two years ago contained a bug that would allow a hacker totrick sites into leaking information– including not only user passwords, but the master encryption keys used to secure all the site&apos;s traffic and verify that you&apos;re actually connected toMyBank.comrather than an impostor.It&apos;s exactly the kind of bug you&apos;d expect NSA to be on the lookout for, sincedocuments leaked by Edward Snowden confirmthat the agency has long been engaged in an &quot;aggressive, multi-pronged effort to break widely used Internet encryption technologies&quot;. In fact, that effort appears to have yielded a major breakthrough against SSL/TLS way back in 2010, two yearsbeforethe Heartbleed bug was introduced – a revelation thatsparked a flurry of speculationamong encryption experts, who wondered what hidden flaw the agency had found in the protocol so essential to the Internet&apos;s security.On Friday, Bloomberg Newsreportedthat Heartbleed had indeed been added to NSA&apos;s arsenal almost immediately after the bug appeared, citing two anonymous sources &quot;familiar with the matter&quot;. Within hours, the intelligence community&apos;s issued anunusually straightforward denial, free from the weasely language intelligence officials sometimes employ to almost-but-not-quite deny allegations. As the statement pointed out, the federal government itself &quot;relies on OpenSSL to protect the privacy of users of government websites and other online services.&quot; If NSA had found such a serious security hole, the agency would have disclosed it, officials asserted. Moreover, the White House has recently &quot;reinvigorated&quot; the &quot;Vulnerabilities Equities Process&quot; designed to ensure that newly-discovered exploits aren&apos;t kept secret any longer than is absolutely necessary for vital intelligence purposes.AsIndiana University cybersecurity expert Fred Cate points out, however, the intelligence community&apos;s track record of misleading statements about its capabilities means even such a seemingly unambiguous denial has been greeted with some skepticism. And even if we take that denial at face value when it comes to Heartbleed, reports of NSA&apos;s 2010 &quot;breakthrough&quot; suggest they may be sitting on other, still-undisclosed vulnerabilities.Here, however, is the really crucial point to recognize: NSA doesn&apos;t need to have known about Heartbleed all along to take advantage of it.The agency&apos;srecently-disclosed minimization procedurespermit &quot;retention of all communications that are enciphered.&quot; In other words, when NSA encounters encryption it can&apos;t crack, it&apos;s allowed to – and apparently does – vacuum up all that scrambled traffic and store it indefinitely, in hopes of finding a way to break into it months or years in the future. Assecurity experts recently confirmed, Heartbleed can be used to steal a site&apos;s master encryption keys – keys that would suddenly enable anyone with a huge database of encrypted traffic to unlock it, at least for the vast majority of sites that don&apos;t practice what&apos;s known as &quot;forward security&quot;, regularly generating new keys as a safeguard against retroactive exposure.If NSA moved quickly enough – as dedicated spies are supposed to – the agency could have exploited the bug to steal those keysbeforemost sites got around to fixing the bug, gaining access to a vast treasure trove of stored traffic.That creates a huge dilemma for private sector security experts. Normally, when they discover a vulnerability of this magnitude, they want to give their colleagues a discreet heads-up before going public, ensuring that the techies at major sites have a few days to patch the hole before the whole world learns about it.The geeks at NSA&apos;s massive Information Assurance Directorate – the part of the agency tasked with protecting secrets and improving security – very much want to be in that loop. But they&apos;re part of an organization that&apos;s also dedicated tostealingsecrets andbreakingsecurity. And security companies have been burned by cooperation with NSA before: the influential firm RSA trusted the agency to help them improve one of their popular security tools,only to discover via another set of Snowden documentsthat the spies had schemed toweakenthe software instead.Giving NSA advance warning of Heartbleed could help the agency protect all those government systems that were relying on OpenSSL to protect user data – but it also would aid them in exploiting the bug to compromise privacy and security on a massive scale in the window before the fix was widely deployed.Little wonder, then, that the President&apos;s Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies – informally known as the Surveillance Review Group – dedicated a large section of its recent report,Liberty and Security in a Changing World, to this basic tension. &quot;NSA now has multiple missions and mandates, some of which are blurred, inherently conflicting, or both,&quot; the Review Group wrote. &quot;Fundamentally NSA is and should be a foreign intelligence organization&quot; rather than &quot;an information assurance organization.&quot;Because Internet security depends on trust and cooperation between researchers, the mission of a security-breaking agency is fundamentally incompatible with that of a security-protecting agency. It&apos;s time to spin off NSA&apos;s &quot;defense&quot; division from the &quot;offense&quot; team. It&apos;s time to create an organization that&apos;s fully devoted to safeguarding the security of Internet users – even if that might make life harder for government hackers.
Ryan Germick, a designer and illustrator for Google, doesn’t have much time for boring stuff like rules. “We don’t use handbooks or focus groups,” he says . “All we want to do is something as creative and fun as possible for as many people as possible.”Germick leads the Google Doodle team: artists and engineers who play with the search engine logo by introducing date-specific illustrations, often in the form of interactive games or puzzles, to mark cultural, artistic or historical events.Conventional marketing wisdom has it that a company’s logo should be consistent. Which is why, when Google started tampering with its instantly recognisable four-colour logo in 1998, some thought the company had lost its marbles.Today, however, the Google Doodle has evolved into a global showcase for beautiful illustration fused with creative technology. The artists responsible can display their work to a world audience while the rest of us enjoy a few seconds of thought-provoking inspiration when we log on. The Doodlers have marked a range of eclectic events – from the frivolous (the 50th anniversary of Doctor Who) to the profound (an interactive animation to show how Foucault proved the Earth rotated on its axis).150th anniversary of the opening of the London tubeGermick, speaking by phone from Google HQ in Mountain View, California, where he’s worked since 2006, says: “We’re grateful [people] come to our homepage, and if we can give them 30 seconds of messing around before they go on with their day, that’s great.”He leads a team of 10 illustrators who have regular brainstorming sessions. Google staff and members of the public are encouraged to email their thoughts. Once a theme has been decided, it can take months to bring it to fruition with the help of Google engineers. When Google commemorated the dancer Martha Graham in 2011, for instance, they asked the principal dancer at the Martha Graham Dance Company to perform for them so they could record and animate her movements. In 2012 they briefly considered hiring an architect to build a scale model of a Mies van der Rohe building for what would have been his 126th birthday. And last year, in celebration of the children’s author Maurice Sendak, Google spoke to Sendak’s long-time assistant to find out about everything from his favourite foods to his love of dogs.“It’s a challenge we relish,” says Matthew Cruikshank, the only British Doodler in the team, who studied animation at Bournemouth College before being headhunted and decamping to the Googleplex two years ago. “We’re aware that we have to make a Doodle global, so we can’t use language that wouldn’t make sense in one territory, and it almost becomes a series of graphic symbols.“For the Doctor Who animated game [Cruikshank led the design team] we had lots of ideas and diluted them down to three or four of the most powerful aspects. We wanted the Daleks, and to get across the way the Doctor metamorphosed, and that became the lives in the game. So you never died, you just kept regenerating.”65th anniversary of the birth of Freddie MercuryFor Cruikshank, the key to the popularity of the Doodle is that “it shows the human behind the machine”. The first ever Doodle was developed when the Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin went to the Burning Man festival in the Nevada desert in 1998 and tinkered with the logo to show they were out of the office. The idea caught on, and now the Doodlers have put their innovative spin on everything from Freddie Mercury (a video accompanied by the 1978 Queen hit Don’t Stop Me Now) to Jules Verne (the logo adapted to show the view from a submarine, inspired by Verne’s classic Twenty Thousand Leagues Under The Sea), and the tenor Luciano Pavarotti, whose animated likeness replaced the “L” on the Google logo for one day in 2007.The office at the heart of this operation is energetic, irreverent and young – the average Google Doodler is in their 20s or early 30s with a background in graphic design or coding. Staff can bring their dogs into work. There are currently three canine team-members. “We certainly have lots of noise and chaos and multiple dogs,” says computer engineer Corrie Scalisi, who co-designed a live Turing machine with 12 interactive programming puzzles to mark Alan Turing’s 100th birthday. “But you can also buckle down and bounce ideas off people. It’s dynamic.”150th anniversary of Gustav Klimt’s birthScalisi likes being part of a team that is 50% female: “Not only am I not feeling like a minority any more but we’re launching many more Doodles featuring many more women in them.”And the dogs? They get a role too: Scalisi’s miniature husky provided some of the sound-effects for the Doctor Who animation. “It gets really interesting with three dogs,” says Germick. “We have one meeting going on above the table and another underneath.” There hasn’t yet been a Google Doodle marking Lassie’s birthday. But it’s surely only a matter of time.
Some of my neighbours take an interest in my wheels. "Another electric car?" one asks. Well, yes, mostly, I tell him, but it also has a 1.4-litre petrol engine. "Hybrid then?" he says, knowingly (bit of a smartarse, this one. I can say that – I don't think he reads the Guardian). Actually, no, not really, and Vauxhall gets a bit cross if you call it a hybrid. It is an electric car; it runs permanently on its electric motor with a battery that will take you 25-30 miles emitting diddly-squat. The petrol engine is like a back-up generator for when the battery gets low. An EV with a&nbsp;range-extending petrol motor/generator then.That's a little problem with the Ampera, the fact that it isn't easily classifiable by a simple one- or two-word term that everyone – and their neighbours – can understand.Otherwise, it's rather brilliant. An electric car you can use as your one and only car (they begin to lose their point when there's also a Range Rover parked up on the drive). Away game at St James' Park? No problem, we'll take the car. (I speak from a Gooner's point of view. A Mackem could easily get there and back in aNissan Leafor aRenault Zoe.) And we won't have to stop four times on the way to recharge or fill up. You won't get those amazing figures – 235.4mpg and 27g/km – on a trip like that (they're based on average journeys), but it's nice to know that you can at least go in the car. And go without that 21st-century motoring ailment known as "range anxiety" to add to normal away game/football/general life worries.The Ampera glides around, if not thrillingly, then at least smoothly and quietly, even when the petrol engine is working (it's hard to tell when, to be honest, unless of course you're an internationally renowned motoring journalist). Very comfortably, too. It is expensive, but all electric cars are, even with government backhanders. And this one is also a bit posh.There is one other little problem with it: it's not as nice as aBMW i3. Another electric car, available with a&nbsp;range-extending petrol engine, the i3 is the Ampera's only real rival. And though the Vauxhall is cheaper, goes farther and probably makes more sense, I'd take the BMW all day long. It's not just more nimble to drive (feels lighter, is lighter), it's a more interesting design. The BMW's light, airy interior and use of interesting materials makes it feel innovative and futuristic. The Vauxhall doesn't quite pull off its attempts at funkiness (odd graphics on the inside of the doors). Like if I, a&nbsp;middle-aged white bloke, were to let my Polish barber have his way and give me a&nbsp;zigzag slash on one side. The BMW is simply a more likable car. Plus,&nbsp;I'm a shallow snob, and I&nbsp;want my neighbours to be jealous.Vauxhall AmperaPriceFrom £28,750 (after government grant)Top speed100mphAcceleration0-60mph in 8.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption235.4mpgCO2emissions27g/kmEcorating9/10Cool rating5/10
