Napster, the file-sharing scourge of the music industry, seems likely to rise from the ashes and become part of the CD "burning" revolution.Roxio, the American CD-writing software maker, is poised to buy most of Napster's assets in a deal valued at $5.3m (&#163;3.35m).The deal must be approved by the US bankruptcy court. If it is given the go-ahead next week, Roxio will secure Napster's intellectual property, brand name, internet domain name and the famous Cat logo. However, Roxio is not assuming any of Napster's liabilities, including any relating to pending litigation.Rival bidders have a week to top Roxio's offer. But if the company's bid is successful it will then decide whether to resurrect the Napster name or simply integrate its technology with the Roxio product offering. Roxio is one of the world's leading providers of software which assists the recording, or "burning" of digital media on to a compact disc.Napster shot to fame as the dotcom bubble inflated and, at its peak two years ago, internet users swapped tens of millions of songs across Napster's network. The music industry accused the company of piracy because its technology allowed CD-quality songs to be downloaded without charge on to a computer's hard drive.The major music labels, which blame online piracy for a dramatic drop in CD sales, took Napster to court for infringing copyright laws, essentially shutting it down in July last year.Napster finally closed its operations in September after the bankruptcy courts stopped Bertelsmann's BMG label acquiring its assets. Although Napster could not complete the journey it had started, it is credited with triggering rapid advances in file-swapping technology.Since Napster's demise, music and media companies have been exploring ways to tap into the demand for file sharing. They have acknowledged the need to provide more "burnable" content, seen as critical in persuading customers to pay for file sharing.
Dell continued to make headway at rivals' expense with sales up by 22% in the latest quarter, and profits jumping to $561 million. But its shares weredown 5%as tech sector stocks took a beating.
Microsoft's Xbox is now online in the US. The move was covered in a wide range of papers including theWashington Post. Microsoft's PR included a comprehensive list ofgames.
Exactly one year ago today, Microsoft launched the Xbox in the US. The Seattle megacorp said that it was the most powerful console on sale and that it would revolutionise the gaming experience. But the public said it was bloated, ugly and overpriced. Sales were lacklustre.The Xbox suffered an even more problematic birth when it launched on March 14 this year in the UK and Europe. Sales hovered between minimal and non-existent. A mere six weeks after launch, Microsoft slashed the price from £299 to £199 (it now has an RRP of just £159), which improved matters - but the console hardly looked like a credible threat to Sony's PlayStation 2, currently celebrating sales of three million in the UK alone.The latest figures by sales monitor Chart Track show that 233,500 Xboxes have been sold so far in the UK. That sounds unimpressive (particularly when you consider that Grand Theft Auto Vice City for the PlayStation 2 sold 250,000 copies on its first two days on sale in the UK) but, nevertheless, Microsoft is crowing. That is because the Xbox has overtaken Nintendo's GameCube, both in terms of installed base and "run-rate" - the week-on-week retail sales (currently, around 10,000 Xboxes are being sold each week). Xbox, at least, is winning the race of the also-rans.Chris Lewis, Microsoft UK director for home and entertainment, is bullish. "We're happy to be a clear number two," he says. "It has genuinely been a rollercoaster ride, but now we have clear momentum. We will see a lot of energy from the retail sector and key bundling activity between now and Christmas. We have a few tricks up our sleeve."Lewis points out that around 200 Xbox games will be in the shops this Christmas, which is impressive, but there is still a sense that the console could do with a few more killer exclusive titles.Lewis fingers the innovative platform effort Blinx and Ubi Soft's Splinter Cell as key games, and cross-platform efforts like Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4, FIFA 2003, Harry Potter and 007: NightFire should also help. But clearly, we can expect Microsoft to unleash an almighty marketing and advertising blitz any day now.At its X02 showcase (held with much razzmatazz at a theme park in Seville on  September 24), Microsoft announced it had bought legendary British developer Rare Software from Nintendo for an astonishing $375m.Although the amount paid was excessive, the move provides conclusive proof that Microsoft is in the games industry for the duration. And as Rare is an old industry stager, it makes Microsoft look less like an arriviste.Lewis is also keen to extol the virtues of Xbox Live, the online gaming service for the console due to launch on March 14 2003. Xbox Live is technically impressive, and will arrive at a time when the likes of BT are beginning to become serious about making broadband pervasive.  It also has some compelling games (such as Unreal Championship and, eventually, Halo 2).All these factors should enable Microsoft to take a lead in the burgeoning online console gaming world - provided the service, and the Xbox, remains out of the clutches of hackers, which Microsoft is adamant it will.So, despite its painful birth, the Xbox has finally established itself as the number two console behind the unassailable PlayStation 2, and Microsoft has convinced pundits that it will not withdraw from the games industry like a wounded animal. Evidence even exists that the company is looking further ahead than the Xbox: persistent rumours suggest that Xbox 2 developer kits will shortly be delivered to key developers, and J Allard - the originator of the Xbox - has gone on record saying that Xbox 2 will arrive before PlayStation 3.And that exposes the Xbox for what it is: a holding exercise designed to gain a market foothold, allowing its successor to compete on an even footing with Sony's next offering.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:The Queen's Speech was dominated by legislation aimed at reducing crime and reforming the criminal justice system. Is crime now the country's biggest priority?Pashmina:has it stopped smoking*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:yes flames is shooting out of it nowHost_Chris2:is there a particular piece of legislation anyone would like to discuss?LadeezMan:out of wotPashmina:you shoud relly call the fire departmentBronco:my toasterLadeezMan:they is on strikePashmina:then call the army &amp; get a green goblet to come roundBronco:but Id have to go offlinePashmina:WOT IS MORE IMPOTANT YR LIFE OR THIS CHATROOMLadeezMan:u should get broadbandBronco:shutup abt broadbandLadeezMan:then u can call in fires and chat at the same timePashmina:do you work for bt or wotHost_Chris2:did anyone see the state opening of Parliament yesterday?Bronco:uh ohPashmina:WOTLadeezMan:I saw it on tellyBronco:there goes the curtinPashmina:POUR WATER ON ITHost_Chris2:You shouldn't put water on an electrical fireLadeezMan:its that thing with the queen yeahBronco:thats it it stoppd nowPashmina:omigod wot did u put in itBronco:pizzaHost_Chris2:There's one piece of legislation you'll all be interested in...LadeezMan:shes a right royal bitch innitPashmina:pizza in a toaster!!!!Bronco:the cheese got all bunrt. Ill have to start overPashmina:don't put more in!!LadeezMan:&amp; Prince Charls hangs out with puffsBronco:uh oh here we go againHost_Chris2:...24 hour pub openings!Pashmina:Chris2 dont talk abt pubs Broncos house is in fire!Host_Chris2:Bronco I think you'd better unplug your toasterLadeezMan:24 hour pubs! WIKKIDBronco:good idea I'll just put me coat over me headPashmina:someone dial 999!Host_Chris2:Bronco I suggest you leave your house immediatelyLadeezMan:I can't Im baned for too many antharx callsBronco:so slepyPashmina:THIS IS ALL THOSE FIREMANS FAULTLadeezMan:broadband could have saved himBronco:just kidding I dont even have no toaster hahaconnection to server has been terminated...
Two years after Microsoft's Bill Gates first showed a prototype pen-operated Tablet PC - claimed to represent the future of personal computing - a handful of systems have finally made it to market. In the UK, Acer, Compaq/ Hewlett-Packard, Fujitsu-Siemens, RM and Toshiba joined Microsoft at the Imax cinema by the Thames in London last week to unveil their new machines. Whether they will find enough customers remains to be seen.Tablet PCs are like slates, designed to be held or cradled on one arm and operated with a stylus. The software, Microsoft Windows XP Pro   Tablet PC Edition, works with a digital pen and ink system, and includes handwriting recognition. Over the past decade, similar systems have found niches in the healthcare and transportation industries, among others. Microsoft and its partners now hope the idea will start to catch on with ordinary business users. These "corridor warriors" can take their Tablet PC to meetings, make and save handwritten notes using the touch-sensitive screen, and search them afterwards.Tablet PCs can be used in many situations where notebook or desktop PCs are inconvenient or impossible to use, such as while standing up or walking around. This could make them better value than traditional machines.Early buyers are being offered three types of system. Acer, from Taiwan, and Toshiba, from Japan, have taken the convertible route with their Travelmate C100 and Portege 3500 designs. These look like conventional notebook PCs. However, in   both cases, users can rotate the screen through 180 and fold it back over the keyboard to convert them into Tablet PCs. This design is for people who are not sure if they want a Tablet PC, but are willing to pay extra for a more versatile notebook.Fujitsu-Siemens, the Japanese-German combine, and Britain's RM have opted for the pure Tablet PC approach with stylus-operated armhelds, though you can plug in a keyboard as an accessory. Fujitsu-Siemens already claims more than half the UK market for pen-tablets, and the Stylistic ST 4000 series is its 18th design. Although it is calculated to appeal to current users, UK managing director Mel Taylor says he expects the company's pen-tablet sales to triple.RM, formerly Research Machines, is targeting the education market with two   Tablet PCs. There is a basic model for students and a more powerful one, with built-in fingerprint-based security, for teachers. The ability to use computers in a classroom or on field trips, wirelessly connected, could revolutionise educational computing. The cost could be a stumbling block, but RM's prices start at almost half the expected level, at &#163;799 plus VAT.Hewlett-Packard has taken the third way with the Compaq Tablet PC TC1000: a dual-use machine that works as a desktop or a pen-tablet. When at your desk, you use it as a standard desktop with a keyboard. When you go to a meeting, you just take the screen from its docking station and use it as a Tablet PC. You can also take it home and plug in a mobile keyboard. Jude Meadows, vice president and general manager of HP's personal systems group, says it "gives users the power to decide how they want to use their PCs".Other companies listed as supporting the Tablet PC initiative, such as China's Legend, and Viglen and Time in the UK, may yet produce further variations.As with notebooks, Tablet PC specifications vary. The bottom of the range is RM's Tablet, with a 733MHz Intel Celeron, 20GB hard drive and   10.1 inch digitising screen. It weighs 1.4kg. The Toshiba is the most powerful, with a 1.33GHz Mobile Pentium III, 40GB drive and 12.1 inch screen. But it weighs 1.85kg and, at &#163;1,799, costs &#163;1,000 more. Alan Thompson, chief executive of Toshiba Information Systems, says Microsoft has ordered almost 1,000.Intel is producing a new Mobile Pentium processor, codenamed Banias, for thin and light PCs. It will have power-saving features to extend battery life to about eight hours, and built-in Wi-Fi (802.11a and b) networking. Intel expects Banias to take over the Tablet PC market. However, it will not be available until next year.
Who plays?Your latest article about online gambling (On a winning streak, November 7) presented a fairly one-sided account apart from Gamblers Anonymous saying they were against it. As a psychologist who is pro-responsible gambling, there are issues that government and industry should be aware of.First, online gambling is essentially a solitary asocial activity. Problem gamblers are far more likely to gamble alone rather than as part of a social event. Second, gambling with e-cash lowers the psychological value of money. People spend far more with non-cash equivalents in both gambling environments (eg, chips, tokens, smart cards) and non-gambling environments (eg, credit cards, store cards). Third, it is very hard for internet gambling operators to protect vulnerable groups. For instance, how do you stop someone who is drunk gambling on an internet gambling site?At an offline casino, such  people would not be allowed to gamble. Other vulnerable groups such as adolescents, problem gamblers and the learning disabled are also at risk if there is no "gatekeeper" to prevent access. Finally, unlike most other forms of gambling, internet gambling operators know exactly how long a gambler is at their site, what they gamble on, the size of each individual bet, and what other sites the gambler has visited.Such detailed customer tracking leaves the potential for some unscrupulous operators to deliberately target the large spenders - the very ones who may be problem gamblers.Mark GriffithsProfessor of gambling studies, Nottingham Trent Universitymark.griffiths@ntu.ac.ukCrazy rushE-government is not just about putting council services online, as recognised by Michael Cross (Public domain, November 7). The successful authorities of the future will place customer service at the heart of everything they do. In Swale, local people largely wanted to keep telephoning their council, while Halton preferred a one-stop shop. In both examples, the council used web technology to bring information to the fingertips of the staff talking to citizens in order to be able to answer a number of queries in one visit.There is no right approach, but the headlong rush to put services on the website is crazy. It's a chance to completely rethink the way in which services are delivered.But that's not to ignore online services. It may not be the number one option for most people today, but there's a very computer literate generation coming which may find the notion of telephoning or visiting their council as odd as playing an LP or making copies using carbon paper!Steve Knightonsteve.knighton@ northgate-is.comiPod's the jobSteve Bowbrick's article (Second Sight, October 31) was very interesting. Despite working in IT for a few years, I have always ignored MP3 players and digital music in favour of CDs. However, I have been inspired to buy an iPod for use at work, at home and in the car. I will still buy CDs (to convert into MP3 format), but will also subscribe to a legitimate paid-for music download service. After reading Jack Schofield's article on file sharing (Working the Web, November 7) I think I can do without the hassle, viruses and spyware. The internet is routinely blamed for the death of music or books. However, I buy more music and books because of the internet. I don't have to    join a queue on a Saturday to be sneered at in Virgin, or whisper in Waterstones.Patrick HarrisonEmail address suppliedWake-up callIt is 20 years since the PC revolution and four years since the arrival of the term "dotcom". In that time, the UK's small to medium size enterprises have had to embrace IT. Yet few fully understand the role that technology can play in delivering business objectives and besting the competition. Instead, technology is often viewed as a grudge purchase and commitment to exploiting the investment is often lacking.It is a familiar scenario: a large investment delivers little more than the previous system. Tens of thousands spent to barely scratch the surface. Why bother? Yet the steps required to maximise the investment are far from rocket science.Identifying the business objective, budget and including IT personnel early in those decisions will help establish the pros, cons and possibilities. Assessing the depth of skills available in the company, and its technical limitations, will open up opportunities to partner with an organisation with complementary skills. And addressing "bite-sized" key areas on a monthly basis will achieve far more, with less disruption, than the "big bang" approach.There is no getting away from it; in the 21st century, new business strategies are underpinned by technology. And always remember, organisations usually end up with the IT system they deserve, not necessarily what they purchased.Roger FleuryDirector,CPiO
You have seven days left to enter the competition. Text your poems to07786 207 207The countdownNovember 20:Entries closeNovember 24:Shortlist of 100 agreedNovember 25:Panel decides final five and Orange AwardNovember 28:Entrants to be texted a poem a day for five days. Give each a mark out of 10 (numerals only) and text it backDecember 5:Winners announced in OnlineDecember 9:Orange cheque presented at West End Poetry EveningFinishing lineI run for a busand as it slows downto let me onI speed past itand dip my headat the finishing line.Pic me upI left my pictur on th groundwher u walkso that somdayif th sun was jst right&amp; th rain didnt wash me awau might c meout of th corner of yr i&amp; pic me upOffice quietOffice quietas Christmasneed d.brent in charge!working on mapof Sohamwhere they found girlsjust looks flatsun gives me headacherather b home wu.EscapologistThe escapologist asked meto check his locks and chainsbefore he plunged into an icy lake.I did and to my credithe drowned.TextureThe texture of this messageweaves its microwave through the airdisplacing its invisible contentand even flapping pigeon wingscannot change its charactersInside all of usI WOKE UP THIS MORNIN&amp; THERE WAS THIS FAT GIRL FILMING ME WITH A CAMERAI NOW REALISE THAT WHEN WE R HIGHTHERE IS A LITTLE FAT GIRL (+CAMERA)INSIDE ALL OF USLeft overPlease look to your left.Whatever you saw makes up 20% of this poem.The movement of your head is 65%and these words are whatever's left over.A patternU think there's a pattern.In fone no's, in words, in life.Did her 2nd look mean what i thought it meant?Maybe I'm wasting my time?U think there's a pattern?Unknown eventNobody noticed itbut somewhere something wonderful just happened.I invite you to applaudthis unknown eventfor as long as you see appropriate.FestivalSENSATION:FESTIVALwet earthsyrupy sloe ginbeats seep thru canvasdrizzle-fuzzy funfair twinklemy last pair of dry socks.Space babyShe calls u space baby&amp; Kermitfloatinglike us all1/2 frog 1/2 starsBead of rainA blue line in a square boxand our hearts run like the clappers.We spend gazes on each otherand think of names.And we hope. Like a bead of rain on a leaf.28 2 Day (Happy)When I was 18,30 seemed lightyears away.I thought we'd have flying cars by now.But I still have to get the bus.CirclesLast night i dreamt of circlesand of lives that get lost.Of walking full circumferanceand forgetting where i had started.A day of a postgraduatei love the sound of rain hitting my window,pebbles rolling in shoreTurn the radio down undergraduates
Pint-sizedThe Free Pint newsletter has celebrated its fifth birthday by picking up an award from the Chartered Institute of  Library and Information Professionals. The name has nothing to do with free beer: the Pint bit was originally inspired by      ideas about "People Interested in Net Tips". In sum, it's pretty serious stuff. Recently it has covered the speed of web      sites, effective writing, and job hunting, for example - but it does carry a wealth of links. The website content includes      issues of the newsletter and Fast Facts, an amazing collection of online reference sources compiled by Gary Price, who runs      the Virtual Acquisition Shelf and News Desk.www.freepint.comhttp://resourceshelf.blogspot.comRadiophonicsCalifornian      composer Terry Riley, perhaps best known for his electronic classic A Rainbow in Curved Air, has recently been creating a      more literal kind of space music, thanks to Nasa. Sun Rings, performed by the Kronos Quartet in Iowa last month, included      sounds from space recorded by the University of Iowa Plasma Wave Group. Nasa says its Art Program "is one of many ways  Nasa reaches the public".www.jpl.nasa.gov/releases/2002/release_2002_196.cfmwww.newalbion.com/artists/rileytwww-pw.physics.uiowa.edu/space-audio/sounds/sounds.htmlHear sayIf you ever need to  know how to say Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma in American, the Voice of America has the answer. Visit the broadcaster's   pronunciation guide for a small RealAudio file, or take your pick from the selection, which ranges from Aabalkin (Leonid) to      Zyuganov (Gennady). If the BBC has a similar guide in what we used to call RP (Received Pronunciation), I can't find it.   Fonetiks has a good guide to many international varieties of English, but it's not a dictionary. For more general help with      pronunciation, Microsoft's Encarta World Dictionary is a reasonable resource. However, although the dictionary was created      in the UK by Bloomsbury Publishing, and there are English and American versions of the dictionary online, it is the American      one that has an audible pronunciation guide.http://ibb7.ibb.gov/pronunciationswww.fonetiks.orghttp://dictionary.msn.co.ukCookin!Tara Calishain, of ResearchBuzz newsletter fame, has redone      her Goocookin' search page so it no longer needs a Google API. Now anyone can use it. Type in a couple of ingredients and      Goocookin' does an expert search of Google's database for recipes and related items. You can only search in General,  Vegan/vegetarian and Worldwide categories, but she is planning to add Seafood.www.buzztoolbox.com/google/goocookin.shtmlMini adThe latest version of Micro Machines, a computer racing game with toy racing cars, is being    advertised with what is claimed to be the web's smallest advertisement: it measures just 18 by 18 pixels. However, it's  animated with Shockwave Flash and is also one of the web's noisiest adverts.www.cunningstunts.net/microad/microadtwo.htmlCowbellsOne area where Terry Riley has signally failed to innovate is in      the use of cowbells. Or at least, that's if The Cowbell Project site is to be believed. It lists songs featuring cowbells, and      songs that ought to feature cowbells. Which, let's face it, is just about all of them.www.geekspeakweekly.com/cowbellSnappy gameShameless promotional plug Number 256b.1: grab a virtual Sharp GX10 mobile and play Pop Pix. Sorry, you will   have to play for fun. The prize for the highest score was a trip to the MTV Europe Music Awards, being held in Barcelona      tonight.www.mtvlivegame.comhttp://ema.mtv.co.uk/ema2002New &amp; noted&#183;The Making of the Mac:http://library.stanford.edu/mac&#183;The World Fact Book 2002:www.cia.gov/cia/publications/factbook&#183;Google Monitor  software lets you track the ranking of your website:download.com.com/3000-2181-10154563.html?tag=lst-2-11&#183;No more AOL CDs, please:www.nomoreaolcds.com&#183;End tyranny in the garden:www.freethegnomes.comSix of the bestDaily roundWordwww.wordsmith.org/awadPicturewww.steves-digicams.comPunwww.punoftheday.comDoodlewww.doodleoftheday.co.ukBlogwww.shrednow.com/botdToday in Historywww.scopesys.com/today
It's Thursday again, so turn off your personal computer and go out and buy a Guardian ... unless you are one of those sensible people who has it delivered every morning. If you are unlucky enough to live out of reach of printed copies, it's onlinehere.
Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates kicks off the Comdex trade show in Las Vegas on Sunday, and this year he will promote"smart objects"-- Internet-enabled household appliances -- according to ZD Net News. Microsoft's long term strategy is, of course, to have a PC running as a home server, probably under the stairs, to network everything in the home. If that idea doesn't take over the market, the Xbox -- a PC-based games console with a hard drive and Ethernet -- could do the job from under the TV set instead.
A year after its launch, the Xbox will finally be able to do what it was designed to do:play games online, using broadband. However, Sony reckons more than 40% of the users buying its comms add-on are still using dial-up.
Dead Time is money, at least for the mobile phone networks. Increasingly skint, they've been looking for new places to make some cash and this time, they think they've found it: games, downloaded straight to your phone, played when you've nothing else to do.Your Dead Time is soon to sacrificed on the altar of computer games played on the train. It's all because of Java, a programming language that, in theory, allows developers to write programs that will run on many different devices.With the latest range of phones having colour screens and the ability to understand Java, the perfect partnership is created. On one side, mobile phone networks are looking for content, and on the other, the computer games industry is looking for a way out of the ever-increasing costs of developing big games for the console market.Small teams, such as London's Morpheme, write two or three games a month. Even when selling them for only a fiver, the gamble is that enough people will have such phones to make it pay off. The simplicity of the devices is encouraging a return to the old school style of development. While console games take teams of 20 and multimillion pound bankrolls, Java games require only a couple of guys and a lot of caffeine. Steve Willcox - legendary developer for the ZX Spectrum, and the rest of the old school platforms from 20 years ago - is  among those hearing the call: "The risk-reward ratio is just too high with console games," he says.His company, Elite Systems - having retained the licences to such classics as Bombjack and Paperboy - is busy "porting" its old titles to the new platform for both a new audience and the twenty-somethings who remember them the first time around.They are not alone. Companies such as Namco and Capcom are converting their arcade classics to the new platform. The teenage players of such hit games as Street Fighter and Space Harrier have now, 10 years later, grown up to be the perfect target audience for these titles on mobile phones.Other companies are looking at producing branded games that contain advertising for consumer products. Even now, there are more than 100 games available, free or for a few pounds. This isn't the first time the network operators have tried something other than voice-calls to make serious money - many will remember the massive failure that was Wap.That died because the content was too expensive and not compelling enough to make anyone bother. This time, however, the networks believe the very latest phones - colour screens almost obligatory, for example - and the games themselves are enough of a draw for people to upgrade. That, and the way you download the games via the system called GPRS.GPRS has been around for about 18 months for the common user, and sits on top of the ordinary GSM network. It differs from the regular GSM system in that you are charged not by the minute, but by the amount of data you pass over the network. You are no longer charged, in other words, for the time you spend waiting for a page or a game to download.Many people, the networks especially, are betting large sums on the success of the game-playing phones. They are depending on the idea that these new capabilities will be the thing to "drive phone-churn" and "increase revenue-per-user" over the next few months. Christmas is seen as the big market.The theory is that the key teenage and young adult market will get these phones for Christmas presents, and spend the new year downloading games and ringtones and sending each other picture messages. This will pave the way for mass adoption of 3G, whenever that might be ready for launch, and provide a welcome injection of revenue in the meantime.Because these games are downloaded directly on to your phone, it allows for many interesting sales channels unavailable to, say, the PC gamer. For example, Telecom One last week launched a new TV channel on Sky. Called TX1, it features continual rolling previews of mobile games, along with instructions on how to buy them. By texting the short code shown on the screen to a certain number, you receive three messages, the last of which will be a bookmark that allows you to download the game.All three messages are reverse-billed, which means you pay to receive them. In this way, you pay for the game. TX1 is expecting to price the games at around &#163;4.50 each, and has more than 40 in stock. Many of them are fully licensed versions of old arcade classics, made possible because today's phones contain considerable processing power.Interestingly, the feeling among Nokia executives is that this amount of power goes some way to making 3G irrelevant: "Gamers have spent the past few years working out how to run complicated multi-player games over 56k modem connections over the PC: we have that with GPRS now, so why do we need all that 3G bandwidth?" said one.Despite their pro-Java bluster, however, the phone manufacturers aren't helping anyone. While they may be proud of their current range - phones such as the Nokia 7650 are amazing bits of engineering - people are already beginning to notice their limitations, especially when contrasted with their ideas about precisely what they want to do with these devices.For a start, the developers tell me, the way Java has been installed means the programmer cannot access any of the bits of the phone that actually make it interesting. From a Java program it is impossible to access the camera, the address book, or - in phones that have it - Bluetooth.Nor can an application send SMSs, or talk to any built-in GPS system. In many phones, you can't even get the phone online from a Java application. The promise of interesting location-based games and applications is pretty much shot through, unless the developer writes the application in another language and targets it at one particular phone.The whole point of using Java, with its write-once, run-on-any-device ideals, is somewhat lost when you talk of anything more ambitious than a really simple game. Even for the simple stuff, development is made harder than it should be: although every phone has a different screen size, button configuration and sound capabilities, there is no direct way for a program to find out what device it is sitting on.Developers are forced to figure out hacks (by trying to write to a part of memory they know only exists on a certain phone, for example, and waiting for the error message) so that programs can run at all. The problems do not stop there. While the phone networks are hoping for a bumper Christmas, their pricing may let them down. Given the cost of the phones, only one is available as a teen favourite pay-as-you-go handset: the Vodafone Live Sharp GX10 at &#163;349.99. The price is equivalent to a Nintendo GameCube and five games, or a DVD and TV combo.Neither is pay-as-you-go GPRS cheap. According to Vodafone, the average game will cost more than a   pound just to download on the pay-as-you-go tariff, on top of the game's cost. Competing in the Christmas market is not going to be easy. It gets worse. According to industry sources, at least one of the UK mobile networks has no way to check if pre-paid mobile phones have enough credit to allow the user to purchase the game.Premium rate SMSs, like those sent by TX1, are sent first, and billed later, meaning it is possible for an unscrupulous user to buy the game with an empty pre-pay card - thus paying nothing - and then download it on to their phone via a new GPRS account. Neither can networks currently, at least, provide itemised billing for things bought via premium SMS.
Music group EMI yesterday took a further step towards combating the threat of internet piracy by signing a series of deals in the US that will allow consumers to download digital albums and singles performed by artists including Kylie Minogue, Frank Sinatra, Coldplay and Tina Turner.The agreements with nine different digital distribution firms will allow users to download tracks permanently and then burn a limited number of personal copies.The illegal downloading of music by computer users through websites has threatened to destroy the profitability of the global record industry and leaves thousands of artists out of pocket.A report by the independent consultants OC&amp;C earlier this year found that almost three million people were logging on to free file-swapping services at any one time. In contrast, legitimate downloads brought in only about $1m (&#163;660,000) last year.David Munns, chairman of EMI Recorded Music in North America, said the initiative was "the next step in our plan to give consumers our music in the formats they are demanding today. Taste and demand will change, but we've developed an initial framework that is good for consumers, artists, customers and our business."Billy Idol, David Bowie, Fatboy Slim, Pink Floyd, The Beach Boys, Placido Domingo and Nat King Cole are among other artists included in the deals with distributors including pressplay, MusicNet, Ecast and Liquid Audio.Analysts say EMI has been more active in the digital arena than other big record groups because it is an independent and not seeking to build a distribution platform.EMI is likely to replicate the initiative in the UK in the near future once legal and technical hurdles have been overcome. It is likely to be pressed for details at next week's interim results presentation. Retail chains and music firms are already working on ways to sell music digitally but have yet to come up with a mass market solution.HMV recently became the first chain to offer digital downloads, while last month record labels and distributors rallied together to hold "digital download day".
A British computer administrator charged with mounting the biggest yet hacking campaign against US military computers yesterday accused the American authorities of trying to make an example of him, as he promised to fight extradition.Gary McKinnon, 36, from Hornsey in north London, also accused the crown prosecution service of being politically motivated in allowing him to be prosecuted in the US rather than in a British court.Mr McKinnon is alleged to have used the hacker handle Solo, and was indicted in his absence in two US states on Tuesday for allegedly hacking into 92 military and Nasa space agency networks, including one attack on a New Jersey naval base that closed down its systems for a week immediately after September 11.He was tracked down by officers from Britain's hi-tech crime unit after Nasa traced an attack on its networks to a computer in the UK. He was arrested and questioned in March, released on police bail, and reinterviewed in August.In September the US authorities took the unusual decision to seek extradition, and Mr McKinnon was no longer required to answer police bail. He will remain free until American prosecutors submit their extradition application and seek his arrest.His solicitor, Karen Todner, said yesterday: "The crown prosecution service has the power and opportunity to charge Mr McKinnon, a British citizen, with offences for which he could stand trial in this country. However, they have chosen not to pursue this course of action and are allowing the American authorities to apply for the extradition of a British citizen."We can only assume that the motivation is political and that it is proposed to make an example of Mr McKinnon."She said her client intended to oppose any extradition application, adding: "We also wish to emphasise on behalf of Mr McKinnon that he has no terrorist link whatsoever."British police sources describe Mr McKinnon as a "serious hacker", and believe he was trying to "make a point".While US prosecutors concede that Mr McKinnon did not access classified files, they say his case is being treated so seriously because of the "potential harm" he could have done.Mr McKinnon, who is unemployed, has been indicted on eight charges of computer crime involving $900,000 (&#163;600,000) worth of damage to computers in 14 states.He was indicted in a federal court in Virginia on seven charges of computer fraud, each carrying a prison sentence of up to 10 years and a $250,000 fine. In New Jersey he is accused of hacking into the Earle naval base, where the Atlantic fleet is armed and supplied, and closing down its network of 300 computers.Prosecutors allege that only a "professional hacker" could have mounted such a sophisticated campaign.They say he gained access to military computers, including two Pentagon networks, by detecting vulnerabilities in their Windows operating systems and installing Hungarian-made software called Remotely Anywhere, which allowed him to assume control of the machines.Peter Sommer, a computer security expert at the London School of Economics, said: "It is the computer equivalent of walking on to an army base and putting on a stolen uniform, which allows you to go much further than you could in civilian clothes."US authorities said it would be several weeks before extradition papers were presented. The US attorney's office in Virginia is drawing up an affidavit which, if Mr McKinnon fights extradition, will be sent to the Foreign Office after approval by the US justice and state departments.
The paperless office may not have materialised, but the paperless book - or ebook - is now here, and with high-profile publishers now offering a serious range of ebooks, the traditional printed book has a serious challenge to its dominance.Books have been placed on removable media such as floppy disk and distributed to readers for some years. The oldest producer of ebooks isProject Gutenberg, which began in 1971 by distributing books that were out of copyright on floppy disk. You can also see a vast array of free ebooks from sites such asFree eBooksandCyberRead.It took Stephen King, however, to show the publishing establishment that ebooks were a medium it could not ignore. With the release of his first ebook, Riding the Bullet, King illustrated that this format could be a commercial proposition for publishers.Some 400,000 copies were downloaded in the first 24 hours of its release. The publishing industry has been slow to offer a catalogue of ebooks to the reading public. HarperCollins stepped into the limelight two    years ago with its ebook imprintPerfectBound.Penguinalso recently committed to an ebook range. You can try an ebook courtesy of Penguin by downloading the first chapter of Will Self's and Zadie Smith's new books from the Guardian'sweb site.There is a battle raging between the three major developers of ebook reading software. Well known for its electronic publishing packageAcrobat, Adobehas developed a version of this software for the ebook market.Microsofthas its Reader software that is included with all Pocket PC-based personal digital assistants, as well as the new Tablet PC. AndPalmhas the third format that is compatible with any device running the Palm operating system.Dedicated ebook reading devices do exist and include theFranklin eBookMan, which is popular due to its low price - about &#163;150; the Gemstarebook reader; and theHiebook.The last two have large screens and are about the size of a hardback book with added capabilities such as back lights and, in the case of the Hiebook, a built-in MP3 player that allows you to listen to music while you read. To buy an ebook, you need access to a PC where you can download your ebook. You can then read your ebook on your PC, or download it to your reading device. However, the Hiebook has a built-in modem so you can download ebooks directly to the device, allowing you to buy an ebook from any location as long it has a phone line.Ebooks can be bought from online bookshops such as Amazon and WH Smith, both offering a large cross-section of subjects in the leading ebook formats. Prices are comparable to their paper equivalents. You buy your ebook by downloading not only the book itself, but also a key and licence to unlock the ebook so you can read it. Publishers can set the rights they offer on their ebooks, including whether you can make copies of the ebook and how much can be printed out.You can also create your own ebooks; all the leading  formats have software that allows you to do this. One of the most advanced and easiest to use isReaderWorks. It's free for non-commercial use.Why not create your own personal travel guide from the paper books you have - or group all your favourite recipes together as one ebook you can easily access? Most ebooks are published in all the major formats, but you have to decide which device you are going to read your ebooks on, as all devices do not read all ebook formats. Devices such as MP3 players, PDAs and mobile phones are converging, the PocketPC-based xda from02being a recent attempt.Clearly, integrated devices such as the xda and Palm PDAs offer more features than simply reading a book.  Dedicated ebook readers, like the Gemstar and Hiebook devices, offer vastly larger screens and features such as audio annotation, but are still cumbersome and expensive. The Tablet PC does open another option for ebook reading, but it's unclear how the reading public would use this device. Whether book buyers will want an all-in-one device or a dedicated reading device remains to be seen.The ebook market is still very new and the fact that book buyers have three competing formats from which to choose doesn't help the market achieve a critical mass. That said, the ebook is here to stay and will find its own niche.
DVD storeIn December, I asked you about storage of data in largish quantities. One suggestion was: "If you can wait, DVD Rewriters and DVD-RAM drives should be affordable soon, storing 4.7GB per disc." Have I waited long enough?Janet Gyfordwww.gyford.com/janetJack Schofield replies:Yes. The DVD writer market has been blighted by very high prices, and by different manufacturers adopting different, incompatible formats. Both problems are about to be solved by the arrival of multi-format (DVD+RW/+R and DVD-RW/-R) writers at relatively affordable prices.Examples include the NEC MultiSpin ND-1100A and Sony's DRU500A internal drive. Both should be available before Christmas and are expected to cost &#163;249. No doubt there will be others, but prices are unlikely to go much lower in the very near future. If you have a multi-format drive, you still have to choose which type of disc and system to use, but the low cost of DVD-R discs makes this a good bet for mass archival storage. PC Tech Guide has a good guide to the different formats and compatibility issues atwww.pctechguide.com/10dvd.htm.Dana Parker's Writable DVD: A Guide for the Perplexed is worth reading, though it was published in January 1999 (seewww.emediapro.net/EM1999/parker1.html).  One correction I would make is that DVD has a maximum capacity of 4.7 billion bytes, which is 4.37GB (gigabytes) not 4.7GB. If you try to copy a 4.6GB directory from a PC hard drive, it will not fit.Bye, BostikI am fed up with cutting out the best bits of Ask Jack, sticking them on paper and putting them in a binder. How can I find old articles?Ian GlenJS:Last week, Guardian Unlimited unveiled a new Online website, which includes the ability to limit searches to issues of Online,  or specifically to Ask Jack. Early indications (fingers crossed) are that this does the job much more conveniently than searching the whole paper. It is also much less work than Bostik. Go towww.guardian.co.uk/online/askjackFind meI have set up a web page forGloucester Chess Cluband would like it to be found by search engines, especially Google. I registered the URL with Google weeks ago, and other search engines, but cannot find the address by searching for Gloucester Chess Club.Pat BakerJS:Most web pages are not indexed. This is not a problem unless they contain unique information that people could not find any other way. However, Google has a good page atwww.google.com/webmastersto help people get their sites indexed. This points out that sites will be indexed if they are listed in the Open Directory or on Yahoo, which means a human will have looked at them and decided they have merit.Also, bear in mind that Google's "spiders" find pages by following links, and the more links there are to your site, the more important Google thinks it is. Hence the use of "link farms" to try to fool Google's page ranking system (which decides which sites come out top). I would not recommend trying to subvert this system because it is what makes Google work so well. However, you could legitimately arrange "link swaps" with similar chess club sites, or join aWeb Ring, thus increasing your chances of being crawled and indexed.More HotmailAny suggestions on how to cut down the amount of junk mail I get in Hotmail?Jacqui FrancisJS:There has not been a good solution to the problem of Hotmail spam, but last Thursday, a beta test version 2.0.14 of Mailwasher was released. This now includes Hotmail support - as readers Peter Szewczuk and Ray Summer were first to tell me, in response to a published query from Anne Murray. Mailwasher can bounce spam from Hotmail and POP3 mailboxes without you having to log on manually or download it. You can download it, free, fromwww.mailwasher.net/download.phpZone alarmI have had a problem with my PC dialling my ISP when starting up. After formatting my hard drive and re- installing all my software I discovered the culprit. My free firewall, Zone Alarm, is dialling out to a Zone Labs webpage that offers a free 30-day trial of Zone Alarm Pro. How can I stop it dialling out?Howard M KingJS:Zonelabs says there is a bug - sorry, "an issue" - in Zone Alarm, whereby it performs a DNS lookup without waiting for you to open an internet connection. Thesupport sitesays: "We will correct this in the next release of the products". If you have Windows XP, try disabling theRemote Access Auto Connection Manager. Or you could switch toSygate Personal Firewall, free for personal use.Backchat&#183;Last week, Eddie Smerdon complained he was receiving pop-up dialogue boxes from Windows Messenger advertising University Diplomas on his new PC running Windows XP. The solution seemed to be to disable Windows Messenger (not to be confused with Microsoft Messenger). However, it now seems more likely that the pop-ups are arriving via a more primitive route: a messaging service designed to allow network administrators to use a command line to send messages to users' PCs. Microsoft calls this a "Messenger Service of Windows": see Microsoft Knowledge Base article Q168893 for a description.A $699.99 program called Direct Advertiser has been used to exploit this service to send spam, as desribed last week by Steven J Vaughan-Nichols atPractical Technology. It seems that firewalls normally block this traffic - which may explain why I have not seen any popups. See Asylum's new FAQ page athttp://faq.ozoneasylum.com/853.Finally, Coffee Cup Software has launched a $10 program,DirectAd Blocker, though you can stop the ads for nothing, eg by typing  net stop messenger at a command line. Thanks to Gareth Jones, Emperor, Tom Royal and others for contributing information.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice CitySony PlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Rockstar/Take Two *****Not every game has vocal work from Ray Liotta, Dennis Hopper and Burt Reynolds. It's similarly rare to find a    game soundtrack containing 80s music from the likes of Michael Jackson and Blondie. But then GTA: Vice City is no ordinary game.This semi-sequel to the 7m-selling Grand Theft Auto 3 further blurs the demarcation lines between gaming and popular culture to produce another marvellous experience. Set in a 1980s version of Miami - all neon and loud    shirts - the aim is to rise through the criminal ranks to become the big Daddy. Keep the peace during a mob deal, assassinate gang leaders and do as you're told, and you're on the road to glory. Or you can just jack a car, dodge the cops and generally act the low-level crook. It's the fact that you can undertake missions or decide to go freestyle that makes GTA: Vice City so compelling.Well, that and pulling a wheelie while speeding up a sidestreet to the strains of Billie Jean.  As well as the new vehicles - motorbikes and helicopters -there is also the ability to own and go inside property, giving players the chance to build an empire and live out their Tony Soprano fantasies.Then there are the touches that litter proceedings. From the breeze block-sized mobile phones to the pastel suits and rolled-up sleeves, Vice City is as gloriously retro as any Atari compilation.  Downsides? The graphics are still blurry and the loading delays excessive. And Judas Priest has no place in the 21st century. But GTA: Vice City shines like the finest 80s tracksuit and proves that even if crime doesn't pay, it certainly plays well. (GH)Iron StormPC	&#163;29.99 4x Studio/ Wanadoo 	***Iron Storm puts an interesting spin on the post-apocalyptic back story that underpins so many first-person shoot-'em-ups: it is set in 1964, but the Great War has been raging for   50 years. You play Lieutenant James Anderson, part of a European force fighting the Russo-Mongolians.This bizarre premise sets up trench-style warfare with modern technology weaponry, which proves to be fun. Anderson is sent on various missions behind enemy lines, mixing a modicum of Metal Gear Solid-style stealth play with sniping and close quarters combat - both in first and third-person mode. But while Iron Storm is pretty competent - it looks good, has plenty of atmosphere and the   weaponry is well thought out - it lacks that elusive X-factor.Since you perform missions solo, the thrill of participating in huge assaults, as seen in Battlefield 1942 and   Medal Of Honour, is absent. The artificial intelligence controlling the computer players is serviceable at best. And the multiplayer side of the game is extremely basic - it will never wrest the hardcore multiplayer gaming fraternity away from Unreal Tournament 2003.It is a game that provides enjoyment without threatening to change your life. However, it does suggest that hitherto unfancied French publisher Wanadoo is moving in the right direction. (SB)Age of MythologyPC £39.99 Ensemble/ Microsoft ****Despite fashionable resentment of Bill Gates and everything he      turns his hand to, Microsoft is one of the top games publishers, with nearly every release boasting high production values      and thoughtful design. Xbox has diverted some of the attention, but with Dungeon Siege already out, this is a solid contender      for game of the year.Age of Mythology may only be an evolution of the popular Age of Empires series, but once again, it      oozes stability and attention to detail. By picking three cultures (Greek, Egyptian and Norse) with a particularly strong      religious iconography, the classic real time strategy (RTS) formula is enriched with more than your usual foot-soldiers and      battering rams.With more than 30 levels and three campaigns, AOM constantly surprises you with new units to explore - in      particular the "myth" units that justify the title. Hero units have featured in such games before, most recently in Warcraft      3, but AOM's are more impressive due to our familiarity with the likes of Odysseus. The single-player campaign is also      brilliantly constructed, linking the three cultures seamlessly as you pursue the evil Cyclops Gargarensus from Greece to      Hades and beyond.AOM is not as memorable as its prequels; however, it is supremely playable and keeps Ensemble at the top      of the RTS tree - which is more than you can say for former pace-setters Westwood. This is a game to enjoy, rather than      place in any pantheon of landmark achievements. (MA)
People are comfortable with stereotypes. Say "Africa" and most Britons picture disaster, famine, refugees, and poverty. In a survey of attitudes commissioned by the Voluntary Service Organisation (VSO), published in January, 80% of Britons said those words sprang first to mind.Aid to the developing world means western financial and volunteer support to tackle food shortages, dirty  water, poor sanitation, and the ravages of diseases usually unknown in the western world. Or does it?Yes, such aid is vital in many areas. But the easy association of a constant Live Aid state of disaster with the entire continent is a shockingly one-dimensional view of Africa. To begin with, Africa is incredibly diverse in its countries, economies, cultures, capabilities and challenges - a fact that seems obvious when you remember that the continent takes in nations as varied as Egypt and South Africa, Mozambique and Uganda, Morocco and Kenya.Africa also has sophisticated cities, diverse populations across several social classes, and a range of developing industries - many in the technology sector. Internet and PC penetration levels may still be extremely low compared to the west or much of Asia. But Tunisia, South Africa, Egypt, Algeria and Zimbabwe all featured as "dynamic adopter" countries in the United Nations' technology achievement index last year - countries that are "dynamic in the use of new technologies", according to the UN's Human Development Report 2001.When Wired magazine    produced a survey of 40 "global hubs of technological innovation" in 2000, it included El Ghazala in Tunisia, and Gauteng in South Africa. In 1999, about 30% of South Africa's exports fell into the category of medium to high technology goods. In Tunisia, the figure was 20%, in Zimbabwe, 12%, and Egypt about 9%.In partnership with Cambridge University, South Africa will next year launch the African Institute of Mathematical Sciences (Aims), an ambitious attempt to keep the continent's young science brainpower on the continent. And don't forget that Mark Shuttleworth, the first "afronaut" and one of the world's first space tourists, is a youthful South African who made his fortune in the technology industry.This is not to argue that Africa is well on its way to having the kind of casual affluence most of the western world accepts as its norm. Even in the most developed of African countries, South Africa, more than 7m people live without clean water or any form of sanitation. Famine threatens parts of the Eastern Cape, while regions of the rest of southern Africa, as well as Ethiopia, are facing the iron grip of starvation.In the face of such recurrent tragedy, many people feel any push to expand the role of technology is frivolous. Indeed, the world's most high-profile technologist and tech businessman, Bill Gates, has wavered on the issue. His mid-90s speeches suggested computers would have an important role to play in the expansion of developing economies. But by the late 90s he had changed tack, making huge financial contributions towards more traditional forms of aid, such as vaccines, while stating in one much-publicised speech that the developing world did not need computers.He's wrong. The developing world itself is asking for technology hardware, software and technology expertise. Consider the profile of the VSO volunteer. One in four volunteers now has a background in information technology, business consultancy   or accounting, according to Michael Shann, VSO marketing manager. Another 6% teach maths and sciences.Demand from the developing world for volunteers in such professions has risen300% in the past five years. And to be fair, Microsoft, along with Intel and other large and small technology companies, pumps millions into the developing world in technology aid. Many of these initiatives are aimed at giving young people computing capability. Microsoft has established numerous sports and computing centres across Africa, for example, while Intel is giving technology training to teachers so they can comfortably integrate computers into the classroom.It's crucial to realise that technology is not incompatible with aid, as the VSO's Shann points out. The computer, satellite and internet support traditional aid programmes throughout the developing world. But even more important, they will ultimately provide the way for the developing world to support itself and create its own future.Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Are IT and the net flourishing in India?One of the reasons IT is flourishing is that it all happened before the government really knew about it. Once the government intervenes in anything in India, it invariably becomes a disaster! The country is not that well developed, though internet cafes are popping up even in smaller towns. We had a telephone revolution about 10 years ago, whereby people set up little booths all over the country. This was a huge success and many now have computers in them. Within the government, there's huge resistance to "computerising". It's ironic that in a country that's made itself renowned for IT, the government is so computer-resistant!Has the mobile boom hit India?Very much so - but only with a limited number because of the affordability. It's more of a status symbol than it is here, where it's almost a status symbol not to have one! Perhaps that's why I refuse to have one. I have anIBM ThinkPadbut I don't take it around India, as there's a problem with fluctuating electrical current.Is the net enhancing or eroding cultural differences?It's promoting the English language, which is sad. English already has too big an influence in India. I hope it will turn out to be a way of keeping cultural diversity going because everyone can easily have access to it - not only taking material from it but adding their own material to it. I'm not a big net user but my little experience allows me to imagine the net becoming a wonderful multicultural thing and also a way to combat the domination of the western media.Will the net replace traditional media?I don't think so because everything adapts. My first love is radio: it's made my living for me and I really enjoy doing it. In the early TV days, everyone said radio was dead, but it's still flourishing. It seems we have an incredible ability to add medium after medium and each one survives. I have a satellite radio and I simply press a button and I haveBBC World Service.Why does the BBC's website remain essential?One problem in broadcasting is that what you see or hear disappears. One of the advantages of the web is to let people hear things they missed. One potential disadvantage is the risk that people will start making radio programmes for the website rather than for broadcast. That would be a great pity.Favourite sites?www.pugmarks.com/d-india,http://air.kode.netand I once bought a book fromwww.amazon.co.uk.Visit:www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/religion/somethingunderstood.shtml&#183;Mark Tully's book India In Slow Motion is out this week in Penguin.
A young computer clerk who ran Britain's biggest online child pornography library was jailed for two years at the Old Bailey yesterday.Darren Guest spent hours in front of his bedroom PC building up an "abhorrent" collection of pre-teen material with the help of other paedophiles contacted through internet chatrooms.The 20-year-old, who lived with his parents, operated a "carefully planned and sophisticated" exchange system, using "sick" advertisements to invite others to swap their own pictures in return for access to his extensive collection. He promised that "good" pictures of young babies and toddlers would earn free downloads. He concluded his offer with the words: "I hope you enjoy."His 2,000-image library proved so popular that in just one four-day period it had nearly 3,000 visitors.Considering it was running for three and a half months altogether police believe it was probably Britain's busiest child porn internet library.Guest, of Stratford, east London, was unanimously convicted of 32 offences. They included 18 sample counts of making indecent photographs of a child on or before March 27 last year, as well as sample offences of possessing them with a view to distribution, and two charges of publishing an advertisement likely to be understood as conveying that he distributed or showed indecent photographs of children".He claimed a hacker had "taken control" of his computer.Judge Peter Fingret told Guest each of the sample images he had seen showed "either sexual activity between children, penetrative sexual activity between adults and children, or bondage".While satisfied Guest had not been trying to make money, "there was nevertheless a carefully planned and sophisticated method of exchange between you and other users". He added: "Your involvement in the pre-teen sites is indicative of your active interest in child pornography."These images are clear evidence that at some stage serious offences were committed, not by you but by others, involving the exploitation and abuse of young children.""It must be made clear that those who use the internet for such purposes will almost without exception go to prison."On his release Guest - who will serve the first part of his sentence in a young offenders institution before being moved to an adult jail - would have to register as a sex offender for 10 years.The court heard Guest was just 19 when his activities came to light during routine monitoring of internet paedophile chatrooms by officers in Greater Manchester's obscene publications unit.Press Association
Families living in temporary accommodation account for a high proportion of domestic misery, from ill health to murder.
    They're also likely to disappear entirely from social service and NHS radars when they move on.The Greater London Authority is trying to do something about the problem. It is to start testing a system through which
    local authorities will be able to notify councils when a family at risk moves into their area.That's a lot more difficult than it sounds. Apart from questions of privacy and security - we're talking about data that
    might identify people as child abusers - there is the technical problem of interoperability.Social services and NHS organisations generally keep their records in electronic broom cupboards: ageing and incompatible
    databases. Even when they share operating systems and application programs, these are likely to have been tweaked to suit
    their users' favoured screen layout and terminology.The only reason the authority's scheme has any hope of working is something called the e-government interoperability
    framework (e-GIF). This is a set of standards being drawn up as part of the Office of the e-Envoy's e-government
    programme. It will require all government systems to be able not just to transmit data to each other, but to understand
    each other's data in context.The e-GIF is already on version four, though the basics have changed little since the first version was published at the end
    of 2000. Technically, the e-GIF requires all public-sector IT systems to have:&#183;Internet and world-wide web standards for data traffic.&#183;Browser interfaces for access. User screens should have the look and feel of a web page.&#183;Data coded in XML (eXtensible Markup Language) so it can be recognised by other systems. XML is a derivation of SGML, the
    original "mark-up" language on which HTML is based.&#183;Approved "metadata" - data about data - to indicate what information each system contains and to enable its content to
    be managed. The idea is to allow officials (and, where freedom of information laws allow it, citizens) to be able to find
    specific information without needing to know exactly which department or agency holds it.Under these basic principles is a battery of rules about specific systems and standards, for example the use of UML (unified
    modelling language) for designing systems. 
    So far, so good. Although in theory e-GIF is mandatory for all new government IT systems - including those in local
    authorities and the NHS - there are loopholes.Legacy systems only have to be made e-GIF compliant if they are
    "outward-facing" and have to be interconnected with others to meet the e-government targets. Systems used only within
    organisations, by hospital radiologists, for example, can continue to rely on other standards. 
    Further, although e-GIF is based on industry (ie Microsoft) practice, the Office of the e-Envoy does not run the world."It is
    recognised that compliance with the e-GIF cannot be imposed on citizens, businesses and foreign governments," the e-GIF
    document says modestly.The devil is in the detail. One bottleneck is the production of agreed XML codes, or schemas. In theory, the Office of the
    e-Envoy will eventually produce schemas for all electronic public services. In practice, individual organisations are being left
    to produce their own, which are submitted to a website calledwww.govtalk.gov.uk. (Essential reading for real e-government
    anoraks.)In the tradition of the internet, the site is supposed to encourage consensus based on the free flow of
    information to make e-GIF adoption "simple, attractive and cost effective". 
    In practice, the reconciliation of different schemas is likely to be a long, drawn-out affair. (Enthusiasts for XML, already
    used to create electronic patient records in the NHS, say this should not deter people from moving to the new technology.)The e-envoy is expected to reveal progress towards e-GIF in the latest UK Online annual report, due to be published at an
    international "e-government summit" in London next week. 
    He will have to overcome some scepticism. When asked about the e-GIF this week, one senior IT executive echoed Gandhi on
    Western civilisation: "It would be a good idea."
HP is introducing Compaq iPaq PocketPCs with security based on built infingerprint recognition. This could be useful to government organisations whose staff regularly seem to mislay portable computers loaded with, for example, military secrets.
There's a very strange argument rumbling along in the background about the fact that Microsoft plans to produceOffice 11for NT-based versions of Windows, not for DOS-based ones. Unfortunately, commentators seem uncharacteristically incapable of spelling out the facts. To be brutally frank, any company that plans to continue running Windows 98/Me is either poor or very stupid -- to be specific, too stupid to do an RoI calculation. Now, why should anyone think for a second that a company that is too stupid to make an upgrade that delivers significant benefits (Windows 98 to Windows 2000, for example) is a viable market for an upgrade that delivers relatively minor ones (Office 11)? It doesn't make sense. Although Microsoft is giving technical reasons for its strategy -- and I am not going to argue with those -- as usual it is following the money. Unlike many of the people involved in this fruitless argument, it is far too sharp to confuse the market (which is comprisedonlyof people ready to open their wallets) with the installed base. Sure, it might make a bunch of W98/Office 97 users happy to think that they could upgrade to Office 11 if they wanted to. But we all know that they aren't going to, so offering it would just be a waste of expensive development time.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City has become Britain's biggest-selling videogame ever, grossing £12 million in its first two days on sale. And while it hasn't yet attained the cultural recognition of a Mario or a Lara Croft, the series in which this game is the latest installment provides yet more evidence of the evolution of digital entertainment into a truly adult industry.In the beginning was the first Grand Theft Auto, released way back in the mists of videogame time (early 1998). When all around were marvelling at the 3D splendours of games such as Quake II, GTA was a resolutely two-dimensional affair, with small, fairly crude graphics.What gained it notoriety was the content: controlling a small-time hoodlum, the player roamed around a city, encouraged to hijack cars, sell drugs and kill cops to the accompaniment of a funky soundtrack. The game had a morbid sense of humour: running over a whole line of chanting, orange-robed people in your car earned a Hare Krishna Bonus.A sequel, Grand Theft Auto 2, built on such guilty pleasures, but the breakthrough was last year's Grand Theft Auto 3, in which the series moved to full three-dimensional representation of the city and its inhabitants.The player's character was sent on a series of criminal missions at the behest of various organised-crime bosses - blowing up a rival gang's laundry truck, for example, or "wasting" an informant - and climbed the mob career ladder on the way. Witty scripted scenes informed the player of his next objective in the style of a tongue-in-cheek gangster movie. Moralistic eyebrows were raised at the discovery that the player could restore the "health" of his character by driving to a secluded wooded spot with a prostitute.Now Vice City, like its predecessor, is one of the most violent games around, in its apparent condoning of random acts of brutality. Punishment does exist in this universe: kill innocent people and the police, shortly followed by the FBI and the army, will hunt you down.But the game's best defence is one of pure, silly entertainment. During the media furore over the original GTA, the New York City Police Department told the game's producer, Sam Houser, that they weren't overly concerned about the cop-killing content: "We'd rather they did it in your game than on the streets."And the games deal with their subject in such a witty, exaggerated style that only the criminally disturbed could mistake them for anything but escapism. (The young and impressionable, meanwhile, are at least theoretically excluded, as it is illegal to sell them to anyone younger than 18.)Vice City also represents possibly the first successful attempt to make a "period" videogame, along the lines of a historical TV drama. The period in question is the 1980s, and the game is set in Miami: cue denizens in pastel jackets with rolled-up sleeves, and a soundtrack of imperishable 1980s hits, blended seamlessly together in the game's collection of fictional in-car radio stations. Watch out, Don Johnson.Technically, too, the game remains an astonishing achievement, in its detailed evocation of a living, breathing city and its grand, amoral illusion that you can go anywhere and do anything you like.The aim of videogames has for a long time been to convince you that you are interacting with a world, rather than a lifeless silicon system, and Vice City is the most persuasive example yet. Combine that addictive sense of involvement with grin-inducing over-the-top violence, stir in some 1980s nostalgia to appeal to the core mid-to-late-twenties demographic, and you have the inevitable success of Vice City. Long may it continue.-- Steven Poole is the author of Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames (Fourth Estate)Links: 
Grand Theft Auto:Vice City official siteQuestions asked in Parliament about Grand Theft Auto, 1999
Warner Bros today said it feared pirated copies of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets were showing up on the internet.Warner Bros said an illegal copy of the film has appeared on the internet, which often contains bootleg copies of films, even before they reach cinemas.The studio later retracted the statement in a phone call to the Associated Press, saying reports of bootleg copies had not been substantiated.However, an internet search discovered what appeared to be the new film available on a site hosted in Europe.According to the site, the film had been downloaded more than 500 times. Because it takes hours to download such files, it was not  immediately possible to verify if the site contained the film.News of the availability of the film on the net first appeared on technology news siteslashdot.org"The illegal copying and distribution of movies is theft," the studio said."Warner Bros takes the threat of internet piracy very seriously and employs all legal means to contain the unauthorised copying and distribution of our films on the internet."Pirated copies of films - often grainy versions filmed using a handheld camera at a preview screening - regularly show up on the  internet before a movie hits cinemas.The Motion Picture Association of America, the movie studio's trade group, aggressively fights piracy in the courts and uses software to  scan the internet searching for people offering illegal copies of films.Five major studios, including Warner Bros, formed a joint venture last year to offer downloads of films on the web, as a legal alternative to piracy. The company, called Movielink, opened for business this week.Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets opens on Friday, following premieres in London and New York.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City has become Britain's biggest-selling videogame ever, grossing £12 million in its first two days on sale. And while it hasn't yet attained the cultural recognition of a Mario or a Lara Croft, the series in which this game is the latest installment provides yet more evidence of the evolution of digital entertainment into a truly adult industry.In the beginning was the first Grand Theft Auto, released way back in the mists of videogame time (early 1998). When all around were marvelling at the 3D splendours of games such as Quake II, GTA was a resolutely two-dimensional affair, with small, fairly crude graphics.What gained it notoriety was the content: controlling a small-time hoodlum, the player roamed around a city, encouraged to hijack cars, sell drugs and kill cops to the accompaniment of a funky soundtrack. The game had a morbid sense of humour: running over a whole line of chanting, orange-robed people in your car earned a Hare Krishna Bonus.A sequel, Grand Theft Auto 2, built on such guilty pleasures, but the breakthrough was last year's Grand Theft Auto 3, in which the series moved to full three-dimensional representation of the city and its inhabitants.The player's character was sent on a series of criminal missions at the behest of various organised-crime bosses - blowing up a rival gang's laundry truck, for example, or "wasting" an informant - and climbed the mob career ladder on the way. Witty scripted scenes informed the player of his next objective in the style of a tongue-in-cheek gangster movie. Moralistic eyebrows were raised at the discovery that the player could restore the "health" of his character by driving to a secluded wooded spot with a prostitute.Now Vice City, like its predecessor, is one of the most violent games around, in its apparent condoning of random acts of brutality. Punishment does exist in this universe: kill innocent people and the police, shortly followed by the FBI and the army, will hunt you down.But the game's best defence is one of pure, silly entertainment. During the media furore over the original GTA, the New York City Police Department told the game's producer, Sam Houser, that they weren't overly concerned about the cop-killing content: "We'd rather they did it in your game than on the streets."And the games deal with their subject in such a witty, exaggerated style that only the criminally disturbed could mistake them for anything but escapism. (The young and impressionable, meanwhile, are at least theoretically excluded, as it is illegal to sell them to anyone younger than 18.)Vice City also represents possibly the first successful attempt to make a "period" videogame, along the lines of a historical TV drama. The period in question is the 1980s, and the game is set in Miami: cue denizens in pastel jackets with rolled-up sleeves, and a soundtrack of imperishable 1980s hits, blended seamlessly together in the game's collection of fictional in-car radio stations. Watch out, Don Johnson.Technically, too, the game remains an astonishing achievement, in its detailed evocation of a living, breathing city and its grand, amoral illusion that you can go anywhere and do anything you like.The aim of videogames has for a long time been to convince you that you are interacting with a world, rather than a lifeless silicon system, and Vice City is the most persuasive example yet. Combine that addictive sense of involvement with grin-inducing over-the-top violence, stir in some 1980s nostalgia to appeal to the core mid-to-late-twenties demographic, and you have the inevitable success of Vice City. Long may it continue.-- Steven Poole is the author of Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames (Fourth Estate)Links:   Grand Theft Auto:Vice City official siteQuestions asked in Parliament about Grand Theft Auto, 1999
The introduction of a 3GHz Pentium 4 processor is nice, even if you don't plan to buy one: Intel iscutting pricesof current chips to make room for it.
A few years ago, Davy Rothbart found a piece of paper tucked under the windscreen-wiper of a car on his street in Chicago. Addressed to "Mario", and signed by "Amber", it was an accusatory note, laced with expletives. "You said you have to work," Amber wrote. "Then why's your car here, at her place? I hate you."Maybe Mario was a cheat, but you can't help feeling a twinge of pity for him, given that the note was actually tucked under the wiper of Rothbart's own car - Mario's vehicle, perhaps, being in the car-park at work, like he said.At that point, Rothbart thought he had a minority hobby, compulsively picking up and preserving the scraps of paper - notes, love- letters, to-do lists - that he found blowing around the streets of his hometown. But then he launched Found Magazine (www.foundmagazine.com), to showcase his finds. And now it turns out that everybody's been doing it for years.One radio presenter, interviewing Rothbart as part of a publicity tour for Found, recalled a to-do list his daughter discovered on the floor of a sports shop, setting out plans for what sounded like an energetic action holiday. "Snorkelling, golf, tennis, make love to Jennifer," it said."I always collected this stuff, but I've been stunned - so many people are excited by the same thing, and they've been sending things in to us," said Rothbart, a 27-year-old writer and former ticket-tout, who stopped off in Brooklyn the other day to launch Found's second issue, the first to be distributed nationally in the US.Someone found a piece of paper folded up and hidden in a tree in rural Georgia. "This was a beautiful spot that helped me say goodbye," it said. A large notice was left on the street, its message printed in neat, bold marker-pen: "Andrei von Blackwell does not do drugs. Past. Present. Future."But it was the unfinished story of Amber and Mario that moved Rothbart the most. "Mario, I fucking hate you," Amber's note read. "You're a fucking liar. I fucking hate you. I hate you. PS. Page me later.""'Page me later' - look at all the complicated emotions going on in that," Rothbart mused. "Even when I was a kid, I remember being amazed at how powerfully you could connect with someone just through a few words of a note they'd left behind. It's the economy of the language - in a few words, there's a story, or part of a story. You have to fill in the rest. And you find you recognise yourself in their stories."You might also expect to find a few people furious or hurt that their private communications had been published in print and online. "In the first issue, there was an email this woman had written and somebody had printed out and left behind at a computer centre, telling how she'd broken up with her old boyfriend and had a new boyfriend," Rothbart said. "She wasn't angry, she was just surprised that people would be interested. I told her I thought it was because a lot of us have confusions over our relationships, and when we laugh, we're not mocking. Some people think it's voyeuristic. I agree completely, but I think a certain degree of voyeurism is healthy. We're all curious about the people who live around us."Now people have started sending photos to Found. Someone sent a door, because it had a message painted on it. Another sent a dead frog. "After that I had to say - no more dead animals."&#183;News of a nerve-racking standoff between police and an unknown person at a house in north Seattle. The cops arrived at 7.30am, following a somewhat confused tip-off, and for the next five hours used every technique in the book to coax the presumably gun-toting person inside out of the building and into custody. They called in a heavily armed Swat team. They pumped barrage after barrage of tear gas through the windows. They called on specialist negotiators. At one point, the door opened slightly. A desperate gunman, choking on tear gas, seeking fresh air, perhaps? But then - nothing. Tensions mounted. Finally, at 12.30pm, police stormed the house, no doubt baffling and terrifying its sole occupant ... a dog.The dog must have pushed the door open, said police spokesman Duane Fish, deploying faultless logic. It was physically unharmed. Right. But like that's going to stop it from suing.
An unemployed British computer administrator was last night facing extradition to the US accused of hacking into 92 military computer systems, including one break-in that shut down the network of a New Jersey naval base immediately after the September 11 attacks.In the first case of the US seeking extradition of an alleged hacker, Gary McKinnon, 36, from Hornsey, north London, was indicted last night on eight counts of computer-related crime involving $900,000 (about &#163;570,000) of damage to military and Nasa computers in 14 states.Paul McNulty, the federal prosecutor dealing with the case, said Mr McKinnon, using the codename Solo, had carried out one of the "biggest military hacks ever".Prosecutors said he had gained access to a military computer network in Washington and installed his own software, allowing him to control the system from Britain. By changing and deleting files he caused the entire network, with 2,000 users in the Pentagon and in other bases around Washington, to crash. It was out of action for three days in March this year.American investigators approached British police after one of the hacking victims established that the attack had been launched from a British computer. Officers from the national hi-tech crime unit traced the attack to Mr McKinnon, who now faces seven counts of computer fraud, each with a maximum sentence of 10 years and a $250,000 fine.Police sources described him as a "serious hacker" who had accessed the computer systems of "the most high-profile organisations you can think of in the US" to "make a point".He will not be taken into custody before the extradition process, understood to be little more than a formality, begins.Although the information Mr McKinnon accessed is understood to have been unclassified, the indictments in northern Virginia and New Jersey accuse him of hacking into a network of 300 computers at the Earle Naval Weapons Station in Colts Neck and stealing 950 passwords immediately after the terror attacks on New York and Washington, shutting down the system for a week. The station handles munitions and supplies for the Atlantic fleet."This was a grave intrusion   into a vital military computer system at a time when we, as a nation, had to summon all of our defenses against further attack," said US attorney Christopher Christie. Mr McKinnon is also accused of mounting attacks on two Pentagon systems.The decision to prosecute in the US illustrates American frustration at the collapse of previous transatlantic hacking trials in this country. The most embarrassing involved two young British hackers who   were accused of mounting a determined "information warfare" campaign against the US air force and leading defence contractors in 1994.During that investigation, Senate hearings were initially told that the intrusions were the work of highly skilled foreign agents, first from Latvia, then from North Korea.But the attacks were traced by British police to two amateur hackers. Matthew Bevan, then 23, and his 16-year-old accomplice, Richard Pryce, had carried out their haphazard campaign on an ageing PC.Pryce was fined &#163;1,200 in 1997 but the case against Mr Bevan collapsed after the judge was told that he had posed no threat to security.Last night, Mr Bevan, from Cardiff, said he believed the latest case was being similarly overblown. "I know how the American propaganda works because I've been at the sharp end of it. If he is extradited he is stuffed because they will want to make an example of him."
Growing numbers of consumers, particularly young people, are becoming the victims of swindles via email, text messaging and fax,  the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) said  today.Unscrupulous firms often use bogus prize draws and special offers to entice recipients to reply, it said, and as the popularity of text messaging grows among children, this group is likely to be heavily targeted.Millions of promotional text messages are now being sent every week, and phone owners can currently do little to avoid receiving them, according to premium rate regulator Icstis (Independent Committee for the Supervision of Standards of Telephone Information Services).In one case dealt with by Icstis, mobile phone owners received the message "I fancy you." It then invited the person to call a premium rate number without making clear the call charges. In another scam, hotel and restaurant owners were asked to fax copies of their brochures and menus to a potential client. The fax number turned out to be a premium rate line.The problem was highlighted two months back by the Guardian's Jobs &amp; Money section. Jobs &amp; Money drew particular attention to one scam under investigation by Icstsis from a firm known as MobyMonkey.MobyMonkey operates on a two-part basis. The first text message tells the mobile phone user: "Urgent u've been chosen 2 receive a guaranteed £500 mystery award awaiting collection." The second, arriving days later, says: "Urgent ur £500 guaranteed award is still unclaimed!"Some consumers told Icstis that they have received the message up to 40 times in one day alone. Others say their children, as young as 11, are repeatedly receiving the message.Today's DTI  warning is designed to coincide with the launch of National Consumer Week. 
Consumer minister Melanie Johnson said: "Every day, people throughout the UK open their mail, turn on their computers or switch on their mobile phones to learn that they've won "an exciting prize" in a draw, lottery or some other promotion. While much of the marketing conducted in this way is legitimate, unfortunately it also includes examples which are misleading or untrue. All too often those people taken in by scams make the mistake of being too trusting and lose money as a result."Icstis advises consumers that all premium rate services should begin with the numbers 090. Premium rate text messages where the recipient is asked to reply usually contain a four or five digit number.A European directive which came into force in the UK in August was designed to combat unwanted emails sent by companies - commonly known as "spams". Messages should make it clear in the title what they are so recipients can delete them straight away if they wish.
Operation Ore has its roots in an investigation conducted by the US Postal Inspection Service. Operation Avalanche began in 1999 following tip-offs received about a website selling child pornography. The site was owned by a company called Landslide Inc with headquarters in Texas.In July 2001, the husband and wife team who owned Landslide were sentenced to life imprisonment and 14 years respectively. Landslide's servers contained the names of around 100,000 people from more than 60 countries who had bought child pornography.The Americans handed to the UK's National Criminal Intelligence Service a list of more than 7,200 people who bought child pornography from Landslide that indicated a UK location.The prospect of 7,200 names arriving in one hit to any intelligence-based environment presents quite a challenge. It prompted a rare, if not unprecedented, request from the police to the Home Office for extra resources to enable them to work their way through the list more speedily, make arrests, seize the suspects' computers, analyse them and so on.The preliminary routine work was calculated to cost around £2m.This special plea from the police received short shrift from the politicians. The Home Office minister, Hilary Benn, implied this was an operational matter for the police to resolve within their existing budgets. In other words, the police cannot bill the government every time they do a bit of overtime.On a narrow reading, Mr Benn was undoubtedly correct, but if Ore was truly unprecedented, then is there not a case for an unprecedented intervention?Of course the police should be able to cope with a "standard volume" of these or other sorts of crimes out of their resource allocations. But the amount of intelligence involved in this case was anything but standard.Moreover, the minister's reasoning presupposes that what was already in place was adequate, sadly we are all coming to the conclusion that it was not.The recently formed National HiTech Crime Unit is already creaking at the seams and we have just not been able to roll out the development of resources locally anything like fast enough.Let us return to what happened to that list of 7,200 suspects.The big list was broken down and despatched to the country's constabularies. Cambridgeshire police received its list of 279 suspects in early July 2002, so it seems likely that other forces received their lists about the same time.But chief constables across the country seem to be taking a range of different views about Ore, giving it varying degrees of priority.A trickle of arrests have been reported, but certainly by late October there were some forces that had still done little, or perhaps nothing at all.The US Postal Inspection Service carried out an in-depth study of everyone it arrested between 1997 and the end of 2001 for child pornography offences, this included people picked up as a result of Operation Avalanche. It found that around 35% of those initially arrested for possessing child pornography were also engaged in sexually abusing a child.If similar proportions are repeated in the UK then that means today there are perhaps 3,000 or more children being abused by people who are, or could be, known to the police. That abuse could be stopped but it isn't being. This is a major scandal demanding a much greater sense of urgency from every corner of the political establishment and the law enforcement community.If you live in London or in one, but not all, of the larger urban areas where we find some of the UK's best-equipped police forces, the chances are your local force will have developed some expertise or knowledge in how to tackle internet crime.The National HiTech Crime Unit provides leadership and resources to help local forces. The National Crime Squad is also on hand but it, like its national counterparts, can only provide help at a local level if asked. But it will only be asked if these sorts of investigations are given a priority at local level; which takes us right back to government and how it sets priorities for local forces.The good news is that in the first ever national policing plan, published later this month, child protection is to be listed as a national policing priority.This means that at last local forces are going to become more accountable not just to the government but also to the public.It will certainly mean that we can ask them to explain to us what resources they are devoting to this area of work in general, and specifically in relation to crimes against children through the internet. It is definitely not before time.&#183;John Carr is the internet adviser for the charity NCH action for children and the Children's Charities Coalition for Internet Safety. He is also a member of the government's internet taskforce on child protection
BT yesterday came under attack for the way it sells fast internet or broadband services and the prices it charges other telecoms companies to connect customers to its network of local telephone exchanges.Freeserve, the internet service provider owned by France T&#233;l&#233;com, yesterday won a legal battle which opens up the possibility of BT being sued over broadband. The competition commission appeal tribunal (CCAT), which regulates the regulators, yesterday ruled that it could examine why Oftel threw out a series of complaints made by Freeserve about BT nine months ago.The complaints date back to February when BT's new chief executive, Ben Verwaayen, announced a 50% cut in the price of broadband access.Freeserve complained to Oftel that BT's Openworld ISP must have received prior notice of the cut and that BT's broadband marketing campaign - which accompanied the price cut - was an example of cross-marketing.In March Oftel threw out the complaints and Freeserve appealed to the CCAT which yesterday ruled in its favour.The CCAT can demand that Oftel investigate BT's prices or it can investigate BT itself. If it   finds that BT acted anti-competitively, Freeserve is likely to seek compensation."I am frankly over the moon that the tribunal has kicked out Oftel's arguments and I cannot wait to get this matter dealt with by a competent competition authority because Freeserve is fed up watching Oftel do absolutely naff all in this market," said Freeserve's general counsel, David Melville.Separately, telecoms company Fibernet will today lodge a complaint with Oftel over what it says are the high prices that BT charges to connect other telecoms networks to its local exchanges.Duncan O'Neill, Fibernet's head of regulatory affairs, said BT's pricing of this connection - known as "backhaul" was holding up broadband competition.BT, which yesterday entered the home PC market, has offered to cut prices by 3%. Fibernet wants backhaul pricing cut in half. Fibernet wants Oftel to make a decision before Christmas."BT are flying in the face of Oftel and largely ignoring the regulator," said Mr O'Neill. "We want Oftel to get to grips with this - we have been hanging around for too long, it really is time that Oftel took a more decisive approach."
Vodafone, the mobile phone giant, today reported a big jump in underlying pre-tax profits in the first six months to September to £4.2bn, a 41% increase over a year ago.The figure easily surpassed the £3.25bn forecast by City analysts. While heavy financial charges pushed Vodafone's final result into the red, the loss of £4.3bn was down by more than half on the same period last year."We're very pleased with the figures. It's the fruit of a lot of hard work and the programmes we've been bringing into the company," said chief executive Chris Gent.But he warned against market euphoria: "These are exciting results; what we don't want is for people to get overexcited."Vodafone, currently trying to wrest control of over French operator Cegetel, said extra advertising costs and the launch of 3G services in Japan meant the second half performance would be weaker.Turnover in the first half increased by 67% to nearly £15bn on higher usage levels and rising average revenue per subscriber. The key average revenue measure, or ARPU, is now running at an £282 a year in the UK compared with £276 in March.With the market for mobile phones reaching saturation point, mobile phone operators now focus on generating more cash per customer rather than winning new customers.Vodafone has also switched more prepay users onto lengthier contracts and disconnected inactive customers to "clean up" its subscriber base and more lucrative non-voice services such as text messaging now account for 13.2% of service revenues worldwide, up from 11.1%.The company is also moving into the next generation of services. Vodafone launched its high-profile picture messaging service Vodafone live! at the end of last month and has since shipped over 50,000 handsets.Sir Christopher said: "We are doing very well, we are selling more or less everything we can get."The upbeat results follow a tough year for the Europe's biggest mobile phone network with analysts nervous about the group's future growth rates. Its share price, which hit nearly 400p in early 2000, fell below 100p for the first time in four years in May and hit a yearly low of 80.5p in July.But that has not prevented Vodafone returning to the acquisition trail. Vodafone is trying to win control of Vivendi's 44% stake in Cegetel with a 6.7bn euro (£4.2bn) cash offer. Vodafone has already agreed to buy BT's 26% in the French company for 4bn euros and SBC's 15% stake for 2bn euros."Part of the reason the share price has fallen is that people have doubted whether we could achieve these levels of growth," Sir Christopher said. "We have always said the share price will turn when we prove that data growth is there and that we are generating cash flow at same time as investing in our future."The group's shares were up more than 8p or 8.6% at almost 107p in early trade. The interim dividend rose 10% on the previous year to 0.7946 pence per share.
Dinesh Dhamija yesterday made &#163;9.5m by selling shares in Ebookers, the online travel agency he floated in 1999.Shares in Ebookers have risen strongly over recent months as the company has moved closer to becoming fully profitable - which analysts expect to happen in the second quarter of next year.Yesterday Ebookers passed another milestone, announcing its first ever profit before   financial charges, making &#163;200,000 in the three months to September 30.Mr Dhamija, Ebookers' chief executive, said his decision to sell was linked to the performance of the group, which achieved an underlying profit three months ahead of schedule, and demand from investors for more stock.He said the demand for stock from investors proved that there was demand for dot.com stocks with workable business plans."Travel on the internet works, and institutional investors can see that coming through our quarterly figures," he said.Mr Dhamija sold 3m shares - or 6% of the business - at 315p each through Evolution Beeson Gregory to a handful of institutional investors new to the company.Mr Dhamija, who still owns 53% of the business and has not sold any shares since May 2000, said he would use the money to strengthen the financial position of his family. He is married to Tani, a former airline stewardess, and has two sons, Biren and Darun, who are both in their early 20s.Mr Dhamija, 52, denied rumours that he would quit the business. He said he has no desire to retire and adopt the typical millionaire lifestyle. "Sailing is great but I just do not know how to do it - nor can I ski, so I guess I will just have to keep working."If Ebookers achieves full   profitability in 2003, the next milestone for the business will be to pay out to shareholders, said its chief financial officer, Nigel Addison Smith."As I was walking out of a meeting with a potential shareholder recently I made the mistake of saying to the guy that my ambition was to be the first finance director of an internet company to pay a dividend and he said 'I will hold you to that'."I would certainly like to be in that position at some stage."
One day this summer, Catriona Coulter and her neighbours in Highbury, north London, noticed a crane engaged in some sort of construction on the roof of a three-storey building, just over the fence from a nursing home. Over the next few days, a steel pole went up on the roof of the print shop with its two floors of residential housing on Highbury Park Road.A neighbour rang Islington council, but it was several weeks before the penny dropped: the mobile phone company Hutchison 3G was erecting a mobile phone mast, and it was doing so without planning permission. As residents were soon to discover, the company did not require any.The council duly served an enforcement notice against Hutchison 3G, against which the company appealed. The matter will now be decided by the planning inspectorate in Bristol.Campaign group Mast Sanity says situations like this are increasingly common. With councils more likely to refuse planning permission for tall masts, mobile phone companies have taken to erecting masts of less than 4 metres on private property. Under a so-called licence notification installation, the companies need to give the council 28 days notice of their plan, but do not need to seek permission from the council or local community if the mast is under 4 metres high. Complaints against masts erected under this rule now account for 10% of Mast Sanity's work."We're not taking it quietly and we've organised a local campaign," Ms Coulter explains. She serves as chairwoman of the hastily-convened Highbury Park Mast Action Group, which has sent a petition with about 500 signatures to the planning inspectorate, protesting against the mast.Mike Davis, community affairs manager at Hutchison 3G, insists that his company does engage in dialogue with councils, but admits that a council's objections may not result in Hutchison 3G altering the mast design."The reality is that this whole business is being driven by public demand for wireless services. If the demand wasn't there, mast sites would not be there," he says.Jim Greenaway has almost given up fighting a mobile phone mast erected on top of the Monarch Hotel on the seafront of Bridlington, East Yorkshire. Despite a protest march, a packed planning meeting, local outrage and the decision by Bridlington town planners to turn down the mast application, the mast went up anyway."It's a very attractive waterfront, and the council just spent £3.6m on upgrading it. It has a boating point and a children's playground just in front," Mr Greenaway explains. "But mainly it's about the perceived health risks."Herein lies the problem: of all the reasons people oppose mobile phone masts - the aesthetics, the drag on property values, the effect on local flora and fauna - the most commonly cited is health. But it is the one argument the law will not accept.A spokesman for Islington council admits: "The only reason we can object is on visual amenity, because the health effects are unproven. If we turned down a planning application for health reasons, we could quite easily be appealed against by an applicant in light of current law."An unsuccessful appeal could cost a council thousands of pounds, which makes them unwilling to object unless they feel confident of a win."It's violation of our human rights that we are put next to something that has not been proven safe," says Lisa Oldham, director of Mast Sanity. "We don't care about how ugly the masts are, we believe they are going to damage people."So how safe are the masts? An independent group of experts headed by Sir William Stewart examined issues of safety for the government. It reported in May 2001 that there was no evidence of risks but said caution was required until more research was done. A new £7.5m study is under way.The Stewart report said: "The balance of evidence does not suggest that mobile phone technologies put the health of the general population of the UK at risk. There is some preliminary evidence that outputs from mobile phone technologies may cause, in some cases, subtle biological effects although, importantly, these do not necessarily mean that health is affected."In March, the government released the results of its first study into mobile phone mast emissions. The radiocommunications agency tested 100 base stations and found the emissions were many hundreds of times below international exposure guidelines.For the record, UK guidelines allow microwave radiation of 41 volts per metre for masts broadcasting on 900MHz or 58 for 1,800MHz.One result of the proliferation of masts is that this enables individual handsets to emit weaker signals. Dr Simon Mann of the National Radiological Protection Board explains: "Improving the coverage from the base station signals will reduce the power that people's phones work at. That will reduce the exposure they will receive during calls."However, he added that there was no scientific proof that reducing the emissions from a handset had any health benefits.A spokesman for Vodafone, the world's largest mobile phone company, said: "The only proven effect in the human body is heating, and the guidelines use that as a basis, although they do look at all evidence including thermal and non-thermal effects."Dennis Cannon is concerned about the proliferation of masts. "If people have a mobile phone they have made a choice to absorb the radiation," he said. "But if a company decides to put a mast near where you live, you have no choice. And you will be irradiated 24/7, rather than just a couple of minutes on the phone."Hutchison 3G stresses that its masts conform to standards imposed by a body controlled by the World Health Organisation."The public want 100% guarantees about everything, but we can't do that," says Mr Davis. "We can demonstrate that we operate our masts at many fractions below the international standard."When a study by the radiocommunications agency was announced in March, the then e-commerce minister Douglas Alexander said: "The mobile phone industry has the responsibility to work closely with communities when putting up masts and base stations. Building public confidence is essential to building a strong future for the industry."However, many communities feel this has not happened. Bridget Fox, executive member for sustainability at Islington council, says she has been "disappointed that Hutchison have not been more positive in their reaction to residents' and the council's concerns" about the mast at Highbury Park Road.Ms Oldham has dealt with around 500 campaigns since January, and she is not encouraged by what she's seen: "The phone companies ride roughshod over campaigners. They write to people and ask them if they mind and have a consultation, then put up the mast anyway."I want people to get angry and join a national campaign," she adds. "My concern is we will have a huge number of these masts put up over the next two to three years. We're the guinea pigs, and we'll be the victims."
The design guru from Motorola has a metal briefcase in his hand. It's not actually chained to his wrist, but it might as well be. It's full of top-secret concept models for future mobile devices. The man's name is Tim Parsey, and he talks of "lovely object value" while also emphasising his corporation's humility and social conscience. I am allowed to touch and coo over a few of his babies - shiny and curvy like today's phones, only more so. I feel I need one now.We are at Mobile, a new exhibition of "international mobile phone culture" in London's Brick Lane. It consists entirely of Motorola products, so it is just as well that the company has a pioneering history. In the beginning was the military-green, portable two-way radio known as the Handie-Talkie, of which 100,000 were produced for the US army by the end of the second world war. The civilian version of the 1950s is a black Bakelite monster that looks like half a payphone ripped out of a booth, receiver cradle intact.Further exhibits include the first car radios and the radio transponder from the Apollo 15 lunar rover, but the basic handset silhouette remains the same up until the Dynatac "brick" phone of the late 1980s, much beloved of those who enjoyed lampooning City traders. From then on the mobiles get smaller and cuter, right up to the current model with the rotating flip, which is more aesthetically intriguing than functionally useful, and already betrays a kind of techno-nostalgia with its old-fashioned, reversed-out LED display.Advertising materials on the walls demonstrate changing attitudes to technology. A second world war poster pictures a helmeted GI talking into his radio, with the legend "Handie-Talkie signals the attack!" By the 1950s a businessman is pictured carrying a radio phone that is, incredibly, "smaller than a briefcase". An early 1960s radio pager is illustrated with a picture of a medical nun, smirking mysteriously to herself as she decants some foul brew into a beaker.For the Pulsar II mobile telephone of the 1970s, men with dodgy porn-star moustaches lounge around looking purposeful in cars or on building sites. Later on, another porn man gazes in wonder at a Dynatac glowing on some kind of dripping industrial vice. Happy foreign children begin holding their pagers up to the camera in the early 1990s, and the first StarTac is advertised to Japanese customers against the background of a golf course. There is a blissful throwback in a 1994 advert for a slimline pen-shaped pager, as a suited businessman slips it into his inside jacket pocket with the worrying advice, "Dress for Access". This is the first hint that the mobile was going to become a fashion trinket, or, as the man from Motorola says, "a toolkit to express yourself".The Dynatacs of the 1980s gloried in a loathsome brown-and-beige colour scheme, but in 1989 the successor model, the Microtac (with the first flip-open mouthpiece) turned to black, with words printed in the kind of curvy "futuristic" lettering that looks so Fisher-Price these days. Small pager devices of the mid-1990s were constructed out of brightly coloured translucent plastic, in homage to Apple's iMac computer. Phones themselves, however, remained various shades of grey and black until around 2000, when the silver revolution happened. Why everything became silver a few years ago - not just mobile phones but also cars, hi-fi systems, TVs and laptop computers - is an underexplained event in cultural history. Why did silver supplant the short-lived fad for "champagne" colouring of electronic goods, and will the understated black ever make a comeback?The idea that your choice of mobile phone is a fashion statement is one of those self-fulfilling capitalist memes: the idea behind it, obviously, is to persuade people to change their phone more often than they need to. The exhibition glances only briefly at the industry in Japan, where customising of mobiles really is a whole subculture of its own. Huge, multicoloured bunches of tassles and tags hooked on to the mobiles of Japanese girls transform a utilitarian device into an ostentatious display of social connectedness.The exhibition's major shortfall is inevitable: the ways in which mobile phones really have affected our lives - the asynchronic virtual world of voicemail and text messaging, and the casualisation of social arrangements - are not phenomena that can be visually demonstrated. Mobile phones only mean anything when they are switched on and being used.Dotted around the exhibition space are translucent display boards on which are written inspiring stories of how life is improving in developing countries: apparently mobile phones are helping to solve the problem of nonexistent communications infrastructure in Afghanistan or Bangladesh. A discreet little touch-screen computer invites visitors to play a texting game, where falling words must be "translated" into text before they hit the ground. Your correspondent only managed a pathetic fifth on the high-score table, and naturally blames the rules. The requirement that every word must be stuffed into a vowel-free three-letter space is already obsolete, with the ubiquity of predictive text, which allows the rapid input of normally spelled words. "Txt" as a language was historically tied to a short period of technological inadequacy, and its time is already past.But what does the future hold? Projected on to one wall of the exhibition space is a baffling document entitled The Device Formerly Known as the Cell Phone: The Search for the Next Species. It is a sort of genetic tree diagram, packed with made-up quotes from youth: "I'm the fastest at finding the best MP3s," says one, "and I share them immediately with my friends." We are not, presumably, meant to infer that Motorola encourages music piracy.Also festooned over the tree are made-up words describing the uses to which customers would like to put their mobile communications devices: they must be "multable", "tvable", "wholeable", "boomable" and "softable". I take my chunky silver handset out of my pocket and gaze at it sadly: there's no way I can mult or soft or boom this thing. Ah well. Maybe next year.&#183;Mobile is at the Glass Gallery, Old Truman Brewery, London E1 (020-7770 6016), until November 23.
By the year 2000, Mintel suggests that small pocketphones "will be as common as Walkmans... " People would have to develop a whole new social code... You could not, for example, take calls in the middle of a crowded restaurant. Indeed, the potential nuisance effect of pocketphones (which, of course, exist at the moment, but are clumsy and extremely expensive) is enormous, though perhaps no more so than the nuisance of the transistor radio. Besides, the social value of being able to make a phone call at any time will also be extremely large.The Guardian, May 6 1986It's about 7.15 on a chilly Wednesday evening in October, outside Great Portland Street tube station in London. There aren't many people about. A woman in her 20s in a blue denim skirt and a body warmer strides up to a bus stop, talking loudly into a mobile phone pressed to her ear. Without consciously eavesdropping, I hear what she is saying."Next week it's Corinne's birthday, which, if we're around, I think we should go to," she says. "No, but if we're around we should make an effort 'cos nobody's going." She speaks with a particular volume and pitch: far more loudly than if she was speaking to someone next to her, not quite as loud as if she was addressing a public meeting. She has none of the self-consciousness people usually feel when they are by themselves among strangers, because she isn't by herself.Physically, she's in Great Portland Street, but she's speaking as if she is in her front room, talking to her partner a few feet away. That room could be in Peckham, or Durham, or Birmingham, Alabama - but I might as well be standing there, too, listening, discovering, without wanting to know, that Corinne isn't very popular. (She wasn't really called Corinne by the way).Before 1985, no one in Britain had a true mobile. Now, most people have one. Every sixth person in the world has one. This year the number of mobile subscribers around the world is likely to reach 1.4 billion, greater, for the first time, than the number of land lines. As today's Guardian/ICM poll shows, we have been using the phone more and more since the advent of the mobile. The world we know best, the world of ourselves, family and friends, has changed.It used to be that you had to make an effort to overhear other people's conversations. You had to turn your head to look into their lighted living rooms, glance into their strange lives. Now you have to make an effort not to. We do what British people aren't supposed to do: invite strangers, spontaneously, into our personal worlds. We let everyone know what our accent is, what we do for a living, what kind of stuff we do in our non-working hours. Busy people who don't have time for rows or mutual restatements of love before they leave for work now have them on the bus instead. Research by Orange earlier this year found that 80% of mobile users call their partners every day with a bulletin on their journey to work. The mobile has become the supermarket checkout queue of private life, where everyone gets to clock everyone else's trolley, to see who is on no-fat yoghurt and who's on family-size oven chips.And we are curious. We know, when the phone rings and there is nothing except a rustling and scratching on the other end when we answer, that someone has called us by accident, and the phone is in their bag or pocket. And we wait, lying to ourselves that we are waiting just in case somebody answers, when we know nobody will. We wait because we hope to overhear some indiscretion. We're terrible.Body-warmer woman leaves, but at the entrance to Great Portland Street station, on either side, stand two people, a man and a woman, waiting in old-fashioned silence. The man, a slim guy with a goatee, in jeans and a denim jacket, suddenly jumps and scrabbles in his pocket, as if a ferret inside his trousers has bitten him. Will he reach it in time? The jeans are very tight, but he manages to haul out the mobile. He speaks a few lines before the two friends who have just called him appear and he puts the phone away. Seconds later, the scene is repeated with the other person waiting, a woman with long red hair. She gets a text message on her mobile; she reads it; she is about to text back, when her friend, who has just texted her, walks up to her, and they both laugh."I didn't have time to text you back!""I couldn't see you waiting there, so I thought... "A friend told me that, since the coming of the mobile, he misses the obscure pleasure of waiting to see if he is going to be stood up or not. He must be a genuine connoisseur of uncertainty, since he is happily married; but it is true. Punctual people now call or text if they're running five minutes late. Nervous people call from one side of a cinema foyer when they can't see the person they've come to meet on the other. No worries; but no relief, no joy either, because we find out where they are and why they're late long before we start to think they are late. Remember how happy you used to be when, after waiting for half an hour in the rain in those pre-mobile days, you turned on your heel, bitter and angry, and suddenly there was his voice or her hand on your elbow, there they were, all out of breath and smiling and apologetic, anxious to make it up?With mobiles, of course, it is possible to dump people - romantically, socially - without ever actually admitting that you have dumped them. Another friend complained that, in the mobile age, people tend to circle each other endlessly across great tracts of urban nightlife, making virtual contact without ever coming close enough to touch. You used to make plans for the evening. Now you make assumptions. If you can always contact someone, you can always arrange to meet them. So you never meet them."I don't care who it is, mate, rules are rules."Pilot to Tony Blair when the prime minister protested about having to switch off his mobile as his plane was about to take off. He was taking a call from the Queen.Visiting Great Portland Street is a small pilgrimage to the man some say took the world's first ever mobile phone call, Londoner David Hughes. The PR woman at Vodafone, which launched Britain's mobile age, was troubled when I asked if anyone knew what the late Ernie Wise had said when he made the inaugural cellphone call on their system on New Year's Day 1985. It was as if I had asked for some quotes from Alfred the Great. But David Hughes went farther back than 17 years ago. He was walking up and down Great Portland Street, lugging a primitive radio telephone of his own devising, in 1879.The "call" wasn't much - just a regular crackle of static from a makeshift transmitter he'd set up in his lab nearby. But it was a whisper from the future, only three years after Bell had invented the fixed-line telephone.Hughes, a practical designer, wouldn't be too surprised at the innovations of 2002. The horseless carriages on Great Portland Street move no faster than the horsed ones of his day, and he already knew about electric light. He would probably suss out that the snuff box-like contrivances pressed to the ears of pedestrians were mobile phones. More difficult to understand would be how they could be so small, and how so many people could talk at once without their radio conversations interfering with each other.US researchers solved the second problem in 1947 with the notion of "cellular" radio. By placing many small, low-powered transmitter-receivers across an area, you divide it into radio "cells". No cell would have the same set of frequencies as any of the adjacent cells, so large numbers of people could use radios in a small area without them interfering. If you could work out a way to automatically switch frequencies as subscribers moved from cell to cell, without interrupting their calls, you would have true mobile, roaming radio, that is, mobile phones.It took decades for technology to catch up with this vision: computers to do the call switching, batteries light enough to be portable, microchips to identify individual phones, software to enable phones to adjust automatically to wherever they are on the planet. Yet Jon Agar, in his forthcoming book Constant Touch: A Global History of the Mobile Phone, argues that technology was not what made mobiles spread around the globe like a virus from the early 90s. Mobiles took hold, he maintains, because they arrived when society was ready for them: a time of individualism asserting itself against old hierarchies - paternalism in the developing world, communism in the former Soviet bloc, the class system and state monopolies in Britain.Agar points out that in the mid-50s, only one person in Britain was allowed to have a private mobile phone - the Duke of Edinburgh, who had one in his Lagonda coupe. He used to put on funny voices to call his children on an admiralty frequency while he was burning up the Tarmac between Buck House and the west country. The Post Office, which controlled all forms of long-distance communication in those days, apart from carrier pigeons, didn't want anyone messing up its frequencies. It is odd to recall now that, until the early 80s, every private telephone in Britain - the receiver, not just the line - was the property of the Post Office, and could only be installed or repaired by one of its workers.The legendary phrase "I'm on the train," says Agar, "was a sure indicator that an invisible social boundary had been transgressed. In the early 19th century, the stage coach had been alive with gossip and chatter, as the novels of Jane Austen or the essays of William Hazlitt record. With the arrival of the steam locomotive, however, the talk stopped... Trains transported the body and mind. But a more severe problem lay with those passengers themselves. Who were they?... Rather than commit a social gaffe, travellers on trains in Britain chose silence."The arrival of mobiles was a catalyst for revolt, or revolting behaviour, depending on your perspective. "It was the individual, not society, that spoke loudly: 'I'm on the train'... the history of mobile phones in Britain is intimately tied to social transformations, class transgressions and competition - not only between technical systems but also between the politics of selfish individuality and the social bonds that tie us."In 2000, the percentage of the UK population owning mobiles passed the 50% mark for the first time. In 2001, it was announced that almost 50% of British children aged between seven and 16 had one. A few weeks ago, the 261 villagers of Pyecombe, in Sussex, heard that they were to get a new mobile phone mast - their 11th.Senior Islamic figures in Singapore have ruled that Muslim men cannot divorce their wives by sending text messages over their mobile phones. The decision ends weeks of debate over the issue after a court in Dubai ruled that a mobile-phone text message was acceptable as a written declaration of divorce. Muslim men are allowed to divorce their wives simply by saying the word "talaq" - I divorce you - three times.BBC World Service report, 2001I used a mobile phone for the first time about 11 years ago, while I was working for the Scotsman in Edinburgh. There was a fire on Princes Street and I was sent to relieve another reporter. "You'd better take the mobile," the news editor said. The paper had just acquired one. Mobiles of that era are often compared to bricks, but this is unfair. Bricks are quite attractive, and relatively light. In hindsight, it is easy to be puzzled by my decision to put the phone in my inside jacket pocket, but I wasn't to know how light mobiles would become a decade later. In the early days of timekeeping it probably seemed perfectly sensible to lash carriage clocks to your forearm: how did they know watches were coming? Anyway, I put it in my pocket. The jacket bulged and sagged to within a foot of the ground. Not hunchback of Notre Dame, exactly, but hunchfront of Waverley station. When I got to the site of the conflagration, I made my first mobile phone call. "I'm at the fire," I said. "It's out."I spent most of the 90s in the former Soviet Union, cut off from mobile fever in western Europe. On holiday in Italy I remember noticing hordes of young Italians holding their hands to their heads and talking at the tops of their voices to no one in particular, but there seemed nothing unusual about this. Then, in 1996, I had my mobile revelation.One morning I took an early flight from Moscow to St Petersburg for an interview at the Hermitage museum. In the final stages of our descent, the fog over Petersburg was so low and thick that all we could see were the tops of factory chimneys sticking out of it. The pilot announced that we would have to divert to Pskov, a run-down garrison town near the Estonian border, 100 miles to the south. We landed, disembarked and entered the terminal building, a dank shell of gnawed concrete. The few beaten-up, inter-city call booths in the airport were closed. There was no way I would make the interview, and no way to let the Hermitage know I was late; I had lost the story.At this point, I saw about a dozen of my fellow passengers, Russian men and women, line up like a guard of honour, and with military synchronicity, lift dinky little mobiles to their faces and reveal to the world that we had been diverted to Pskov. I was amazed at how fast technology and human want had overtaken my understanding of the possible in Russia. I was impressed that so many of the people on the flight had mobiles, when I had thought that they were luxuries for the elite of Moscow; that here, in this obscure provincial town, pretty much the property of a hungry Russian airborne division, the infrastructure to support roaming was in place; and, most of all, that everyone around me took this for granted. I borrowed one of their phones. I got straight through to the Hermitage and told them I was running late. I had to get one of these things.If the changes wrought in western society by mobiles have been remarkable, the changes in the poorer world have been extraordinary. Britain had a dense, relatively efficient network of private and business phones and callboxes long before mobiles came along, but most parts of the world didn't, and still don't. Traditional state telecommunications monopolies in Africa, Asia and the former Soviet Union made people and organisations wait weeks, months, years for a phone to be put in; vast regions were not connected at all; international calls, and often inter-city calls, involved queueing, begging, and arguing with switchboard operators. The importance of bureaucrats in authoritarian regimes was measured by the number of telephones they had on their desks, ranks of bakelite that declared to humbler visitors not just "I am more powerful than you," but, "My voice can be heard far away, and yours never can."The coming of the mobile enabled phoneless countries and communities to bypass their sclerotic, poorly maintained, exclusive, low-technology, landline-based systems. The advent of pay-as-you-go brought mobiles within reach of hundreds of millions of people who would never, for financial or bureaucratic reasons, have got a fixed-line phone.Latest estimates from the International Telecommunication forecast that this year, for the first time, the number of mobile phone subscribers worldwide will exceed the number of fixed phone lines - 1.4 billion versus 1.1 billion. The figures for Africa are particularly striking. Only 3% of Africans have mobiles, but they represent 53% of all phone subscribers on the continent. In some countries with virtually no working phone system before the advent of mobiles, the proportion is much higher. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, for instance, there are only 20,000 working land lines, and 150,000 mobile subscribers. In Gabon, there are 37,000 land lines, but more than 250,000 Gabonese have a mobile. Hundreds of thousands of people in Uganda, Tanzania and Cameroon have sidestepped the need for a fixed phone.China now has more mobile subscribers - 145 million - than the US and Canada put together.Setting yourself up with a handset and a Sim card is a big investment for anyone in countries where average income is measured in the low hundreds of dollars per month, and voice calls aren't cheap. But text messages are. In the Philippines, 10.5 million people now have a mobile subscription, almost 14% of the population. Last year, exchanges of text messages enabled the broadbased, grassroots opponents of corrupt president Joseph Estrada to spread agit-prop, organise demonstrations and concentrate supporters over a sprawling archipelago, where communications had always been slow and hard before. Estrada fell when hundreds of thousands answered text message calls to assemble for a final, mighty demo. Today, mobilising the forces of revolution has taken on a new meaning."When he hung up, he opened the phone and put the Sim card between his teeth. He chewed it to destroy it. I think he even swallowed it."Investigator quoted in Le Figaro on the behaviour of renegade French financier Alfred Sirven when captured after four years on the run. Sirven feared evidence on the chip could be used against him.We spend a lot of time with our mobiles. In a sense, they become our confidants. They know the names and numbers of our closest friends and associates. They know the numbers last dialled. They carry secrets, and like all confidants, they can betray secrets. On the face of it, mobiles are a great boon to cheaters. In retrospect it seems extraordinary that affairs were ever carried out in Britain when arranging assignations so often must have involved standing in cold, smelly call boxes in the hours of darkness. But the advent of the mobile makes room for a whole new set of suspicions. Why did she switch her phone off in the afternoon? How come his call has an international prefix when he said he was going to Doncaster this weekend? Agar records that in France, mobile providers were obliged to replace the last four digits of the "numbers dialled" column in itemised bills with asterisks, after thousands of men protested that their affairs had been discovered.The intimacy between human and mobile is not confined to sharing secrets. The mobile becomes an extension of appearance and personality, a fifth element after hands, face and clothes, in one-upmanship ploys.One trick is to be checking your mobile display constantly while talking to somebody - the modern equivalent, a friend pointed out, of looking over somebody's shoulder at a party while talking to them, making it obvious that you are hoping to see somebody more interesting. The mobile is equally useful for sending the opposite message, that you value your interlocutor's time dearly. What better way than to let your mobile ring out and, without even looking at the display, ostentatiously switch it off, saying: "Sorry about that. Do go on."There is an irony in mobile status games. The highest status comes from not having a mobile at all - or rather having one, probably several, and having someone else carry and answer them for you. Privilege is all about anachronisms. You have a mobile phone, why not have a mobile receptionist? The first time you call somebody's mobile and get their flunkey on the line is a moment of disillusionment; you thought that getting a person's mobile number signified that they were inviting familiarity. On the contrary. It just means that they have ripped out their answering machine, stuck it in their pocket and vanished into the wide world."Soon after my arrival in the camp, I was told by neighbours of a man who had called them several times on his mobile phone, saying he was buried under the ruins of his house. The last call had come two days before; and though they had tried to call the man again and again, he had not answered. Perhaps he was still alive, the neighbours told me; perhaps only the battery on his mobile phone had died."Chivvis Moore, a Palestinian American, on the Jenin refugee camp in the aftermath of an Israeli incursion.When I asked my wife what was good about having a mobile, she said: "It makes me feel safe." "Safe from what?" "Well, anything can happen." Anything can happen. Your car can break down; alone on a dark road in the night, with a mobile, you can call for help without getting out of the car. You can get lost. You can simply feel alone. Sometimes I wonder what extraordinary thoughts go unthought when people make mobile calls instead of meditating or dreaming as they make their journeys, but more often than that, I suspect, a call takes up a place that would otherwise have been occupied by aimless worrying.Anything can happen. A friend described how she had accidentally locked herself in the bedroom after her partner had gone to work. Without a mobile, she would have been trapped in there all day. Doors slam. Buildings collapse. Far worse things happen. You go to the office, as you do every day, Monday to Friday, and one morning, an airliner intersects with your life, and you realise immediately that you are very likely to die. If there were a God, he would have noticed by now that things have become quieter, no matter how bad it gets down there; given a choice between praying, and talking to the people we love, we are bound to choose the people every time."I want you to know that I love you very much, in case I don't see you again," was what Mark Bingham told his mother, Alice Hoglan, from the hijacked United Airlines flight 93. She picked up the phone at her home in San Francisco and, without really knowing what was going on, heard him reach out to her in his last moments. Hoglan told CNN: "He went on, 'I'm in the air.' He repeated that he loved me. Then he became distracted, as if someone was speaking to him. He said something to the effect that it was true. Then the phone went dead."Stewart Rushton, who drowned with his nine-year-old son Adam last year, kept up a conversation with the emergency services on his mobile as, lost and disorientated in dense fog on a sandbank on Morecambe Bay, the tide rose. To the last, the police said, even as the water reached his neck, he sounded confident that he would be rescued. The Rushtons' death was a terrible tragedy, but perhaps it was the harbinger of a time to come when no one will die alone, and will make their dying peace with partner, child, parent, friend, even answering machine or operator, like David Niven in the 1946 film A Matter of Life or Death, talking on the radio to controller Kim Hunter as the RAF plane he is flying goes down in the sea.Not everyone is prepared to go quietly. Much of the reporting in the early hours of the recent Chechen hostage seizure in Moscow focused, as might be expected, on the heartrending mobile phone calls of hostages to their relatives outside the theatre. But there was another, entirely different mobile dimension. Possession of mobile phones enabled hostages to subvert the traditional two-way dialogue between hostage-takers and government, to become third, fourth, 20th parties. From being silent, passive victims, they became participants, and it soon became clear that they feared their own government as much as they feared the Chechens. They were able to air their point of view simply by calling television and radio stations. "Please do not start storming," Tatyana Solnyshkina told NTV. "There are a lot of explosives. Don't open fire on them. I am very scared. I ask you, please do not start attacking."Over the weekend of the hostage-taking, strange icons popped up on the displays of Moscow's millions of mobile phones, a warning that - presumably at the request of the security services - the city's mobile providers had stopped encrypting their conversations.There are many ways in which mobiles can be used by governments to watch the people carrying them, whether it is to eavesdrop, see who is calling who, or track movements. It is a power people both fear and desire, and it goes to the heart of what makes mobiles attractive. They are, above all, an instrument of caring. It can be the intrusive, snoopish caring of state surveillance; the neurotic caring of a mother for a son who is really old enough to look after himself; the mutual caring of two lovers for each other; the joking caring of friends; the paid-for caring of the RAC, the duty to care of the doctor. There are parents who would die for the cause of civil liberty who would none the less like nothing better than to slip a device into their children's pockets when they leave the house which reported exactly where they were at all times. The mobile is a symbol of yearning to reach out over great distances and watch over others, to be in more than one place at once, to share thoughts at the speed of thought; to not be alone, and not let others be alone.
Jamie CollingsLast January, I had just dropped out of Manchester Metropolitan University. I spent my Wednesday evening with a few mates at the Venue nightclub,where drinks were 50p all night.By closing time,we were very drunk and somehow got separated.I got the bus on my own,then wandered through Owens Park and got completely lost. Eventually I came to a 6ft fence.I took a running jump but only got half way over. At first I didn't realise I had impaled myself. I was so drunk I couldn't even feel it. It wasn't until I tried to wriggle off that it started hurting. I couldn't move. I started shouting and screaming but no one heard. I could have been there all night and bled or frozen to death, but thankfully my drunken logic kicked in, and I realised that the only way off was to phone the emergency services. I got my mobile from my pocket and got through to this disbelieving  woman, who tried to work out where I was.Because I was so drunk and lost, it took them half an hour to find me. I was just left there contemplating things. The spike went nearly all the way through my groin. If it had hit a main nerve, I would have lost a leg. And if it had reached the main artery, I could have bled to death. I was hanging off the fence by my pants and the elastic from my boxers was  digging through my thigh like cheesewire. I could hear my blood dripping on to the concrete below.The fire brigade had to cut me off by hand with hacksaws,to avoid shaking the fence and rupturing an artery. It took about three-quarters of an hour. I thought it was quite funny at the time. Apparently I was joking with them, but towards the end, shock started setting in. I started shaking and feeling really cold. In hospital they cut all my clothes off, so I was lying naked on a bed, with a piece of fence still stuck in me, and nurses staring at me. But there wasn't a lot I could do about it. Someone took some photos and stuff. Then they put me to sleep and operated. I awoke with a hangover and a catheter, and stayed there for five days. I was the  comedy item at the end of the news that night.Darren AlcockWhen I was travelling alone in Western Australia last year, I drove to the Stirling Range and parked at the entrance to the well-trodden path up Bluff Knoll.It is the highest peak in the range, and 15,000 people walk it every year,but I was there out of season, so there weren't any tourist trips.The notice board in the car park said it was a three-hour walk to the top, and warned that the weather is changeable. It was a little misty as I started, but I didn't think it was anything to worry about. About 25 minutes after I got to the top, it started to drizzle and the fog got  so thick that after wandering around for an hour and a half, I couldn't even find the path. It was so frustrating, because I just couldn't see. By then, the peaks had all become identical silhouettes, so I couldn't even find my way back up again.I take my phone everywhere because you never know when you will need it. Eventually I called my dad, 9,000 miles away in Great Yarmouth. He made me promise to call the local emergency services, but I really didn't want to waste their time, and make myself look silly.Luckily he didn't trust me, so he called them. My dad called the police,and they called me, but my battery went dead after five seconds. My dad had told them where I was though, and the Gnowangerup district state emergency services rescue team was sent to find me. It was now about 7pm, dark, cold and raining heavily. I found an overhanging rock to lie under, but it was only about a foot-and-a-half wide, and the ground was wet and muddy. I pointed my torch skyward, to make myself visible, and shouted for help, but only an echo of my own voice shouted back. At one point I thought I  heard a whistle, but wasn't sure if my mind was playing tricks on me.They found me an hour later, having almost called the search off five minutes before. Thankfully one rescuer had asked for a little more time. Without my mobile,I would have been up there all night, and could have caught pneumonia,or fallen in the poor visibility. I later heard that the local mobile-phone mast  was put up only a week before my visit.Stephen O 'BrienI was canoeing about 150 yards off the Skerries lighthouse, off the coast of Anglesey, when some freak waves turned the canoe over. I was on my own, which was a mistake, but I would do it again, because the trip is extremely exhilarating. The conditions looked favourable before I set out. I had called the coastguard and told them who I was, where I was leaving from and heading to, and that I would phone when I made it safely across. But I never got that far.I managed to right myself twice, but then a third wave hit me from a different direction, before I got my breath back. I couldn't right it that time, so I had to get out of the upside-down canoe. I realised I wouldn't be able to swim to  shore because of the currents. I got my mobile out and called the coastguards.I was in a sea kayak, which has watertight compartments; my phone and distress flares were in one of them. And the phone was in a zipped plastic bag to keep it dry. If I had done a different trip that day, I would not have got a signal. It is very patchy along the coast. I would like to see better coastal reception, so that smaller crafts can use mobiles when in difficulty. I work in a lighthouse, and certainly wouldn't mind having a mast put up there. Without my phone, I do not think I would be here today.I managed to give the coastguard my position, but had to break off contact to secure myself to the canoe which was helping me stay afloat in the rough sea. At that moment, the canoe got knocked over by another huge wave, and I lost the phone and flares. All I could do was wait. I was in the water for two-and-a-half  hours. Spotting me was like finding a needle in a haystack because I was so low in the water, with such big waves. And because the tide had changed, I floated in the opposite direction to where I said I was heading.They rescued me 20 minutes before dark. Much later, and they wouldn't have been able to find me. I probably would have lasted a few more hours, because I had all the proper equipment. But despite wearing a wetsuit and lifejacket, I could feel hypothermia setting in. I had to keep my mind occupied. I had a gut feeling that I would be all right.Four lifeboats were searching for me, along with the mountain rescue helicopter and another helicopter from Dublin. The mountain rescue crew were searching the shoreline and cliffs. Even the Irish ferry was diverted to help. But it was a trawler from Fleetwood that spotted me. I don't know if they had been roped into the search, or if it was a fluke, but I never had a chance to thank them.Vaughan Smith, freelance television  cameraman, Frontline TVIn March 1998, I travelled to Kosovo to cover the riots for the BBC. We heard that in a village called Prekaz there had been fighting between Serbs and Albanians and that there was an organisation there, which turned out to be the  Kosovo Liberation Army. I decided to investigate with another cameraman, Kenny Brown. We saw smoke coming from buildings a few  kilometres away,over several ridges of hills. We ducked and crawled all the way, and sneaked past a sniper cordon, which was there to keep people like me from seeing that the Serbs were committing ethnic cleansing. Through respecting these cordons, journalists missed much of the Bosnian war, including the initial ethnic cleansing, which was probably the worst. So we thought it was worth the risk.I went forward alone with my camera and tripod on to a forward slope, overlooking the village. It was late in the evening, the sun was in my eyes, and it was hard to see through the undergrowth. But I was able to film the burning of the village, and armoured cars bulldozing buildings. The armoured cars turned out to be stolen from the Dutch army in Srebrenica in 1995.Having got my pictures, we tried to extract ourselves. We were running along a track on the side of a hill when we were fired at. I felt something hit me on the side of my stomach. But as we got down and crawled away, I was in no pain. I thought I was fine. I assumed it was either a ricocheted bullet, or that the bullet had flicked a stone up at me. We continued running like hell and managed to get back.It was going to be on telly, so I thought I had better ring the missus. My mobile was in my pouch with a packet of cigarettes and 6,000 deutschmark rolled into a tight ball in a hand-  kerchief.In my pouch I found a slightly squashed and bent bullet, which had gone into the pouch, through the money and embedded itself into the phone's battery. Apart from the biggest bruise you have ever seen and a little blood, I was fine. I reckon the bullet would have gone through the phone without the money, and without either I would have been killed. Unfortunately the phone was no longer  working so I couldn't make my call.
Telecoms group BT took aim at the £2 billion home computing market today with the launch of a range of "broadband-ready" PCs.The group is selling a package which allows people to buy a Windows PC, have it installed and receive back-up support for a monthly fee. All PCs will be ready for connection to broadband, enabling customers to receive high-speed internet access.Under the offer, BT will sell eight packages, ranging from a standard desktop for £35.99 a month to an advanced desktop for £68.99 a month. The group has agreed deals with HP and Toshiba to provide Intel-powered PCs and laptops.The packages will provide a broadband-ready PC with pre-installed Windows XP software, virus protection and "firewalls" for security. The monthly cost includes a technical help package, but does not include the continuing £27-a-month charges for BT's broadband service. At the end of the three years, customers own their own PC.BT said today there was a large amount of dissatisfaction with home computing. Angus Porter, managing director of BT Retail's consumer division, said people typically changed their PC every three years and were "increasingly looking to have the hassle taken out" of the experience.BT said research showed more than 10.6 million people were unhappy with the home PC they currently had while 71% felt pressurised to buy a more expensive computer than they wanted. The company said 70% of owners admitted to shouting, swearing or being violent towards their computer when it crashed, froze or caused other problems.Only 25% of home PC users felt able to fix their computer themselves if it were to go wrong.In recent months BT has been pushing hard to increase take-up of broadband among consumers. Earlier this year it pledged to put broadband at the heart of its operations, and has since launched a £33 million advertising campaign to promote the technology in general, as well as its own broadband product.The company hopes the new BT Home Computing initiative will generate £150m of the £681 million broadband-related revenues expected by 2004/05. Mr Porter said advertising spend on the service would amount to a "couple of million".BT Home Computing
With a recently-discovered talent for hi-tech and a widely-scattered population, Finland has been at the top of the mobile phone league since the devices were invented.According to government statistics, more than 80% of Finland's 2.3m households owned a mobile at the end of last year. In the 15-40 age bracket, as many Finns now own mobile phones as watches - almost all of them.In terms of mobile use, the devices have now replaced fixed-line phones altogether in more than a quarter of Finnish homes. Some 90% of mobile users send frequent text messages, and texting has become the most common use of mobiles among young women.Part of this enthusiasm is doubtless due to the staggering success of Nokia, which until the early 1980s made nothing but rubber boots and car tyres but is now the world leader in mobile phones. It controls 30% of the global market and sells some 100m units per year.Nokia's success has been driven by a technology genius that the Finns - trapped in the freezing shadow of the Soviet Union until the fall of the Berlin Wall - never really knew they possessed.But Nokia has also drawn on Finland's long-standing tradition of clean, practical but cutting-edge design, allying aesthetic desirability with functionality in a way that no other manufacturer has managed to do.Other factors explain the mobile's extraordinary take-off in Finland - the government deregulated the telecommunications sector in the early 1980s, creating a market in which no one player was dominant and stimulating a fierce price war.Finnish mobile phone operators also chose to sell the phones themselves at a realistic price, offering mobile communications that are only marginally more expensive than fixed lines. In countries like France, operators practically give the phones away - but ultimately discourage their use by setting a punishingly high call rate.But mobile phones - and the internet, to which Finland also has more connections per head than any other country - have, above all, thrived in the frozen north because they have tapped into a socio-cultural phenomenon. In their big and sparsely-populated country, and despite their reputation for dourness, Finns are desperate to communicate.Many Finns explain their fondness for digital and mobile dialogue by the sheer size of their country. "People live so far apart," said Matti Pietikainen, a professor of information technology at Oulu university on the Arctic Circle. "Even in the modern age, every Finn has an awareness of his physical isolation."Others, with rather more humour, look deeper into their Nordic hearts. "We live on the edge of the known world, we're shy and introverted and we've never been much good at talking to each other face-to-face," said Sirpa Ikkonen, a 26-year-old psychology student. "All that's happened is we've finally found our ideal methods of communicating - at arm's length."
Enter, left, the melancholy  prince of Denmark: "2B or  2b (not)=?". It would, I suppose, be possible to text the  whole of Hamlet - though  it's hard to imagine Sir Laurence rolling his thespian  chops round it. Unpoetic it  may be, but texting is quick. And hurry sickness is the epidemic of our times. None of the  dictionaries I have looked at has caught up  with the verb "to text". Mobile phone users  have, however. There are, it is estimated, 1m  text messages transmitted every hour in the  UK. And rising.It's nice to know that the word "text",  etymologically (as those slow-coach dictionaries tell us) originates in the Latin for "tissue".  It's writing on Kleenex. One blow, then throw.  Snot-talk, if one wants to get nasty about it.Texting is a tightly circumscribed short message service (SMS) range-bound to 160 characters, including spaces. Unlike the long-ago  telegrams which charged by the word (max 10  letters: hence "Comequick Allover MumDad"),  doubledecking doesn't work. Abbreviation is  the essence of texting.Texting is predominantly a European practice in which the UK is the acknowledged  world leader. America (conditioned into using  the land line phone, without hurry, by free local  calls) hasn't picked texting up at all eagerly.  They still think it's good to talk.Sociologically, texting consolidates sub-  communities (homebound women are currently  the ground-breaking texters in the laggard US).  Each subgroup will have its own identifying  styles, codes and shibboleths (try texting that  one). Over here the vanguard texting subgroup  is the young and minimally educated.As a dialect, text ("textese"?) is thin  and - compared, say, with Californian  personalised licence plates - unimaginative. It is bleak, bald, sad shorthand.  Drab shrinktalk. This,for example,  might be a pick-up between a contemporary Romeo and Juliet:Rom: RUF2T? &#91;Are you free  to talk?&#93;Jul: OK  &#91;Make your move &#93;Rom: Bf? &#91;Do you have a  boyfriend?&#93;Jul: No &#91;Liar &#93;Rom: CUA3 &#91;I'll see you,any time,  any place,anywhere&#93;Jul: @club? &#91;At the club?&#93;Rom: OK  &#91;Thinks. I'm on, "gr8 6  2nite" - great sex tonight!!&#93;The dialect has a few hieroglyphs  (codes comprehensible only to initiates)  and a range of face symbols. Its "little  language" (as Swift called his private  letter-talk to Stella) awaits its Harold  Pinter (the only dramatist I can think of  who might be interested). Linguistically it's all  pig's ear.Why then has texting taken off so explosively? And why here? Wood-headed educationists will point out that it's a forgiving  system: it masks dyslexia, poor spelling and  mental laziness. Texting is penmanship for  illiterates. Technologically, texting is the result  of cordless phone meets computer. Smarter  gizmos are in the pipeline. If you don't text now,  it's not worth learning: in a couple of years voice  recognition systems will kick in.What has made texting irresistibly attractive  to our young is its dependence on humankind's  great physical asset - the opposable thumb.  Texting is, I believe, the only form of human  communication which is all thumbs. As a species  we are, as Henry Louis Gates puts it, signifying  monkeys. Thumbcentrism is our ape heritage.  Tellingly, the universal icon of the texting  generation is a chimp with a banana phone.We have a younger generation who have  been brought up blistering their thumbs on  PlayStations. They are virtuosi of the opposable digit. One of the things which has inhibited the spread of texting in America is the fact  that they are better trained in keyboard technique. American schools teach touch-typing.Human beings will use any medium to communicate and to make records. We can go back  to the Incan "quipa" (mnemonic string knots),  Sumerian clay pots, medieval tally sticks. In my  own lifetime I have seen, sadly, the decay of the  lavatory wall dialect. Who remembers those  classic scrawls: "A Happy Xmas to all my readers", "You are holding the future of England in  your hands", "Please do not drop dog ends in  the urinal as it makes them soggy and  impossible to smoke", and - following a line of  arrows to the far corner of the latrine - "You are  pissing from a quite extraordinary angle".  Alas, bog-Shakespeare has been flushed  away by history.What is most striking is the fact that  writing (traditionally the "R" most  thought to be under threat) is taking  over from speech. Big time. In the  13th century, probably less than one-tenth of 1% of Europeans worked in  scriptoria (writing shops). Now,  thanks, more than three-quarters of  the population (including children) have  their personal scriptorium - and a  delivery system to go with it. We are all  scribes now. As Roger Fischer puts it in  his History of Writing, "An ever increasing number of people are spending more  hours per day using written - that is  keyboard - language rather than spoken  language. We have redefined the very meaning of 'writing '." You're right, Roger. Let's,  for a year or two (max), call it txtng.John Sutherland is Lord Northcliffe Professor of Modern  English Literature at University College London.
To say John Perry Barlow has led a full life is an understatement on a par with saying that Roy Keane has a little bit of a temper. From lyricist for the Grateful Dead to Wyoming cattle rancher to founding contributor to digital publication Wired, he has lived a more varied life than most. But none of the challenges he has faced from particularly obsessive Deadheads (as the legions of Grateful Dead fans in the States are affectionately called) or obstinate cows has prepared him for his current battle with corporate America.Since the mid-1990s, Barlow has been something of a figurehead for those who believe the future of the internet is in peril thanks to the heavy handedness of government and giant media groups such as AOL Time Warner, News Corp and Walt Disney. Through his organisation,   the Electronic Frontier Foundation, he has become a focal point for a collection of disparate individuals and groups increasingly fearful that technical innovation and legislative intervention will create an online world that is the opposite of what they had hoped.Rather than the global receptacle for ideas that was once hoped for, they fear that by tieing the internet up in red tape global media groups - and by extension the government - will make it simply another publishing medium like television or books. As Barlow puts it, "the internet, which was going to be a solution, turns out to be an exacerbating force. This has turned into a very serious fight and will determine, in my view, the future of humanity. To boil it down, it be-comes a battle between the global corporate state and free expression."This is an issue that has been vexing Barlow for years, since he wrote a   seminal article for Wired entitled The Economy of Ideas. In the piece, which is now taught in many law schools in the US, he asserts that: "In the absence of the old containers &#91;books, CDs and so on&#93;, almost everything we think we know about intellectual property is wrong. We're going to have to unlearn it. We're going to have to look at information as though we'd never seen the stuff before."But despite his protestations, he must have felt at times like a lone voice crying in the wilderness as the major corporations set about pouring billions of dollars into cyberspace in an attempt to colonise it and tie it up with rights. There are dark clouds gathering, he believes, that within three years could change the face of the internet as we know it. "Hardware companies are working on technology that will physically stop people downloading copyrighted material. And there is a law under discussion in the US that would exempt the content industry from laws that stop them invading computer users privacy. You have to remember that the internet itself is now in the hands of four or five companies who own the majority of the pipes. Under this law they could simply disable whole sections," he says.His argument is one that has been endorsed by several film makers and musicians, who point out that the original central tenet of the copyright laws on both sides of the Atlantic - to protect the creator - has long been subsumed by large corporations using such rights as bargaining tools. "There is something fundamentally human about the desire to share knowledge and information. It's really what we want to do with the stuff," says Barlow."The central issue is whether or not we're going to embed systems of surveillance and control into the fundamental architecture of the internet that will serve the content industry but will serve any master that comes along afterwards," he adds, alluding to possible government use.This may all sound a little too much like Blade Runner but when one recalls that home secretary David Blunkett was this summer forced to pull radical plans that would have allowed dozens of organisations to track individual surfers, it becomes less far-fetched.Barlow believes that we are reaching a pivotal point in the development of the internet. "We're really talking about freedom of expression. You can't own free speech," he says.It is tempting at times to dismiss   him as a new media age hippy, with free information replacing free love. Certainly his San Francisco beard and leather trousers give you that impression, but it's belied by the persuasiveness and coherence of his argument.But as with all who threaten to rock the boat, it's easy to pick holes and to pose the question - what's the alternative? "I don't think that property is the right model for the economy of expression anyway," he says, but concedes that short of the downfall of global capitalism it is unlikely that rights owners will all of a sudden return all of their rights to the public domain.But given the right amount of pressure, he does believe that different economic models for the distribution of information, music and art on the web will emerge. To illustrate the point, he describes the way in which the Grateful Dead made their money from touring while allowing fans to make not-for-profit tapes of their shows. A huge community of fans built on swapping and collecting live recordings built up - and the band still made a living.However, another worry is what will be lost in the meantime. "If we stick to this model for a period of time a lot of the work that we have done during the last 150 years is going to be lost if the content companies don't permit it being digitised," he says, pointing out that far from letting go of rights, media companies are using digital media to reclaim them. "If you download an ebook of Alice in Wonderland, which is in the public domain, it actually says in the small print that you can't read it out aloud.""We saw a lot of this happening during the heyday of Napster. People were taking LPs and ripping the vinyl on to their PCs and a lot of those records I really want to see make the cut. The companies that produce those LPs hadn't sold any of them for years and had no intention of selling them but were stopping them doing it," he says.Believing that the internet community has a three-year window to take the good fight to the content owners, Barlow doesn't intend to quit now. "What I do about it is go around and try and tell as many people as possible that something serious is taking place and they should be aware. Eventually, the truth will out. That's all I know to do," he says.
&#183;483m mobiles are expected to be sold worldwide in 2003.&#183;In Santiago City, Philippines, mobiles are banned in public to "forestall the occurrence of accident and disturbance".&#183;The average British mobile bill is £20 a month.&#183;Over 47m British adults have a mobile phone, about 70% of the population. In America, only 40% have one.&#183;A quarter of Italians say their lack of a mobile is a blow to confidence and causes sexual problems with partners.&#183;16-year-old Lindsay Fletcher from Wigan is the UK's fastest texter: she did a 233-character message in 100 seconds.&#183;Drivers' reactions are a third slower when talking on a handheld mobile than when under the influence of alcohol.&#183;Julia Roberts does not own a TV or a land line. She does have a mobile, but she insists that it is rarely switched on.&#183;20bn texts were sent worldwide in 2001 - 1bn in the UK.&#183;33% of owners say their phones are for emergencies only.&#183;There are 30,000 mobile-phone base stations in the UK.&#183;Biotechnologists are working on the possibility of keeping your sim card safe, by inserting it into your forearm.&#183;Mobile users are 2.5 times more likely to develop cancer in areas of the brain adjacent to their phone ear, but researchers are unable to prove whether it has anything to do with the phone.&#183;Scientists say that handsets halve in size every 18 months. By 2017 designs will reach the physical limits of technology.&#183;16% of British kids have been bullied by text message.&#183;58% of Norwegian executives believe it is rude to take a mobile phone call in a supermarket.&#183;2% of mobile owners had their phones stolen last year - a theft every three minutes. The Metropolitan Police claim that mobile thefts account for 1/3 of all street robberies in London.&#183;It is now possible to locate a person using a mobile phone down to a range of a few metres, anywhere on the globe.
Female, 20s, No 73 bus (lower deck)Hiya! It's me!... Yeah, on the bus... What, you... ? - Oh, you are silly... No!... Well, I can look after her... Listen, I was thinking we could drive up to Manchester... Yeah, and that way we can sleep in the back on the way... Yeah... Well, I'll ask... Are you in the bathroom while Malky's on the toilet?... Oh, right. Well, I've got to go anyway, I'm at my stop... All right... Yes, you too. Bye bye. Bye bye, button. Mwa mwa.Male, late 20s, No 73 bus (top deck)All right, how are you? Yeah. How was yours? Did you go out afterwards? Really? Cool. Yeah. OK. About five or six. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Paul's DJ-ing there tonight. No, yeah, he is, I got a text from him just now. So that's cool. OK, yeah, so I'll see you later on. In the Birdcage. Have you spoken to Thomas? Oh, that's a shame. No, yeah. OK, I'll call you later. Cool.Female, early 20s, 73 bus (lower deck)I don't know what the Docklands Light Railway is like on a Sunday. And I need it to be reliable, yunno?... That's how women are. Capricious. One minute they want to know, the next they're fucking you around. Sometimes you gotta take a back seat and let it... progress, innit?... I've got that well-hidden. That could destroy me, man... And yunno, I never thought I'd get over that. It's like the geezer said, youth culture, innit?... Who? Who was that? Nah, Marie would never do that, she'd never...Female, late 30s, Selfridges flower stallThe only way she knows how to kiss is French kissing...Female, late 30s, Metropolitan lineHi, Sarah, it's Anna. Sorry to call you so late. Just wanted to let you know that we've got your figures and it's 725... Mmm. We wanted to know how much you wanted sending to Guildford and how much to... It divides that way. And shall we just round it up to the nearest... As far as I know, they do the same at Maidstone... so is that OK? D'you want to confirm that with anyone? We'll be doing it on the first... Sorry, say that again... Oh, he does want to do something. OK. Thanks Sarah, bye.Hello? Hello? Hi. On the Metropolitan. Yeah, I must admit, I've driven them both. I've driven the two-litre SE and the two-litre FS. It's the new one... I told him on Friday. He's completely upset... Just about... I did. I told him and he said meet me after... I tried to get to the VW garage just behind you which opened two months ago, but it's closed. Completely. Which was a shame... Yeah, yeah, it's fine. Oh, you've got something, have you? I bought pasta but I couldn't get any parmesan cheese, there was none on the shelf... Oh no, don't get that. It's awful, I've had it twice and it's horrible. Really bad. Really bad, yeah. But I bought pasta, and I bought milk, so I've done that... so are you going to get the 1.8T for me? I saw it in the dolphin grey and it looks nice, but it's a really masculine colour. I said I liked the silver-blue, and he said the ideal is the silver, but we couldn't get that... The two-litre FSI is nice. No, F for Freddy, S for sugar. Yeah. Yes, I don't know if it's new, which I was quite surprised at, actually. But he said it's brand new. Just arrived yesterday... Yeah, yeah. Bye. Bye. Bye.Male, 30s, Metropolitan lineHello. On the train. Sorry? That's why you have to have a trial order, isn't it? But then you can't torture yourself about it and say you should've done this two years ago... The idea is to find the right sort of production and the right quality. The right quality. If the other people've done it and they're successful... That's right, you gotta mention the quality of it.Male, mid-50s, Metropolitan lineHi Charlotte, it's Graham. Sorry, I was right in the middle of a meeting... Just doesn't connect? No, I think it's 0208. As soon as I get to the flat I can check... Well, how long are you going to be there?... Well, we're just coming into Northwood and then we'll be about half an hour from there... I spoke to Susan... I said to Susan... (alights)Disembodied voice of approximately 14-year-old, Topshop changing roomsHello! Topshop! Where are you? Are you? We could meet. Trousers... OK, see you in a minute!Male, 20s, American, No 243 busIt stems from core beliefs of mine, which I have developed philosophically... If you really want problems, read that article... It's fairly open philosophy, and he's sticking to his guns... Unless you want to read Kant all your life. And I have a professor who is neo-Kantian... If you write a critique of Kant, it can be misconstrued as wrong because it's so complicated. It's like the Bible...Male, 30s, outside Farringdon tube stationWhere are you? No. I'm here. On the... the... photo booth side. Oh! I see you!Female, mid-30s, ladies' toilets, the Guardian officesWell, why don't you come back tonight instead? Well, it's just... Won't the boys mind? They won't mind, will they?... No, no, I'll be fine... Listen, I've got to get back now 'cos I should be... Yeah, I'll see you tomorrow. Bye.Female, late 20s, No 45 busWell, Lucy at work's got it. Everyone at work's got it! Must be something going round... Ohhhhh, mmmm, well, I can't - it's my brother's leaving do Saturday. He's going to Australia... Yeah! Tell her I'll speak to her later, OK? Byeee!Male, 40s, American, No 38 bus (top deck)Well, if you feel you can identify with that... that's great. Uh-huh. What have you done that's logic-based?... Quick question, out of the gate, on your r&#233;sum&#233; you didn't mention what you'd done Unix-wise... Can you focus down on just Unix? Let's see, what else? You've done some shell-scripting, stuff like that?... You've got some experience on the web-logic side?... I'm just seeing where I can match you up with our environment... We're really about shell-scripting, some Oracle, a good bit of web-logic. That's really our push... Aren't you a heavy Java guy? Have you done a lot of admin? Clusters? Tell me about different scaling systems... You've worked with logic? OK, good. You have a lot of experience with thread management? Give me some examples... Heh, heh, very cool... 'Cos it's not very well documented. Let's talk about JMS queues... Have you ever heard of Flux?... Flux. F-L-U-X. It tells a queue "Hey! there's something waiting for you, pick it up!" We have a lot of those "do some funky things" tools, as well as things that JSP frankly can't handle... Well, we're not on Seven yet, but we're all moving that way... The likelihood of us all moving to Seven is pretty slim... OK, good. Thanks for your time... So, Harry, do I get a chance to digest this and call you back in an hour? The only thing is I didn't hear anyone screaming "I know Solaris down to the bones." And we need someone who knows Solaris down to the bones... Is he willing to learn?... Mm-hmm. Precaution, Harry... OK, I'll call you on your cell.Finishes call. Turns to friend. "And now I'm going to do something I should've done a long time ago. Turn. My. Phone. Off. God, I hate my life. I hate my job."
At the beginning of the last century, when clean new phoneboxes first started appearing on Britain's grimy pavements, one of the pioneering areas was Kensington in west London. Then, as now, Kensington was busy, wealthy and full of pedestrians; as the century went on, the area remained a favourite with phonebox-installation companies. During a single six-month period in the mid-90s, 102 new payphones were erected in its small knot of streets. Planning applications were submitted for another 130.Phoneboxes still line Kensington High Street like guardsmen, red ones, blue ones, red and yellow ones, orange and metallic ones, always in pairs, often no more than 20 yards apart. But most of them are empty. People stride past them without a glance. The reason is not difficult to spot: immediately behind the phoneboxes, between the cafes and clothes shops, are branches of Carphone Warehouse, Phones 4U, The Link, The Orange Shop and The Vodafone Shop. There are more people in Carphone Warehouse than in all the phoneboxes put together.The era of the telephone kiosk is drawing to a close. British Telecom, the owner of the vast majority, has seen its takings from payphones fall by half since 1999. "We've got thousands that don't make enough to cover their cleaning costs," says Les King, head of public relations for BT's payphones division. In February, his company began a programme of uprooting uneconomic kiosks. "Between 10,000 and 12,000" are disappearing this year, and "further reductions" are anticipated. For those that survive this cull, the prospects do not look good. Two years ago, BT doubled the minimum charge for a payphone call, and started charging for calls from phoneboxes to directory inquiries. This May, the company announced that it was ceasing production of phonecards. Last month came perhaps the final indignity for a once-prestigious public amenity: it was revealed that BT has begun renting out some of its phoneboxes as locations for mobile phone masts.Britain has about 150,000 public telephones, significantly more per capita than other comparable countries. According to the telephone regulator Oftel, only one adult in nine still uses them with any frequency. For everyone else, stepping inside one can feel like stepping into a time capsule: the faint smell of cold metal and urine; the suddenly muffled street sounds; the old-fashioned bulk of the telephone equipment; the slightly jolting intimacy of sharing a receiver again with persons unknown; the forgotten sensation of standing still to make a call.If you watch people using phoneboxes nowadays, at least for the purpose for which they were intended, what strikes you is the slowness and simplicity of it all. They are talking, not multi-tasking. They are paying upfront, not by some unfathomable mobile phone credit system. They often seem to speak for longer, with more pauses, or stare into space, or wait patiently on hold. They are often old. Modern telecommunications is all about status, choice, convenience; payphones seem to be for people who have less of these things. Even in prosperous Kensington, the occupants of phoneboxes tend to be students, harassed-looking immigrants, people scribbling on bits of paper. Being in a phonebox, their body language seems to say, is not something to be proud of.As with other British public amenities, this decline in usage and prestige has left a vacuum for other, less attractive activities and associations to fill. To many people, phoneboxes mean cigarette ash and graffiti, vandalism and coinbox thievery, prostitutes' cards and dumped takeaway cartons - all the small signs of social breakdown that indicate a failed public space. The architectural historian Gavin Stamp, who led a campaign to save the traditional British phonebox during the 80s, now sounds resigned. "They are the product of a past civilisation," he says.The British public telephone kiosk was the first in the world. It was introduced in 1884, only eight years after the invention of the telephone itself by the Scotsman Alexander Graham Bell. The "public call office", as it was initially known, was a typical Victorian innovation, using new technology to make money from an increasingly mobile, communications-driven society, and borrowing a central element - the public kiosk - from abroad: such structures had long existed in Istanbul and other eastern cities for selling newspapers and other urban conveniences.At first, public call offices were placed in shops, with only a curtain separating their users from the general customers. The self-consciousness of callers, and the restrictions of shop opening hours, soon saw the telephones moved outside on to the streets and housed in wooden kiosks. Coin thieves and vandals quickly spotted their opportunity. The Post Office, which oversaw the phonebox companies, considered putting writing pads inside the kiosks to divert the energies of graffiti artists.Yet there remained a general confidence in street amenities. The Automobile Association introduced its roadside phoneboxes (whose demise has also been announced this year) in 1912; police boxes (long disused and forgotten now) followed in the 20s. In 1924 a high-profile competition was held to design a new, standard public telephone kiosk. The winner was Giles Gilbert Scott, architect of Battersea power station and Liverpool cathedral, and his design had a distinctly monumental quality: a heavy shell of glass and cast iron, faintly neo-classical columns at the corners, and a high, arching roof in homage to the 19th-century antiquarian Sir John Soane. It was just a phonebox; but it had iconic aspirations like the British police helmet, postbox and double-decker bus, and all the other internationally successful symbols of Britishness manufactured between the mid-19th and mid-20th centuries. The only mistake Scott made was over the colour. He wanted his phoneboxes to be painted silver, and "greenish-blue" inside. "Post Office red" was chosen instead, for its visibility and its compatibility with dirt.The kiosks were dispatched to every corner of Britain, and to parts of the empire and the wider world beyond, from Portugal to India. A red telephone box on a remote Scottish headland or beside a British customs house in the tropics, besides being useful, demonstrated the reach and territorial unity of the British state and its interests. Revealingly, the one place these official symbols were toned down was in the heartland of England itself: in the Cotswolds and other rural areas, there was opposition to red phoneboxes for clashing with more muted local colour schemes, and the kiosks were repainted in softer hues.In the early 60s, there was a brief attempt to replace the traditional phonebox with a more modern design, mostly glass with a little aluminium, but the new kiosk proved too flimsy for the climate and the vandals. Scott's cast-iron giants remained. Yet Britain changed around them. By the 80s, the phonebox network was just another slightly threadbare state-owned utility - in London over a third of kiosks were out of order at one point - which an unsympathetic Conservative government was eager to sell off. One of the first acts of the newly created British Telecom was to announce a replacement for the old phonebox which was like a more garish, 80s version of the failed design from 20 years earlier.A ferocious public battle followed. Gavin Stamp warned of "a holocaust of almost all of Britain's existing telephone boxes". The fate of the red phonebox became a cause invested with almost mystical significance in the Spectator and the Daily Telegraph, publications not usually associated with opposition to the brusque reforms of Thatcherism. Requests for particular kiosks to become listed buildings were received by English Heritage in "enormous numbers", says Pete Smith, one of the organisation's listing inspectors. "People got very irate. The closure of hospitals is, perhaps, the one thing that prompts more requests."Roughly 2,500 traditional phoneboxes were eventually listed. Thousands more were demolished. Yet the battle obscured the fact that, between the mid-80s and the end of the 90s, far from disappearing, British telephone kiosks actually doubled in number. The commercial pressures created by privatisation pushed BT's new phoneboxes into places where none had previously stood; meanwhile, other telephone companies began erecting their own kiosks. Phonecards were introduced, phonebox reliability improved, and the spread of the mobile phone simply seemed to increase the demand for telephones generally.It could not last. Nowadays, BT is pinning its hopes for its remaining payphones on using them as billboards and internet kiosks. Since August, a thousand of the latter - blue-trimmed, with very tough keyboards - have been erected, with 27,000 more to come over the next five years. It is a brave, egalitarian idea: helping the millions of Britons without computers or easy access to an internet cafe. But it is quite rare to see the kiosks in use.In a decade or so, it is possible to imagine that Britain will have no phoneboxes at all. Even the listed ones could be removed, says Smith, if BT proved that they were "economically unviable". And the terms of BT's privatisation forbid it from subsidising its payphones division with profits from its other operations. There is already a hungry collectors' market for traditional British phoneboxes - they sell for more than &#163;2,000. The last kiosks may end up as melancholy exiles in the grounds of Californian hotels. Then again, while mobile phones continue to crackle and cut out, cause health scares, and remain too expensive for some Britons, there will be at least a residual need for phoneboxes. And for some people, the payphone will continue to have its own intangible virtues. Next to Highbury roundabout in north London, there is a row of old telephone kiosks. At night, the area round them can seem ominous, with its dark corners and staggering drinkers. Yet one evening recently, a young woman with a long, fashionable scarf spent a quarter of an hour in one of the phoneboxes, talking and smoking, leaning easily against the glass as the rush-hour traffic fumed past. Her lighter sat neatly on the shelf in front of her. She looked languidly at her nails. And then she sauntered off to rejoin the evening crowd. Perhaps someone will invent a phonebox in which you can plug in your mobile.
Friday12pmI have a work number; a home number; two email accounts. And I've never felt the need for a mobile phone. Friends though have long insisted that I rectify what they see as a bizarre anomaly, so a trial week is a great opportunity.The phone arrives; I put it in my drawer until I can pluck up courage to have a go.2.45pmI have, apparently, been given a Siemens c35i, black and curvy and not quite as cool or exciting looking as some I've seen around. I pick up the phone and press the button on the left a couple of times. It claims to be connecting me to the internet, an unexpected development. I can select
Sport or News. A woman has bitten her husband to death. Barry Sheene has found God. Why is none 
of this news appearing on the telly?I try to make my first call but can't get out of internet mode. Instead, I plug it into the charger, something I've seen colleagues do. This should keep it occupied for an hour or two.4.45pmI call my charging mobile from my desk phone. It plays some kind of hardhouse tune. I can't quite decipher it, even after several bars, at which point I notice the angry scowls of everyone else in the office. And they say mobile hostility is a thing of the past.6.15pmMobile charged, I make my first call, to a friend, Jim. He sends me my first text message in return: "You'll be hooked by the weekend". I inadvertently send a reply reading, incomprehensibly, "Hilloom". I am having a few problems with, a pitying colleague explains, what is called predictive typing.8.30pmFirst useful call: I ring a restaurant to say we are running late for our reservation, and can they hold the table. The waiter ums and ahs and says yes, ok. Success! When we arrive half an hour later, the restaurant is empty anyway.Saturday10amMy girlfriend has wearily prised the phone from me and thrown it out of bed, before I've even tested a dozen or so of the ringtones.12.30pmA text message! From my mother! "UR THE ONLY PERSON I NEW WITHOUT MOBILE FON! WILL FON 2MORO. MUM". How did this happen? She lives in rural Shropshire, yet apparently everyone has a mobile and is fluent in technogarble. I am, phone-wise, a caveman, but little did I think my mum would
be the one to point this out.8.45pmI have to walk out in the dark to the bus stop. With my mobile I suddenly feel like a mugging target. "No one's going to want to steal that lump of shit," my girlfriend says, consolingly. She has a hit a nerve - why doesn't my phone send pictures, or even have some decent games?9.15pmI have heard enough mobile conversations to know that it was only a matter of time before I would be able to utter the immortal words, "I'm on the bus." Unfortunately, when the time comes, I fluff my lines.On the top deck of a packed number 36, I finally realise the persistent ringing is my own. "Hello," I 
answer, embarrassed. "I'm on the phone."10.45pmI'm in deep conversation at a party when my phone vibrates. A text message tells me that two friends have decided to get married! I start to tap in a return message of congratulations. After a couple of pars I lose it, try again, lose it and eventually give up. I raise my eyes from the keypad, and realise I 
am all alone on the edge of a sofa, my friends with their backs to me in huddles across the room.Later, I'm told that the message of congratulations I sent reads: "textimi a nightma".SundayI make one call to an ex-flatmate's mobile and leave a message to call me back. I notice the batteries are low, despite the instruction manual saying I had 180 hours grace. The charger is at work, so I switch it off. I'm playing football/at home. No call for a mobile.MondayAt work/straight home to meet friends. No calls. I call my former flatmate again, no reply. In desperation I try to play Minesweeper, but it is too fiddly.TuesdayI accidentally leave my phone on the seat of the bus. A man gives it back to me.WednesdayOn investigation, it appears my ex-flatmate's phone was stolen a couple of months ago. I find out the new number and leave a message. During lunch in the Guardian canteen, my fellow diners start looking at me oddly, before asking me why I'm not answering the phone. I hadn't realised it was ringing. It is my old friend and ex-flatmate. "I'm in a rush," she says, "why don't you just email me?" I think I will.ThursdayI try to write a text message, but the phone tells me my sim card is full. As I start to delete old messages, new ones flood in, some days old. My sister has been wronged, my dad is having a birthday, my girlfriend wants to know why I haven't replied to all these text messages she has sent.How much stress can one little screen contain? The phone rings, I try to answer but find I am dialling someone else instead.This is not progress. This is extra work in my pocket, an evil, possibly radioactive, lump of constantly changing instructions, ill-expressed emotions, half-received messages, sold on a promise of accessibility, spontaneity and communication but actually making my life just that little bit more uneasy.If I didn't live in a world of computers, junk mail, telly, landlines and email perhaps I might enjoy the novelty. But today, no way.Now, where did I leave that carrier pigeon?
Walking in San Francisco with friends recently, we passed a woman, on her own, talking loudly in an animated fashion. Was she, we wondered, using one of the new discreet mobile phones (cellphones, as they are known in the US) or talking to herself and her inner demons?That led to a discussion about who was madder - a person who has to be constantly talking on a cellphone, or one wandering down a street enjoying a conversation with themselves?We wondered who actually invented the cellphone. Alexander Graham Bell is credited with inventing the telephone, but who was responsible for the cellphone? Is the inventor still alive? Do they want to remain anonymous in case an irate person, driven mad by the inanity of most cellphone conversations, does them harm?In Los Angeles, there are various important rules of cellphone etiquette. If your cellphone rings in a theatre or cinema, turn angrily to the person on your left and mutter: "For God's sake!" under your breath. If your cellphone rings in a theatre or cinema and it is impossible to pin the blame on other people in this way, answer it and say loudly: "So you've found a kidney donor at last. Get the operating theatre ready, I'm on my way."Then you can walk out past admiring glances - it is not a bad idea to keep a stethoscope handy for this one - and quietly re-enter the auditorium when nobody is looking. If your cellphone rings when you are on the beach, answer it, gaze out to sea and say: "I can just see you, don't panic - I'll swim out and get you," and then race for the water and dive in.Kingsley Amis used to say that an alcoholic was someone that you didn't like who drank as much as you. In the same way, while we all only use cellphones in absolute emergencies, everybody else misuses them for trivial matters.I was reminded of this towards the end of my San Francisco visit. I was in a borrowed car belting across the Bay Bridge in the middle lane of a five-lane highway when the accelerator went - the nightmare scenario. Suddenly, we were grinding to a complete halt in the middle lane with cars whipping past, beeping horns.As we came to a standstill, I reached for the cellphone to speak to the car's owner in case he had some handy tips - and also, perhaps, to say goodbye."I'm in your car in the centre lane of the Bay Bridge and we have come to a complete standstill," I said. He was watching the baseball series and replied phlegmatically that, as the national anthem was playing and the game about to start, I should really try to get back in time.So God bless the California highway patrol, who arrived within minutes and helped to spare us from the kind of crash that occurred over the weekend in Long Beach. A total of 198 cars were involved in a pile-up, and this time the cause was driving too fast in the fog - not somebody using a cellphone while driving.
The offer was too good to turn down even if Guardian accountants were bound  to raise their eyebrows when the bills came in.After several weeks of sleeping bags in a house in Afghanistan's Panjshir  valley with no hot water and a mud latrine at the end of the garden shared by  scores of journalists, we were dirty and tired.Commander Basir of the Salang invited us for a hot shower and dinner at his villa. "Don't forget to bring your satellite phone," he quipped merrily after giving us directions.The Taliban were still hanging on to power in September last year. Basir, now  wearing a proper uniform and installed in the defence ministry in Kabul, was a  rebel warlord marshalling the anti-Taliban resistance in the Salang mountains  north of the capital.Two-way radios were the main mode of communication for the rebels. The  landlines for the phone system did not work. Mobiles were a fantasy in a  country that had never progressed to the railways. So the satphone was a  godsend and the key piece of kit for reporters and warlords, and later for the US  troops.We made our way that evening to Basir's lavish villa, luxuriated under hot  running water before enjoying a slapup meal. Basir himself disappeared into an  adjoining room and spent the next 90 minutes on the satphone to Iran, to one of  his wives.But in the 95% of Afghanistan controlled by the Taliban, the possession  of a satphone was a death sentence, a clear sign that the owner was working for  the enemy. Which was probably true.In advance of the bombing campaign last October, several of the Taliban's  opponents, now in government, were supplied with satphones by the  Americans and sent into the country to spy and target-spot for the bombers.   The latest models, like early model mobiles, became increasingly common.When Kabul fell and was inundated by troops, journalists, and aid workers, the  satellite phone became ubiquitous and locals would constantly pester you to use  the phone - to call girlfriends in Dushanbe, fathers in Peshawar, or long-lost  cousins in Iran.In Afghanistan, for the first time in its brief history, the satphone became a  symbol of all things western in a country still stuck, in many regions, in the  pre-industrial age.
Sound and vision are the twin expectations of new mobile phone purchasers in Japan, where the popularity of camera-equipped devices has spawned new forms of social interaction and DIY pornography.Since the launch of J Phone's sha-mail (photo-mail) service less than two years ago, more than ten million consumers - or one in five of all mobile phone owners - are now taking and sending pictures with their ultra-slim handsets.The images may be blurry and dimly-lit most of the time, but what they lack in quality they more than make up for in immediacy. Millions of people have used sha-mail and similar services to share everything from World Cup crowd scenes and new born-babies to student moonies and indecent lust letters.In one highly-publicised case earlier this year, a TV celebrity was caught using his phone to try to photograph up the skirt of a schoolgirl walking up a flight of steps in a railway station.Thanks to its pioneering methods, J Phone - part of the Vodafone group - leads the camera-phone market and boasts 6m subscribers to its sha-mail service. But its two bigger rivals, NTT Docomo and KDDI, are slowly catching up.According to the Yano Research Institute, the market will more than double  over the next five months, bringing the figure to 23m users.Having pioneered the world's most popular text-messaging service, i-mode, the first colour display screens and the most advanced 3G operation in the world, it is unsurprising that Japanese technicians and consumers are once more pushing towards new frontiers in the cellular world.But 12 months ago, few would have believed that 2G photo-phones would make more of a splash than the world's first 3G service, Docomo's Foma, which promised video pictures, film downloads and landline voice quality.A year on, Foma has proved a technological leap too far. High charges, short battery lives and a highly restricted usage area have meant that Docomo is on course to attract only about a tenth of the million Foma subscribers it aimed for this year.
