For more than a month, beginning in October, many of the 4.1 million British users of BSkyB's Sky+ personal video recorder (PVR) experienced a puzzling phenomenon: they couldn't transfer recordings from their Sky+ hard drive to a DVD recorder, VHS or hard disk recorder. When they tried, they got the message "Copy Protect Signal Detected".Sky's customer support line was little comfort. One caller was told that it was illegal to copy recordings from Sky+; another was asked to reboot the box (which had no effect), while a third was informed that a signal was being sent over the air to solve the problem (it didn't arrive). Frustration gave way to conspiracy: had Sky changed its policy on home copying? Were the days of archiving TV programmes over?Understandable paranoiaThis paranoia is understandable when you consider that broadcasters are keen to have at their disposal technologies that control the copying or recording of their programmes. In the US, for example, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) wanted to implement a broadcast flag system for digital TV broadcasts. This would involve broadcasters inserting additional bits into a programme's data stream, which could be used to prohibit or limit its recording.But for the broadcast flag to work, computer and consumer electronics companies would have had to build the technology into their hardware. A US court ruled that theFCCcould not enforce this. Yet last May, users of Windows Media Center PCs were unable to record some NBC programmes including American Gladiators: a message informed them that recording was prohibited by the broadcaster. Both NBC and Microsoft blamed "errors" for theproblem. The European digital TV standard, DVB, has developed a new system called Copy Protection and Copy Management (DVB-CPCM), which could allow broadcasters to control recording.Copying - more precisely, backing up - is important to many Sky+ users. Sky even encourages the archiving of recordings to free up hard drive space: Sky+ boxes (made by Pace, Thomson and Amstrad - now owned by BSkyB) have two Scart sockets, S-Video out and RF connections. They even have a "copy" function. The downside for Sky and content producers, though, is that recordings can then be spread online via file-sharing systems such as Bittorrent.Customers who tried copying recordings abruptly found that their DVD recorders refused to copy and displayed that warning message. Users of the Digital Spy website started athreadon the problem which soon grew to many pages of posts from Sky customers who could no longer copy Sky+ recordings. Many brands of DVD and VHS recorders were affected, including those from Panasonic, Pioneer, Toshiba, JVC and LG.One forum member, Digiblade, summed up the feelings of many: "I don't sell off copies from a cardboard box. I don't post anything I've recorded on the internet. I pay a TV licence, I pay a Sky subscription, so why the Dickens can I not record from it?"The problem was only resolved last week, more than four weeks after the first reports from disgruntled customers. What's more, customers are still no clearer as to what caused the problem - and why it took so long for Sky to sort things out.What's the problem?A Sky+ box includes a 160GB hard drive, half of which (equivalent to about 40 hours of video) is reserved for personal recordings. The remainder is reserved for the Sky Anytime push video service, a free offering which downloads a collection of programmes and films selected by Sky to the hard drive that shows off the wide range of content available.Panasonic said: "After receiving customer reports, we investigated internally, then contacted Sky engineering to investigate. Sky has confirmed that the problem was caused by changes made at their transmitting equipment, which are incompatible with some boxes in the market." An industry source said the issue was a "CGMS network problem". CGMS stands for copy generation management system, an international standard for protecting analogue TV programmes from copying.The system's full name is CGMS-A: it inserts two bits into the vertical blanking interval (the part of the TV picture that forms the black bands at the top and bottom of the screen) which either allow copying (00), one-time only copying (10) or no copying (11).Macrovision's Analogue Protection System was also triggered to stop VHS recorders making good-quality recordings. Video recording manufacturers use these technologies in their products, so when the Sky+ boxes started inserting no-copying bits into the analogue output signal, the recorders refused to work. What was even more frustrating was that the bits seemed to be generated at random intervals - sometimes they appeared at the start or end of recording; other times, 30 or 40 minutes into it.But what caused the Sky+ boxes to trigger the anti-copy bits? Sky says that a software update was at the root the problem. Sky releases around 10 software updates a month to Sky+. Some of these are used to enhance features or add new functionality to the box; others are used to fix bugs. However, Sky refuses to say what the offending update was for, or how it came to activate the copy protection system, but insists it had no copy protection content - and that it was not testing a new copy protection system. To resolve the issue, Sky says it did a software rollback - rather like the system restore function on Windows computers. According to Sky, this was done on November 25 to remove the effects of the offending update; a message from Sky was posted on the Digital Spy forum the next day.Sky's only official statement on the issue is: "Following a recent system upgrade, there was an unforeseen issue with some Sky+ boxes relating to their copy function ... we isolated the cause of the problem ... and we fully resolved [it] a week later after testing a solution.We'd like to apologise for any disruption this unforeseen problem caused."The company insists that it has not changed its home copying policy, which only uses CGMS-A/Macrovision to protect Sky Box Office pay-per-view programmes - these are automatically deleted from the Sky+ hard drive and can't be copied from the PVR.That will be a relief to many Sky+ users. But the episode is a stark reminder that if broadcasters want to stop (or at the very least, disrupt) viewers recording their programmes, the technology to let them do it is already in place.
Search for kidsQuintura has launched a safe search engine for kids with a tag cloud and Christmassy graphics.Christmas wish-listsGoGoblin's website provides a place for kids to put their Christmas wish-lists, to avoid unwanted or duplicate presents.Test for depressionUniversity College London researchers have developed an online test, PredictD, that predicts the risk of someone succumbing to an episode of depression.Top searchesYahoo UK says its top five searches for 2008 were Britney Spears, Big Brother, X Factor, Oasis and High School Musical 3.Wave 3 rollout startsMicrosoft is ending the Live Wave 3 beta and will start to release final versions of its new online applications this month.Poker players cheatedAn investigation by the Washington Post and 60 Minutes has found that online poker players have been cheated of more than $20m (&pound;13.4m).Non-nuclear data centre1&amp;1 internet is building a new data centres in a "former nuclear fuel facility" - built in the 1980s but never used - in Hanau, Germany.Even bigger photobooksFotoInsight says it can now print your photos in books of up to 130 pages, and it is introducing an XXL format: 30cm x 42cm.
Not content with merely writing about games, the Guardian's Games blog has produced its first game, a collaboratively generated text adventure set on a wounded ship deep in space. Our hero is a hapless space captain, alone, running out of oxygen and hounded by hungry space grues. You have one objective: fix the ship or die. A simple premise, perhaps, but one that took hundreds of volunteer hours to develop, and a journey that taught us all deep respect for the men and women behind the games we play.Back in May, we decided to harness the creative prowess of the readers of the Games blog, hundreds of whom contribute daily in a format that's easily lost to the archives of the blogosphere. This was an opportunity to generate a lasting artefact, something to represent the loose gathering of commentators as a unified game producer. The result, Spaceship!, is our opus, and we'll be pimping her on the indie games circuit.Early on we set our sights on "realistic" rather than "revolutionary". Sure, there are treacherous challenges and plot twists and turns, but rather than reinvent the wheel, we figured we'd lose our focus if we tried too hard to push the boundaries. The writing team, including stars PhilWal and DennisChow, has created a space opera reminiscent of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy with a whiff of Zork.Spaceship! was developed using social media tools: open-source software, a wiki, the blog. As development ignorami, we drew in established members of the games development and interactive fiction communities to guide and support us. Games designers from British giants Black Rock Interactive, Codemasters and Blitz combed through puzzle suggestions.Interactive Fiction guru Emily Short offered advice based on experience building more than 15 text adventures. Established indie developers spent their weekends and evenings fine-tuning the writing, the code and the pace. But overwhelmingly, the talented people behind Spaceship! were 50+ novices, coding through the night, submitting descriptions and testing the finished product. We hope the hard work shows through.Naturally, the project proved more challenging than it first seemed. All the debates are documented on our project wiki for other budding developers to learn from.Spaceship!, the Games blog community's first grassroots game, is launched next week. It's available to playnow. Let us know what you think. It's a piece of digital ephemera, it can never be completed, and we'd like to welcome you into our game development cabal.
Everyone's talking about recession - except gamers. A trawl of the game retailers in Brighton recently revealed plenty of customers, long queues waiting to pay and sales assistants saying that business is great, thank you very much.A manager at a branch of Game said trade is as good, if not better than last Christmas, though people are being more discerning: they are only interested in the best games. Assistants in both Gamestation and Gamestar confirmed that the only hint of the recession is customers' desire to get value for money. The only complaint wasn't about demand, but supply: they simply haven't got enough copies of some titles.It's not just in Brighton. Despite the recession, the computer games industry is exhibiting particularly strong sales. UK console software sales for the third quarter were up 15% year-on-year, with a total of 13.2m units sold. Projections by GfK Chart-Track, a research company, suggest that the harsher climate will not have a significant impact.'Best-ever quarter'"The UK market in particular is gearing up for a best-ever fourth quarter overall. At the end of the year, 2008 should be 30% up on sales over 2007 with 75.5m units of console software sold," says Dorian Bloch of GfK Chart-Track.And that is just console software sales. The total UK retail games software market for 2008 is forecast to gross &pound;2.2bn. Piers Harding-Rolls, an analyst for media business research company Screen Digest, says one reason that sales of videogames could be insulated from the downturn is its core consumer base. "For committed gamers, it's not a discretionary spend, it's part of their lifestyle."And the the games industry has actively widened its consumer base. Nintendo says it is seeing an almost a 50/50 breakdown between male and female players across all its platforms - gaming has traditionally been very male - and an increasing number of players aged 50 or over.Another fortuitous aspect is the timing of the recession. The videogames industry is cyclical, fuelled the release of each new generation of console. At the beginning and end of each console's lifecycle, the industry is under pressure: profits are tighter as resources are redirected from the old generation to the new. The good times are in the middle when an optimum number of hardware units have been sold and publishers consequently sell the highest volume of software.Luckily for the games industry, consoles are in those healthy middle years. Nintendo alone is 76% up on Wii hardware sales across Europe year-on-year, with more than 3.5m units sold in the UK since release.However, that trend won't continue if people become less willing to buy expensive consoles in a recession, although so far that doesn't seem to be the case. Figures from the Entertainment Retailers Association show that up until mid-November, hardware sales for 2008 were up 14.1% on the same period last year.Certainly, Christmas is having a positive impact on sales, especially as games are perceived as good-value gifts.However, no industry is immune to the effects of recession. Harding-Rolls sees two areas for concern. "Arguably the [Sony] PS3 is most vulnerable to a downturn. Generally consumers become more price-sensitive under these conditions and the PS3 is expensive, so they may delay their purchase or even buy a different console. Sony continues to be cautious with its guidance for PS3 sell-in over its current financial year. At 10m units it looks low based on recent sales rates, and part of that might be due to caution."Second, he says, there are questions over software sales. However, this uncertainty could be the result of that wider user base: "We are not sure how the recession will affect the buying habits of these new, more casual mainstream consumers. These consumers are more likely to view gaming as a discretionary luxury. There is a question mark over the staying power of those consumers during a recession."Another analyst, Nick Gibson of Games Investor Consulting, agrees: "As the market has become more casual-gamer focused, then it will be more susceptible to the economic rhythm." However, he points to a potential casualty other than the PS3: "I would say that Nintendo therefore would be the most susceptible." Anecdotal evidence suggests he could be right. Conversations with independent retailers around the UK suggest the interest for Nintendo titles is not what it was; they are already seeing more secondhand games brought in and fewer sold.Says Gibson: "I suspect that most of the industry will plan for a stagnation in the market or a reduction in the value of the software market in 2010 simply because of the games industry's economic cycle."What could really hurt the industry is the credit crunch. With new titles costing anything up to &pound;20m before they sell a single copy, a long-term credit squeeze could make it hard for both developers and publishers to raise sufficient revenue to develop games. For Stuart Dinsey, publisher of the industry games trade magazine MCV, this is the cause for most concern."Is the games industry recession-proof? Probably, but it can't take that for granted. Is it in a good place compared to other markets? Certainly. Is a greater challenge for the games industry the funding issue? Absolutely. If there are games developers or publishers out there that haven't been making money during the incredibly profitable period of the last two years, how on earth are they going to get through the next two years? Do they really think the banks will lend them money?"Flight to safetyUltimately the impact of both the recession and the credit crunch may be qualitative rather than quantitative. For gamers, this could mean less edgy titles and more instalments of proven franchises. This is how Dinsey sees things playing out. "The result of all this economic turmoil is that there might be a propensity to go for the safer brands. The credit crunch could mean it's going to be more difficult for new intellectual property to break through."A desire for safe investment bets could see less innovation, but as the shop assistants in Brighton already know, customers are looking for quality. In the future this could mean less diversity but better games.How the numbers add up&pound;2.2bnForecast gross value for 2008 of the UK retail games software market76%Increase year-on-year in sales of Nintendo hardware in Europe75.5mForecast for total units of console software sales this year in the UK
Did you know that petrol and diesel now contain a minimum of 2.5% biofuels? Thanks to the Renewable Transport Fuels Obligation, this requirement will rise to 5% by 2010. While motorists won't notice any difference when filling up, this important change is expected to prevent the emission of millions of tonnes of carbon dioxide over the next few years.But might biofuels be helping to solve one major environmental issue simply to create another? For Valerie Dupont, of Leeds University, the increasing use of biofuels means a sticky problem. For every tonne of biodiesel made from vegetable oil, 100 kilograms of thick, viscous glycerol is produced as a byproduct. The annual 6.8bn litres biodiesel production in the European Union yields around 0.68m tonnes of crude glycerol. Although some of the sweet-tasting liquid can be purified for pharmaceutical or food applications, the rest ends up as waste.Lake of sludgeDupont, who has a PhD in fuel and energy, now hopes to turn this growing lake of low-grade sludge into high-value hydrogen gas. Produced from vegetable oils and methanol, biodiesel is a renewable alternative to ordinary diesel. But what green-minded motorists don't realise is that glycerol is creating a big problem."Glycerol is thick, viscous, full of oxygen and you cannot burn it easily," says Dupont. "Nobody knows what to do with all this glycerol from biodiesel. There is no real outlet."Most waste glycerol is currently disposed of by incineration, a less than ideal arrangement. Burning the glycerol in a power station might seem an option but, says Dupont, poor energy conversion and inefficient combustion produces pollutants.Glycerol - C3H5(OH)3 - is a molecule of three carbon atoms with eight hydrogen and three oxygen atoms. Unlock the hydrogen, and you'd have a rich source of fuel from renewable resources. At the moment, the world's hydrogen mostly comes from the steam reforming of natural gas - methane (CH4) - which produces hydrogen and carbon monoxide."Since glycerol has a high hydrogen content compared to methane, we reckon that converting crude glycerol to hydrogen is a valid alternative route," says Dupont.Based on earlier research work, Dupont and her co-investigators are developing a viable process to release pure hydrogen (H2) and carbon dioxide (CO2) from glycerol.The 18-month &pound;270,000 Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council project involves mixing glycerol with steam over a catalyst at a controlled temperature and pressure. A reusable CO2 adsorbent ensures the carbon monoxide (CO) produced reacts fully with the steam, making even more hydrogen and CO2."Our process is a clean, renewable alternative to conventional methods. It produces something with high value from a low grade by-product," says Dupont. "In addition, it's a near carbon-neutral process, since the CO2 generated is not derived from the use of fossil fuels." The project is using a prototype chemical reactor which will quickly answer many practical questions including the effects of impurities. Dupont is also taking a green engineering approach, aiming for a high-purity hydrogen product that would be ideal for fuel cells."If everything goes well, we can look at scaling up and maybe even scaling down," says Dupont. "If we had a reactor which could extract the hydrogen from glycerol it would be very interesting for distributed power generation."While hydrogen and fuel cells go nicely together, the gas is already heavily used for fertilisers, chemical plants and food production. However, making hydrogen using natural gas or even water electrolysis is expensive and unsustainable. Finding a new source makes sense.Monomer momentum"Hydrogen has been identified as a key future fuel for low carbon energy systems such as power generation in fuel cells and as a transport fuel," says Dupont.Professor Graham Hutchings of Cardiff University has other possibilities in mind. He's working on a government-funded research project involving Imperial College and Cambridge University to find different uses for waste glycerol."There is a glycerol problem, so people are looking for opportunities to do anything other than burn it. Turning it into hydrogen is a neat idea," says Hutchings.His project is therefore seeking "high tonnage" answers by turning glycerol into valuable monomers for plastics production, biodegradable solvents and even fragrances. There are several research threads, currently confidential, being worked on."We're looking for things that have real application," says Hutchings. This could include biodegradable polymers for plastic bags or perhaps solvents for paints. If such uses are developed, the glycerol glut might well become a welcome bonus.
These days, losing electronic devices is less about the hardware and more about the data. Hardly a week goes by without another newsworthy data loss. People leave thumb drives, memory sticks, mobile phones and even computers everywhere. And some of that data isn't easily replaceable. Sure, you can blame it on personal or organisational sloppiness, but part of the problem is that more and more information fits on smaller and smaller devices.My primary computer is an ultraportable laptop. It contains every email I've sent and received over the past 12 years - I think of it as my backup brain - as well as an enormous amount of personal and work-related documents.I have several USB thumb drives, including an 8GB drive that serves as my primary backup while travelling. It contains a complete copy of the past 12 months of my life. A larger USB portable drive serves as my primary storage device for photographs; I carry that around regularly, too, as I like to edit my photos on flights.My mobile phone is a Palm Treo smartphone. It holds not only my frequently called phone numbers, but my entire address book - including any personal notes I've made - my calendar for the past 10 years, hundreds of emails, all my text messages and a log of every phone call I've made and received. At least, it would if I didn't take specific pains to clean that information out once in a while.Backup DVDs. iPods with calendars and address books. USB drives with portable desktops. I could go on. The upside to this is that so much of our information is at our fingertips. I travel so extensively that I need my office anywhere I am, so I want everything with me everywhere. The downside is that it's now amazingly easy to lose an enormous amount of information. And there are two problems with that. One, you've lost the information. And two, that perhaps someone else has found it.The first problem is easily solvable with backup. Everything you own should be backed up regularly. Not just your computer, but your PDA and mobile phone and anything else with personal data. Backups should be tested regularly. There's nothing worse than losing something and having the backups fail when you try to restore to a replacement device.The second problem is solvable several ways. The best way is encryption. On your computer, hard-disk encryption programs like PGP Disk or TrueCrypt allow you to encrypt files, folders or entire disk partitions. Several manufacturers market USB thumb drives with built-in encryption. Some PDA manufacturers are starting to add password protection - not as good as encryption, but at least it's something - to their devices, and there are a few aftermarket PDA encryption programs. I use these wherever possible, and I strongly recommend that everyone else do the same.Where encryption isn't possible, pay attention and erase unneeded data. Delete old emails from your BlackBerry, texts from your cellphone and old data from your address books regularly. It can be difficult to know exactly what your PDA is storing, and how to erase it. Manufacturers could help with this by introducing better functionality and thereby making the devices easier to use.Another thing manufacturers can do is to provide the option to delete the data remotely if the device is lost. This is still a new idea, but it's gaining traction in the corporate market. These systems frequently allow for remote backup of the data, solving both problems at once. One last piece of advice: for work-related equipment, you should follow your company's backup and security policies.The goal here is peace of mind. When people lose computers or phones or USB drives, the real loss isn't the physical object, but the data contained within it. And while we won't be able to make these devices harder to lose, especially as they continue to shrink in physical size and grow in data capacity, we can make their loss cost merely money, not information or privacy.• Bruce Schneier is a security technologist and author:schneier.com/blog
I don't often get invited to fifth birthday parties these days, and least of all by corporations. For a start, more than 40% of new companies don't reach their fifth birthday anyway, and those that do are more concerned about survival than celebration. Skype, which offers free internet telephone and video calls to anyone anywhere in the world with a broadband connection, has not only survived five years but appears to be flourishing. Like Google, it has become a verb: people say "I'll Skype you".Giving away something for free is not a self-evidently brilliant business plan unless you attract advertisements - which Skype doesn't. Skype is very unusual. It is an international telephone and video conferencing operator that doesn't have any infrastructure of its own. This might explain why it hasn't encountered the problems of the rest of the corporate voice over internet protocol (Voip) industry. Instead of gluing itself onto an existing telephone infrastructure, it bypasses it by using the internet.So, unlike normal business plans, new customers, even millions of them, can be added at no extra cost. It can afford to give away its basic service and earn money from calls made to people outside the network, from corporate adoption and from sales of add-ons. It believes that a combination of the credit crunch and the need to avoid unnecessary plane journeys will make its services increasingly popular.A few years ago it was bought by eBay which, intuitively, thought Skype would be highly popular, enabling punters to chat for nothing about what they were buying and selling. But, err, it turned out that they didn't actually want to talk to each other. There is no such thing as a free hunch. In recent days there has been talk of it selling Skype as "non-core".Skype's business appears to be prospering, with a claimed 330 million users - although it is coy about how many are regulars. There are enough to produce income of $137m (&pound;91m) in the most recent quarter with a good profit margin. It claims that 7% of all international calls are now made using Skype and a quarter involve mobile calls routed through the internet (though utilising mobile operators at each end).For families spread around the world, the ability to talk and see each other via a webcam this Christmas is a big bonus. It is easy to download the software and then start talking. It works most of the time, though there are occasional glitches.If this sounds like a plug, then so be it. It is difficult to criticise a company that offers free international calls and makes its money from extra services you don't have to sign up to. But it has downsides. Calls are routed mainly from computer to computer so you have to be in front of a terminal (though SkypeOut will link you to outside phones). More seriously, it is a proprietary system pitching to become the default world standard. It is incompatible with internet phones using open standards such as Truphone, which I have written about before and which is gaining a serious reputation. It has just been added to BlackBerry and has won awards, including some at the recent GadgetFest show in San Diego.Now Google has entered the fray by adding a video function to Google Talk. In theory, Google's awesome powers of leverage from its search base could make it a big competitor to Skype. But Google Talk has been around for ages without becoming dinner table conversation. I tried to test it years ago but didn't know anyone else hooked up to it. The same was true at the weekend when I downloaded the video function.Google's recent withdrawal of its new virtual world, Lively, shows that having a near-monopoly base doesn't always translate to new services. That's reassuring. What is not reassuring is the prospect of the world being divided into proprietary and non-proprietary telephone systems that can't talk to each other. That would be a giant step backwards.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
It's July 2012, and despite all the precautions - including the most intrusive surveillance exercise ever mounted and the detention of hundreds of suspects under draconian emergency powers - London is under terrorist attack. Social networks are buzzing with rumours and video clips of military units clad in chemical warfare suits gathering outside the Bank of England, where hostages are being held.In the Cobra emergency room under Whitehall, officials from the Cabinet Office, the Ministry of Defence and the Metropolitan Police ponder their options. Someone mentions Mumbai 2008, when Twitter became the uncontrolled but main source of news, flooding in at the rate of 12 Tweets a second. A decision is taken to seize control of the flow of information from anywhere near the scene of the attack.Transmission endsThe UK government already has the legal power and technical ability to do it, and contingency plans for filling the information vacuum from official sources.Step one is to shut down all unofficial mobile communications in the capital. The plan, drawn up by the Directorate of Civil Contingencies and drawing on the lessons of the 2004 Madrid bombings, as well as the July 7 2005 attacks in London, is for a carefully tiered approach, to avoid public panic and political flak.Close to the hostage sites, the security forces have already deployed jammers to render the terrorists' GSM and 3G phones - and other wireless devices - unusable. To extend control over the whole network, the Cabinet Office instructs licensed phone operators to restrict calls to numbers registered in advance. Under the telephone preference scheme, a condition of operating licences, this can be done at the flick of a switch. No public announcement is made; frustrated Londoners trapped behind security cordons and trying desperately to phone home assume that the network is simply overloaded.Step two is to tackle "unhelpful" information on the web. With no time to issue legal takedown notices, the Cobra committee authorises GCHQ to begin denial-of-service attacks. The British public, suddenly bereft of its favourite channels of communication, reverts to the time-honoured technologies of broadcast radio and television - and newspapers.This isn't fantasy. Whitehall sources acknowledge that such plans to shut down Britain's electronic information infrastructure exist, though no one is prepared to go in to details. However, one clue is the extent of measures being put in place to ensure that official communications operate separately from civilian networks.The principal communications system, used by the military and security services as well as police, fire and ambulance crews, is the Airwave digital radio. The system, based on the Tetra standard (similar to GPRS), was sold as being secure and resilient. The network's 3,500 transmission stations across the UK operate independently of civilian mobile networks, the operator says. For example, all have backup power batteries, and one third have on-site generators to keep them running for seven days. Likewise, the network switches (the number is secret) have duplicates on hot-standby, the operator says. And if the worst came to the worst and the whole network went down, handsets would still function as mobile radios, capable of talking to each other for as long as their batteries held out.Network capacityHowever, Airwave's limited ability to handle data - while some police forces use it to transmit images, it is painfully slow - raises questions about its suitability as the sole operational carrier in a national emergency.Last month, the Home Affairs Select Committee's reportPolicing in the 21st centuryconcluded: "The Airwave radio network can struggle to cope where a very large number of users are concentrated in the same area. We are concerned about the potential for the network to fail during the 2012 Olympic Games, given the number of officers who will be deployed. The Home Office should address this as a matter of urgency, including consideration of expanding the radio band assigned to Airwave." The report quoted evidence by the Academy of Engineering that: "The amount of voice traffic is now reaching the limits of the current system's spectrum resources in some areas (particularly in London). This suggests that the Airwave system will be inadequate for the future needs of the police forces, particularly in densely populated areas where information needs are likely to exceed the Tetra network's capacity."Airwave executives agree with the need for more bandwidth, but vigorously deny that the network would fall over from excess demand. "We've never got anywhere near getting to such levels," a senior executive said this week. If the network did become overloaded, it would automatically ration calls in a pre-programmed priority rather than shutting down, he said.Contingency plans to fill the gap left by the blocking of non-official websites appear to be less well prepared. Under the scheme of website rationalisation, two central "supersites" have a role to play.The main one is the central government sitedirect.gov.uk, which the Cabinet Office says will be "the place people turn to in a national emergency". However, Whitehall sources say that the site's operators, based at the Central Office of Information but reporting to the Department for Work and Pensions (which hosts the site), are still working on how the information feed from the government's emergency response teams will work in practice.Signing offMeanwhile, in the event of an epidemic or chemical, biological or nuclear attack, the new NHS portal,nhs.uk, has plans to clear its home page to provide graphic-only information about what to do.Finally, when all else shuts down, the government can fall back on the tried and tested radio - meaning conventional analogue broadcast. In the event of a major national catastrophe, we can assume that Radio 4 will be the last to go off air. According to Whitehall historian Peter Hennessey, captains of Trident missile submarines are instructed that if they lose all communication with the UK, and Radio 4's Today programme is not broadcast for three days, they may assume the home country has been wiped out and open their instructions for Armageddon.In which case, it probably won't matter whether Twitter is working - or not.
The government's mapping agency Ordnance Survey has eased the licence on its OpenSpace mapping system, opening it up for "light commercial" use - as a struggle rages within government over the future of trading funds including OS.The changes to the OpenSpace licence, announced late last week, do not however officially change OS's "landgrab" approach to intellectual property (IP) created by developers using OS maps - so-called "derived data". OS argues that any IP created while using an OS map is itself the property of OS.This has put some developers off using the OpenSpace API, even though it offers maps down to the 1:10,000 scale - not available on Google Maps - although it then jumps up to the 1:50,000 scale (equivalent to the "Landranger" map series), without the intervening 1:25,000 ("Explorer") scale.Meanwhile a debate is under way within Whitehall about the future of the trading funds, the government-owned agencies run on a self-funding, commercial basis. The Pre-Budget Report contained an enigmatic section saying that under the Operational Efficiency Programme there will be reviews of the "the potential for alternative business models, commercialisation, new market opportunities and, where appropriate, alternatives to public ownership". Among the funds under consideration - besides OS - are the Met Office, Land Registry, Forestry Commission, British Waterways, QEII Conference Centre and Royal Mint.Some question whether the Treasury, eager to minimise the ballooning national debt, might want to privatise OS. Yet attempting to sell OS would lose a vital national asset, and also require the restatement of years of accounts - because OS has always refused to value its principal asset, the National Geographic Database, which might cost &pound;50m or more to recreate from scratch.Ministers will also be keen to avoid a repeat of the Qinetiq debacle, when the Defence Research Agency was partly sold to a private equity company, and then floated in 2006 at a time when stocks were at a low, leading to accusations that the Treasury had rushed the sale.• Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog• This article was amended on Friday December 5 2008. In the article above we originally said that QinetiQ was floated in 2002. It was actually floated in 2006. This has been amended.
Remember the dead pool? No, not Clint Eastwood's fifth and final Dirty Harry movie, but the internet graveyard that became a byword for failure during the last dotcom crash. In the lowest days of 2000 and 2001, the topic of who would be next to sink into the dead pool became a Silicon Valley obsession, with websites like FuckedCompany gloating over the collapse and closure of scores of startups.These days, with the recession starting to eat away at the industry once again, echoes of the dead pool are bouncing back - but this time startup entrepreneurs are trying for a more dignified exit.Earlier this week Pownce, a messaging startup that let people share messages and files, announced that it would be closing - but only after selling its assets to Six Apart, the makers of blog software including TypePad and Vox. In what was described as a "bittersweet" decision, Pownce's technology and its employees are being folded inside Six Apart's engineering team for an undisclosed sum. Users of the service, meanwhile, will see it cease to exist on December 15.The move came despite the site's early buzz, largely gained through celebrity co-founder Kevin Rose (who also founded news aggregator Digg) and lead programmer Leah Culver's links to a string of high-profile dotcom entrepreneurs.Such moves are known as asset acquisitions - buying up the technology and talent inside a company rather than its shares. It's often the least profitable way to get out of a company, and is rarely seen as a successful end to any startup's story.Pownce isn't the only company taking this path. Last week Twitter bought in Rael Dornfest, founder of productivity software company Values of N - which also closed. Dornfest, something of a totem in the tech community after his stint as chief technology officer at O'Reilly Publishing, had been working on his own smart internet applications without much success.Asset acquisitions are a dignified, if unexciting, exit for struggling companies and allow entrepreneurs to keep at least a few of their ideas alive. But they are generally the domain of big corporations, which use them to hire superstar developers hitched to underperforming businesses; Google has a record of buying small companies and then shutting them down, for example. But this new phase of asset acquisitions by smaller companies could prove a hallmark of Crash 2.0. After struggling to break into the big time - and facing a lack of further funding thanks to the harsh economic climate - moving sideways could appear to be the best option all around.After all, at least this way entrepreneurs can say that they dipped their toe in the dead pool, but lived to fight another day.
Another day, another stack of games console sales figures to argue over.  Microsoft were first out of the blocks, claiming that the 360 outsold the PS3 by three to one onBlack Friday. Surprised? Xbox head Don Mattrick wasn't.Record Black Friday sales in the US coupled with our existing global install base of 25 million have laid the groundwork for continued global sales momentum in 2009.Price cuts – down to the important $200 price point in the US - and a decent release schedule – though it isn't massively superior to the PS3's - have helped, but the 360 has always done well on home territory. The European Christmas sales figures will be a lot more interesting.And then there is the Wii. Nintendo's console is almost certain to have won the Black Friday sales battle and is certain to win the war this Christmas. And analysts have now – rather conservatively - estimated that each Wii consolemakes $6 of profitfor Nintendo. This compares favourably to Sony,who lose moneyon every PlayStation 3 sold.So what have we learnt today? That the 360 is big in the US? That the PS3 is long-term project for Sony? That the Wii is omnipresent and actually makes money? No changes there then.
A new internet domain that hopes to become an online equivalent to the phone directory has gone on sale for the first time.The new .tel domain allows companies and individuals to create a virtual address book, storing a variety of contact information online and offering it to users according to where they are and how they connect to the service."The launch of .tel represents the most significant innovation in the domain name system since the advent of .com," said Khashr Mahdavi, chief executive of Telnic, the UK-based company that is overseeing the rollout.Today marks the beginning of a two-month "sunrise" period, where the owners of trademarks can apply for .tel domains for their brands, products and businesses. After that period has ended on February 3, domains will go on general sale on a first-come, first-served basis.Although a number of other top-level domains have come online in recent years, including .eu and .mobi, those behind the new service say that it is different because it offers a radical departure from traditional web addresses.Unlike normal URLs, which point to websites stored on local servers around the world, .tel addresses return only information stored on the internet's core Domain Name Servers (DNS).According to Telnic, this can include phone numbers, email contacts, GPS coordinates and more.The result is that users can receive different information depending on how they connect to the service, instead of simply seeing a website when they enter a .tel address on their phone or computer.The hope is that owners will keep a detailed central record and use the system to automatically push users towards the right mode of contact. For example connecting potential customers to a local branch of a shop when a they dial the .tel address on a mobile phone, initiating a Voip call when users connect via Skype, or directing email to the right person without requiring the correct address."Instead of having to go out onto the web to get further information, you go to the DNS and every single way I can interact with you or a business is delivered straight back," said Justin Hayward, Telnic's marketing director.Icann, the body that oversees the assignment of names on the internet, has already outlined plans to liberalise the allocation of domains. The rules will begin being relaxed early next year, potentially allowing any word to be registered as a domain suffix – such as .city or .news – by anybody.Hayward insisted .tel should not be seen as yet another attempt to extract cash from brand owners and companies desperate to keep control of their online presence.Telnic hopes that having a single .tel address that points towards a variety of phone numbers, email addresses and web services could eventually become the norm, though Hayward admitted that it could take a while to catch on."The challenge is to provide people with an understanding that this is different – it's not a web service, it's an internet service," said Hayward. "It's a different slant that offers more personalisation."
Amazon has finally opened its long-awaitedMP3 music store in the UK, but somewhat quietly, without even a press release (as far as I know).We've been reporting on the US store for some time, and in January, I blogged that Amazon would begininternational sales of DRM-free MP3 music files in 2008. They've left it rather late….The three key advantages over Apple's iTunes Store are:(1) Amazon provides unprotected MP3 files that will play on almost any device (iTunes mainly sells DRM-encumbered AAC* files), that you can easily move between devices without restriction, and that will work forever;(2) You can download MP3 files from the open web and use them with any software you like: you don't have to use Apple's iTunes for Windows (which also lumbers you with QuickTime). Amazon's store, unlike Apple's, also works with Linux.(3) Amazon's MP3 files are cheaper. It's offering some top albums (such as the Mama Mia soundtrack, and Only By The Night by Kings Of Leon) for only £3, compared with £8.99 at iTunes, and some single tracks at 59p, compared with 79p on iTunes.Another advantage is that you probably have an Amazon account already, so you won't have to make any effort to join up. (The UK service is only available to UK customers, including The Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.)There are a few drawbacks, too:(1) To download whole albums, you have to use theAmazon downloader, as in the US. However, this is small and not invasive, and also works with Linux;(2) MP3 files are larger than AAC files created with the same sound quality. However, most of Amazon's tracks seem to be 256kbps VBR (variable bit rate), which most people with normal ears and typical playback equipment will be unable to tell from the original CD, and they could sound better than 128kbps AAC files from iTunes. (For quality buffs, the 7digital.com and Play.com services offer 320kbps MP3 downloads, though my advice is still to buy the CD and rip it yourself using EAC/Lame.)(3) Amazon's MP3 store has a smaller selection of tracks than iTunes. However, Amazon has music from all the "big four" labels (Sony BMG, Universal, EMI and Warner) and some independents, and apparently it will offer more than 3 million tracks. Both services will keep growing, of course, but iTunes's advantage is diminishing all the time.In one sense, Amazon isn't offering anything new: music services from sites such as 7digital.com and Play.com already offer high quality unprotected MP3 downloads. However, Amazon has a huge reach -- thanks to sales of books, CDs and DVDs -- and a brand name that commands a high level of trust. (In my view, it's a more trustworthy brand than Apple, which has been accused ofovercharging UK iTunes customers.) So Amazon should get a slice of the market, though bear in mind this is just the first round of a long fight.* For a guide to the music file format battle, see my articleFinding the music format of the future.
And for my second music post of the day...One Life Left, catchily referred to in its press release as 'Europe's only FM-broadcast videogame radio show', has released its own compilation CD of music inspired by games. Limited to a release of 1000 copies (although 200 have apparently 'gone missing' though knowing this lot it's likely to be an elaborate tax-evasion scam),'Music to play games by'features 12 artists including Copy, The Doyouinverts,Mark Denardoand Gamesblog favourites,The Lost Levels."The OLL compilation is a real collaborative effort between the show, its listeners – who have helped define the tracklist – and some of the finest videogames artists around," says Ste Curran, OLL co-presenter and ex-Edge Magazine staffer. "We're thrilled we've been able to badger, cajole and threaten 12 brilliant artists and bands to provide a track for the album, and pleased we don't have to fulfil our threats to resort to blackmail."OLL haven't sent me a copy of the CD - the cheap bastards - but I've heard several of these tracks and they're great (though considering my favourite albums of this year were by Crystal Castles, Ladyhawke and M83 you'll have to decide for yourself how much you trust my endorsement). The chiptune scene, becoming rather huge in the States, has yet to really kick off here so this is a sort of robotic lurch in the right direction - though actually, many of these aren't really chiptune, they're sort of chip-indie. Chipindie. Is that a musical sub-genre? It is now!For those who are interested, here's the tracklisting. Can you suggest anything for 'Music to play games by: volume 2'?1. Copy - Playered2. Mark Denardo - Monkey Mountain3. The Lost Levels - Early Sheets4. Optimus Rhyme - Obey The Moderator5. Bracken - Heathens (8-Bit Remix)6. The Duloks - Red Wizard Needs Food Badly7. Botnik - Oil Ocean8. Derek Williams - Let's Play Video Games9. Frux - Doom and Gloom10. The Doyouinverts - 7/1011. Project A-Ko - Materia Girl12. Kid Carpet - Solitaire Rock
"I can't find any celebrities, or any breaking news, just endless prattle from people with too much time and too little imagination. After two hours, I log out, and I won't be back."– The Evening Standard's Nick Curtis describes his encounter with TwitterWe can all agree that, whenever an Evening Standard or Daily Mail headline asks a rhetorical question, there's usually only one correct response: take the paper, tear it into thin strips, crumple those strips into a tight ball and set fire to the ball, before hurling it into the sea, screaming "shut up, shut up" over and over at the top of your lungs.And yet, when a friend showed me an article the other day by the Standard's Nick Curtis, headed "Is Twitter the new Facebook?" something made me read on.In the article, Curtis – who, as a film critic, is as qualified to criticise Twitter as I am to diss Hideo Nakata'sRing(well, he's probably less qualified, actually: I've seen more than one film – how many microblogging services has he tried?) – discussed the service's increasing mainstream popularity and how, after two hours trying it out himself, he had been unable to see what the fuss was about. Two hours. I had to spend twenty hours a day for two long weeks in Second Life before I was able to say with certainty that all of its users canbite me.But it wasn't Curtis's absolute lack of qualification to answer his own question, or the fact that reading his article was like reading a horrific, but very boring, car crash, that kept my attention. Rather it was the fact that, until eight months ago, I felt exactly the same way. And then I got hooked.It all started, as so many life-destroying addictions do, in San Diego. For reasons that cannot be fully explained here, my friend Michael and I had just driven down the Pacific Coast Highway from Los Angeles in a convertible 1971 Dodge Challenger, having driven across the desert from Nevada where we'd accidentally ended up at atoga partywith 800 hairdressers and narrowly avoided committing Tequila suicide with a gigantic Australian idiot called 'Jonesy'. On the way, we'd crashed a wake in Laguna Beach and stolen the deceased's crazy friends' booze. I mention all of this simply so you'll understand how disorientated and suggestible I was when Michael and I finally rolled up to Tim O'Reilly'sETechconference with neither tickets nor hotel reservations. Blagging and bribing our way inside, we slumped down in the back row of the conference hall, exhausted and hungover."You see," whispered Michael, tapping away on his iPhone, "these last few days are why you should use Twitter.""No, Michael," I whispered back, "these last few days are why I should use cocaine. When it comes to microsharing every aspect of my ridiculous life, I'll stick to the occasional Facebook status, thanks.""But Twitter is like Facebook statuses on crack," Michael protested with ludicrous overstatement; like the time in 2004 when he – equally ludicrously – insisted that Sudoku was going to be 'huge'.I knew all about Twitter, of course. It was founded as a side project by some guys inside doomed podcast startupOdeoto allow people too lazy to write a whole blog post to share the minutiae of their lives with their friends. If you found yourself eating a sandwich, you could Twitter 'I'm eating a sandwich' and all of the friends who 'followed' you would immediately know, via their Twitter feed, that you were eating a sandwich. The service gained mass early-adoption at last year'sSXSWiconfestival in Austin, Texas, when the digerati used it to tell each other where the cool parties were, er, @.To my mind, Facebook did everything Twitter could, and much more besides, including allowing me to become a vampire, play Scrabble, or to be tagged in photos projectile-vomiting into my own shoes. Twitter wouldn't even let me throw a sheep at my friends' Superwall. Where was the fun in that? And yet Michael had been nagging and Twitteringall through the trip, and finally he'd worn me down."Ok," I sighed, "a deal. I'll try it for a week. Seven days. And if I'm not convinced by then, you never, ever mention it again.""Deal!" said Michael, shaking my hand before Twittering hisvictory.That sound you can hear is a million heroin dealers murmuring their approval at Michael's textbook execution. "Try it for a week. I swear if you don't like it, I'll never try to sell it to you again."Eight months and 2537 updates later, I honestly have no idea how I lived without Twitter. I've lost count of the number of adventures I've had because of it, or how many spontaneous lunches, or parties or – let's not be coy here – hook-ups have resulted from a simple 140-character message (that's 140 characters not 160, Nick). I know friends who have been offered jobs through Twitter, I've flown to other continents to attend events purely on the strength of Twitter chatter surrounding them, and I can't remember the last time I Twittered a difficult question that wasn't answered in minutes, often by someone half a world away.Most recently, I used the service'ssearch featureto follow the attacks in Mumbai as theyunfolded, reading updates from people caught in the middle of the horror. Suddenly these were not just nameless faces on the news, but people who hours earlier had been Twittering about their pets or how they were eating a sandwich, but who nowfeared for their lives. You can't read that stuff and not realise that, as humans, we're all in this together.And that's where Twitter, unlike Facebook, has the potential to change the world. You don't have to be my 'friend' or my 'contact'. If you're on Twitter, we're connected. You can follow my updates, and I can follow yours. If you want to say something to me personally, just begin your update with@paulcarrand I'll hear you. On Twitter, everyone is equal.Everyone. If I have something to say about Oscar Wilde, I can direct it toStephen Fry(@stephenfry) using a "tag" – #oscarwilde in this case – and there's a very real chance he'll answer. Likewise, I can answer MC Hammer's (@mchammer) recentquestion about Starbucks' employee health planor tell John Cleese (@johncleese) a joke. Or if, as happened to me yesterday, I find the Red Dwarf theme tune stuck in my head, I can moan directly to Kryten (@bobbyllew) about it.Which brings me back to@nickcurtis. Nick, you're still signed up to Twitter, so I consider you a friend. And as a friend, I'm offering you the same deal as Michael gave me. Give it another chance – just for a week. You've attracted a few followers since your article was published; follow some of them back. Post some updates. And if after seven days you still don't understand what the fuss is about, we'll never speak of it again.So how about it, Nick? And, no, that's not a rhetorical question. I'm@paulcarr. Follow me and let's talk. You could even start by telling me why I was wrong to be bored by 'Ring'. Come on, seven days – what's the worst that can happen?Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atbringingnothing.comand you can follow him on Twitter attwitter.com/paulcarr.
Today's NME has a feature on the 'power-struggle' between games and music for the hearts, minds and pocket money of the teenage demographic. Written by the paper's veteran comedic journo, Steven Wells, the piece begins with a rather familiar complaint, this time voiced by Chad Kroeger of Nickleback, that games like Guitar Hero are diverting kids away from taking up real instruments:"I feel like there's not enough rock bands out there," he whines. "So kids, start rock bands... set down the Guitar Hero, learn how to play an actual guitar and start a band..." Personally, I feel that if Guitar Hero has prevented the foundation of justonenew Nickleback-inspired band, Harmonix, the creator the Guitar Hero series, should be given some sort of medal. But that's beside the point.Or is it?The article then quotes Johnny Rotten whose interesting response to the Kroeger complaint is that music games are great preciselybecausethey divert kids from trying to form real bands. "[Guitar Hero is] teaching you hownotto be a rock star. How not to be an arsehole, and how not to seek fame and fortune, because the whole fucking thing's a joke". Admittedly, this argument is slightly undermined coming from a punk rock millionaire, but you can see what he's getting at.Predictably, Harmonix views things rather differently than Kroeger. Irecently interviewedthe studio's community manager, Alex Navarro, who told me, "Our hope is that people who do play the game will be inspired to go pick up a real instrument. We always look at ourselves as musicians first and game makers second. And while we are very much making a game, we all play music – I think 80% of the staff are in bands, or have been at one time or another. We'd love nothing more than for anyone who picks up Rock Band to think 'yeah, I'd really like to play a real guitar, I'd love to pick up a pair of real drumsticks and learn how to play'. That's what we love to see."The rest of the NME article discusses how older music fans characterise game culture as a threat to the future of rock 'n' roll. Wells points out the irony of a generation told off for playing fake guitars in their bedrooms, now admonishing their kids for playing virtual fake guitars in their bedrooms. At the same time, new groups like Crystal Castles are embracing videogames, sampling them and - in the case of chiptune outfits likePress Play On TapeandBit Shifter- using old game hardware to create new tracks.Certainly, the relationship between games and the music business is a hell of a lot more tangled than it was a few years ago when artists would very begrudgingly allow their tracks to be licensed, but would take no more interest in the deal. Then the likes of Wu Tang, Def Jam and Aerosmith started getting involved in dedicated games and the lip-smacking cross-promotional possibilities became more apparent.Now, you've got Smashing Pumpkins and Guns N' Roses premiering content in guitar games, while The Hoosiers, Bullet For My Valentine, Maximo Park and Funeral For A Friend have all been happy to play live at Guitar Hero events in the UK. Meanwhile, Harmonix has announced a new Beatles game, developed in conjunction with Paul and Ringo, while Neversoft, the developer of the latest Guitar Hero editions (Harmonix now makes the Rock Band titles), isknownto be working closely with Metallica on a new music game due out next year. Even rock's elder statesmen can see the benefits of breaking into this burgeoning marketplace.Games have also become an important new channel for breaking acts. EA's soundtracks for titles like FIFA, Madden and Skate get almost as much press attention as the games themselves and the publisher has a policy of showcasing newer groups as well as licensing tracks from big name bands. Harmonix is also keen on this talent-spotting angle: following the release of Rock Band 2, the developer released a free download featuring 20 tracks by little-known artists. "The Rock Band platform is an unparalleled destination for music discovery – offering a broad cross section of rock, from iconic rock artists to emerging bands," said Paul DeGooyer of MTV, the game's co-publisher.But the relationship between games and music is clearly not one ofcompletemutual understanding and respect. Wells happily characterises gamers as geeks throughout the piece and draws in old NME mate and Q Radio presenter David Quantick for one last dig:"Games are not rock 'n' roll, they're metal - aggressive, loud, violent and scared of women. You can't dance to a game or have sex to it. games are still for nerds. Rock 'n' roll is about fucking, games are about wanking. Rock music makes you leave the house and meet drugs, games make you stay in and smell of your own piss."Yeah, there's still some ground to make up then.
I'm surprised, which doesn't happen often: the most downloaded free application on Apple's iTunes 2008 list (sorry, it's not on the web) is Pandora Radio, the internet streaming radio service. It now has 2 million registered users, and founder Tim Westergren writes on thePandora blog:We're hearing all sorts of wonderful feedback from listeners who are using it on their commute, jogging with it, plugging it into home audio systems...you name it. And as usual, offering all sorts of great feedback and suggestions. It's thrilling for us to see the broader vision for Pandora take shape. Our hearty thanks for your continued support and input.I think Pandora is fantastic. I've mentioned it several times, and wrote a weeklyNetbytes columnabout it in August last year, explaining how it worked. To quote myself:Unlike other similar services such as Last.fm, Pandora is based on some serious music research: the Music Genome Project. This was set up in January 2000 by "a group of musicians and music-loving technologists". They identified hundreds of musical "genes" based on things like melody, harmony, rhythm, instrumentation and orchestration. To create Pandora's database, one or more musicians listens to each track, identifies the genes it uses, and gives each gene a value on a 10-point scale.This is a huge undertaking, and rather more of a challenge than comparing people's tastes. In my experience, it really works when it comes to finding music you by people you've never heard of, rather than by familiar names you've never bothered with.However, as I noted inPandora or Last.fm?, most people seemed to prefer the Last.fm approach. Lots of people love Last.fm's Neighbour's Radio idea, and clearly, it has a huge social networking side that Pandora lacks.Pandora was also threatened by changes to streaming royalty payments, and in October,A Sad Day, Westergren had to lay off 20 of his 140 staff. So, while I have nothing but praise for Last.fm's well-deserved success, I was starting to worry about Pandora's future. Its success on the iPhone -- where it also delivers ads -- should assure that.But would any mobile Pandora Radio listeners like to explain why it's so successful on the iPhone when it wasn't as successful on the web?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Microsoft is beta-testing Service Pack 2 for Windows Vista SP1 and Windows Server 2008 -- which are based on the same code -- and will make it available to everyone tomorrow through a Customer Preview Program (CPP). On theWindows Team Blog, Mike Nash says:CPP is intended for technology enthusiasts, developers, and IT Pros who would like to test Service Pack 2 in their environments and with their applications prior to final release. For most customers, our best advice would be to wait until the final release prior to installing this service pack.The final release will be "in the first half of 2009," possibly in April.As usual, SP2 includes a roll-up of all the fixes developed (but not necessarily published) since SP1. Microsoft has published a long list asNotable Changes in Windows Server 2008 SP2 Beta and Windows Vista SP2 Beta.Some improvements are things you might have downloaded separately, such as Search 4 and the .Net Framework 3.5 SP1. Vista SP2 also includes the hyperviser,Hyper-V, which lets you virtualise servers. (Not for the faint-hearted.) Also, the built in support for Bluetooth and Wi-Fi gets upgraded. Mary-Jo Foley has a longer list inVista SP2: What's inside?No doubt the reviews will provide more info.It will be interesting to see if SP2 makes much difference to Vista, because SP1 fixed most of the problems that Microsoft could do something about, and provided a noticeable improvement in performance on some low-end hardware. I think it's unlikely to have the sort of dramatic effect that XP SP2 had, simply because there isn't as much needs fixing.Microsoft hasn't released Vista sales figures recently butNet Applicationsputs its market share (of the installed base of net users) at about 20%. Since its monitoring appears to understate XP, it could be higher.
Dan Kaminskyis the Seattle-based hacker and computing consultant who found a gaping hole in the security of the internet, due to a fundamental design flaw in the Domain Name System (DNS). This lead to a massiveindustry-wide patching effortled by Microsoft, Cisco and Sun, which ameliorated the problem.Now Wired has told the story behind the scenes inSecret Geek A-Team Hacks Back, Defends Worldwide Web. DNS experts are summoned to Microsoft's Seattle campus from Finland and the Netherlands without knowing why they are going, until Kaminsky explains the hack.David Ulevitch smiled despite himself. The founder of OpenDNS, a company that operates DNS servers worldwide, was witnessing a tour de force -- the geek equivalent of Michael Phelps winning his eighth gold medal. As far as Ulevitch was concerned, there had never been a vulnerability of this magnitude that was so easy to use. "This is an amazingly catastrophic attack," he marveled with a mix of grave concern and giddy awe.Eventually we were saved, or at least, disaster was postponed -- though some parts of the industry don't emerge from the tale looking quite as good as the DNS guys.Kaminsky has, of course, told his own story in a blog post,An Astonishing Collaboration, and in a talk at a Foo Camp that you wan watch onYouTube(transcript). Unlike Wired, he mentions (Professor)Dan Bernsteinboth times. He, djb, came up with a fix in the form of a high-security DNS called djbdns before anyone knew there was a problem. Kaminsky writes:DJB was right. All those years ago, Dan J. Bernstein was right: Source Port Randomization should be standard on every name server in production use.
I remember being at the Euro launch of the DS in 2005 – a slightly less slick than they are now Girls Aloud were the highlight of the Paris event - and wondering how on earth Nintendo expected their clunky and plasticky new handheld could compete with Sony's sexy PSP.  I was wrong, obviously, but then the DS looks and feels a lot better now then it did then. But clearly I didn't learn. The DSi seemed to me to benothing more than a minor upgradebut the camera-enhanced DS hasshifted over 500,000units in its first month of sale in Japan. This is practically the same as the orginal DS shifted in the same time period. Impressive stuff then, but I still don't see why the average DS owner would rush out and buy this "upgrade". Am I missing something? Are you planning on getting a DSi – or happy with your DS (or PSP)
Marc Andreessen on Flickr byJoi Ito; used under CC licenseYou may have heard ofNing, a sort of white label social networking service set up by Marc Andreesen, the founder of Netscape. It lets you build ad hoc social networks for specific groups, events or interests.What you probably didn't know is that some of its heaviest users are in theadult entertainment industry. Or, at least, they were.In a post on the Ning blog, CEO Gina Bianchini says that the company is going to drop its support for adult networks (what they call the "Red Light District") from next year andcomes up with a series of explanationsas to why.# Adult social networks don't pull their own weight.# By having legal adult social networks on Ning, we've seen a rise in volume of illegal adult social networks.# Adult social networks on Ning receive a disproportionate number of DMCA take down notices creating additional work for our team.It's a roundabout way of saying "porn costs us too much money" and even "this just isn't what we wanted Ning to be used for, and we don't like it". So why not just say it straight?Because that would involve a moral decision - something likely to insult the influential gangs of techno-libertarians who reserve the right to do whatever they like online; even when you're the one paying for it.
On this week's Tech Weekly,Charles ArthurandJemima Kisswelcome the man behind microblogging sensationTwitter, Biz Stone. Charles and Jemima grill him on his relationship with Facebook and how they plan to make money in the future.We also quizPaidContentFounder and digital media expert Rafat Ali on the dilemma for internet startups in these tough internet times. He's got a few things to say to Biz too; shame he wasn't listening. Charles is joined byBobbie JohnsonandAleks Krotoskiin the studio to discuss.All this, plus news, blogs, feedback and many other things.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Nokia says it has unveiled "the world's most advanced mobile computer, which will transform the way people connect to the Internet and to each other." TheN97has a 640 x 360 pixel 3.5 inch touch screen and a slide-out qwerty keyboard, so it looks a lot like an HTC device. As expected, it runs Symbian S60, and is Ovi- and N-Gage-compatible. Rivals will include the Sony Ericsson X1 and HTC's Touch Pro, both of which are based on Windows Mobile.At 117.2 x 55.3 x 15.9mm, the N97 is larger than the iPhone (112 x 56.9 x 12.5mm), but that doesn't have a keyboard.The N97's key innovation is the introduction of So-Lo. Nokia says:The Nokia N97 introduces the concept of 'social location'. With integrated A-GPS sensors and an electronic compass, the Nokia N97 mobile computer intuitively understands where it is. The Nokia N97 makes it easy to update social networks automatically with real-time information, giving approved friends the ability to update their 'status' and share their 'social location' as well as related pictures or videos.There are some YouTube videos atEngadget.The N97 will be released next year with 32GB of memory at an estimated €550 plus taxes.
It's tempting to think of videogames as completely contemporary. The reliance on high-end technology, the profusion of modern obsessions like social networking, licensed rock tracks and corporate branding. Sometimes it seems as though the videogame industry looks only sideways at Hollywood, sport and music, or forward to the next technological advances.But of course, the ongoing obsession with World War Two shows that the past is a rich source of material for videogame developers. And actually, there could be more going on with CoD: World at War, Battlefield and Brothers in Arms than just the convenience of a conflict that featured lots of different theatres, relatively modern weapons and some meaty bad guys. The Second World War and its immediate aftermath continue to exert a much wider influence over videogame design. A lot of the games we're playing today have roots that go back fifty years…Look at Japanese videogame culture, for example. Many of the themes and conventions we see today can be traced back to one defining event, or rather two – the dropping of the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The devastating nuclear attacks had a profound effect on the nation's collective psyche, leading to preoccupations with apocalyptic destruction and horrific mutation which have haunted popular culture ever since, from the Godzilla movies, to the Armageddon-obsessed manga of Akira and Fist of the North Star and of course, on to videogames. Tezuka Osamu, creator of Astro Boy and widely regarded as the father of manga, explored transformation and technology throughout his career, often returning to WWII for inspiration. His influence on Japanese videogame design is enormous.You can also see the shadow of Hiroshima in the great RPG series', which often feature worlds on the precipice of complete destruction. It is there in the haunted, abandoned townscapes of Resident Evil and Silent Hill, where mutation and death are prevalent. Even the very structure of Japanese games – specifically the convention of the final boss battle - may owe something to Little Boy.But at times there is also a pastoral element – a longing for the simple life before the mass industrialisation and urban sprawl of the modern age. In the America of the fifties and sixties, schoolboys were obsessed with baseball cards, in Japan it was all about 'konchuusaishuu', insect collecting – a pastime that influenced Miyamoto to design the Mario universe, and Satoshi Tajiri to create Pokemon.As for the influence of American post-war culture, two of this year's biggest shooter's Gears of War 2 and Resistance 2 are in thrall to the fifties sci-fi tropes introduced by writers like Ray Bradbury and Robert A Heinlein. Alien races seeking to exterminate mankind and rule the world, secret collusions between world leaders, scientists and the invaders - the themes are almost identical. The underlying influences may be similar too – the great sci-fi explosion of the fifties was fuelled by Senator McCarthy's anti-communist witchhunts, the fear of 'the other' devouring the American way of life. The modern equivalent is the equally airy and supernatural 'war on terrorism'; although Insomniac and Epic may not intend it, their games communicate a national malaise, an underlying tension directed at an unknown and unknowable alien culture. The Locust Hordes, the Chimera – they're Al-Qaeda in scary masks.Survival horror games, too, betray one of the roots of the zombie genre: McCarthyist paranoia. George Romero's Night of the Living Dead is more widely linked with the Civil Rights Movement, but there is an anti-Commie fervour about his military figures – plus, the fact that the survivors barricade themselves into a quaint rural farmhouse hints at an idealised America under attack from opposing cultural forces. Is it a coincidence that Valve re-uses those landscapes to great effect in Left 4 Dead? What Romero was saying about the fears of Middle America is as relevant now as it was fifty years ago – it's just that the religio-political enemies have changed. Zombies aren't commies anymore. Zombies are jihadists.There are wider parallels to draw. The designers of urban environments in videogames, for example, are under the same pressures as the great Post-War architects: to create large-scale civic projects as quickly and as uniformly as possible. Look at the angular, striking buildings of Louis Kahn or Philip Johnson and you see an interest in function and structure that similarly dominates 3D videogame architecture. The designers of casual puzzles games, working mainly with simple shapes and colours, are re-investigating the methods of the abstract expressionists who came to the fore during the fifties. And of course, the whole nature of videogames – the temporal existence within a defined and limited universe – is the stuff of existentialism, arguably the defining Post-War philosophical movement. On that subject, it's interesting that the one mainstream videogame to take a conscious look at philosophy – Bioshock – choses as its subject matter Objectivism, a complex ethical, metaphysical and aesthetic ideology expounded by Ayn Rand, most obviously in her 1957 work, Atlas Shrugged.Even games that ostensibly draw from more recent times have the fifties lurking in the background. The Grand Theft Auto series may have visited eighties Miami and nineties California, but the foundations of the concept - and of the gangsta genre in general - go back to the pulp novels and hard-boiled Film Noir of the post-war era. The casual titles currently proliferating on the Wii are all about getting the family together in the living room – creating a weird simulacrum of the fifties television boom. Back then, American homelife gradually modeled itself around the massively popular new sitcoms and variety shows. Wii Sports is effectively the Ed Sullivan show of the 21st Century.And finally, in the recession-hit world of 2008, videogames are the ultimate austerity treat. The fifties philosophy of 'make do and mend' is reflected now in the concept of user-generated content; we can't afford lots of new games, so let's customise and share the ones we have. It's ironic really – all those anti-videogame protesters, desperate for a return to traditional values… Well, videogames are there and they always have been.
The British man accused of hacking into US military computers will have his final showdown in the UK courts next month.After almost four years of fighting extradition to the US as a result of what prosecutors have called "the biggest military computer hack of all time", Londoner Gary McKinnon will face a judicial review conducted by the high court on January 20.McKinnon – who used the online name Solo – is accused of hacking into computers belonging to the Pentagon, Nasa and US armed forces in raids conducted between 2001 and 2002.Prosecutors say he shut down thousands of machines and caused up to $700,000 worth of damage, while the 42-year-old claims he was searching for evidence of UFOs.Over the course of the case, defence lawyers argued that McKinnon will face unduly harsh punishment for his actions and should instead face trial in the UK, since the alleged hacking attacks were conducted from a house in north London.By the time the decision is made, it will be almost seven years since McKinnon ended his activities. During that time a succession of arguments have been made against his removal – including that he faces up to 60 years in prison or detention at Guantánamo Bay, and that he should receive leniency because he suffers from Asperger's syndrome.Such protestations have so far proved unsuccessful, however, with a string of decisions against him, including rulings by the law lords and the home secretary. McKinnon's last chance to avoid removal to the US will come in next month's judicial review.Prosecutors acting for the government argued that McKinnon's review should take place today but his lawyers succeeded in pushing it back until the new year.The news brought cheer to some campaigners who see the date as an auspicious sign. Coinciding with the inauguration of Barack Obama as president, supporters at the Free Gary website suggested the date could be the equivalent of "waving a couple of fingers" at the Bush administration.In recent months campaigners – includingformer home secretary David Blunketthave argued that McKinnon should be tried in the UK because of his medical condition.His supporters are hopeful that they can sway the final judgment, particularly after Gordon Brown spoke about the case publicly for the first time last week and hinted that McKinnon may not end up in a US jail.During prime minister's questions last week, Brown was asked about McKinnon's situation and said that existing conventions would enable him to serve any prison sentence in Britain, rather than in the US."The UK and the US are signatories to the Council of Europe convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, which enables a person found guilty in the United States of America to serve their sentence in the UK," he told MPs.
I was off enjoying myself last week - so apologies if you've already seen this - but I've just spotted that our photographer extraordinaireDan Chunghas tested out the video capabilities of the new Canon EOS5D MkII camera.It's interesting to see how digital SLRs (increasingly prevalent among hobbyists, in my experience) can really start to compete on the video front too. Dan'svideo from the streets of Beijingis simple enough - as I said, just a test - but here it is in HD glory courtesy ofVimeo.
It's been a long time since we've had a decent Sonic game, almost as long as we've had to wait for something worthy of Sega, so this one should either kill two birds with one stone or possibly kill two former greats stone dead. Luckily, Sonic Unleashed is far from a disaster and in places it's pure eye candy on acid.It's a clever mish-mash of styles too, featuring both 2D and 3D levels, occasional platforming action, Quicktime events, cutesy cut-scenes and very different day and night mechanics. Graphically, it's impressive throughout, with gorgeous sugar-coloured environments and a sensation of speed that's still second to none.Admittedly, this leads to some levels (particularly when you're grinding down rails or battling some of the quicker Bosses) almost playing themselves once you've built up momentum, but retro fans will remember this fondly from the Mega Drive original. What's less familiar or fun are the night-time levels, where your hedgehog is transformed into a feral beast who must brawl his way through in order to collect enough sun tokens to return to daylight. This jarring change of pace is also reflected in the Quicktime events that can reduce some of the boss battles to a frustrating memory game rather than the true test of speed and agility they should have been.On the Wii there's the added problem of using the combination wiimote/nunchuck that feels too quirky for its own good and most will abandon in favour of the classic controller or Gamecube layout. It's a pity, as intelligent use of Nintendo's greatest innovation might have made the platforming sections a lot more fun, rather than the unwieldy afterthought they end up being. Remember, once upon a time Sonic gave Mario a run for his money in this department, but you'll see little evidence of it here.All in all, younger players should find Sonic Unleashed a slick and varied introduction to our spiky hero. Tthe rest of us, who remember him in leaner and keener days, might be slightly underwhelmed by the whole experience.
The second instalment of this in-your-face offroad racing game has everything that the original game should have had, such as split-screen play for up to four people, and has migrated from Monument Valley to a cleverly designed Hawaii. The game is split into Earth, Air, Fire and Water zones featuring beaches, jungles and volcanoes. There's a new vehicle, the Monster Truck (virtually indestructible, but turn it too sharply and it will topple), and the water adds a new dynamic, as it cools your boost down. Pacific Rift looks absolutely stunning, its gameplay is as high-octane as that of its predecessor, and it feels somewhat meatier and more coherent. But it rather leaves you wanting more — some radical new gameplay mechanic, say, or a bigger selection of tracks. Brilliantly executed, but lacking in inspiration compared to the original.
Forget epic storylines and in-depth characterisation, Left 4 Dead is all about shooting zombies. But this apparent simplicity masks a game that has a surprising amount of depth, especially in multiplayer mode. If any game was designed to be played with your friends, then this is it. Whether teamed up against the onslaught or taking charge of the zombies themselves the action remains almost uniquely tense. A strong sense of camaraderie is engendered, with players healing and helping each other — teamwork is key. Offline players can still get some enjoyment — the computer controlled buddies are annoying, though — but Left 4 Dead is primarily a multiplayer game. Downers? It won't win any graphics awards and there are only four levels to the game, although there are always different amounts of nasties to mow down which helps make each game feel more unique. It may lose out to glitzier titles in the end of year awards, but Left 4 Dead is the multiplayer game of the year.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Two years ago, we reported that a 'game addiction clinic' in the Netherlands opened its doors to treat kids who had an unhealthy obsession with computer games. Bah humbug, we said. Hogwash, we mooted. Fiddlesticks, we cawed.And indeed, Keith Bakker, founder of the Smith &amp; Jones clinic,now argues that gaming isn't addictive, but that excessive use is a sign that something else is wrong.This is one more step in the continuing trend that sees games critics turning their condemning glances away from games and onto parents and guardians. As Bakker explained to theBBC,"...the more we work with these kids the less I believe we can call this addiction. What many of these kids need is their parents and their school teachers - this is a social problem."..."This gaming problem is a result of the society we live in today," Mr Bakker told BBC News. "Eighty per cent of the young people we see have been bullied at school and feel isolated. Many of the symptoms they have can be solved by going back to good old fashioned communication."This is a recommendation strongly echoed this week in another unlikely place, the annualNational Institute for Media and the Familyvideo game report card(pdf). The MEDIAwise publication has historically used this publication as a platform to condemn games. This year, they've come out and have publicly praised the innovations in the industry - from Wii Fit to 'content neutral' titles like Guitar Hero and Rock Band to the expanse of more representative consumer demographics - and are keen to encourage parental involvement in game play behaviour:It remains to be seen to what extent the video game industry will follow through on its praise-worthy efforts, just as we cannot yet know how extensively American parents will take advantage of the growing array of resources designed to help them make healthy choices for their families. Such progress is absolutely essential, as video games become an ever-larger part of American life.Perhaps the industry is making a breakthrough; this positive news should leave gamers with warmth in their cockles as they sup on their egg nog this holiday season.
Two-thirds of employers monitor staff use of the internet during working hours and block access to sites deemed irrelevant to the job, a survey of managers revealed yesterday. The Chartered Management Institute said the censoring of employees' web browsing was an example of old-fashioned thinking in boardrooms where senior executives have not caught up with the business benefits of exploiting new technology.The institute interviewed 1,000 managers aged 35 and under, working in industry, commerce, local government and the police. Their most common complaint was that older bosses regarded the internet as "a massive timewaster". Half said their organisations did not take up web-based technology until it was tried and tested, and 16% described their employers as "dinosaurs". The survey found most young managers wanted to use the internet for research, professional development and other aspects of getting the job done. But employers treated it with suspicion. The survey found 65% of organisations monitored usage, rising to 86% in local government and 88% in the police. This led 65% of employers to block access to "inappropriate" sites, rising to 89% in local government and 90% in the utilities. Eighteen per cent of employers  limited internet access to certain times of day, rising to 38% in the insurance industry.The survey, published in association with Ordnance Survey, found a generation gap in the use of internet technology. Jan Hutchinson, human resources director at Ordnance Survey, said: "The low-level adoption of new technology runs in tandem with employers' belief that internet usage is a timewaster. The longer this situation is allowed to remain unchallenged, the greater the likelihood UK employers will fall behind their international competitors."
Like much of the economy, America's car industry is in turmoil. Ford and General Motors are begging for a $25bn bailout from the US government, and the clouds are hanging heavy over Detroit. Some hope that innovative new companies will rise to fill the space left by these fallen giants - perhaps small companies likeTesla Motors, the electric car outfit run by PayPal alumnus Elon Musk.ExceptstrugglingTesla is nowapplying for $400m in low interest loansas part of the bailout - and a few voices are taking exception to that.Randall Stross led the charge in the New York Times this weekend, by asking whether the public purse should be used to support a company that builds cars thatonly the rich can afford. Others, including CNET's Jon Oltsik, followed suit byaccusing Tesla's investorsof treating automotive industry in the same way as they treat hi-tech.I wonder how Tesla's course has been influenced by at least some of its investors being helplessly smitten by the world's quietest dragster. Mr. Musk said: "I'm not doing this because I think the world has a shortage of sports cars." But his customers must be loaded with green in order to go green.Sounds good, doesn't it? After all, whyshouldthe public fund a company that has only handed out a spattering of $100,000+ sports cars to the super-rich?It shouldn't: Stross is right on the fundamentals here. But he's also missing the larger point. Right now electric vehicles are merely the playthings of billionaires and bleeding hearts, but it's worth the long-term investment - and here's why:First things first - regardless of Tesla's financial health, they'd be stupidnotto apply for help from the bailout package; there's money on the table that will otherwise only go to propping up ailing car giants. And Tesla isalready the beneficiary of some low-interest help from the governmentand tax breaks, so this is nothing new.But beyond the financials, and the underlying issues of class, the real problem isn't that the US government might give a helping hand to a fancypants companies that makes hi-tech sports cars for rich nobs. It's that it should be investing in the infrastructure, not the people who want to use it.New technologies are always adopted by those who can afford them. The more of them who buy stuff, the more the cost of production goes down. Prices fall and more people buy, ad nauseum. That's basic economics.Electric cars are massively important if American economy wants to be free of its dependence on oil - a strategic move in energy, economy, security and environmental policywhich should be Obama's moon shot. But right now it isn't car manufacturers who need supporting - it's the new systems that might help the best of them to thrive. What's the point in buying an electric car if there's nowhere to plug it in?Barack Obama should be sitting down with the car industry and telling it to them straight: You want a future in America? Then change. The strategy you've been following for the past decade hasn't worked, or else you wouldn't need a bailout. Instead of funding Ford and GM and anybody else to carry on doing what they do badly, we'll build a system that lets ordinary people drive electric cars, not just treehuggers and the super-rich.You make the cars to run on that system, and you'll be able to sell them because the structure will be in place.This is the same strategy that led to the explosion of the internet; an independent infrastructure supported by the US government that bred innovation. There were no government loans for Yahoo or Microsoft or Google (or even Pets.com) - even during the darkest days of the dotcom bust - but the world continued anyway, and America forged itself a position at the heart of a new hi-tech industry.This isn't just a pipe dream. It's already happening at a regional level - just look at therecent announcement by the mayors of San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland. Ordinary people don't need guarantees that Ford will stay in business, but they should know that if they buy electric, there will be places to plug in.So, forget toys for very rich boys. Forget saving jobs today just so that you can face the same question in another five years. And forget bailing out the car manufacturers.Give them this one chance to innovate - and if they can't be bothered, then leave them to die.
Just a few weeks ago blog developers SixApartlaid off 16 workers, but now it's all smiles as they're out hiring again - or, more accurately, buying the team and technology behind messaging startupPownce.Developers Leah Culver (something of a starlet in a startup world notoriously devoid of female coders) and Mike Malone will be joining SixApart later this month - andclosing down the service as a result:We will be closing the service and Mike and I, along with the Pownce technology, have joined Six Apart, the company behind such great blogging software as Movable Type, TypePad and Vox. We're bittersweet about shutting down the service but we believe we'll come back with something much better in 2009.Things have been tough for the Powncers as the service failed to gain traction despite having an unreasonably high profile thanks to co-founders Culver and Kevin Rose (ofDiggfame). But at least this appears to be a dignified exit for the people behind the site - if not so pleasing for the handful of people who actually use it.
Following on from Keith'shandy blogabout games for kids comes news thatLego Batmanwas the winner of the Best Videogame at the, erm, 2008 Children's BAFTA's.  Congratulations and all that but is Lego Batman really the best kids game of the year? Sure, Batman is fun enough – though the "Lego" thing is wearing a bit thin now – but is it better than Mario Kart Wii orProfessor Layton and the Curious Village, both of which were also nominated? Layton maybe - I'm not sure that really qualifies as a "kids" game anyway - but surely not Mario Kart?Having said that, after a weekend spent "playing" theMadagascar 2game with my three year old – her two-word review would be "more penguins" – I would have happily stuck Lego Batman on given half a chance. But still. For those with children, or who are young at heart, what was your kids game of the year?
But what's this? An edition of Best of Chatterbox arriving conspicuously on time? Yes, that's exactly what it is. Office Pest hammered most of it out over the weekend before handing the baton to Fantomex for some final additions.We leap in at Little Big Planet and we keep running until we hit... slightly humorous pub quiz team names... Never let it be said that Gamesblog readers are afraid of handling the really big issues of the day.I've tweaked a few bits, slashed some stuff and added a pun. Even that took me two hours. Best of Chatterbox is a demanding taskmaster, but, like sitting through Strictly Come Dancing until Rachel Stevens comes on, it's sort of worth it in the end.And with that, let's hit the chat.Part one: Little Big LoveThere was a lot of love for LBP this week  - and some frustration. Dizzyisanegg, kicked things off after tarding in his copy of Mirror's Edge for Media Molecule's platforming masterwork. "Amazing," he decalred. "Right from the very beginning and surprisingly tough as well. Only had time for a couple of goes over the weekend but enjoyed it a lot".Killerbee then added his two cents: "A great gaming weekend for me - first up, I made a start on LittleBigPlanet. The initial welcome and introductory world is utterly charming (Stephen Fry is a legend) and I instantly fell in love with the visual style - and my sackboy, of course. The traps and platforms and jetpacks and skateboards (and... and....and) are all really well realised and most important feel real and move in believable ways. Very very good."The only gripe I really had was the slightly off jumping mechanic - Sackboy feels just that bit too wafty and light when he leaps into the air and I never felt confident of the range and limits of jumping. It's a shame because something just that little bit tighter would've made the game a lot more instantly enjoyable. I'll likely concentrate on the story mode for a while to build up some stickers and clothes etc for my Sackboy, but otherwise I'll hopefully see a few of you online!"Uncle3en discussed the online elements: "Killerbee - I shared your excitement for LBP and agree with all your points. It also comes into its own with local co-op - you'll be crying with laughter at times. However, I'm not sure whether I'm resenting it for eating up a large chunk of my time recently after creating a level that was too ambitious and eventually sacking it off (even though it was good yet tough practice), but I'm starting to have reservations. Admittedly I haven't been online much and played many of the decent created levels (I'm told there's some out there) which may help to get my excitement back. I fear this may be difficult to control in terms of the user-generated content and how we can filter what's out there. I hope it settles down and the real genius stuff shines through, and the potential with this game isn't just realised in the money that can be made on couple-of-quid outfits and prizes on PSN. Depending on how good the created stuff is(?)/gets, I'd like to see some more of the 'professional' Story added to the game. For free."I still remain positive, but more hopeful and less confident. Those of you that have been online and played much of what's on offer (and also creating) – your thoughts please?"Nexpro followed on: "Littlebigplanet definitely was the highlight of the games night though. Such fantastic fun with others, even with the camera angles making it sometimes about 10 x harder, it just seems to make it all the more entertaining. The thing I sometimes find the funniest on this game is when 4 of you are trying to get into one cart, when some of you miss it and some of you get in, the ones who got in end up getting back out so everyone can try again, then the original two who missed the last cart have already tried getting into the next and one fails to even hit the card and gets stuck on the track under the card, whilst the two who got out of the first cart are desperately trying to then get into the other cart that the first two who missed their cart are now trying to get into."The process just seems to go on for about half an hour and never get frustrating! Brilliant."Part two: are 360 or PC online communities better?This all started with BeardOfBees procrastinating over a Left 4 Dead purchase: "I'm still agonising over PC or 360 if I do end up getting it. The PC will have more custom maps and mods and things, has more guardianistas it seems, and is cheaper, but the 360 version will run smoother (don't have the best PC) and the general community will likely be better and use voice chat etc more. Tough one."Sorbicol leapt in to the fray on the side of the PC: "In what way do you find console online communities 'better' then PC ones? I'll be the first to admit that my exposure to online console communities is very limited (one blast on COD4 on Xbox Live) but I do find PC communities to be generally more mature and more than happy to work co-op (my quick go last night on L4D with strangers went really well - we were happy to cover each other's backs and heal as required) That said I'll admit I've been unable to play TF2 on occasion due to spam abuse from idiots or people not willing to work co-op."My one go on CoD4 xbox live resulted in a torrent of abuse from over excited 12-years-olds as I wasn't very good at working the gamepad controls - I wasn't impressed tbh, there was a petty and infantile feel to the whole experience."BeardOfBees again: "I guess I assume the PC crowd is a bit more random - everyone's got a PC - but by and large the people with an Xbox are people like me. That's clearly false as a lot of people with Xboxes are apparently whiny American children. I suppose I don't have much experience with PC game communities outside of World of Warcraft - Counterstrike and Team Fortress classic is about it really. The other thing is, I think voice chat is quite important to this game - do people really use it on the PC though? Experience suggests not. Still, the more I think on it the more I reckon the PC is the way to go (sorry cagool)"At which point Cagool chipped in: "I haven't had that many trash-talking kids on my games, maybe I've been lucky. Maybe if more people had headsets for their PC you might find that there'd be a few on there as well. The fact that almost everyone has a headset on 360 does make Left 4 Dead very satisfying in terms of directing attacks and bantering. If there are fewer people on PC with a headset it won't be quite the same."Part three: MASSIVE Fallout 3 Rant!Then, lumbering out of Bethesda's generally well-received post-apocalyptic shooter came HumOfEvil, who spewed forth vitriol on Fallout 3: "Right lads, since I have played this a fair chunk I think it is time to make some well observed criticisms! Don't get me wrong ive had a blast on it but still... The character models are shit, just s**t. Uniformly rubbish, not a good 'un to be found. Which is a real shame as the world is very well done graphically."Linked to the above, the animation is pretty poor as well, especially if you use third-person view, it looks like you are ice skating across the place. The violence is ill judged. It would have benefited from the extreme deaths being less frequent therefore having more impact. As it is, heads pop off if you so much as fart in their direction! And no I don't have the 'Bloody Mess' perk."The world is far less broad in its scope than I would like based on the old ones. There is none of the seedier stuff found in 2, for instance the New Reno town where you were able to become a porn star, hooker or boxer if you so desired. There are loads of locations to find but 90% of them are grey rooms filled with loot and super mutants, none of which I need now I have reached the stupidly low level cap."Is it just me or is it wrong that your reputation seems global? In this devastated world how come everyone seems to know how bad/good you have been!?"Bugs. It is f***in riddled with em'. Its like London during the great plague! Drags you right out of the world when limbs get stuck on stuff and enemies show up through walls. Basically its really unpolished."Anywho, not sure what prompted that but take it as you like!"Whoa, easy tiger!Part four: is Home where the heart is?Ah yes, Sony's long-proposed virtual community... Andc posed a somewhat controversial question: "Kotakuhas a video of someone playing, (if that's the right word) and it looks amazing. I was amazed at how empty and drab it looked, at the load times and by how utterly pointless it appears to be. Discuss."Alimantado agreed: "I've got a PS3 and never really understood why people are getting excitied about Home as it looked a complete waste of time. I don't have time to play games, never mind faff about decorating a flat that doesn't exist. Not only that but most of the randoms you play online are complete scum - why would you want to meet their bloody avatars. Maybe you can have virtual nookie like that couple in second life."Then Loser sought to up the conversational ante "(To AndC) Oh come on, not only are you trolling, but you're only actually trolling about three people and you know it. however, if you were bored enough to watch that video then all bets are off."Alimantado rolled in as peacemaker, placing the discussion in context and extolling the virtues of the gamesblog: "(To Loser) It's quite amusing that, despite AndC's obvious trolling attempt, everyone's pretty much agreed with him. Only on the safe haven of the blog would this happen - there would be 40 pages of AndC being called a fig if this was Eurogamer."Fig?Part five: FLAMEWAR!!!Uh oh, here we go. Cameroon95 set the blue touch paper alight with this observation: "I'm not trying to be disrespectful here, but do you ever get annoyed at the fact that most of the games being released on the wii are dogs**t? I used to own one and I'm very glad I sold it. The majority of games seem to be aimed towards families and/or children. Don't get me wrong there are some great ones, Metroid, Mario, etc..."At that, Andc nipped in: "The majority of games seem to be aimed towards families and/or children? Erm, not wanting to sound like a smart arse, but, That's because they are!"Then Chubster2010 gracefully replied to Cameroon: "Do I get annoyed? Do I ever! I get very annoyed. Like the Hulk only less green (and, truth be told) less muscled. But, in all seriousness - I think the ratio of bilge to quality on the Wii does currently lean a bit too far towards the former. But, up and until fairly recently, I've been happy with the likes of NMH and Smash Bros. However, for the future it's just Endless Ocean and whatever mario/zelda games they eventually announce (and the new Wii sports as previously mentioned)."So far, so agreeable. So Cameroon turned up the heat: "(at AndC) Yes, you are being a smart arse, but they are some rare titles on Wii aimed at a more adult audience if you did some research:Mad worldManhunt 2No more heroesUmbrella ChroniclesResi 4"Why Cameroon? Why?!  Let's just say it went downhill from there with arguments galore and the occasional moderated comment. Chubster then spottedthis articlewhich seemed to appear like magic to conclude the FistWiicuffs(sorry - keef).Part six: why pub quizzes are so much funSomehow, Limni brought up the topic of pub quiz team names, and of course, the variations of oddness and offensiveness were rife: "I'm running a quiz tonight and one of the teams is called Agatha Quiztie which I think is pretty good. It's only the 3rd best I've seen though, the best two are, You've Quizzed on your chips and I'll Quiz in your face..."Danny41567: "At uni we pretty much alternated between Fred West's Landscape Gardeners and Debbie McGee's Magic Circle."davefalse: I quite like "Quizteam Aguillera". How many people have been "funny" and gone for "Norfolk and Chance"?Crispycrumb: Mine's invariably The Frank Spencer Blues ExplosionAdamskii: My favourite is from The Office - Stephen Hawkings football bootsroogi: Can't resist using Sofa King Awesomelamontagne: The Shy Teds(I had to cut several of these in the interests of my 'career'. Feel free to hunt them down in the original Chatterbox postings, of course - Keef)Quote of the week:"I met a girl at the weekend and we've been emailing each other pretty much constantly during work and texting loads in the evening - got a date to go with her for Sushi tonight but I emailed her about it yesterday and still nothing - no reply. Think she's bottled it or just busy? Should I still turn up even at the risk of being stood up? Why are women so confusing?"Kezabien misdirects his email toDear Mariella...Other Quotes"Morning boys. Logged in this morning and looked like someone from head office was in my system so thought it best not to enter the blog too early."Silverfox073 notices that they're onto us!"I had the most extraordinary dream about you guys last night. I dreamt I was bizarrely given admin rights to the comments on the chatterbox, and so I started deleting comments, you know, just to neaten up the flow of debate and focus the discussion. Anyway, I was quickly discovered and received much criticism. It was a strange dream. I don't think I've ever actually dreamt about the internet before. It's especially odd, as I don't actually comment here very often."He might not comment often, but Icarusfall clearly spends too much time here."A list of things I hate1. Pages and pages of lists.2. See 1"Alimantado turns criticism into a BASIC program."Steve Guttenberg has just announced they're making another 'Three Men and a Baby/Little Girl' Movie - Presumably this will be called something like 'Three Men and a Teenager' - Which may not necessarily attract the audience they're looking for."Alfienoakes points out a potential flaw in a new film title."I love Dhalsim. I tried yoga myself for a bit, but they wouldn't teach me how to do the 'Yoga Headpunch'"Lazybones failing to comprehend the realty/Street Fighter II divide."re. 'Heirogliphics (or however you spell it!).'I think you spell it:[picture of bird] [picture of man] [picture of jug of water] [picture of cat]."Chubster2010 provides this week's only joke based around ancient logographic languages."I think Ken is the Ford Focus of Streetfighter 2 characters."Lazybones brings out some gaming/car wisdom.Also discussed:Most watched filmsWhich films you haven't seen yet but really shouldBoxingBest shower gel everGames:Little Big Planet, Fallout 3, Mirror's Edge, Left 4 Dead, CoD5, Far Cry 2, Super Street Fighter II Turbo HD
Hear ye, hear ye games reviews wanters: The Guardian has magically collated all of its games reviews onto one handy site for your consuming pleasure. Does it bother you that we don't do enough on the gamesblog?Head here instead.Mmm, review-y.
It's a fight that's been raging for a while - games publishers shaking their fists at retailers for selling second-hand games (and coming up withbizarre counter measures), retailers shaking their fists at the publishers for threatening to crack down on one of their revenue streams (and coming out withdebatable statistics). But the recent surge in public laundry-airing from both camps has taken many by surprise. Notably, the consumers - often the lost souls in this debate - have begun to take an interest in the outcome, and with their dollar-might on the side of the retailers (and the current status quo), how likely is it that the publishers will win their battle and enforce registration on players?Personally, it seems to me that banning games from playing on other machines is unfair sour grapes. After all, other industries allow it, from film to music to cars. Heck, entire business models are based on second-hand sales. There are evengovernment benefitsandbreaksin place for second-hand content sellers.What appears to rankle the publishers is that theretailersare making money, not necessarily that the games are being sold (though that ruffles their feathers too), yet even this isn't unprecedented in consumer space. What are used car lots but the bargain bins for automobiles? And isn't it better to share an existing resource rather than bring another one into the world?Grrrr.Read up on the latest in the debate onMCVwhere the comments are on fire.
If you want to know what's happening in the world, thenMemorandumwill tell you – at least in a couple of areas. It's an automated news clipping service, known in the trade as a "news aggregator". It provides headlines and short texts updated every few minutes, with links to the original sites, much like Google News.Memeorandum is based on the idea of "memes" or ideas that spread across the web (along with a pun on memorandum). Someone publishes an interesting story, other people find it, discuss it, and link to it. That's how the web works. Small stories come and go quickly, while big ones generate lots of comment and dominate the page for hours.The developer, Gabe Rivera, says it's all done in software. He provides a list of publications as "seeds," but the software still finds stories on sites he's never heard of. It's just a question of following links, and then trying to assess the contents. The algorithms are, obviously, secret.Google also follows links and assesses content, but Memeorandum is embarrassingly better than Google News. Google reckons that the more coverage a story gets, the more important it is. Unfortunately, broad coverage takes a long time to develop, so Google News can run hours or even a day behind Memeorandum. This is fine for casual consumers, but if you're a news junkie – or a journalist – it's hopeless.There are, however, two major problems with Memeorandum: it doesn't cover many topics, and it doesn't cover much of the world.So far, Memeorandum covers news and politics on the main page, with separate sites for technology news (Techmeme), celebrity gossip (WeSmirch) and baseball (Ballbug). Another dozen topics would be useful, but Memeorandum has only a couple of staff and not much money.Also, the sites mainly cover the US, and Techmeme inevitably ends up focused on California: it's where the action is. But if you're interested in news from Europe or Japan, for example, it's the wrong place to go.Fortunately, a lot of news nowadays is of global interest, whether it's Britney Spears appearing on The X Factor, terrorists murdering people in Mumbai, or Microsoft trying to do a deal with Yahoo. (I'm not sure I can make a case for "Tampa Bay Rays plan extra rest for pitchers after long season".)Another complaint is that the Memeorandum sites now give far too much coverage to mainstream sources such as the New York Times, Washington Post, CNN, the BBC and the Guardian. Memeorandum used to discover and promote unknown bloggers, critics claim. Perhaps the balance has shifted, but so has the web.We're all blogging now.Tech.memeorandum was launched in September 2005, so the biggest mystery of all is why a rich global corporation has not made Gabe an offer he can't refuse and globalised his system. He's had offers, but he values his freedom and says: "I don't want to be accountable to organisations that appear clueless about the future of news."
The Simpsons, having brought down George Bush (the older one) - he said he wanted America to be "more like the Waltons and less like the Simpsons" - are now turning their attention to the fruity output of California.Yes, Apple. That Apple.The company featured on the most recent Simpsons, and is up to the standard you'd expect. While it might not kill off sales of the iPhone in the manner ofDoonesbury murdering the Newton, it's always nice to have a reality check."it's so sterile," gasps Lisa on seeing the new Mapple store in Springfield. (Well, they've opened everywhere else in the US, haven't they?) Bart then disses a "Steve Mobs" product announcement in front of a crowd of gaping nerds, "You think you're cool because you buy a $500 phone with a picture of a fruit on it. Well guess what? They cost 8 bucks to make and I pee on every one!"A Mapple store employee then angrily responds, "Who dares question the boss we fired 10 years ago and then brought back!"So there's this... and let's all remember the words of Bart Simpson, and cherish them: "Stupid angry mob chasing me because I shine a harsh light on society."Hey, where can I buy a Simpsons phone?(Updatedwith a single clip rather than two.)
Facebook Connect wasannounced in Mayas a way of using your Facebook identity on different sites, such as Digg. Since then, things have been quiet. However, The New York Times now has a big story,Facebook Aims to Extend Its Reach Across the Web, which says:In the next few weeks, a number of prominent Web sites will weave this service into their pages, including those of the Discovery Channel and The San Francisco Chronicle, the social news site Digg, the genealogy network Geni and the online video hub Hulu.It adds:The effort is particularly important for Facebook, which once represented the seemingly boundless promise of the Web 2.0 boom. It desperately wants to make certain the other Web companies do not supplant it and become the most popular hub for online socializing.There's also the little matter of advertising. So far, Facebook has not done much to convert its mindshare into a money stream, but Connect might help:"It's becoming very clear that advertisers don't know how to advertise on Facebook," said Charlene Li, an independent consultant and social media analyst. "But if you take a group of Facebook friends and put them on a travel site where they are spending more time and generating more ad dollars in a focused area like travel, that is an opportunity ripe for getting revenues back and sharing it."Whether you'd actually want to use your real identity on a site like Digg is another matter, of course. It seems to me that the number of sites where you'd want to be identified is a very tiny subset of the web -- though it could be a profitable subset.The story points out that: "MySpace, Yahoo and Google have all announced similar programs this year, using common standards that will allow other Web sites to reduce the work needed to embrace each identity system. Facebook, which is using its own data-sharing technology, is slightly ahead of its rivals." It neglects to mentionWindows Live ID Delegated Authorization, which seems to do the same sort of thing.When Microsoft tried this with Passport (used for the Hotmail sign-on) seven or eight years ago, the response was almost universal condemnation and a rivalLiberty Alliance Project. But maybe times have changed….
Monday's edition of you know what
Barack Obama's epochal victory in the US presidential election may have transfixed and gladdened the world but the British public, it seems, is more preoccupied with the life and times of another American colossus - a 26-year-old singer by the name of Britney Jean Spears.Despite, or perhaps because, she has endured yet another turbulent year, Spears has topped a list of the UK's 10 most searched-for subjects on Yahoo.The huge appetite for information on Big Brother and The X Factor pushed them into second and third place on the search list, while the US election had to make do with the seventh spot, sandwiched between High School Musical 3 and Amy Winehouse. Oasis, who released their seventh studio album, Dig Out Your Soul, last month, came in at number four. Kate Moss, whom the sculptor Marc Quinn immortalised in a &pound;1.5m gold statue displayed in the British Museum, claimed ninth place, just ahead of EastEnders.Also on the most-searched list was Heath Ledger, who died in New York in January. The Australian star of the latest Batman film was placed eighth. His performance as the psychopathic Joker in The Dark Knight generated speculation that he may win a posthumous Oscar next year.A spokesman for Yahoo Europe said: "It is fascinating to look back over the last year and see the stories, personalities and subjects that have captured our imagination ... some of which continue to be the hot topics of today."Spears has crammed a remarkable amount into the past 12 months. As well as facing trial for driving without a valid Californian licence, having her father granted indefinite control of her assets and spending two days in a psychiatric ward, the singer has managed to confound many by launching a comeback.Last week she was named best international pop star at an awards ceremony in Germany. On Saturday, the singer made her first UK television appearance for four years when she sang her new single, Womanizer, on The X Factor. Her performance brought in the highest ratings for the show, attracting a peak of 12.8 million viewers. Today sees the launch of her sixth studio album, Circus."I've been through a lot and there's a lot that people don't know," she told MTV this year. "I look back and [think]: 'I'm a smart person. What the hell was I thinking?'"Despite her impressive showing in the list, however, Spears' new record has not captivated all the critics. "Circus isn't bad as pop albums go," wrote the Guardian's Alexis Petridis. "But ... it's less edgy and exciting than its predecessor."
OS, SURVEYEDI wonder if the reason for the Ordnance Survey's obsession with preserving their copyright (OS move raises political stakes, November 20) is because a handful of managers dream of doing a QinetiQ: convince the Government it would far more efficient as a private concern; buy as many of the initially undervalued shares as possible and then watch them increase in value so that in a few years they are all multi-millionaires. All, basically, at the taxpayers expense.Robin Benson, SouthamptonA couple of comments on the article 'OS move raises political stakes'1. You have to admire the consistency of the Ordnance Survey position - when it comes to mapping applications in the UK, they have always been part of the problem rather than part of the solution. Not content with selling us data we used to own, they endeavour to stand in the way of almost every advance in the world of mapping.2. The answer is the same now as it has been for a least twenty years - ignore them and do your own mapping:It would be simple enough for a local authority to visit each of its public toilets with a handheld GPS (or Pocket PC with integrated GPS) and record the position (thousands of people are recording wildlife sightings in this way every day, and many local authorities already use asset tracking software for 'street furniture')In a similar way, it is relatively straightforward to walk/cycle/drive the boundaries of administrative areas recording your track. Accuracy will fall below that which the OS could supply, but it will be far greater than that required for most internet mapping. As an example, this technique is already used for 'Phase 1' habitat mapping (Phase I habitat mapping is a system of habitat classification and representation designed for use in rural and urban environments through Great Britain).[name and address supplied]&gt;&gt; In Australia, led by the great example of Queensland, government data sets are starting to be released using Creative Commons licenses, and in a study presented by Tim Barker the Director of Queensland's Spatial Information Office, 85% of the public sector data-sets they had examined could by licensed using one of the standard creative commons licenses without any problems.Before you all fall about laughing saying this could never happen in the UK, the OS actually has released information under a creative commons license before, the research team published some ontologies used in semantic research using a non-commercial share alike licence, but of course perhaps that was a little under the radar screen.edparsons.comON THE FT DESIGNI couldn't disagree more with Andrew Brown's article.Font size and leading relate to cognition rather than knowledge and education: just because FT readers are clever doesn't mean they are capable of 'processing' more information from a computer screen than your average Sun reader.Reading from a computer screen is an unpleasant experience: reducing the amount of content on a page, simplifying the layout and upping the leading and pixel ('point' is a term that applies to printed matter) sizes aid the comprehensibility of a text for everybody, even for people who went to Oxford. Older readers (presumably a major part of the FT's readership) will be especially appreciative.Couple this with the fact that most readers scan texts (seeuseit.com) - certainly the top level, index pages - then the design makes perfect sense.What makes the design especially brave is that, unlike The Guardian and The Telegraph, the FT has shown respect for its readers by refusing to follow the current trend for multi-column, print-based layouts. Instead of displaying excerpts of 50+ stories on its home page, FT readers are trusted to click through and find content they are interested in.And the way dyslexia is linked to being some sort of ignorant prole is, well, crass.Leon Paternoster, IpswichYou should also comment (adversely) on the Telegraph's redesign of its technology page on the web.F D Hobson, Greenwich&gt;&gt; I think Andrew is being overly harsh here. Whilst I'm sure nobody would describe the new look as beautiful, it isn't as bad as all that. Early on in his article Andrew talks about point size and leading, which made me initially think this must be the rantings of a print dinosaur. However he then goes on to mention Wordpress templates and Rememberthemilk, so clearly he is no novice to the Internet.I said in my Delicious links yesterday that the one tweak I would make to the Financial Times design would be in the area of the pink background. I understand it is an important element of the print branding, but I'd also like the site to be easy on the eye when reading from a screnn.currybet.net&gt;&gt; In short, [the FT redesign has] all great things that The Guardian's site isn't.It's perhaps a surprise that such a traditional, conservative publication has led the way in designing a home page that is fully aware of the constraints and possibilities of the medium, while Britain's greatest liberal paper adopts such a narrow, backward looking view. It's the FT that's leading newspaper design into the modern era.leonpaternoster.com&gt;&gt; no mincing of words there.thoughtsofnigel.blogspot.comAUSSIE CENSORSHIPCan't see anything wrong in principle with Australian plans to filter dodgy content except that it doesn't extend to file-sharing. How often does it need to be stated that there is no such place as "cyberspace" - just millions of individuals with millions of computers in specific geographic locations, which means it's perfectly legitimate for any sovereign government - Australia, China, whoever - to seek to control traffic through its territory, carried by telcos subject to local law. While it's fine to raise reasoned objections to the specifics of any given scheme of control, knee-jerk opposition to the principle of local censorship is the product of a puerile utopianism, masking an uglier libertarianism, that does little to promote the healthy development of a resource constantly struggling to maintain functionality and legitimacy against the relentless torrent of filth, advertising, Wikibollocks and the yammerings of bloggers. And far from reducing broadband speeds, currently at the mercy of weight of traffic and crumbly infrastructure, effective measures to clear all the crap out of the pipe must eventually speed things up, even without pusillanimous governments getting round to forcing the telcos to invest.Root Cartwright, RadlettJust a thought.....In your next story regarding this issue, you may want to consider including the following text:"The state must declare the child to be the most precious treasure of the people. As long as the government is perceived as working for the benefit of the children the people will happily endure almost any curtailment of liberty and almost any deprivation." ~Adolph Hitler, 1943Now, the Australian Government may laugh at this. But guess what? I'm not laughing.The Reichstag Fire, just before the start of World War 2? The Exectutive Orders the President RUSHED through Congress immediately following September 11.What EXCUSE will be used in the future to lock down the USA, or anywhere next time there's a 'terrorist' attack.WW2? I believe the fire was an EXCUSE to start the war (correct me if I'm mistaken).Now, 'protecting' the Children?? Remember what I just typed above about excuses? Dito! Why is it an EXCUSE? Because the overwhelming MAJORITY of people here in Australia in a poll on a news site clicked the 'No' button!! (I was one of them).Throughout history, sadly, governments will always find an EXCUSE to push through 'hidden' (or their true agendas) so that the general public will get used to the idea and be able to 'swallow' it.I'm 'only' 36 years of age, but I'm not stupid.It doesn't take much thought to start to see a pattern at what's really going on.The world is not as nice as you might think. There are hidden plans that we cannot see. To put it bluntly, there is a 'storm' coming. It will be terrible, unlike anything you have ever witnessed in your life.To put it another way, here's 'food for thought':1st Thessalonians 5:3 "For when they shall say 'Peace and safety'; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail (labour) upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape."'Peace and Safety'? Peace Talks with Governments,etc ?There are three words I want to share with you: NEVER FORGET HISTORY.Keep an eye out on what's happening in the word regaring U.S policies, rights &amp; freedoms etc, while never forgetting the past (Adolf Hitler), then, with research and the Bible, start to join the dots together.I think you'll find that there is indeed a storm coming, and it could be sooner than we think, and without sufficient warning before we are rounded-up like animals. Our faith and morals WILL be severely tested.Earl Blennerhassett, Melbourne, Australia.&gt;&gt; Regular readers will know of my less-than-sympathetic views of this kind of filtering scheme.b2fxxx.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; Is debate between moral absolutism and moral relativism a red herring when the primary criticism of Conroy's scheming is its technical unfeasibility? or should we watch carefully regardless, since as Oz moves toward a republic, tussles between cognitivists, noncognitivists and other philosophical camps will be germane to the formation (or not) of an Australian Bill of Rights.kadaitcha.comON LETTERSRe. Michael Edwards letter on sites not recognising Mac keystrokes (Letters, November 20), I too find this infuriating. The only, admittedly expensive, solution that I have found is to use Vmware fusion (or Parallels) with a Windows OS on a Mac running Leopard. If the Windows is suspended it takes less than a minute to have it up and running, and you can use Firefox or I.Explorer for downloading, filling and saving any forms required. As a bonus these can be instantly transferred to the Mac OS for further attention. Although this solution costs about £100 at best buy, you do have two computers for the price of one, and you're never hampered by those people who can't be bothered to program properly.John Forse, Stoke-on-TrentIf agamisu.livejournal.com (Letters and blogs, 20th November) can't sort wheat from crap, he/she shouldn't try home-baking.Charlie Haigh, MilnthorpeFAR FROM THE MODDING CROWD&gt;&gt; I'm not ashamed to say that I wasted far too many hours of my younger years on [Half-Life], which deserves praise not just for being a startlingly visceral artistic achievement, but for the degree to which it hyper-charged the DIY game-development community thanks to the welcoming attitude its developer, Valve, took toward modders, who ended up extending the game's lifespan for, well, a decade and counting.pushback.orgNOMINET NOMINATIONSThe article 'UK net body faces split' (Thursday 20th November 2008) included serious allegations of misconduct and mismanagement by Nominet.  We would like to make it clear that no formal allegations have been made against the board directors concerned and that any such allegations, informally made, are robustly denied.Our goal is to ensure that what is fundamentally a disagreement about Nominet's future does not overshadow or undermine the excellent work that is taking place in support of our members, customers and the wider internet community. We believe that while such disagreements happen, they should be dealt with in a professional, structured manner. We remain committed to ensuring Nominet is governed according to best practice principles and the upcoming governance review will help us to do that.Our priority remains: to ensure the smooth running of .uk and to deliver a secure, stable service to our members, registrars and customers.Lesley Cowley, Chief Executive Officer, Nominet&gt;&gt; I am saddened to read the resignation letter by Angus Hanton and the revelations by Jim Davies.These men have put their reputations, personal wealth and time on the line for us who elected them.Many questions remain unanswered, such as those relating to executive pay, senior staff discipline and corporate governance.Therefore, in my opinion, time has come to regain and safeguard membership control of Nominet, a key supplier to all our businesses.ofnom.org.ukHACK DAY&gt;&gt; Simon Willison used Dabble to help him organize The Guardian's first ever Hack Day, which consisted of 37 demos, 24 hours, 15 guest hackers, 8 judges and a handful coveted trophies.blog.dabbledb.comNAMING CONVENTIONSMay I suggest you change your publication's name from Technology Guardian to Computer Geeks' Guardian?The word Technology means the application of practical and industrial science, engineering and technology, with the vast spectrum of subjects that infers. It certainly does not mean entire issues of 'Technology' Guardian devoted to nerdy articles about the web, reviews of stupid computer games aimed at bears of very little brain, and upgrades of existing computer software.Which is what we received today.Frank Landamore, LewesDON'T WORRY ABOUT DELLI don't think you should be worried. It's doing OK. Its financial ratios are quite acceptable, certainly not in risky territory. Spending more on R&amp;D would not help it. The software is done by MS, the hardware is done by the OEMs. What is there for them to contribute? The margin is what it is because that is the nature of the industry, its like food retailing or white goods manufacture.The smart thing that Michael Dell has done is recognize this and take the necessary decisions. Not all companies do this - many simply refuse to cut costs, try to 'move up the value chain' or 'move into the value added', and so drift into being high cost producers with no differentiation, and eventually start losing both money and market share.It's not true that Dell has not innovated. Its innovations however were in logistics rather than hardware.Because Dell's situation is the direct consequence of its having adapted to the market it is in, your prescription would probably be diversification. Whether into services or other consumer products markets. It's very risky. Few companies have managed this on any scale. And even if they do, it does not change the nature of the existing business.There is probably nothing to be done about the existing business but "accept the universe" and do the best they can executing the current strategy. No reason to think this cannot be done indefinitely. Yes, it's not a great growth stock any more. Who cares, as long as it continues modestly profitable and stays in business?Peter Berrie, LondonPOSTAL HASSLESSo let's say you want to buy the officially released DVDs of a foreign TV show. The Region 2 version available in the UK is much poorer quality than the Region 1 version available in the US (and of course, you own a multiregion DVD player). So you want to buy the US version to get the extras and better image quality etc.Last time you did this, you bought from a company like DVDStars, which at that time let you buy US DVDs from a UK-based company. Now they don't/can't sell the US versions any more, so you try a US supplier, which lets you order but won't ship the DVDs to addresses outside the US. You arrange with a US friend to receive your DVDs so you can collect them when next you see each other. (You had successfully ordered a camera like this earlier in the year). You go to a US supplier and place your order with your UK credit card, only to receive the response below.What I want to know is: is this the Patriot Act or one of its spawn, stopping me buying the official DVDs of ... horror! ... previously broadcast TV shows, or is it the film/TV industry trying to force me to buy goods of lesser standard just because that's all they want to market in my world region?Fortunately my US friend will order them for me and I'll pay her back, but what exactly is the purpose of these - obviously relatively new - regulations? Is this not some kind of restraint of trade? Meanwhile, the places that sell sets of Tivo'd DVDs of US TV series seem to continue to flourish undaunted, even though what they are doing is patently illegal."We could not process your order as entered; therefore your order request was rejected and subsequently, cancelled. We do not accept orders that are placed in an International destination and then shipped to the United States or to any other country: IE: you cannot place an order in the United Kingdom and ship it to the United States. If you would like to place an order with Legendary Heroes for merchandise you must be the authorized user of the Credit Card you are entering; you must enter your full name as the credit card holder in the designated space and the merchandise must be "Billed to" and "Shipped to" the Credit Card holder's address in the country the order originates in."Naomi Standen, Newcastle upon Tyne
A story in today'sMurdoch-owned Sunday Timeshas been rubbished by Kara Swisher at theMurdoch-owned All Things Digital blog, which is an offshoot of the Murdoch-owned Wall Street Journal.The story claims that "Software giant Microsoft is in talks to acquire Yahoo's online search business for $20 billion (£13 billion)." It says:It is thought that Jonathan Miller, ex-chairman and chief executive of AOL, and Ross Levinsohn, a former president of Fox Interactive Media, have been lined up to lead the new management team.However, Levinsohn has told Swisher it's "total fiction" and "the first time Levinsohn has heard of the plan, he said. Sources at Microsoft and Yahoo also said there was no deal like that in the making at this point in time."VentureBeatalso says: "We've reached out to Levinsohn who says of the Times Online report: 'No truth to it. News to us'."Silicon Alley Insider's Henry Blodgetis going with: Microsoft-Yahoo $20 Billion Search Deal Hogwash - LevinsohnIt would be quite generous of Microsoft to pay $20 billion for a small part of a company that is, as a whole, worth $16 billion.Of course, the idea that Microsoft and Yahoo will try to do some sort of deal, at some sort of price, at some point in the future, is taken for granted. But that's not news, it's speculation. The idea that they are doing a deal now, at that price, before Jerry Yang has been replaced as CEO, would be news, but is it true?"Not yet" seems to be the consensus.
A Spanish company calledGood for You, Good for the Planethas "patented an algorithm that can detect when an appliance is in standby mode and automatically switch it off completely," says a report inThe Wall Street Journal. The idea is to reduce the "vampire power" consumed by appliances when they are not in use, which can account for 10% of a European household's power consumption.The company hasdeveloped a chipand is "talking to electronics manufacturers about incorporating it directly into their new devices". The story says:Other companies have come up with products to address the problem. James Dunne, of ElectraTech Ltd. in the U.K., has developed a power strip he calls the Savasocket. The device "learns" the infrared signal from the TV remote and switches off the entire bank of plugs when the standby button on the remote is pressed. The Savasocket is to be introduced in the U.K. next year at a price of about £20 ($30)."The interest in the product has been phenomenal," says Mr. Dunne, a civil engineer from the British city of Leeds. "I'm very happy with the orders that are coming in."One Click Technologies Ltd., also based in the U.K., sells the £17 Intelliplug, which cuts power to computer peripherals such as printers, scanners and speakers when a personal computer is shut down.Although only small amounts of power are saved per device, there's a large potential saving -- especially in the US. The story says: "a study by the University of California, Berkeley, found that such snoozing machines consume as much as 26% of electricity used in gadget-stuffed homes in California."
US Army suicides have increased since the invasion of Iraq, and although they are still at a lower rate than the general US population, "One suicide is too many," says Colonel Thomas Languirand. The Army is taking a number of approaches to help, according to a story in theChristian Science Monitor:But one of the more novel solutions is an interactive game called "Beyond the Front," starring Specialist Norton, a character in a kind of modern-day military morality play. The service plans to send out thousands of copies of the game – part of an Army suicide prevention program costing almost $1 million – to educate soldiers about the dangers of not seeking help when they most need it.In this role-playing game (demo online, not suitable for children), you get a happy ending by choosing to "reach out to fellow soldiers and family members." The story says: "The key to suicide prevention lies in overcoming the stigma of seeking help." Colonel Languirand adds:"Ultimately, it's not about videos or pocket cards or any other programs, but about educating soldiers to look out for each other."
Citroen C5 Tourer&pound;19,775Miles per gallon:33.6CO2 Per km:198 GRAMSGood for:French fanciesBad for:French farcesThere are a lot of things the French have that the Germans would dearly love to get hold of. They have herb-flecked Toulouse sausages, while the Germans have balloon-skinned frankfurters. They have crusty baguettes, while the Germans have rubbery rye bread. They have Burgundy, while the Germans have Black Tower ... But there is one thing the Germans have that the French would dearly love: they have some of the best cars in the world. Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen are all in a class of their own, the undefeated world champions of toff transport, exerting a stranglehold on the premium sector that makes Putin's grip on the Kremlin seem limp-wristed. So when Citro&euml;n unveiled their latest large saloon earlier this year, the gloriously competent C5, they decided it was so good that it could almost be German. In their advertising campaign they simply said it was German, 'unmistakably German' in fact.The truth is, over the past decade, Citro&euml;n have made huge strides. They've got the basics right and now they're beginning to raise their sights. You can no longer organise a sweepstake around when the bumper is going to fall off your BX, or guess how long it will be before you can drop litter directly on to the road beneath your feet in your 2CV. Citro&euml;n have steered a narrow path between French rust and German reliability and created a car that gets you there, and yet still retains a great chunk of Gallic personality. The biggest surprise with the C5 is the large German chip sitting on Citro&euml;n's shoulder.Within seconds of getting into the sculptural C5 Tourer you sense something special is up. To start with, the front seats come with a massage function. Sit back, press the button on the side of the seat and there's the sensation of a giant, leather-clad knuckle moving up and down your spine. For people who like pressing buttons to alleviate journey boredom, have a fear of being touched intimately by a masseuse, or enjoy the feeling of a child drumming their feet on the back of your seat, it's a godsend. Citro&euml;n, the only maker in its class to offer a 'massage as you motor', is aiming high. The rest of the interior is a tactile feast, from the revolutionary fixed-hub steering wheel and rubber-nubbed instrument stalks to the 'membrane-lined' panels (sounds awful, but it gives a pleasing, non-plasticky feel).As much thought has gone into the rear of the C5 as the front. The car comes with a choice of suspension - conventional steel springs or the marque's much acclaimed self-levelling Hydractive system. Opt for this and you'll feel you are driving a water bed. It also means you can raise and lower the back end of the car, which makes loading, and particularly hitching, very easy. Then there's the motorised tailgate, a boot light that is also a rechargeable torch, side storage nets and shopping bag hooks to consider...Couple all this with Citro&euml;n's smooth-running diesel and you have a car that is dynamic, practical and stylish. So whatever next ... couture lederhosen?martin.love@observer.co.uk
The name was never meant to stick. When Doug Engelbart and his team at the Stanford Research Institute in California designed a computer controller encased in a carved-out wooden block, with wheels mounted on the underbelly, one researcher nicknamed it a 'mouse'. 'We thought that when it had escaped out to the world it would have a more dignified name,' Engelbart recalled later. 'But it didn't.'Engelbart's invention became the mouse that soared, an essential piece of computer hardware. Its 40th birthday will be celebrated next week when Engelbart returns to Stanford (now known as SRI International). The mouse was first shown to the world when he gave a presentation of a working network computer system in San Francisco on 9 December, 1968, which is still revered as 'the dawn of interactive computing'.Yet in one sense Engelbart, now 83, was far ahead of his time. He never received royalties, partly because his patent ran out just before the tech revolution that saw the computer and mouse supplant pen and paper. Now the mouse faces growing competition from a new generation of touchscreens.Engelbart first started making notes for the mouse in 1961, after deciding that he could do better than the standard gadget, a light pen which had been used on radar systems during the Second World War. 'We had a big heavy tracking ball - it was like a cannonball,' he said. 'We had several gadgets that ended up with pivots you could move around. We had a light panel you had to hold up right next to the screen so the computer could see it. And a joystick that you wiggle around to try to steer things.'One of Engelbart's collaborators, Bill English, built an 'x-y positioning device' made from a wooden shell with wheels and a connecting cord, or 'tail', at the back. The cord got in the way when it was used, however, and so it was moved to the front. 'We set up our experiments and the mouse won in every category, even though it had never been used before,' Engelbart recalls on his website. 'It was faster, and with it people made fewer mistakes. Five or six of us were involved in these tests, but no one can remember who started calling it a mouse. I'm surprised the name stuck.'Xerox developed the mouse during the Seventies and launched the first commercial product with the Xerox Star computer system in 1981. It failed to take off, but when Apple bought the mouse patent for its Macintosh in 1984 success was assured, and it was eventually taken up by the mass PC market for use with Microsoft Windows.By then Engelbart's patent had expired, meaning that he missed out on a potential fortune, although later mice used different mechanisms which could have been claimed not to infringe the original patent if the matter had ever gone to court. The Stanford Research Institute licensed the mouse to Apple for just $40,000, according to the book Inventors and Inventions, published by Marshall Cavendish, which tells how in 1989 Engelbart lost both his laboratory and his house - the latter burnt down while he and his family stood outside helpless. But together with his daughter, he set up the Bootstrap Institute to promote his ideas, and in 1998 he was awarded the National Medal of Technology by President Bill Clinton for 'creating the foundations of modern computing'.The mouse now faces unprecedented competition. Laptops which make no use of a mouse are an increasingly popular alternative to desktop computers for workers on the move. Apple's popular iPhone and Nintendo's Wii have shown the potential for touchscreens and movement sensors. HP is pushing a mouse-less TouchSmart PC. Microsoft has invested millions of dollars in a coffee table-shaped 'Surface' computer which responds to natural hand gestures, touch and physical objects.Splendid, a digital innovations agency in London, is one of the first companies to adopt Surface. Paul Bishop, its managing director, said: 'It's much more collaborative and natural and people find it very intuitive.' Steve Prentice, an analyst at Gartner Research, also predicts the mouse's demise.'I very much doubt that we'll be using the mouse in 40 years' time,' he said. 'They will be still be around in four or five years, but will they be the standard we see today? We're starting to see more complex and intuitive controls develop and the mouse will be left behind.'
