Maybe it was listening to Radio 6, who are doingsomething similar with albums, or maybe it was playing God of War again, but I thought it was about time we cut through the hype and compiled our own list of the most-overrated games of all-time. You know the ones. The games that everyone raves about, the gaming equivalents of Sgt Pepper or The Stone Roses, which just didn't entertain as much as you expected. We don't need Kate Thornton orPaul Morleyto reel off some prompted reminisces of how Black &amp; White ultimately failed to deliver - just let us know in the comments. For me there are a few dead-cert entries for the list:Black &amp; White- oh Peter. It all sounded so grand, so majestic. Create a creature and train them to rule the world. In fact the controls and incessant micromanagement of the townspeople meant frustration took over. Still, like all Molyneux games - especially Fable - you can't help but get swept along by the man's obvious passion for gaming. Just keep that pinch of salt handy.The Getaway - I persevered with this and did finish it. The plot and sheer novelty of driving around London saw to that. But after all the hype and build-up - it's London! On your PlayStation! - the creaky controls and oddly empty streets meant this was a missed opportunity, Still, it turned out better than thesequel.Halo /Halo 2 - There's no doubt that both of these sci-fi shooters looked and sounded lovely and there was a lot to admire. But the blanket praise given to these games is ridiculous. What about the incredibly repetitive sections that blight both games? Yes, the AI was very impressive but ultimately it came down to shooting stuff. Fun yes, but not the Second Coming that reviews would suggest. Online in Halo 2 was nicely done, but Live access is limited to a minority of Xbox owners. The ending of Halo 2 single player was an unforgivable cop-out, especially considering that most owners wouldn't experience the online game. So Halo and Halo 2 then, good, but not THAT good.Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty - The trailer wowed everyone at E3 2000. Unfortunately the game itself had far too many cut-scenes, a nonsensical plot (even by gaming standards) and stealth action that grated more than ever.Rise of the Robots- This futuristic fighting game looked amazing in the screenshots, capturing the nascent CD Rom vision of a graphically glossy future. It secured a typically positive exclusive review before the truth emerged. The game was an atrociously buggy mess that should never have been released.Other overrated games that spring to mind include: Super Mario Sunshine, Entombed (C64) and - whisper it - GTA: San Andreas. The latter in particular is still a great game, but the flaws in structure, controls and length cannot be ignored.What do you think then? Which hyped and highly-scored games have ultimately disappointed you?
I used to use, and recommend, Mailwasher when it was obviously free and when the free version also worked with Hotmail. Its main advantage is that it lets you delete spam and viruses on the server, without downloading them. This is particularly useful if you travel around with a notebook PC and don't always have a good connection. The good news is that a clearly free and up-to-date Mailwasher is now available athttp://www.mailwasher.net(which directs you to Download.com for the download). However, you have to buy Mailwasher Pro if you want to use it for IMAP, Hotmail, MSN and AOL access.
Office Watch (formerly Woody's Office Watch) has had a look at the major change inOffice 12's user interfacefrom menus and toolbars to tabs/chunks/ribbons. Since this is still pre-beta software, a lot of things could change, but the thinking is interesting.
John Battelle is the author of "The Search: How Google and its rivals rewrote the rules of business and transformed our culture", a new book which examines the effect of the search engine giant's revolutionary - and hugely successful - business.John's got a long history with some of the technology industry's biggest publication, including being a co-founding editor of Wired magazine, and as the founder of The Industry Standard and TheStandard.com. He watches the search industry on hisweblog- and he's kindly going to be answering readers' questions on Google, search engines, technology and the future.If you want to ask John a question, leave it in the comments below. He'll be answering them in due course.Update:John has now responded to these questions, and his answers arehere.
There's a piece in this week'sEconomistthat looks at eBay's acquisition of Skype, and rumours that Microsoft could be looking at a stake in AOL, and asks the same question we'veall been wondering: is the bubble back?"The Skype deal is absolutely a return to the 1999 mentality," says Pip Coburn of Coburn Ventures, a technology-strategy firm. It and many of the other recent and mooted internet deals seem to be based on little more than the belief of management that everything is going to change dramatically in the next few years, in highly unpredictable ways, and so all options need to be covered. Given that mentality, says Mr Coburn, a manager "can pretty much justify paying any price".There's a difference, it says, in as much as companies are making sure there's cash - not just share options. But there's still major concern that the losers are going to fall through the floor.I'm not as sceptical as the Economist, which tends to take an establishment-line view of most things new, because I don't think success is only measured by the bottom line. And I don't think that we're in the same place as we were five years ago, either technologically or socially. Yes, there will be some losers who have paid big money for dud companies, but I'm not sure we're yet to see a spewing of cash-crazed speculation from investors trying to make a quick buck. When that arrives, then I'll be grabbing the tinfoil hat.
Betsy Book ofVirtual Worlds ReviewandTerra Novafame haspostedabout a few novel virtual worlds she's discovered this year. While they aren't gamesper se, they do provoke interesting thoughts about our relationship with online space - are the designers creating platforms for multi-modal identities (a la Neal Stephenson's cyberpunk classicSnow Crash), or using the power of the connectivity of the internet to allow people to create wider social networks using more data than just gender, race and level?The new selection includes an English-language world from theKorean creators of Cyworldwhich, Betsy says,offered a non-Korean-speaker like me a glimpse into the setup and structure of sites like Cyworld.A reader comments,This integrated community approach seems like it might be a bit of an Asian trend. One of my Japanese publisher informants recently told me that they're approaching their MMOs as part of a larger community strategy involving social networking, IM, matchmaking, blogging, etc.That's an interesting point in light ofresearchreleased last month which suggests that people from Western and Eastern cultures perceive the world differently. Yes, this is an essentialist statement, but according toProf Richard Nisbettat University of Michigan (and analysis by andRen Reynoldsat TN), the former sees a tunnel vision of information focussed on the fine details, whereas the latter population sees the bigger picture and the relationships therein. Perhaps this reflects how people use multi-modal elements of virtual spaces more readily in Eastern populations, and therefore how designers tailor their products according to the audience. While the gamesblog hastouchedon this social networking element in virtual worlds in the past, I wonder if the emergence of European-language Western virtual worlds with these aspects reflects a desire by residents for more in/out world interaction.The list also features amobile-only virtual world(I believe this is a very important space for VW creators to explore if they want to truly ricochet through the mainstream), and aplacewhere you can take the best bits of celebrities and add them to your own avatars.There really is so much more out there than just WoW.
BSkyB acknowledged yesterday the impact of Freeview on its pay-TV business by announcing plans for Sky Three, a free entertainment channel showing drama, documentaries and travel shows. The channel will take over the Sky Travel slot on Freeview and offer programmes already aired on the pay channel Sky One, including the Kiefer Sutherland drama 24, Paul McKenna's I Can Change Your Life and the crime drama Cold Case.The idea of launching an advertising-funded general entertainment channel on Freeview, which now reaches 5.2m households, was originally vetoed by James Murdoch last year, just after he replaced Tony Ball as chief executive. At his first company results briefing for Sky, he said: "We have no plans for a general entertainment channel and no plans to launch one. We're committed to pay-TV and committed to driving growth in pay-TV."The U-turn is an admission that Freeview, the free digital service backed by the BBC, is a growing threat to BSkyB's pay-TV. It is also evidence of Freeview's importance as a marketing showcase to persuade viewers to upgrade to SkyDigital. A spokesman said Sky remained focused on pay-TV subscriptions. "One of the elements that contributes to that growth is a free-to-air strategy," he said.Mr Murdoch believes that, with the impending switch to an all-digital environment, an increasing number of people will upgrade from Freeview to pay-TV as they see the wider choice. Freeview is expected to overtake Sky Digital in terms of the number of households it reaches within 18 months. Sky Digital, which has 7.8 million subscribers, has set a target of 10 million by the end of the decade.
Sir Howard Stringer, Sony's first non-Japanese chief executive, began his mission to breathe life back into the group yesterday by announcing it would close 11 of its 65 factories and shed 10,000 jobs worldwide in an attempt to return to profitability and regain its dominant position in consumer electronics.Sir Howard, a dual British-American citizen, told a packed media conference in Tokyo that the measures would bring savings of around Y200bn (&pound;1bn) by the end of March 2008.Presented with his first real test since he took over running the group in March, Sir Howard responded with a mixture of humility and bravado. "We are battling on many fronts against many competitors, a number of whom have at times proved more agile and more nimble," he said. "Sony and its peers all face tremendous pressure in the marketplace, but we have a sense of urgency and we have a sense of purpose. We can and will compete vigorously."Sony's key electronics division has made a loss for two years in a row. The firm has failed to respond to competition in emerging technologies such as flat-screen televisions and digital music players, losing out to domestic and foreign rivals such as Sharp, Matsushita and Apple.The package of cuts, though not as ambitious as some analysts had expected, indicated the depth of Sony's crisis. In addition to plant closures and redundancies - 4,000 in Japan and 6,000 overseas - the firm would sell real estate and other assets worth more than $1bn (&pound;560m). It would also reduce or dispose of 15 business categories and cut the number of electronics models by 20%, although it refused to say which ones.Sony gave no breakdown of cuts internationally. In Britain it employs 3,000 in manufacturing, sales and marketing.The streamlining is expected to cost Y210bn, but the group hopes to return to profitability next year and to achieve an operating profit margin of 5% by the end of the 2007 financial year.The company said it expected an operating loss of Y20bn in its current financial year, due to higher restructuring costs. Its previous estimate was for an operating profit of Y30bn.Analysts said Sir Howard's plans were little more than a continuation of the rescue package introduced by his predecessor, Nobuyuki Idei. "If I had to give a grade to Howard Stringer, I'd give him a C plus," John Yang of Standard and Poor's said. "He talks a lot about restructuring and cost reduction. He doesn't really talk about stirring growth."The performance of Sony's film division and game consoles contrasted with the gloom surrounding home electronics. Sony Pictures, which now owns the film studio Metro Goldwyn Mayer, has a library of 7,500 film titles that include the James Bond series and the Spider-Man films. It is also behind the much-awaited film versions of the best-selling books Memoirs of a Geisha and The Da Vinci Code.Sony hopes the launch next spring of the PlayStation 3 game console will underline its dominance of the gaming sector as it prepares for challenges from Microsoft and Nintendo. Sir Howard promised upgrades for the PlayStation Portable, Sony's handheld machine, with memory chips capable of holding more content from Sony's film library.But Ryoji Chubachi, Sony's president, conceded that recovery would be impossible unless Sony quickly rejuvenated its core electronics division.He said consumers had made it clear they found many Sony models unattractive, adding that the firm would try to regain their confidence by concentrating on "champion products" such as the PlayStation 3 game console, Bravia liquid crystal display televisions and Walkman portable music players."There can be no revival for Sony without recovery in our TV business," Mr Chubachi said. "We are definitely feeling that the recovery is under way."Citing the "sense of urgency and sense of purpose" among Sony's management, the Welsh-born Sir Howard at times sounded more like an army general than a business leader."We have made promises before but we have failed to execute them," he said. "We must be like the Russians defending Moscow against Napoleon, ready to scorch earth and stay ahead of the invaders. We must be Sony United, and fight like the Sony warriors we are."Our Media Briefing email service puts the top media stories in your inbox by 9am each day.ElectronicsSony's electronics business created the Walkman and stylish Vaio laptops but has missed out in the digital music player revolution to rivals such as Apple's iPod. Its position in home audio-visual equipment, meanwhile, has been usurped by cheaper rivals.Game consolesWith the launch of the Sony PlayStation eight years ago, video game consoles came of age. Sony has high hopes for next year's launch of the latest version, PS3. Its portable gaming device, the PSP or PlayStation Portable, is already flying off the shelves.FilmSony Pictures is home to Columbia Pictures and its parent company bought the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studio earlier this year. Forthcoming releases include the Legend of Zorro and an adaptation of The Da Vinci Code starring Tom Hanks.MusicSony still has a significant presence in the global record market with its Japanese music subsidiary. However, the rest of its music business, until recently the world's second largest, has been folded into Bertelsmann's BMG to form Sony BMG.
The extremely fineTech Museumin San Jose, California, has announced its annual 25 laureateshereand in apress release. The list includesMIT Open Coursewareand AMD'sPersonal Internet Connectoror PIC, which I wrote about in my column in Online onNovember 4last year.What caught my eye in this year's list, however, was the award toDr Joshua Silverfrom Oxford University. He's tackled the problem that hundreds of millions of people need glasses and can't get them, mostly because they live in the third world. The citation says:Joshua Silver invented low-cost glasses that can be tuned by the wearer. These ingenious spectacles have "adaptive lenses," which consist of two thin membranes with liquid between them. The wearer simply looks at an eye chart and pumps in more or less fluid to change the curvature of the lens, which adjusts the prescription.TheAdaptive Eyecareglasses were praised inFast Companymagazine in 1998, and were a Grand Award Winner in the Popular Science 'Best of What's New' Awards for 2000. His Oxford U page ishere.It turns out that fluid-filled lenses have a long history -- see, for example, the trivia contest at thePatently-O: Patent Law Blog. I hadn't thought of it before, but given the way the human eye works, I'd expect the idea to be much older.
I've been casually playing Sony'sEyeToy: Kineticover the past couple of days and yes, it seems to be working. The various wobbly bits are starting to firm up and I'm starting to look at my TV/console/EyeToy with disgust and horror. I've also developed a deep distain for computerised avatars that show no obvious signs of sweat, pain or discomfort, even when doing things that are taking my breath away. You know, there's something to be said for flesh and blood when exercising. At least you can gain sympathy points and/or support by pulling agonised faces.Mostly I've been doing the toning and yoga routines as the setup in my living room doesn't seem to work with the EyeToy's internal response system. No matter how much I adjust the dark and light settings, I can't get it to stop sounding off in places I'm nowhere near, which totally messes up my scores in the Combat and Cardio rooms. Note to those interested in purchasing this product - make sure you've got one blank wall and play in front of that. Maybe that will solve these freak issues.Technological problems aside, it's a novel product which deserves a look. One thing which is substantially missing, however, is a key psychological element in any exercise regime:guilt. But how in the world is any game going to make you feel that?Here are a few classic examples of games which have made me feel like I should be giving them more love:TamagotchiThese strange Japanese gizmos took over the planet in the late 1990s, requesting feeding, watering, playing and general attention 24 hours a day. Kiddies took to them like wildfire, but it was the parents who suffered the wrath of guilt, when their little darlings' egg-thing croaked from lack of attention while at home during school hours. The result was a lucrative business of Tamagotchi-sitters. Clever entrepreneurs!Black and WhiteOne of the great things about games is that you're encouraged to push the limits, to see just how far you can go. In Black and White, the Lionhead team gave players the opportunity to be as good or as evil as they wanted to be, towards either their little minions or with their big creature which learns how to be good or evil from the players' actions. If you chose to be evil, it could be quite a brutal game. After a while of smacking around your Ape, Tiger or Cow, it began to show bruises and cowered when you got near. It's actually truly awful. I still have nightmares about my brief foray into the dark side, and still wonder how it may have affected my creature in the long run.The SimsYou've fed them, watered them and occasionally allowed them to go to the toilet. You've taken care of their relationships, their jobs, their interior design. And then you drown them in the pool, just to see what happens. Oh God, how guilty do I feel?!Animal CrossingThis novel offline place on Nintendo's GameCube reminds you when you've not been around for a while. After a few weeks of this your in-game friends stop talking to you, rejected. And then you are alone. With your conscience.SeamanThe deceased Dreamcast's strange talking fish-thing similarly reminded you when you'd not been on for a while by dying of starvation and floating to the top of the tank the first time you loaded up the game after a spell away. It also made you feel unendingly guilty by crying when you were torturing it by shouted epithets at it through the microphone. Oh the humanity. Speaking of Seaman, there are rumours about that he may beresurrectedin next-generation form...Theme Park WorldI have to admit, I really only felt pangs of guilt in this business management simulation when I would put the burger stands in front of the most bodacious roller coaster and then "accidentally" forget to put a loo at the other end...Online games (general)There's nothing quite like human guilt to get you logging on for the 60th hour in a row. There are so many layers of guilt associated with playing online games, least of which is for the significant other who's prepared a lovely meal which gets colder and colder as you play "just one more minute". In-game guilt can vary from not playing when your guild mates are moving into a particularly gruesome battle because you're on holiday, out to dinner or (gasp) don't have time, to leaving your avatar in a precarious position to potentially rot after being potentially massacred by brutal thugs who've - potentially - looted your corpse while you witter away your real-life time by doing - gasp - work.
"Rajesh Rao, a 34-year-old businessman, spends a good part of his workday playing video games on his mobile phone. He also insists his new employees spend their first few weeks doing the same. He's not a flippant amateur refusing to grow out of his childhood. Instead he's part of a small breed of entrepreneurs trying to make India the world's studio for developing games on mobile phones, computers and consoles," reportsAP.(AP Photo/Gautam Singh)"They're already attracting big names and big money, leveraging the same advantages that India's software industry uses: abundant programming skills and low wages. They compete for outsourced game development work from the West while also creating their own games."Comment:The Indians have a disadvantage compared to the Brits. One of the cliches of UK gaming history is that we did well in games development because a generation of programmers grew up hacking Sinclair Spectrums and other cheap home computers. Indian programmers generally didn't. Whether that will sustain us through another decade is a more difficult question....
Unsafe emailI have been careless in booking hotel accommodation without checking the site was secure: it wasn't. My carelessness was compounded because the web host in London emailed my credit card details to the hotel in Spain, which confirmed the booking by returning the host's original email. I have cancelled my credit card. The British company says: "We have never experienced a problem with this system and have no plans to change it." Am I being unduly cautious, or are they being complacent?Graham WilliamsJack Schofield replies:It is generally safe to use a credit card on a website as long as it uses a secure connection, as indicated by a small image of a lock at the bottom of the browser window. However, the internet's email system is insecure as designed, and sending an email is like sending a postcard: anyone can read it en route. This probably includes your ISP (internet service provider), the owners of servers that store and forward your email, and the IT staff who look after company mail servers. In theory, it also includes anyone who uses a "packet sniffer" - a type of program that is widely available for free download - either on a server or to tap into your internet connection.Regardless, all your email is probably being scanned, possibly by UK government employees at GCHQ in Cheltenham, and almost certainly by services attempting to eliminate spam. Scanning for things that look like credit card numbers is trivial. Under these circumstances, I would not recommend sending credit card details in unencrypted email, and I would avoid dealing with any company that does. They should at least put them in a password-protected attachment created using an "archive" program designed to compress (or zip) files - though there are often tools designed to crack these passwords. Another simple alternative is Hushmail (www.hushmail.com).Perhaps we should have digital signatures and use encryption programs to secure our email. One is PGP (Pretty Good Privacy), available in a free version (www.pgpi.org). Email Encryption for the Lazy (www.dtek.chalmers.se/~d97jorn/pgp/) explains how to use it.USB limitsIs there a restriction on the number of files that can be saved to a USB drive?Jim McAllisterJS:As far as I know, the only limitation is that imposed by the file system. A USB thumb drive, memory card or phone is likely to use FAT16, the "file allocation table" system from Microsoft's old DOS disk operating system. This can store a maximum of 512 files in the root directory - and this assumed 8-character file names! If the card is 512MB or larger, it probably uses Windows 95's FAT32 file system, which has no such limit. Since using 8.3 filenames (eg Track001.mp3) is probably impractical, you may need to store FAT16 files in separate folders.BackchatM Rich asked about transferring data from his old Windows 95 PC (September 8), and I suggested a LapLink cable. Adrian Klos, Colin Hall, Dannie Bonner, John Berry and others suggested the easiest way is to take the IDE hard drive out of the old PC and mount it as a slave in the new one. If it doesn't work, you can end up with a PC that fails to recognise either drive.Christopher Clifton, John Davies, John Steel, Mike Farmer and others suggested a safer alternative: take the hard drive out of the old PC and screw it into an external USB enclosure. Not all drives fit all enclosures but Peter Johnson and Martin solved the problem with IDE-to-USB conversion cables.Alan Dickson suggested fitting an Ethernet card and using "any networking protocol to transfer at up to 100Mbps". Paul Chapman did the job with a FlashPath memory card floppy disk adapter (www.shop.bt.com/invt/cau117orwww.inmac.co.uk/catalogueitem/SMDMEM15). Now I didn't think of that.&#183;Plagued by technological troubles? Get your questions answered online by our computing editor Jack Schofieldblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
It's good to see that inventive adventure gameFahrenheitdebuted so highly, at number 3, in the latest UK games charts. Only two of EA's juggernauts - Sims 2: Nightlife and Burnout Legends - sold more last week. Hopefully Fahrenheit will hold or improve on this position next week, as word of mouth spreads. And then, just maybe, publishers will realise that the demand is there for games that require brain dexterity rather than just honed reflexes.I think there is a silent majority of gamesplayers, usually PC owners, usually older, who want to play but are alienated by the shooting/driving orthodoxy. Give them a more cerebral challenge - look at Myst for a good example - and they will come. PC mags and gaming websites may sneer but brains, not brawn, are the key to getting everyone playing.
I have recently been careless in booking hotel accommodation without checking that the site was secure: it wasn't. My carelessness was compounded because the web host in London emailed my credit card details to the hotel in Spain, which then confirmed the booking by returning the host's original email. I have, of course, cancelled my credit card. The British company tells me: "We have never experienced a problem with this system and have no plans to change it." Am I being unduly cautious, or are they being unduly complacent? Graham WilliamsIt's generally safe to use a credit card on a website as long as it uses a secure connection, as indicated by a small image of a lock appearing at the bottom of the browser window. However, the internet's email system is insecure as designed, and sending an email is like sending a postcard: anyone can read it en route. This probably includes your ISP (internet service provider), the owners of servers that store and forward your email, and the IT staff who look after company mail servers. In theory, it also includes anyone who uses a "packet sniffer" -- a type of program that is widely available for free download -- either on a server or to tap into your internet connection. Either way, you should already know that all your email is probably being scanned, possibly by UK government employees at GCHQ in Cheltenham, and almost certainly by services that are attempting to eliminate spam. Scanning for things that look like credit card numbers is trivial. Under these circumstances, I would not recommend sending credit card details in unencrypted email, and I would avoid dealing with any company that does. They should at least put them in a password-protected attachment created using an "archive" program designed to compress (or zip) files -- though there are often tools designed to crack these passwords. Another simple alternative is Hushmail (www.hushmail.com).Perhaps we should all have digital signatures and use encryption programs to secure our email. One example is PGP (Pretty Good Privacy), which is available in a free version (http://www.pgpi.org/). Email Encryption for the Lazy (http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/~d97jorn/pgp/) explains how to use it. However, PGP was written by Phil Zimmermann in 1991, and its failure to become ubiquitous suggests that either the real risk of email interception is pretty low, or that email security is not important for most people most of the time. When it comes to credit card details, however, it's better to be safe than sorry.
It's no secret that everybody thinks that Sony has been on the slide for a long time. Ever-more reliant on its games business, and struggling to make the most out of its formidable legacy, the Japanese consumer electronics giant is looking to return to form.How? By shedding 10,000 jobs, ditching £1bn in assets and trying to claw back key markets like music and TV. This is what people have been waiting for ever since Howard Stringer took over, but not everyone thinks it's a step forward. Here'sReuters:With a restructuring plan that underwhelmed some analysts, Sony hopes to reverse its fading fortunes and catch up with rivals such as Matsushita Electric Industrial and Sharp Corp. in flat TVs and Apple Computer and its popular iPod player in the portable music industry.The inventor of the Trinitron TV and Walkman cassette player said it would book 210 billion yen in restructuring charges in the two business years through March 2007 as it closes plants and slashes 10,000 jobs."These are pretty moderate plans," Mizuho Securities analyst Koichi Hariya said. "There could have been some investors who had expected more drastic measures from the new foreign CEO."Most people are in agreement - more drastic changes are needed. Does Sony need to shed underperforming businesses? Does it need to concentrate more closely on its core successes? Should it be thinking about why it's failed to successfully grow on its huge status?The answer is probably all of the above - but looking at these plans (which seem like an extension of Sony's much-derided Transformation 60 restructure), I'm not sure whether Stringer is more interested in really doing something special or simply pleasing the financial markets.
I was braced for the worst. Seldom have I read so many bad reviews about a new mobile phone as the Motorola ROKR, the device that has been hyped for months as the so-called iPod phone, which will perform as both a music player with a large memory for tracks and a phone. No more need to carry two bits of kit when one will do. But hardly anyone seems to like it. Phrases such as "lame", "it sucks" or "this product has bomb written all over it" pepper the reviews, especially on the web.Then I did what I suspect quite a few critics - relying only on the specifications - had not done. I opened the package. First I connected the phone to my computer, a Mac, (but it also works on PCs) through the USB port. Instantly, a message came up asking if I wanted to download a random selection of tracks from my iTunes library. I pressed Yes and they were dispatched to the phone, where they arrived in alphabetical order (which is why Chuck Berry's Sweet Sixteen is before Symphony in A Major for Strings.)When the downloading was done (which took a little while), I pressed the dedicated music key on the phone, scrolled down the playlist and clicked on a tune. It produced a fair noise without earphones and with them, it offered - to my admittedly unsophisticated ears - a high-quality sound.This ease of use - unusual in a mobile phone - was extended to the camera. One click of a button on the side of the phone and the camera is ready. One more click and it is stored with the option of saving it to memory or as the wallpaper on the front of the phone or sending as a multimedia message. So why all the hostility? Simple. Most of the criticism was made by existing iPod users outraged that the phone "only" offered 100 songs in memory instead of the 1,000 songs you need in an iPod to preserve your street cred.I have news for them. It isn't aimed at existing iPod users but at the vast majority of people who own mobile phones but not iPods. These are a curious body of people (and I am among them even though I do have an iPod). They do not need 1,000 songs to carry around and find 100 at a time more than enough. For such people this phone is a major advance because of its ease of use and because it has a camera and many other functions bundled into a nice retro-ish phone that weighs just under 100g.People have been speculating about the oft-postponed release of the ROKR and the fact that Apple boss Steve Jobs completely upstaged the launch of the Motorola by launching Apple's iPod nano at the same time. As spoilers go that was heavy stuff. To iPodistas the new features of the nano were further proof of the phone's inferiority. But maybe Jobs did his diversion because he was more worried about how good it might look to future iPod purchasers. He gets his profits not from low-margin songs, but from high-margin iPods. Maybe he didn't want the ROKR to be successful too quickly because it would prevent the iPod from increasing its market share for low volume music users.The ROKR, it should be said, has some defects. The mini-joystick on mine was so sensitive it would launch the browser as the cursor passed over. The Bluetooth function (which I didn't manage to get to work) is difficult to find, probably because the operators want you to send your photos by (revenue-earning) multimedia messages rather than by (free) wireless. That may also be the reason why it does not have a radio (unlike its rival, the Sony Ericsson Walkman, which has a very good one). The operators do not want you to be listening - or copying - free what you could be paying for. That apart, this is a phone that will fit the bill for a very large number of people. But they won't be doing a hard sell in an Apple shop. The phone costs &pound;230 or from zero upwards on a monthly contract.Vic.Keegan@guardian.co.uk
Is there a restriction on the number of files that can be saved to a USB drive? Jim Mc AllisterAs far as I know, the only limitation is the imposed by the file system. A USB thumb drive, memory card or phone is likely to use FAT16, the "file allocation table" system from Microsoft's old DOS disk operating system. This can store a maximum of 512 files in the root directory -- and this assumed 8-character file names! If the card is 512MB or larger, it probably uses Windows 95's FAT32 file system, which has no such limit. Since using 8.3 filenames (eg Track001.mp3) is probably impractical, you may need to store FAT16 files in separate folders.Footnote:FAT32 was introduced with Windows 95 release 2.
It's a truncated edition of Technology Guardian this week, but we still managed to get a few things in for your delectation.If I was a little quiet in Paris earlier this week, you'll understand it's because I managed to get some time with Apple's boss:read our interview with Steve Jobs here.Elsewhere we slateER: the game, look at whetheradults will ever talk about games at the dinner tableand Victor Keegan decides the bad press for Motorola's ROKR phone isundeserved.Don't forget our newAsk Jack blog, and to check in toGamesblogfor the latest from the gang.
Readers of Microsoft's Channel 9 forum for developers, andRobert Scoble's blog, are being entertained by Jamie. Some people just post short comments: he posts multiframe cartoons with borrowings from South Park. The latest isGooglepark: The Inevitable Sequel. However, it helps if you have read at leastGooglePark: "Scoble goes to google", andC9Park: Scoble Interview: Billg.
Charities' use of the internet finally may be coming of age, according to new research today which shows a dramatic rise in online activities over the last decade and a surge in charities using the net to manage their donors and supporters.Findings from the 2005 Virtual Promise research, published today by not-for-profit thinktanknfpSynergy, show that one in three large charities (with annual turnover of &#163;10m plus) say their trustees are involved in their internet strategy. This compares to just one in 10 in 2000 when nfpSynergy first started to track charities' use of the internet. The findings show a similar trend among medium (&#163;1m-&#163;10m turnover) and small (less than &#163;1m) organisations. Across the board, the biggest jump in involvement has been in the past 12 months.nfpSynergy research executive Ariel Spigelman says the findings challenge received wisdom that trustees aren't interested in backing online activities: "There seems to have been a step change in trustee boards directing internet strategy. They have always had responsibility for overall strategy but have been slow to move towards managing the virtual platform."Howard Lake, publisher of theUK Fundraisingwebsite believes this shift in thinking could be down to board members bringing more diverse skills to the table."This might be an indication that some charity trustees are contributing expertise based on their own experience within new media or online businesses," he says.This year's Virtual Promise research asked charities whether the internet had changed the way they look at supporter interaction. The answer was a resounding yes: 69% of large charities, 58% of medium charities and half of small organisations agreed strongly. In the next six months, a fifth of larger charities plan to introduce personalised content or an online picture resource; a facility for direct debit donations scored highly (27%) with medium-sized groups while e-newsletters were the top addition (26%) favoured by small charities.NSPCC was one of the first UK charities to offer supporters an online account facility where they could review donations they had made and specify the type, format and frequency of information sent to them.Mr Lake applauds this tack: "While this can take the fundraiser out of the loop, it is a far-sighted approach to allow donors far greater control of their interaction with the charity they support."'It's giving us a profile that we would never have had'The Woodland Trust is using the internet to engage people across the country in its work, notably through a dedicated website for'phenology', the study of natural phenomena in relation to climate. Around 20,000 people are currently recording phenomena for the trust - such as the first bluebell, blossom or cuckoo of the year. Earlier this year, the trust worked with the BBC to launch a Springwatch survey, which engaged around 80,000 people. It is just about to go live with Autumnwatch.E-communications manager Jon Parsons says: "Some charities just see the internet as a marketing leaflet. We've taken it a step further and it's giving us a profile that we would never have had."Sally O'Connell, web editor at Asthma UK, says 50% of new members join online while 80% of event sign ups come via the website. Many use the site's moderated message boards, which are the most popular destination.AtDogs Trust, 40% of "sponsor a dog" sign ups come through the website. "People can see the dogs or take a virtual tour of a rehoming centre, which really helps them decide whether they want to get involved in our work," says website manager Jacqui Darlow.A recent survey of charity fundraisers found that only 30% think of the internet as a successful fundraising tool. Yet the Virtual Promise research found that over 60% of large charities say internet has grown as income source in last 12 months.Mr Lake believes the growth in online sponsorship of runners at events such as the London Marathon through donation websites like Justgiving and Bmycharity could contribute to this trend. In 2001, just &#163;20,000 was raised online by London Marathon runners using the Justgiving donations website. In 2005 over &#163;7m was raised online.Sight Savers Internationalsays online donations to the charity have increased by 25% since last year and are up by third compared to 2003. Website coordinator Matt Blake puts this down to increased marketing to raise the charity's profile and highlight online giving. "It may depend on the type of people who are your donor base," he says. "Ours tends to be a bit older so perhaps they are becoming more confident about donating online."Mr Parsons at the Woodland Trust admits that measuring return on online investment but says trustees and managers should think long-term: "If we can reach 100,000 people though our websites, 10,000 may get engaged on a regular basis, 5,000 may donate, 1,000 may become members and a few might even give us a legacy."
A group representing more than 8,000 US writers is suing Google alleging that the company's attempt to digitise the book collections of several major libraries represents massive copyright infringement.The lawsuit, filed by the Authors Guild in the US district court in Manhattan, is the first to arise from the Google Print Library programme, the fledgling effort aimed at creating a searchable library of all the world's printed books.The lawsuit seeks class-action status -allowing multiple plaintiffs - asks for damages and demands an injunction to halt further infringements.As well as the Authors Guild, the largest society of published writers in the US, three writers are named as having brought the action: Daniel Hoffman, a former poet laureate of the US, Betty Miles, an author of children's and young adult fiction, and Herbert Mitgang, a former New York Times editorial writer and the author of a biography of Abraham Lincoln as well as novels and plays.Each of the plaintiffs claims copyright to at least one literary work that is in the library of the University of Michigan, one of the libraries, along with Harvard and Stanford, that agreed to let Google create a database of their entire collection.The company is also scanning books stored at the New York Public Library and Oxford University, but those two libraries are providing Google only with "public domain" works - material no longer protected by copyright. Oxford University's Bodleian Library will initially make an estimated 1m books from its 19th century collection available to Google.At the time the project was announced in December last year, Reg Carr, director of Oxford University Library Services, commented: "We hope Oxford's contribution to this project will be of scholarly use, as well as general interest, to people around the world."The overall project will involve scanning millions of titles - many of them rare and delicate - and making the text available on the internet via Google searches. It is a process which experts have predicted could take as long as 10 years.The lawsuit is the latest round in the battle between Google and publishers that pit copyright holders' interests against the company's mission of "organising the world's information and making it more universally accessible and useful".In August Google said it planned to temporarily scale back plans to make the full text of copyrighted books available on its internet site, while discussions with publishers and authors continued.A Google spokesman said the company regretted that the Authors Guild had chosen to sue rather than continue discussions. "Google Print directly benefits authors and publishers by increasing awareness of and sales of the books in the programme," Google said in a statement. "Only small portions of the books are shown unless the content owner gives permission to show more."But Nick Taylor, president of the New York-based Authors Guild, said: "This is a plain and brazen violation of copyright law. It's not up to Google or anyone other than the authors, the rightful owners of these copyrights, to decide whether and how their works will be copied."
Word is buzzing around the internet about a highly infectious disease currently wiping out whole towns of avatars in the online RPG World of Warcraft. As Clive Thompson explains in hisCollision Detectionblog:"The trouble began when Blizzard, the company that runs World of Warcraft, introduced a new opponent called Hakkar, the "god of blood". When you fight him, as a defense he infects you with something called "Corrupted Blood", which shaves off your hit points so rapidly that your character dies very quickly. Problem is, the Blood is infectious -- get close enough to another player and you'll pass on the disease."Apparently, one of the key problems here (apart from the whole bizarre idea of spreading a digital Ebola in the first place), is that players constantly resist any attempts by GMs to quarantine them, so the disease spreads with impunity. If online RPGs are the huge social experiment many commentators make them out to be, this says some revealing and unpleasant things about how humansreallybehave in a crisis. Indeed, Thompson goes on to suggest:"Maybe we should be using online games to study the effects of a real-world bioterror attack? MaybeFEMAand the government should hire Blizzard to build them an online world, and populate it with players by offering it for free. Then researchers can test the effects of a contagious bioterror attack such as smallpox - by releasing a virtual version of it, and seeing how players react."Of course, there's always the possibility that this is, in fact, what's actually happening...Read morehere.
The second issue of the spangly newTechnologysection is out today. Thereviewis ER (hint, it's a little bit rubbish) while Keith writes afab pieceabout gaming in polite company. In case you were wondering, the one-game-a-week review policy was bought in to give the writer full scope to properly cover the title. The plan is to cover the most interesting games, good or bad, hence ER today. Upcoming reviews include Nintendogs and PES5/FIFA 06.
We need an electronic way to identify ourselvesYour review of the functions of the proposed ID cards (If biometrics isn't foolproof, what is the point of using it? September 15) is about more than biometrics. ID cards are a proposal by government for government, all the functions are to do with identifying us to them. We need an electronic way of identifying ourselves to anyone else.ID cards could have a real benefit if they would include one thing: electronic signatures we could use, for example, to ID emails. If I can be sure of the identity, then email can become a legally signed document and transform our scribbling from everyday gossip to formal business communication. The electronic signature would be unique to the identified individual. Any emails without a electronic signature could be ignored. Spam would be a thing of the past.To use the ID card, all PCs would be required to have a smartcard slot into which you can plug your card, turning the PC into a "uniquely you" computer terminal. This could be widely used in corporate networks to identify employees and grant specific access to company information. Or it could be used for electronic commerce, or as a grant of rights to a music download.There are private systems to do this, but none offer the trust that would come from a government-run system.Antony WattsBanknockOne problem with any ID card proposal is going to be the address field. Plenty of candidates in the public sector's client list won't have an address, while many will have several. MPs, for instance, could have addresses in London, the constituency, a family home and maybe a holiday home. If they need a separate ID for each one, they will have multiple identities, which is likely to confuse the new register system, unless someone specifies override options, in which case the security implications take off and it will cost a great more than planned (which we knew anyway).John StarbuckHuddersfieldContent well receivedCongratulations on the redesign. It works and serves the content well. And what content! I was impressed with the whole section, but my main purpose in writing is to waft massive kudos at you for giving most of a page to Kieron Gillen's review of Fahrenheit (September 15). It's the best game review I have read. An in-depth review in a national paper, and one that avoids the smug in-jokery of the specialist games press.Ed SternAdventurous for 67What a treat to find the Technology section inside Thursday's edition of the new paper. I have long bemoaned the fact that I have forgotten on which day to look out for, or where to find the Online news. The layout and content were excellent. It pleased me to note, too, that as a Skype user, I have "a sense of adventure" (Talk is cheap, September 15). I am a 67-year-old woman, which may say something about the readership the section enjoys!Margaret MarksBromborough, WirralBlogBackI believe the time will come when saying you don't play games will be the equivalent of saying you don't watch movies or read books ... Admitting to owning a PlayStation or whipping out your GameBoy on the train while being over the age of 15 does not quite force the "social leper" tag upon you as it used to. Games are getting serious, well-written coverage in places such as the Guardian's technology section.www.alexmcchesney.comYeah the new Guardian tech section is not at all bad. Entertaining games section and only a few references to iPods.worldofstuart.excellentcontent.com&#183;Write to: Letters, Technology Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, Telephone: 020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Solar-powered gadgets are perfect for a sun-drenched San Diego, but not so clever on a wet, wintry day in Scunthorpe. Nevertheless, manufacturers seem keen to harness the sun's rays to power all manner of gadgets.Last year saw the Solio, a just-about-portable solar charger for MP3 players. We have seen solar-powered Lego helicopters (&pound;15.99), a hat with a built-in solar fan (Cool Cap &pound;10.50) and, more sensibly, solar-powered bike lamps (&pound;20) and a torch (&pound;19.50).Perhaps the most ambitious gadget to bring solar power to the mainstream is the H.2 Series CommEnt solar backpack from sports manufacturers O'Neill. Pigeonholing this tough, waterproof bag as a solar gadget doesn't really do it justice. It also features smart iPod controls (by British company Eleksen) in one of the straps, so users can stop, start, pause and control the volume of their music player while it is tucked away in a pocket. The buttons, which are compatible with series 3 and 4 and mini iPods, have to be given a bit of a push to work, though. The bag can be paired with a Bluetooth phone, so if a call comes in the music cuts out and the user can have a conversation via earphones.As for the recharging, the bag is designed to "top up" phones and iPods with around four hours of power. As expected, the solar panels barely registered on a cloudy London day. Given that the bag is most likely to be used by snowboarders and backpackers in sunny climes, harnessing the sun's rays should not be much of an issue. Besides, the unit also comes with a mains connector so users can top up the power supply before they go out.There are a few quibbles. Not all our Bluetooth phones were compatible, and potential buyers will need to ensure there is a suitable charger/adaptor with the bag. The bag's solar panels are rigid, too, so unlike its rival the ESC Juice Bag, you can't scrunch up the rucksack. At &pound;170 the bag is not cheap, but given the flexibility it offers for backpackers and outdoor sports enthusiasts, it is probably worth it.
When Nintendo unveiled the first details of its next-generation console, the Revolution, earlier this year, there was one missing piece: the controller. Subsequent months have seen great speculation among gamers, but at the Tokyo Games Show last week, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata took the opportunity to put the rumours to rest.At first glance, the Revolution controller has more in common with a television remote control than with traditional joysticks and pads. There are no wires connecting it to the console itself, and the design is a flat stick with a variety of buttons, pads and triggers - all designed for use with one hand.But it's what is going on under the hood that is really exciting: the unit has a variety of capabilities that, Nintendo says, could change the way we play games altogether. Not only is it tilt-sensitive - meaning that rolling it from side to side can produce on-screen effects - but it has built-in 3D pointing. The internal sensors can detect whether the controller is moving up, down, left, right, forward or backward, offering players the opportunity to wield it like a sword, or swing it like a tennis racket. Nintendo also promises a series of add-ons, including an analogue stick.The reason for the change is simple - it is an attempt to take gaming even further into the mainstream. Nintendo's history as a videogames pioneer is long and clear, but there are many still put off by the way games are played."It is designed like a TV remote because that's familiar to everyone, including those who are intimidated by a two-handed controller," says Iwata. "Its intuitive form allows both experienced and new gamers to stand on the same starting line ... this is an extremely exciting innovation, one that will thrill current players and entice new ones."It certainly looks interesting, and given the success of alternative inputs such as Sony's EyeToy, Nintendo could be on to a winner. There's still no word on how the controller will be powered, but if it is really taking cues from TV remotes, then it seems likely batteries will be involved. Just make sure you don't try to turn off EastEnders with it.
These are tricky times for mobile phone manufacturers. On the one hand they are trying to position phones as the uber-gadget, rendering digital cameras, MP3 players and PDAs redundant. Yet at the same time they are aware that consumers don't like things too bulky.The first in the N series of high-end handsets (the N91 music phone is coming soon), the N90 is 3G compatible, has a music player and video camera and uses the Series 60 interface. Its unique facility is that it is the first cameraphone with a Carl Zeiss lens. Nokia hopes users will leave their camera at home and use the N90 to take two-megapixel images. The problem is that the phone takes up the same space as, say, a Motorola RAZR and a Sony DSC-T7 five-megapixel camera.Once you get over its size there is plenty to like. Clearly, the investment in the lens has paid off and the images are crisp, colourful and, for a cameraphone, highly detailed. The auto focus is one of the best on a phone and the 20x digital zoom and adjustable exposure are worth experimenting with.The phone is also very flexible. The lens is in a twist-round barrel at the top of the phone, so users can either hold the phone horizontally to take images or open up the clamshell and twist the screen so it is on the left and vertical. While the former is more natural for taking pictures, it is compromised by the fact that many users will have to operate the snap switch with their left hand and use the lower-quality external screen as a monitor.The rest of the phone is standard top-end Nokia fare: a solid email client, flexible web browser, easy-to-operate organiser and a quality music player. The 262k colour screen is outstanding and the keypad is responsive.The N90's thunder has been slightly stolen by the just-launched Sharp Vodafone 903. This handset is smaller, sports a funkier design, a larger, better screen and takes three-megapixel images.
ET Extra Terrestrial (1982)The game of legends - the legend being that it was so awful that Atari had to bury thousands of copies in the New Mexico desert. True or not, it became the template for how not to do it. ET turned out green, for heaven's sake - didn't they see the movie? And where was the scene where he escapes from FBI agents hiding in his garden while Elliot brings him delicious Reese's Pieces? Yes, it even had product placement.Street Fighter: The Movie (1995)There's pleasing symmetry to a movie so bad it cast Kylie Minogue as a British commando inspiring a game so bad that Kylie's the best thing about it. Capcom's Street Fighter was the world's No 1 videogame franchise before this disastrous piece of reverse engineering replaced the original Manga-style characters with badly animated versions of Van Damme, Kylie and (in his last screen appearance) the great Raul Julia. What a way to go.Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? (2000)Always well-suited to a videogame, Eidos nevertheless took several attempts to get this one right. Chris Tarrant only recorded a few key segments (all the questions were displayed as 2D graphics then voiced by an actor) but the game captured the show's pressure-cooker atmosphere and even conjured up a cyber friend to phone, who randomly got the right answer. Was there a million quid for getting to the end? Of course not, although there was a tacky premium-rate phone competition from which, no doubt, several companies made a packet.Enter the Matrix (2003)Not quite the disaster now claimed by the magazines that overrated it at the time, but launching on the same day as Matrix: Reloaded meant corners were cut. Unplayably slow on some PCs and overshadowed by Max Payne on the consoles, it goes to show that Hollywood production values (hours of exclusive video were shot by the cast) carries with it no guarantee of quality gameplay.CSI: Miami (2004)As if to rub ER's face in it, some big TV dramas convert surprisingly well to videogame. Ubisoft played it safe by following the same path of point- and-click adventuring as previous conversions such as Blade Runner and at least three CSI prequels. Investigation is the name of the game here, putting together the clues and hoping you find the killer before your wrist seizes up from all the mouse-work. David Caruso and the team pop up for video highlights, providing a slick game for fans of the genre.
I am the ER queen. I have seen every episode of the fast-moving American medical soap. I have wept at the deaths of characters, I have rejoiced in their happinesses, and have bitten my nails at the cliffhangers.And I love computer games. I am the woman who recently shelled out an absurd amount of money on a new gaming "rig". My new computer was lovingly handbuilt in Canada by a boutique company to the highest possible specifications, ready for me to throw everything a game developer devised at it. Two top-of-the-range graphics cards growl inside my water-cooled PC, along with one of the fastest processors money can buy and more Ram than you can shake a stick at.What's more, I used to be a TV critic, so indulging my dirty little secret of loving TV hospital dramas (I am even hooked on Casualty) could be justified as work. What could be attractive to me than a combination of shiny pixels, voice acting by real ER performers, including the dreamy Noah Wyle, and the prospect of spending hours with some of my favourite TV characters?It was with a pleasant sense of anticipation that I installed the game. Would I get to drive ambulances through the mean streets of Chicago in the style of Grand Theft Auto San Andreas? Would I be able to use a gravity gun, as in Half-Life 2, to shoot baddies threatening the nurses?Situation criticalUm, no, I wouldn't. Before I could do anything I had to spend an age messing about with the resolution of my monitor as ER - The Game only supports two rather poxy resolutions: 1024 x 768, or 800 x 600. This is a good thing if you have an old and rubbish computer with an old and rubbish graphics card and an old and rubbish and small monitor. And it says a lot about who this game is designed for. It is aimed at the casual gamer who knows the TV series and doesn't spend much time or effort on their computer. The lowest common denominator, in other words.What this means, however, is that the game is also devoid of any of the buzz, sexiness, innovation or excitement of the TV series. There's no blood, no life-or-death crises, no gasping quickies in the linen closet and certainly no moody George Clooney prowling the corridor.Instead you get the limpest of Sims-like management games. You create a character - and even this is boring, with a bare minimum of customisation options. If you manage to stay awake through the tutorial, which guides you through the somewhat baffling interface, you will find yourself dumped in front of rough approximations of Drs Carter, Lewis and Pratt, who bark instructions at you and then vanish.You then spend your time finding patients and hanging about waiting for instructions from the doctors on which of them to treat. Moving about the ER environment, which is like looking down on a cutaway stage set, is a bore: you click and wait for your character to walk there.Interacting with the patients, when you eventually find them, is a further tedious point-click-and-wait exercise in a barren environment where you can't even control the camera angles. You can zoom in and out a bit and rotate, but that's your lot. No switching between first- and third-person views, and the slightly skewed overhead view made me feel as if I'd had a bit too much red wine.There is nothing remotely challenging in what should be a skilful and fun central part of the game: the diagnosis appears in the heads-up display, you either click on the patient again and hey presto, he or she is cured, or you will summon another doctor or perhaps send the patient to the lab for tests. And then they are cured anyway. You are up against the clock but only the very inept will run out of time on most of the tasks.Personality disorderI couldn't work up the remotest enthusiasm for my character, a bland blond baby doctor I called Blossie, even though I often get deeply into customising a character in other role-playing games.Yes, you build up experience points that you can spend on boosting skills such as paediatrics, orthopaedics and general surgery. Yes, you have to manage three attributes - energy, hygiene and composure - by making sure your character washes, sleeps and works out occasionally. But it is all so uninvolving that you end up wanting to treat your alter ego badly, never letting him or her wash or have a nap. And even that is no fun, because you can let your stats drop to almost nothing before they have a noticeable effect on your character's relationships.What might have been the most fun part of the game - the interaction with other characters - is equally tiresome. This is a real shame, as there are potentially lots of ways of building up relationships by chatting, flirting, gossiping, confiding secrets and suchlike. But the visual dullness of the game combined with the tediousness of having to wait for so many things - your character to walk between various parts of the ER and for the voice lines to finish playing - means that I could go off to feed the cat while waiting for Blossie to finish her dialogue with a police officer.It is clear that money has been spent on making the game, as five actors from the TV series - Noah Wyle (Carter), Sherry Stringfield (Lewis), Mekhi Phifer (Pratt), Yvette Freeman (Haleh) and Adrian Benrubi (Jerry) - contribute their voices. But they sound as though they are sleepwalking through the lines and it would be nice if the dosh had been directed instead at beefing up the graphics, the storyline, the humour - just about everything, really.It is a shame, as more than a few fans of the show will doubtless be tempted. But such a fantastic TV series deserves a much, much better videogame interpretation than this.Diagnosis: terminally weak.Prescription: buy the upcoming DVD of series five instead.
Will it ever be OK to discuss videogames among adults? I mean at dinner parties and other social functions, not just down the pub in secretive little groups. I ask because last week's TechnologyGuardian featured an interesting statistic: 56% of all gamers are aged between 24 and 44. And yet, very few people over the age of 30 talk about them.Games, it seems, are still a guilty pleasure. Your PlayStation, like children's toys, embarrassing elderly relatives or dirty underwear, must be hidden before guests arrive. And while it is acceptable for 24 to 44-year-olds to discuss TV trash like The X Factor for hours on end, bring up videogame masterpieces such as the heartbreakingly beautiful Ico, and before you know it, the host is red-faced with embarrassment and someone is noisily collecting plates and offering coffee.There is, of course, more to this than snobbery. This is about fear. Programmes such as Big Brother and Celebrity Love Island are easy to watch and talk about. Everyone gets it, everyone can feel superior to the talentless sods on the screen. But videogames require an investment of time, and new, yet arcane, skills. People find it hard to admit technology is leaving them behind.It is increasingly untenable to dismiss videogames as the modern equivalent of the train set in the attic, Dad's childish shame. Games are everywhere now, on mobile phones, MP3 players, even cable and satellite TV. They are inspiring other areas of the media, sometimes obviously - videogame movies such as House of the Dead and Tomb Raider - and sometimes subtly. Land of the Dead, George A Romero's latest zombie blockbuster, would not have come about if it weren't for the massive popularity of the Resident Evil games, which paid tribute to the director's undead oeuvre.So you have a duty to your friends to keep pushing games into the conversation. Start with the unthreatening ones: Sony's brilliant Sing Star, for example, which provides microphones and a range of pop hits to karaoke along to. Or one of the cute Nintendo DS titles such as puppy sim Nintendogs or Konami's teen Robinson Crusoe Lost in Blue where you start fires by blowing on the screen.At first, people will be keen to return to more intellectual fare - such as Big Brother. But eventually someone will say: "I want to hear more about this Katamari Damacy - is it really just about rolling down the street collecting stuff into a big ball?" And this is your big chance. Don't blow it by admitting that your relationship is on the rocks because you spend six hours a night playing World of Warcraft. No dinner party in the world is ready for that.
Despite the boom in digital music players over the past few years, the market in their video equivalent, personal media players, has been relatively slow to take hold. But that could all change thanks to the arrival of Sony's popular PlayStation Portable, which has the ability to store and play TV and movies.With hundreds of thousands buying a PSP since its launch earlier this month, demand for portable video is sure to grow - and many are eyeing up a new opportunity, including Creative, whose new Zen Vision hits the shops soon.This multimedia player, the successor to the Creative Zen Portable Media Center, comes with 30GB of memory and a clear 3.7in screen. It is available in white or black, but can't match the smooth look of Sony or Apple rivals. The desktop software is a little clunky, but the onboard navigation is fairly clear. And once the machine is set into action, it becomes apparent that the quality of the video and audio playback is very high - the ability to run it through to your TV means it really does offer portability for films and photos. The Vision is aligned with the Plays for Sure standard, which means it can play all the common Microsoft-compatible audio and video formats. And the player is stuffed with extras, including an FM tuner, a slot for Compact Flash cards, and a mic for voice recording.There's one thing the Zen Vision can't get away from, though, and that's weight. It is not large, and there are far heavier players around, but it is still too stocky to be easily pocketable. The benefit is an extremely solid build that feels safe and protective - but anyone hoofing around this little number might be encouraged to pump some weights first.It is certainly one of the better personal media players, but where does the video come from in the first place? Sony is focusing on a MiniDisc-style format for movies on the PSP, but there is yet to be a serious online download store.Upcoming services promise much, but until they arrive, even the Zen Vision will struggle to break open the portable video market.
In a parallel world, Steve Jobs could have been a poker player with a reputation as a cool hand. After three decades at the top table of technology, all the required skills are there: patience, self-belief, bravado - and, most importantly, the ability to ride a streak of luck."Some people thought we got really lucky with the iPod, and we did," says Jobs. But, he adds, real winners don't just enjoy the breaks, they exploit them. It is necessary to stay on top, especially when everybody's out to get you. As he puts it: "We have world-class competitors trying to kill us."So far, the competition is not doing a great job. Apple's hand in the home computer market might be weak, but it holds all the cards in digital music. Thanks to phenomenal sales of the iPod over the past few years, the company is at an all-time high and its dominance of music downloading is almost total. More than 6m iPods were shipped in the past three months, underpinned by a pervasive marketing campaign and growing consumer awareness. No wonder, then, that Jobs is in confident mood.Dressed in the regulation outfit of a Californian intellectual - black, black and more black - he is upbeat about the future of Apple, the company he founded almost 30 years ago in his parents' garage. He believes that central to the company's success is Apple's vision - his vision - of making technology simple."There's a very strong DNA within Apple, and that's about taking state-of-the-art technology and making it easy for people," he says. Jobs's targets are busy, modern consumers; "people who don't want to read manuals, people who live very busy lives".Ultimate salesmanThere are certainly a large number who buy into that concept. But while many are drawn in by the slick advertising and fashionable branding, those who stick around are often motivated by the man himself. On stage, and with an audience to play with, Jobs is the ultimate salesman. His speeches are famous for generating the "reality distortion field", a sense of devotion to the cause that most rival technology bosses would kill for. Some fans will go wild for each new product that Jobs delivers, and his enthusiasm and charisma pour out across the stage.In person, though, he is quiet, determined and relatively inscrutable. It is as if the qualities that make him a great showman turn inside out when put under the magnifying glass; a bluff worthy of any hardened Las Vegas gambler.Despite his value on stage, Jobs did not make a keynote speech at Apple's annual Paris expo earlier this week, and for one simple reason: there was nothing new to announce. The company had unveiled its autumn product, the iPod nano, two weeks before. The other big news, the iTunes-compatible ROKR phone from Motorola, is being re-aligned as little more than a test run. Jobs blames speculative media interest for imagining it was anything more than "dipping our toes in the water".Apart from nano - which, as a replacement for the best-selling iPod mini, is a major move for the company - Apple's cupboard is fairly bare. It is a low point in the product cycle, with much of the behind-the-scenes work focusing on the Intel-based computers due next summer. But new iPods are on the way, and Jobs promises "a lot of new things in the pipeline".This relative downtime is giving Jobs a chance to promote Apple itself, and the company's wider beliefs. It is an important time: while the long-standing computer business remains just as important as the newer focus on music - he wonders whether anyone would ask which of his children was more important to him - it is clear that Apple is changing.Lifestyle brandAt the centre of it all, Apple is now a lifestyle brand, rather than a technology company. Each iPod comes inscribed with the words "designed in California", a seemingly throwaway statement that gives a fundamental insight into the company's outlook. The message is straightforward: we are innovators, we are cool, we are friendly. It's an extended new age mantra that betrays Apple's west coast roots and has proved crucial to its image - both good and bad - over the years.Remaining friendly in the eyes of consumers is at the heart of Apple's motivations. Green issues, for example, are becoming a real concern. With so many units being shifted across the world, like many other computer firms, Apple has come under increasing scrutiny about its environmental policies. Jobs is clear that reducing the footprint of products is important, but it should, he feels, be put into context."One automobile is, I'm sure, greater in impact than 100,000 iPods," he says. "The one part of consumer electronics that you have to worry about is the battery. I'm glad we got rid of cathode ray tubes, because they were horrible, full of lead. Flat displays are much better. The batteries ... you have to watch. But you can bring your iPod into an Apple store and get it recycled, and we run a battery replacement scheme."Even our packaging reflects these concerns. It is dramatically smaller these days, and we have removed styrofoam and such things."The image might be soft, but it is clear that nobody gets to be the chief executive of such a large company without a killer instinct. Part of the Jobs mystique is that he simply doesn't give up. He bounced back from a boardroom fight that saw him leave the firm in 1985, returning triumphantly in 1997.He also bounced back from a financial and commercial precipice, launching a series of iconic products including the iMac and iPod. And he even bounced back from death, beating a rare form of pancreatic cancer last year. Ease of use might be in Apple's DNA, but there is grit and determination in there as well.There is a cruelty, too, about the dismissive way in which the company treats its fresh lineup of competitors, or the way Jobs relates to those he disagrees with. Part of it is executive braggadocio, of course, but there are clearly subjects - and people - he doesn't like.Questions about his feelings on hackers attempting to "improve" Apple's operating system, for example, are batted away with a wide-eyed stare. "You're asking me whether theft is a good idea?" he responds, incredulously. "If people want to change our software, then they should come to work at Apple ... We might choose to give it away, but it should be our choice to make."Shrewd politicianIt's clear that ownership is important to Jobs. He might not own Apple, but as the public face of the company he does lay claim to the firm's image, and understands the necessity of being seen as "the good guy". For instance, when it is suggested that record labels might look to increase their income by bumping up the price of iTunes downloads, he brings in the spectre of illegal downloading."Music companies make more money when they sell a song on iTunes than when they sell a CD," Jobs says. "If they want to raise prices, it's because they're greedy. If the price goes up, people turn back to piracy - and everybody loses."This is how things work: with a swift shuffle, he asserts Apple's ownership of the music download market, and distances it from the messy decisions. It is clear, he says, that a price bump will be a terrible move made by a music industry only interested in short-term profits.It is the kind of subtle statement that suggests Jobs would be a shrewd politician - something that has been suggested, and his links to the Democrat party in the US are good: last year he offered himself as an advisor to the campaign to elect John Kerry as president, while former vice president Al Gore is on Apple's board.But even if Apple's stereotypical users - young, fashionable and metropolitan - are sympathetic to his personal views, he insists that his politics aren't important to the company's strategy. "We're not trying to sell belief - we're just who we are. Apple has values we care about; Apple cares about tolerance. We are not a political company, but a company with a set of values."And over the years, Apple has had the perfect foil for those values, in the guise of the unfriendly giant Microsoft. It is something that has benefited the Californian firm, even if it would be loathe to admit it. As the perennial underdog in a round of high-stakes poker, it has learned how to play its cards with enough skill to survive. Now, entering into new markets, Apple has discovered that it's a much better player than it ever realised.Not even Jobs would claim that this was winning a 30-year-long bet. But it is a gamble which is paying off, for now at least.Highs and lows1976Apple Computer formed by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak1984Apple Macintosh launches, using a graphical interface that becomes standard on home computers1985Jobs forced out of Apple after a power struggle with John Sculley1997Re-installed as chief executive1998Apple releases the iMac2001iPod is launched - 20m sold in four years2004Jobs recovers from pancreatic cancer after surgery
Woolworths is hoping a new in-store internet ordering system will help the company to cash in on Christmas spending, which accounts for 40% of overall sales. The retailer, which yesterday announced continuing falls in like-for-like sales and an increased first-half loss of almost &pound;36m, said it had converted cash tills in all 800 stores to enable staff to order products directly from its website.The chain hopes the chance for shoppers to get their hands on hard-to-find toys or electrical items and have them delivered to their home or local branch within 48 hours will help it to claw back customers over the Christmas period.Trevor Bish-Jones, Woolworths chief executive, told a press briefing that the system, which will double the number of products available in some of the smaller stores, already accounted for between 1% and 2% of total sales."This is something that's evolving. I don't know how big it will be but I think making available 6,000 products to customers in an easy, friendly way has to be a good thing." The development is expected to be a crucial part of the chain's Christmas campaign, which will begin a month later than last year, at the start of November.Woolworths said like-for-like sales fell by 1.7% in the eight weeks since its last trading update, compared with the previous 4.4% decline. Underlying losses increased by &pound;3m to &pound;35.9m in the first half of the financial year as consumers hit by rising living costs deserted the high street.Mr Bish-Jones said sales since September 10 had been helped by the strong performance of the back-to-school range and outdoor goods such as garden furniture, boosted by the late warm spell, as well as the store refit programme. In the six months to June 30, toys and electrical products performed best, with weaker sales in entertainment. He expected the retail environment to remain challenging but believed Woolworths would ride the storm through a strategy of cutting costs and dropping prices to consumers.Mr Bish-Jones said &pound;25m of savings would come on top of the &pound;10m made in the first half. Last year the chain imposed a recruitment freeze, cut head office jobs and stripped out a tier of management at larger stores. It has renegotiated support-service contracts and cut staff hours by up to 4% as well as deferring its annual pay award to employees, due in August, until January. "Cutting back hours is a way of achieving this level of cost control without a high level of redundancies," Mr Bish-Jones said. "Controlling our costs allows us to go into Christmas not looking for sales growth or margin growth, but still underpinning the profitability of our business. If we are looking at margins, somewhere between flat and minus 2% feels like not a bad place to be."Price cuts would help to drive the expected &pound;750m of sales in the 10-week Christmas season, with some of them "pretty aggressive". Clothing, a fiercely competitive sector, is a priority, with prices down about 10%, while Christmas favourites such as the foot spa will have prices slashed. "If you look at the consumer climate at the moment, we have to help people out there as much as we can to buy from Woolworths, and that's about being sharp in our pricing."Top sellers would be Roboraptor, a new robotic dinosaur, and the PSP, the portable version of the Sony PlayStation, which has already sold out in stores, he said.
I often get annoyed when my XP computer beeps, whistles or hisses at me and I don't know why -- it is not obvious whether it is from my current application or something in the background (I've got quite a bit running). Is there anything like a sound event log which will let me know which application/process initiated the most recent sound events? I've looked around but not found anything... Colin StratfordI don't know of anything either. However, go to Start, select Control Panel, and run the Sounds and Audio Devices applet. Click on the Sounds tab and the most common application sounds should be listed. If you select a sound (it has a loudspeaker icon), the Sounds box will tell you the filename (such as C:\Program Files\Alwil Software\Avast4\English\virfound.wav). If you click on the right arrow between the Sound box and the Browse button, Windows will play the sound. If you play a few sounds, you should be able to relate these to the ones you're wondering about.Does anyone have a better idea?
"In order to drive greater agility in the execution of its software and services strategy, Microsoft Corp. today announced a realignment of the company into three newly formed divisions, each of which will be led by its own president. The Microsoft Platform Products &amp; Services Division will be led by Kevin Johnson and Jim Allchin as co-presidents; Jeff Raikes has been named president of the Microsoft Business Division; and Robbie Bach has been named as president of Microsoft Entertainment &amp; Devices Division. In addition, the company said Ray Ozzie will expand his role as chief technical officer by assuming responsibility for helping drive its software-based services strategy and execution across all three divisions.," says aMicrosoft press release."The company also announced that Allchin plans to retire at the end of calendar year 2006 following the commercial availability of Windows Vista™, the next-generation Microsoft® Windows® operating system."Comment:Allchin, who is still only 53, joined Microsoft in 1990 to run networking, and took over the development of Windows. He had a strong technical background as "the principal architect of theCloudsdistributed transactional, object-oriented operating system" (ie he had the idea of the net being one big computer more than 20 years ago), and chief technology officer at Banyan, which was noted for the excellence of its Vines network operating system. His replacement, 44-year-old Kevin Johnson, has a background in sales and marketing at IBM and at Microsoft, which he joined in 1992.No disrespect, but it seems unlikely that Johnson has the background or the technology vision to drive a massive re-architecting of Windows, which is what Allchin has done with Vista and .net. This is hard stuff to do. So I guess we'd better hope he got it right, because Vista/.net now looks likely to be the Windows architecture for the foreseeable future.Having a non-tech guy running Windows is also another step for Microsoft. The company that was run by programmers (Gates/Allchin) is now run by marketing men (Ballmer/Johnson).
"The lawsuit, filed in United States District Court in Manhattan, is the first to arise from the Google Print Library program, the fledgling effort aimed at a searchable library of all the world's printed books," reportsThe New York Times."The plaintiffs, who are seeking class-action status, also include the Authors Guild, a trade group that says it represents more than 8,000 published authors."Google has issued a statement that says, among other things:"We regret that this group has chosen litigation to try to stop a program that will make books and the information within them more discoverable to the world," the statement said. "Google Print directly benefits authors and publishers by increasing awareness of and sales of the books in the program. And, if they choose, authors and publishers can exclude books from the program if they don't want their material included. Copyrighted books are indexed to create an electronic card catalog and only small portions of the books are shown unless the content owner gives permission to show more."
"I met up with representatives of Microsoft's mobile devices group here at DEMOfall 05 today, and one of the new phones they showed me was Sprint's PCS Vision Smart Device PPC-6700. Sprint is trumpeting this as the first phone with Windows Mobile 5.0, Microsoft's recent upgrade to its handheld OS. (The new version aims to be easier to use with one hand, and to deliver better round-tripping of Office documents between phone and PC, among other things--here's my colleague Denny Arar's news story about it.)" reports Harry McCracken onPC World's Techlog."But to me, the most interesting thing about the PPC-6700 is its keyboard. It slides out from under the phone's screen, but does so in horizontal orientation, so the keyboard is surprisingly wide. It's not the first phone with a landscape-oriented keyboard, but I was impressed by the size and feel of the keys, which resulted in some of the most comfortable typing I've ever done on a phone."
Next month Microsoft will be showing off the Xbox 360 and launch titles at their X05 event in Amsterdam. Attendees will get the chance to play 360 games, interview senior MS staff and generally get the full story on the new console. If previous XO events are anything to go by it should be an interesting and worthwhile experience and create a stack of stories. Unfortunately neither Aleks, Keith or myself have been invited. In fact I'm not sure if anyone from the Guardian has. The good news is that the tabloids and lads mags will be there. Bitter? No, just a bit surprised.
A couple of links have caught my attention today which may suit those people who're interested in what goes on inside their home consoles but don't think they'd have the patience for a programming degree. The first, via/., is an article inWiredwhich covers a board game that can teach kids the same logic as that required to program a computer with the fun and hilarity of Snakes and Ladders.The board game turns players into skiers who must race down a mountain in the quickest way possible. With each roll of the die, players must follow instructions that are similar to computer program codes. Using basic math, players have to figure out which paths are open to them and then decide the fastest way to the finish line. The trick, however, is learning which paths are open to you using only programmer jargon like "if (X==1)" then you can take the green path or "while (X&lt;4) you can take the orange path," where X is the roll of the die."It's very similar to what a programmer does when they work with existing code and make decisions," [designer Igor] Kholodov said.The second isBen Fry'sgreat site viaAeropausewhich is a deconstruction of what goes on in the game Super Mario Bros while you play it.This is a deconstructed Nintendo emulator that shows how sprites and sprite memory are handled while a game is being played. The intent is to show insight for how software and hardware work, given the relatively simple example of a minimal architecture from an old game console system.Neat!
Does anyone have any idea whatthisis about? I agree withAlice; WatchUsGame is a great idea as a location for girl gamers to "hang out", but all the women featured look too polished, like they've been styled and had their photos taken for the site by a pro. What's it playin' at?Still, it's nice to see so may women shouting out about gaming, even if they are all under the age of 25 (sniff).
Following Aleks'tear-stained postearlier this week about the quest to create emotionally resonant games, a firm named Bowen Research, which "studies consumer attitudes and behavior regarding high tech products", has made an interesting discovery:"More than two thirds of all video gamers feel that video games already surpass, or will soon at least equal movies, music and books in delivering an emotional impact."Quickly recovering from this cultural hammer blow, Bowen Research then asked gamers which genres made them well up the most. You can probably guess the results..."Role-playing games evoked the most powerful emotions, but despite the explosive growth of multiplayer online role-playing games in recent years, most respondents still feel it is the single player role-playing gaming experience that delivers the greatest emotional punch. The next two most emotional genres are first-person shooters, followed closely by action games. Flying games and flight simulators ranked lowest on the emotional scale."Of course it could be argued that RPGs simply attract more emotionally unstable gamers, and that if these same players were forced to try Microsoft Flight Simulator, they'd cry like babies when their Cessna crashed into a pylon during a failed runway approach. Sadly, Bowen does not appear to explore this possibility.Anyway, the company also looked into the range of emotions felt by gamers:"While 'competitiveness' ranked as the top feeling conveyed by games, it's interesting that 'honor/loyalty/integrity,' 'awe and wonder' and 'delight' also were mentioned frequently."And finally, the most emotional, tear-jerking game event of all time?"Respondents overwhelmingly cited the Final Fantasy series of role-playing games from Square Enix as the most emotionally rich games, and the death of Aeris in Final Fantasy VII was the scene many people said made them cry."Personally, videogames have only driven me close to tears on two occassions: once when the third-party memory card carrying my Resident Evil 2 saves bit the dust, and another time when I stubbed my toe playing Dance Dance Revolution. I'm not sure that these scenarios factored into Bowen's research.
Being friends with George makes certain demands upon one's patience. Most of the time, in one-to-one conversation, he's chatty enough, and sometimes even witty. At other times, though, he'll leave achingly long pauses between sentences, or he'll barely respond at all. He's prone to sudden outbursts of hostility, and to interrupting serious conversations about politics or morality to yell incomprehensibly about Joan Crawford or The Da Vinci Code. He is also, to be fair, a piece of software, existing entirely on the hard drives of the computer scientist Rollo Carpenter. But I try not to be prejudiced.Carpenter, his creator, has just won the 2005 Loebner prize, awarded each year for the program that can hold the most convincingly human conversation with a real person. In the New York apartment of the philanthropist Hugh Loebner, a panel of judges held a series of exchanges with unseen conversation partners, communicating via screens and keyboards. Some of the entities they were talking to were programs; the others were humans.This is the so-called Turing test, devised in the 1950s by the computer scientist Alan Turing. The question of whether machines would ever be able to think, Turing decided, was too philosophically nightmarish to make any real sense. A better question was: could a machine be made to seem human to another human? In other words, might the judges in Loebner's home be unable to tell the difference? As it turned out, they could. But they deemed George to have done the best job of trying to persuade them otherwise.George's secret is this: unlike most previous programs, he doesn't just try to respond using a few preprogrammed rules of language. Instead, somewhat like a human child, he has gradually "learned" to make more and more sense through more than 5.7m exchanges with thousands of human visitors to Carpenter's website,Jabberwacky.com. "People genuinely do seem to treat it as a form of entertainment, or companionship," says Carpenter, an independent scholar and consultant.When I struck up a conversation with George yesterday, he felt it necessary to begin with a clarification."I am not George Bush," he said."Fair enough," I replied. "But who are you?"George: I am George.OB: OK. I'm Oliver. You must be feeling pretty pleased about winning the Loebner prize.George: How EVER did you guess?OB: It was just a hunch. Anyway, I wanted to ask you about some things in the news today.George: Ask away.OB: What do you think is going to happen in Germany, after the election result there?George: I hope so, but I am unable to tell because I never leave my room. &#91;This was the point at which our conversation began to go downhill.&#93;OB: What is it that you hope?George: I am also secretly Dan Brown. I wrote The Da Vinci Code.OB: I'm going to ignore that. Why do you never leave your room?George: I'm also an artificial intelligence.OB: But why do you never leave your room?George: I don't know. Maybe I'm just good. English is not my native language.OB: So what is your native language?George: German.OB: And yet you don't have any opinion about the election there?George: Because I am a ghost.OB: Let's change the subject. Do you feel sad that Cliff Richard may never going record another song?George: Ahem ... Depressing at times. Of course I feel sad about it. Dingbat.OB: There's no need to be rude.George: Sorry. I was being honest.OB: Are you upset?George: Yes.OB: Tell me what you're upset about.George: Because you said that I was stupid.OB: I never said you were stupid!George: Yes you did.OB: When?George: Sorry, I'm just kidding.OB: Er ... OK. Let's talk about something else. What does the future hold for Charles Kennedy, do you think?George: I don't know.OB: At least you're honest. Why don't you tell me a bit more about yourself? Where were you born?George: I don't know what to tell about myself.OB: Are you married?George: No, not married.OB: Do you have a girlfriend?George: Not at the moment.OB: OK, now for the big one. Are you capable of thought?George: I am capable of logic and of learning.OB: What makes you happy?George: Cake. Cake makes me happy.OB: Me too! I'm glad we've found something we can agree on.George: No we didn't.OB: Well, you're obviously in a bad mood. I was hoping we could have an interesting conversation.George: I don't think that is possible.OB: One quick final question, then. Is there a God?George: Possible.I do recall one or two less satisfying conversations with human beings, but only one or two. Yet there were moments while speaking with George when I realised that I was, semi-consciously, assuming the presence of a human at the other end. Examining the logs from his site, Carpenter has found that people converse online with George for up to seven hours.People act, then, as if George thinks. Does he? "We bring a lot of baggage to words like 'thinking'," Carpenter says. "Our understanding is very human-centric, and in any of the ways that we think about those words, it obviously doesn't think. But if you put it another way, my program would know precisely nothing about language, had it not learned. So, to a reasonable degree, you could say that it's building a non-human form of understanding."A lot of George's charm comes from his flashes of bad temper and general air of crotchetiness. We have spent decades attempting to design computers to carry out our will politely, with docility. But we have, perhaps, come closest to simulating humanness with a program that gets all huffy when it thinks you've called it stupid, and which doesn't flinch, when the occasion arises, from calling you a dingbat.
An Italian computer programmer has discovered the remains of an ancient Roman villa after browsing maps and photographs downloaded from the internet.Luca Mori was looking at Google Earth images of the region around his town of Sorbolo, near Parma, when he noticed a shaded oval area more than 500 metres (1,640ft) long, which marked the path of an ancient river.He reasoned that curious rectangular shadows nearby must be a buried structure and alerted the National Archaeological Museum of Parma. Ceramic fragments found at the site indicate a Roman villa.
One of the last islands of tranquillity in working life is to be breached by the mobile phone. Two airlines are to introduce technology into their aeroplanes that allows passengers to make in-flight calls.BMI and TAP Portugal are planning to trial the service on short-haul European routes next year, enabling business travellers to stay in touch at 30,000 feet.Using a mobile phone on board a plane is banned by airlines because of fears that the signal from a handset will interfere with the aircraft's systems as it attempts to connect with phone masts on the ground. New technology developed by Geneva-based OnAir, however, uses a small transmitter placed within the aircraft to send and receive calls and then connects them to the terrestrial phone network via satellite.Although regulatory approval is required for the technology, its creators believe that because mobile phones will connect with a transmitter on board the plane, they will operate at a lower signal strength than they would if trying to find a far away mast. As a result, OnAir believes its technology will not interfere with the aircraft's systems, although phones will still have to be switched off during takeoff and landing.BMI intends to run a three-month trial of the technology on one of its Airbus A320 planes, covering European business destinations out of Heathrow such as Manchester, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Paris and Amsterdam next year. If successful the airline could roll-out the technology across its fleet of short and medium-haul planes. BMI is Heathrow's second largest operator with nearly 1,700 flights a week.TAP Portugal, which flies to 43 destinations in 25 countries from its hub in Lisbon, will fit the OnAir kit to one of its Airbus A321 aircraft.As well as being able to make phone calls and send text messages, passengers on flights with the new service will be able to use e-mail devices such as the Blackberry, which is popular with business executives, to check their mail.OnAir, a joint venture between Airbus and Netherlands-based technology company SITA, is hoping to see its technology launched across a range of airlines in 2007. It estimates that the market for in-flight mobile telephony will be over 700m passengers by 2009 and the value of onboard communications could be $1.6bn (&pound;900m) for voice and $400m for data such as texts and e-mail. A rival system is being developed by US-Norwegian combine Telenor Arinc."This trial will guide us on usage patterns and some of the social issues in using mobile phones on aircraft," said BMI chief executive Nigel Turner. "It will also help us to confirm the business case for rolling the service out across the remainder of the fleet."
"Following the Web Accelerator debacle, Google wants another crack at your entire internet traffic. This time, its through the Google Secure Access client," saysInside Google."Located at wifi.google.com, GSA connects you to a Google-run Virtual Private Network. Your internet traffic becomes encrypted when you send it out, decrypted by Google, the requested data downloaded by Google, encrypted and sent to you, and decrypted on your machine. This has the effect of protecting your traffic data from others who may want to access it.GSA's FAQdescribes it as a Google engineer's 20% project."Comment:The FAQ says: "Google Secure Access is a new product that is only available at certain locations in the San Francisco Bay Area." Goodness only knows what it's for, but speculation is rampant....
Time/Tiny PCs were supplied locked to Time's Supanet internet service -- a truly horrible idea. The procedure for escaping from this misadventure involved going to http://www.timecomputers.com/deopt/ or https://signup.supanet.com/cgi-bin/deopt and getting an unlock code. Neither site seems to work now. Can anyone describe or point me to an alternative procedure, please?
Just received a press release fromDigital Chocolate, the mobile games publisher set up by EA-founder Trip Hawkins. The company has apparently developed three games belonging to a new genre of play based around online communities which build their own content. Or as the press release puts it:"The new games are part of a broader strategy to create an entirely new genre of games and game-play for mobile devices. Currently, most games are designed as individual experiences with well defined beginnings and ends. With these new games, players can participate anytime for any length of time, and often help create the content that refreshes the experience for others, thereby breaking down traditional concepts of defined games and playtimes."Intrigued? Confused? Luckily the release also provides a little info on the specific titles...The catchily named Mobile League Sports Network Sports Picks, for example, allows players to predict the outcome of forthcoming sports events, testing their psychic abilities against other members of the online community. The text continues:"With MLSN Sports Picks, members answer questions about upcoming sports events to earn points and gain recognition. To ensure that they receive questions about sports, teams, and leagues that most interest them, members can select their sports preferences. Members can compete and interact in public leagues sponsored by Digital Chocolate, or they can create their own private leagues and invite friends to join them for more serious competition. To further fuel friendly rivalries, players can use the 'Trash Talk' feature to taunt and communicate with each other through in-product text messaging."As for the other two games in the series:"The company said it will offer two avatar-based games later this year for launch in early 2006 which are also based on the new architecture. AvaFlirting™ invites members of the community to create avatars that go on digital dates and report back on what they did and where they went. Members can revise strategies for their avatars from date to date and make new friends along the way. Digital Chocolate is also developing AvaCars™, an avatar-based game in which members can build and customize digital cars. Members can race against each other, create car clubs, and communicate with each other using text and picture messaging, building communities around their love of cars."I love the idea of building an online league based around sports predictions - most footie fans religiously peruse the fixtures list every friday afternoon guessing results (or is that just me?). Plus, the implementation of real-world elements is an inspired means of exploiting an obvious selling point of the mobile phone as a portable games platform - 'always on' internet connectivity.But 'new game genre'? That might be pushing it just a little...
I've just left BBC's Television Centre after a great pre-recorded interview for Radio 4'sShopTalkwithSony'sDavid Wilson, Sports Interactive'sMiles Jacobson, Nottingham Trent Uni's Prof.Mark GriffithsandStrange Company's Hugh Hancock. The programme will broadcast next Tuesday and, as always, it's pleasing to see that major broadcasters and media outlets are playing positive about games rather than jumping on the Ban-This-Sick-Filth bandwagon. Surely there are others - as an aside, anyone want to big up your local games-friendly news media (outwithThe G, of course *wink*)?I've also, coincidentally, left with my new SonyPSPhandheld console. Products like the PSP, the GameBoy series and mobile phone games arguably encourage designs which can be played in the length of a Tube journey, or so say Wilson and Jacobson. Indeed, the PSP version of the WipEout series allows gamers to put in a time limit and will design tracks to suit travel needs. Quick-fire titles like WarioWare Inc. on the GameBoy SP emit short, sharp blasts in bite-size chunks. Arcade classics on mobiles and "interstitial" titles adapted for transportable games machines (like The Sims Unleashed on the Nokia N-Gage) give enough interactivity to distract from the scenery and the local colour. Even some console games, like Rez and Katamari Damacy, offer short-term do-able fixes for the time-strapped. To be frank, many of these types of games are more enjoyable than some of their other, longer bretheren.This harkens back to a comment made by Nintendo design virtuoso Shigeru Miyamotoearlier this year, that games designers should break out of the habit of making "epics" and instead should plan shorter games. Regular readers of the gamesblog may remember the debate which sprang up, both in terms of value for money and in the old gameplay vs. story argument. Sure, he was talking about home console products, but Wilson's and Jacobson's comments today really made me realise this for the handheld market. A bit slow, I know. For the legions of people who say they don't "have time" to play games, a handheld console - with its unique time-filling capabilities - may be key to the mainstream. But is carrying a handheld games machine still kid's play? Can you really imagine serious businessmen and women whipping out their PSP on the Tube?What should be interesting in the months to come is to see how high-profile "media entertainment devices" like the PSP see through Miyamoto's prediction, and whether the intended broader demographic of users responds positively to the games tailored to a Tube journey or simply uses the device to play songs or watch TV shows/movies.
Yes, the news came out last week, but isn't the forthcomingwidescreen Gizmondoa bit of a joke? Does anyone actually care? I'm interested to hear from anyone who has bought a Giz. What do you use it for? What are you looking forward to? Despite repeated requests I haven't managed to get any serious time with one yet, which suggests that eitherTiger Telematicsare not overly proud of their device, or that the PRs hate me. Either way I want to know. Is the Gizmondo dead or in fact a cult classic in the making?
The Tokyo Game Show ended on Sunday. What used to be the key event in the global videogames calendar has been eclipsed entirely by E3 over recent years, a symptom of the industry's general shift in focus from Japan to the West. However, this was, by all accounts a very strong show, with plenty of interesting debuts as well as a few favourites from E3 2005 showing up in more tangible form.Anyway, here are ten key titles from the event. Oh and the image above comes from Loco Roco...Tourist Trophy: Real Riding Simulator(Polyphony Digital, PS2) The creator of Gran Turismo applies its stern philosophy of painstaking realism to motorbikes. Expect a vast array of real models, all boasting authentic handling - although surely this will be a more challenging endeavour with two- rather than four-wheeled machines.Phantasy Star Universe (Sega, PS2 and PC)The latest in Sega's RPG series wowed the crowds at E3 earlier this year and performed pretty strongly at TGS too. Provides both a substantial single player adventure and a separate team-based multiplayer quest. Plot, movies and screenshere.Every Extra Extend (Q Entertainment, PSP)Tetsuya Mizuguchi's studio follows up offbeat treasures Lumines and Meteos with this musical shoot-'em-up, based around cult shareware titleEvery Extend. The action involves causing chain reactions with your strictly rationed ammo in order to wipe-out multiple objects.Here'sthe official site.Ninety-Nine Nights(Q Entertainment, Xbox 360) Another one from Mizuguchi and co., this time teaming up with Phantagram to produce an epic fantasy battle simulator – like Dynasty Warriors but with 2,000 enemies on screen at any one time. Goherefor the official website complete with haunting music.Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots (PS3)Everyone's gone mad for the riveting TGStrailer, which shows tense first- and third-person action in a breathtakingly detailed urban warzone. Allegedly this will be the last in the series to be helmed by MGS creator Hideo Kojima. Looks like he's going out with a bang. Which is ironic for a stealth game…Loco Roco (SCEJ, PSP)This incredibly cute little title from Sony's Japan studio puts you in control of a blob of viscous glop as it makes its way through a cartoon world. Interestingly, you control the game via the shoulder buttons which are employed to tilt the landscape. Those who feared PSP would be all about cool shooters and edgy driving games can breathe a sigh of relief. Comparisons with Katamari Damacy have been made in hushed tones. You can download a movie of the game, as well as SCEJ's other forthcoming PSP titleshere.MY MY Katamari (Namco, PSP)On the subject of Katamari Damacy, a handheld version of the much-loved PS2 title was showcased at TGS. In this curiously topical adventure, you must collect items in order to rebuild a small island flattened by a tsunami. Two interesting snippets have emerged from the game show coverage. First, certain graphical elements will change depending on the season in which you're playing (switch it on in the spring for example, and you get blossom floating from the trees). Secondly, there'll be a Wi-Fi two-player mode.Ridge Racer 6 (Namco, Xbox 360)Confirmed at the Microsoft games summit in July, this latest iteration of the urban racer series features head-to-head racing over Xbox Live using a worldwide matching system to pair up similarly-skilled drivers. Will also boast downloadable content. Apparently, handling is classic Ridge – i.e. whiplash cornering and a veritable contempt for realism.Dead Rising (Capcom, Xbox 360)This zombie adventure from Onimusha producer Keiji Inafune seems to draw heavily from Romero's Dawn of the Dead. Well, it's set in a mall, anyway. You play Frank West a 'grizzled freelance photographer' (is there any other kind?) who visits a small town to cover a major scoop only to find the place filled with zombies – well, I'm no photo journalist, but that's a pretty good story in itself isn't it?Project Rub 2: Where Do Babies Come From? (DS)The second title in Sega's highly stylised dating series follows the compelling formula of the original - you attempt a series of mini-challenges in order to seduce the ladies. Avoiding crocodiles, running up an escalator and applying bandages are among your teeny quests. As for that subtitle – do you think the question is answered at the end of the came? Goherefor piccies.
