Major internet providers, including AT&amp;T, Time Warner and Verizon, are slowing data from popular websites to thousands of US businesses and residential customers in dozens of cities across the country, according to a study released on Monday.Thestudy, conducted by internet activists BattlefortheNet, looked at the results from 300,000 internet users and found significant degradations on the networks of the five largest internet service providers (ISPs), representing 75% of all wireline households across the US.The findings come weeks after the Federal Communications Commission introduced new rules meant to protect “net neutrality” – the principle that all data is equal online – and keep ISPs from holding traffic speeds for ransom.Tim Karr ofFree Press, one of the groups that makes up BattlefortheNet, said the finding show ISPs are not providing content to users at the speeds they’re paying for.“For too long, internet access providers and their lobbyists have characterized net neutrality protections as a solution in search of a problem,” said Karr. “Data compiled using the Internet Health Test show us otherwise – that there is widespread and systemic abuse across the network. The irony is that this trove of evidence is becoming public just as many in Congress are trying to strip away the open internet protections that would prevent such bad behavior.”The study, supported by the technologists at Open Technology Institute’sM-Lab, examines the comparative speeds of Content Delivery Networks (CDNs), which shoulder some of the data load for popular websites. Any site that becomes popular enough has to pay a CDN to carry its content on a network of servers around the country (or the world) so that the material is close to the people who want to access it.In Atlanta, for example, Comcast provided hourly median download speeds over a CDN called GTT of 21.4 megabits per second at 7pm throughout the month of May. AT&amp;T provided speeds over the same network of ⅕ of a megabit per second. When a network sends more than twice the traffic it receives, that network is required by AT&amp;T to pay for the privilege. When quizzed about slow speeds on GTT, AT&amp;Ttold Ars Technicaearlier this year that it wouldn’t upgrade capacity to a CDN that saw that much outgoing traffic until it saw some money from that network (as distinct from the money it sees from consumers).AT&amp;T has strongly opposed regulation of its agreements with the companies that directly provide connectivity between high-traffic internet users and their customers. Cogent, Level3 and others have petitioned the FCC to make free interconnection to CDNs a part of the conditions for the proposed merger between AT&amp;T and DirecTV.“It would be unprecedented and unjustified to force AT&amp;T to provide free backbone services to other backbone carriers and edge providers, as Cogent et al seek,” said the company in a filing replying to the CDNs’ suggestion, part of a brief opposing the merger. “Nor is there any basis for requiring AT&amp;T to augment network capacity for free and without any limits. Opponents’ proposals would shift the costs of their services onto all AT&amp;T subscribers, many of whom do not use Opponents’ services, and would harm consumers.”FCC chairman Tom Wheeler has taken an aggressive regulatory tack when it comes to mergers in the telecommunications sector. “History proves that absent competition a predominant position in the market such as yours creates economic incentives to use that market power to protect your traditional business in a way that is ultimately harmful to consumers,” he told industry leaders at the Internet and Television Expo last month.The dispute over traffic speeds comes as the telecoms and cable industry readies legal challenges to the net neutrality rules. Most telecoms are content letting their lobbyists, notably trade associations Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA) and USTelecom,sue the FCCover net neutrality rules, but AT&amp;T has been one of the few companies to sue the FCC directly.
Google’s motto, lest we forget, is “Don’t be evil”. It seems that Snapchat’s catchphrase might now be summed up as “Don’t be creepy”.Evan Spiegel, the 24-year-old chief executive of the messaging app, has told a gathering of advertising types that he and his colleagues “really care about not being creepy”.That is one reason why Snapchat has adopted the 3V - “vertical video views” - approach to video advertising, he said on Monday at theCannes Lionsfestival in Nice.Related:Cannes Lions put ethics on the advertising festival’s main agendaVideo ads slot into Snapchat content, rather than before a video like YouTube or around other content, as with Facebook.“We love when the advertising fits the context of the story we are telling,” said Spiegel,Business Insider reported.Following on from abadly lit videolast week explaining to parents how Snapchat works, Spiegel releasedanother videoon Monday that highlights the app’s outlook on video advertising.That attitude could help explain why Snapchat has proved so popular, particularly with young people, he said. The app now has 100 million daily active users who watch about 2bn videos.The drive to boost advertising revenue follows Spiegel’s confirmation last month that he planned tolist the companyon the stock market rather than sell it.Snapchat was valued at $15bn (£10bn) in its latest funding round.Spiegel also told the Cannes audience that “we do stuff that’s kind of hippy I guess” based on the fact that groups of 10 employees “talk about how we feel about things” on a weekly basis.“I don’t think we pay attention enough to just listening to people and how they feel. I know sometimes I’m so focused on what I’m going to say next, that I’m not listening to what they’re saying,” he explained.“In tech in particular, everyone is so serious all the time, and has these grand visions. But we really enjoy that people like having fun, and want to be happy, and enjoy being with one another: That’s just as important.”
Last week, E3 – the Cannes film festival of the video game industry – attracted more than 50,000 game makers, journalists and retailers to the LA convention centre for three days of frenzied hype, promise and speculation.300 exhibitors were there, showing off more than 1,600 products, from cutting-edge augmented reality headsets to farming simulators. But now the multimillion-dollar stands have been deconstructed and the billboards torn down. It’s all over for another year.Here are our favourite titles from the show – the ones that left us with more than just sore eyes and permanent ear damage.Beyond Eyes(Tiger &amp; Squid, PC, Linux, Xbox One)The concept is almost enough. A 10-year-old blind girl named Rae ventures out into the world to find her missing cat, using touch and smell to navigate. Added to this though, are the soft-focus, hand-painted landscapes, which only swim into the player’s vision when they’re in direct proximity to Rae so you get a sense of her close interaction with the natural world. It’s a very clever, very beautiful visual system, promising an intriguing game of environmental and emotional discovery.Cuphead(Studio Moldenhauer, PC, Xbox One)A tribute to both classic scrolling shooters and 1930s animationsWhen brothers Chad and Jared Moldenhauer set out to create a classic run-and-gun platform shooter in the style of a 1930s cartoon, they weren’t messing about. Painstakingly employing the artistic conventions of the time, including hand-inked animation cels and watercolour backgrounds, the duo has produced something truly astonishing to look at. Played alone or with a friend in co-op mode, it’s like taking an interactive trip through animation history – with the cast of Gunstar Heroes for company.Fallout 4 (Bethesda, PC, PS4, Xbox One)The world of Fallout 4 is hugely interactive with hundreds of objects to collect and craft into weapons and itemsThe game that set the tone for E3, after a dramatic unveiling a week before the show, did not let the fans down. Although not playable on the show floor, the details revealed at Bethesda’s Sunday night press event were incredibly enticing. The story will begin before Fallout’s defining nuclear apocalypse, before plunging 200 years into the future, giving players a highly customisable character, an endlessly explorable world, and the ability to build homesteads and weapons out of random junk. A survivalist fantasy for the 21st century.The Last Guardian (Sony Japan/Gem Design, PS4)Even after everything that’s happened, it still looks beautiful, fresh and invitingFumito Ueda’s long absentee tale of a boy and his beast of a travelling companion opened Sony’s press conference with enviable straightforwardness. The lights went down, the music stilled, and we watched for five or so minutes as an unseen player guided the pair over and across some perilous, crumbling masonry – the kind of derelict beauty familiar from Ueda’s previous two masterpieces, Ico and Shadow of the Colossus. Ueda captures the trepidation and bravery of a clambering child like no other, and it’s clear that the relationship between boy and beast is going to be a close and touching one. Our excitement remains unaffected by the wait.Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain (Kojima Productions, PS4, Xbox One)Snake is back, mother base is back, stealth is back, floating goats into the sky on balloons is... what?!Will this be Hideo Kojima’s final game for Konami? The state of the relationship between creator and publisher remains unknown, but if there are troubles, they appear not to have affected the Japanese director’s latest. The familiar tactical espionage action of the series remains in place, but the scale and ambition is unprecedented in this vast, curiously structured open world game. Complete missions in the field and recruit and train troops (and animals) as you build a private army on an oilrig. This looks to be the final realisation of a vision first birthed in the late 1980s .Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture (The Chinese Room, PS4)It’s so quiet, where has everybody gone?Brighton-based studio The Chinese Room pioneered non-linear storytelling in its brooding exploration simulator Dear Esther. The format has evolved much further in this very English take on the end of the world. You explore a deserted village in Shropshire, eavesdropping on the lingering conversations of departed inhabitants, which roam the streets as swirls of light. The provincial dialogue and tone lends the game a singular appeal, like a post-apocalyptic episode of The Archers, complete with small-town intrigue and menace.Moon Hunters(Kitfox Games, PC, PS4, Ps Vita)Four-player co-op action, where the aim is to build a whole new mythology for the worldPhotograph: public domainSuccessfully funded on Kickstarter last year, this pixelated role-playing adventure features a procedural world in which the player discovers and selects elements of a defining myth, thereby building the game’s backstory – and their own folk tale – as they go. It’s a really interesting premise, which like Bastion before it, offers a new slant on the idea of narrative in role-playing titles. It looks gorgeous too.Star Wars: Battlefront (EA Dice, PC, PS4, Xbox One)Star Wars Battlefront: yet more trouble on Tatooine, which sees a lot of Imperial action despite being the furthest point from the galaxy’s bright spotPhotograph: public domainYouwantto be skeptical about it, youwantto be able to shrug it off. Then you find yourself on Hoth surrounded by rebel soldiers as two At-At’s march toward your base, their lowered heads blasting at groups of your comrades. Then snowspeeders scorch overhead, followed by tie-fighters, and there are classic Ben Burtt sound effects and John Williams orchestral swells, and the kid in you goes, “oh my god, they are going to have to drag me crying from this demo unit.”Super Mario Maker (Nintendo, Wii U)Mario Maker allows you to easily create your own classic Super Mario Bros levels with all the recognisable featuresPhotograph: NintendoDoes this represent a weary Nintendo ceding responsibility for game design to its audience? No: the suite of 2D Mario levels included in this narrow focused yet splendid game-maker are some of the company’s best yet. But certainly here are the tools for a new generation of players to cut their teeth upon. The drag-and-drop interface, which allows you to arrange those familiar platforms and sidestepping enemies is a revelation. The ability to switch graphical style between a number of different era Mario games a joy. This is sure to be a game that, thanks to an ever growing library of levels, keeps on giving.Tacoma(Fullbright, Xbox One,PC, Mac, Linux)Portland-based studio Fullbright is following-up its empty house mystery thriller Gone Home with an … empty space-station mystery thriller. Tacoma is set on a seemingly abandoned lunar base, watched over by a computer system named Odin. In comes Amy Ferrier, perhaps an investigator or previous tenant, who must work out what’s happened. “Odin, what am I going to find behind this door?” are the teasing final words of the teaser trailer.Wattam(Funomena, PS4)This collaboration between Katamari Damacy creator Keita Takahashi and Funomena, the new studio from Journey producer Robin Hunicke was everything we hoped for and more. It’s a bizarre, hilarious and gloriously bright puzzle game in which you control the mayor of a devastated planet, bringing life back by cultivating sentient plants, then holding firework displays that create new inhabitants such as mushroom people, sushi people and a walking record deck. Get groups of these to hold hands and you can create even bigger explosions that invite new boss characters into the world. It is ridiculous but utterly charming.What Remains of Edith Finch(Giant Sparrow, PS4)What Remains of Edith Finch: a collection of explorable short storiesPhotograph: public domainThis collection of short stories about a cursed family in Washington State offered the most unusual experience of E3 2015. The demo begins with you approaching the now derelict home of your childhood, breaking in and exploring its nooks. But this familiarity is soon interrupted by a series of interludes, as you chase a bird out of a top floor window and through the tall branches, before becoming an owl, a hungry shark and, finally, a seafarer-gobbling monster. It’s fresh, unusual and intriguing.XCOM 2 (2K Games, PC)XCOM 2: now the aliens rule earth and they’re not going to be usurped without a big strategic fightPhotograph: public domainThe much-loved sci-fi strategy series is returning, this time to an Earth that has been overtaken by the aliens – so now you’re a resistance group, hitting at key extraterrestrial installations with all the scant resources you can muster while building an effective rebel alliance. Add in procedurally generated levels , strong modding support and a bunch of new soldier types and this is pretty much what fans of the series would have wanted from an E3 announcement.
Google has joinedother tech companies, includingTwitterandReddit, in taking a stand against the non-consensual sharing of intimate images, otherwise known as “revenge porn”. In a statement released on its public policy blog last Friday, Google announced that it would “honour requests from people to remove nude or sexually explicit images shared without their consent from Google Search results.”While the policy will not remove the images themselves from the internet, it will go a long way towards mitigating the devastating damage that such images can wreak on victims. The policy is reflective of a growing awareness that revenge pornography is a serious social wrong that must be addressed. In fact, laws prohibiting revenge porn are already on the books in England and Wales, parts of Australia and23 US Statesto date.Related:Charlotte Laws' fight with Hunter Moore, the internet's revenge porn kingFor many, revenge pornography is deeply linked to broader issues of gender inequality and misogyny online. Predictably, however, there are concerns about what effect these new user policies might have on the sacred zeitgeist of the internet age – freedom of speech.Despite evidence to the contrary, we’re sold a utopian view of the internet that heralds the digital age as one in which new spaces allow people to transcend their offline identities, where free movement of self and speech are potentially limitless. But importantly, the internet is a social product, grounded in societies that exist online and offline, and therefore replicates deep offline social inequalities, including the marginalisation of women.In this environment, revenge pornography and other abusive behaviour, like trolling, constitute a kind of gendered hate speech – designed to silence women and other gender, sexual and racial minorities. Much of this hate occurs in a new digital commons, promising anonymity and “self-regulating” authority. But this promise is naive.So what happens when individuals attempt to “self-regulate” this space, for instance, by taking a stand against revenge pornography? Last week, the images of more than 400 Australian women and teenagers appeared on a US-based revenge porn website. Lively public debate ensued, but things went south when the Australian Channel 7 breakfast programme Sunrise posted the story on Facebook, leading with the line: “What’s it going to take for women to get the message about taking and sending nude photos?”.Clementine FordPhotograph: DailylifeTaking exception to this victim blaming, the writer and activist Clementine Ford composed an impassioned Facebook statement accompanied by a semi-naked photograph with “Hey #Sunrise Get Fucked” written across her bare chest. In the post, she highlights the key distinction between consensual intimate photo-sharing and revenge pornography: “Consent is what happens when you give permission. Theft and assault is what happens when people take it from you despite you saying no.” She goes on: “I have taken nude photos and I have chosen who gets to see them. That doesn’t make me a fool or ‘asking for trouble’ or somehow deserving of assault.” At this writing, her post had received over 211,000 likes, 42,000 shares and 21,000 comments.Much of the commentary that flourished around the post was not just negative, but hateful abuse – vile and graphic, misogynistic and homophobic.She tweetedthat in the 48-hour period after the Facebook post, she received over 1,000 messages asking her for nudes or calling her a slut, a whore or a cunt. Ford responded to the abuse by retweeting and reposting the attacks. This, ironically, resulted in a temporary suspension of Ford’s Facebook account for breaching Facebook’s community standards.Revenge porn is fundamentally used to shame, extort and harm women. Perpetrators of domestic violence and trafficking employ it to control women, to keep them captive, to keep them quiet. Trolling tells women (and others) that the digital space, a communal space, is not for their voices. Gendered hate speech online actively restricts the free speech of women. It sends the message, as one of Ford’s trollers told her, to “get back in the kitchen then ya dumb slag”.Reddit acknowledged this when announcing itsnew community policies in May. In a world where offline power-hierarchies infiltrate the online world, “instead of promoting free expression of ideas, we are seeing our open policies stifling free expression; people avoid participating for fear of their personal and family safety.’”Not only does this silencing have profound democratic repercussions, but it brings the toxic challenge of workplace harassment into the online sphere, where many women are now making a living. Years ago, specific anti-discrimination laws were introduced to combat the prevalence of everyday abuse in the workplace precisely because we realised that without this protection, women’s full participation in the labour market would be illusory. In the digital age, to disregard the deleterious effects of harassment online is to deny women their right to speak in a venue that has become an indispensable political, social and economic arena.We regularly accept reasonable restriction of certain hateful behaviour in public and professional places in order to protect vulnerable or marginalised voices – it’s about time we recognise that the internet might need these protections, too, if we are really serious about promoting free speech for all.Dr Laura Hilly is a postdoctoral research fellow and deputy director of the Oxford Human Rights Hub at the University of Oxford in the Faculty of Law.Kira Allmann is DPhil candidate at the University of Oxford in the Faculty of Oriental Studies.Kira and Laura are the producers of RightsUp, a podcast from the Oxford Human Rights Hub, which released an episode ‘Old Problems, New Media: Revenge Porn and the Law’ in May 2015. It’s available for subscription and download fromiTunesU.
Amazon will start paying some authors according to how many pages of their books are actually read, the company has announced.The change will affect self-published writers who make their books available through Amazon’s Kindle Owner’s Lending Library and Kindle Unlimited services, which offer readers who subscribe to Amazon Prime a selection of free ebooks.Related:Amazon Kindle Voyage review: expensive but top quality e-readerAmazon says: “We’re making this switch in response to great feedback we received from authors who asked us to better align payout with the length of books and how much customers read. Under the new payment method, you’ll be paid for each page individual customers read of your book, the first time they read it.”The author of a 100-page book will thus be paid half as much as the author of a 200-page book, assuming they have the same amount of readers who all finish the entire book. But if the readers give up halfway through the longer book, the two writers will receive the same payment at the end.The total amount paid out to authors will remain the same, since Amazon funds its all-you-can-read services by setting a total fund and then dividing it up between authors proportionally. But the change serves to reward authors of long, engrossing books, while punishing those who write shorter books, or books that readers give up on.
Amazon is using artificial intelligence to combat fake product reviews and inflated star ratings.It is employing a new AI machine-learning system that the online retailer built in-house to boost the prominence and weight of verified customer purchase reviews, those marked as helpful by other users and newer, more up-to-date critiques on its site.The system will bring what Amazon thinks are more accurate reviews to the top and use them to create a star rating.Previously star ratings were simply an average of all reviews, which allowed fake reviews to heavily influence the first-glance rating even if verified purchasers had slated the product.Related:Astroturfing: what is it and why does it matter? | Adam BienkovThe algorithm will improve over time, Amazon toldtechnology site Cnet. Its first effects may not be visible for some time as the work only began on Friday.Customer reviews have become the cornerstone of trust in the online shopping world. Where users cannot see in person what the products are like before they buy them, the ratings and reviews of users who have supposedly bought them before can make or break a product.Can you trust that five-star review?That means marketers have taken to attempting to influence star ratings, especially in the initial stages of a product going on sale on any particular site. They post fake, inflationary reviews or pay users to do so on their behalf.The practice known as “astroturfing” – fake grassroots campaigns – is widespread across a variety of sites and services. Amazon, as one of the world’s largest online retailers, is a significant target.But Amazon also indicated that its system will be capable of differentiating between original products and those modified to fix issues or customer complaints sold through the same listing.The reviews of the fixed product will be used to outweigh older ones of the broken product to create a more consistent and useful rating of the product users would receive now.Astroturfing is not confined to retailers. TripAdvisor and other travel sites are also heavily affected by the practice.“We have a whole team dedicated to the problem of fake reviews,” James Kay from TripAdvisor UKtold the Guardian. “We use both automated systems and a dedicated team to review reviews and weed out fake entries.”To maintain user trust, more and more sites that host user reviews will have to implement smarter and smarter systems to prevent abuse.Amazon’s AI-based system will be closely watched by both competitors and creators. If it works it could end astroturfing as we know it today.•Yes, androids do dream of electric sheep•DeepMind: ‘Artificial intelligence is a tool that humans can control and direct’
Voat, the main destination for the diaspora of disgruntled Redditors who left Reddit in protest at perceived censorship, has been dropped by its web host for “politically incorrect” content.The Swiss Reddit clone, which has become the home of Redditors leaving their former haven in the wake of a crackdown on harassment, had its servers turned off without warning on Friday. A backup had been created on a cloud-based hosting platform just hours before so the site to allow it to remain online.The site’s administrator and co-founder, Atko, asked why his site (as well as an unrelated personal blog on the same host) was deleted, and was told it was because of problems with the content.Related:Reddit users flee to Swiss copy Voat after harassment clampdownHe says his provider, hosteurope.de, told him that they cancelled his contract because “we have received significant information that the content on your server includes political incorrect parts that are unacceptable for us” and that they had to take action “due to the fact that we cannot keep bond of trust to you as our customer”.Atko added that: “My eyes have been opened by this. I don’t know about you, but we are living in a weird world. We will have to carefully evaluate our long term options of providing a platform of free speech if we are to stay online. Your donations are what keeps us afloat.”Voat was thrust into the limelight last week, after a major change in policy at Reddit saw the social news siteban five subreddits for encouraging harassment.Amongst the banned subreddits were r/fatpeoplehate and r/hamplanethatred, which stood accused of harassing overweight people; r/transfags, which had reportedly “doxxed” trans people; racist subreddit, r/shitniggerssay; and r/neofag, which focused on mocking the community of a particular gaming forum.According to Reddit, the subforums were banned for harassing behaviour, rather than simply problematic ideas, which is why other subreddits such as “r/coontown” (a moderator of whichposted that“the only good nigger is a dead one” on the day of the Charlestown shootings) are still allowed on the site.Butmany ofthe userswho switched over to Voat argue that their issue is that Reddit’s ideal is not being applied consistently or transparently. They ask why those five subreddits were chosen and not other ones which exhibit similar behaviour, and whether it has to do with the “political leanings” of Reddit’s management – principally chief executive Ellen Pao.Voat’s hosting provider, hosteurope, released a statement to the Guardian on Tuesday:“Host Europe does not publicize details of existing or previous contractual relations. To remain under contract, Host Europe customers must be legally compliant. Host Europe is liable for any content posted on its servers as soon as it receives knowledge of it and therefore must uphold these regulations strictly. Host Europe is committed to finding a solution together with its customers based on mutual trust and suspension of service is the last step.”
It’s Monday. Today’s screenshot comes from Anna’s Quest, a new point-and-click adventure from Daedalic Entertainment. It was shown at E3 last week and will be released on PC and Mac soon. Thetrailer is right here.
Twitter’s latest new feature involves celebrities and brands curating “collections” of their favourite products and places for their followers on the social network – although in some cases, their lists are decidedly self-promotional.“You’ll be able to browse rich collections from influencers you care about and get more information about the products or places you find interesting,” explained Twitter product manager Amaryllis Foxin a blog postas the feature went live.The collections can be found by tapping a new “browse collection” on the profile of participating stars and brands.They include musicians (Amanda Palmer, Ariana Grande, Demi Lovato, Cody Simpson and Steve Aoki); other celebrities (William Shatner, Reese Witherspoon and Michelle Phan); media companies (Penguin Random House, The Ellen Show, Warner Bros, Fox Home Entertainment); and brands (Beats By Dre, Mountain Dew and Nike) among others.What kind of products are they curating?Ariana Grande’s My Everything collectionincludes her album My Everything as well as branded t-shirts, a poster and social app Fahlo, where she has a profile.Amanda Palmer’s World of Amanda Palmer collectionincludes her Patreon crowdfunding page, her Theatre is Evil album, her The Art of Asking book and a collection of her sheet music, among other products.William Shatner’s Electic Cool Collection, meanwhile, includes his longstanding commercial partner Priceline and box-sets of his Boston Legal and Star Trek TV shows – plus quirky selections like a nose-shaped shower-gel dispenser and a “kitchen art ham dogger”.New collections on Twitter: but are they curation or commerce?Photograph: PRThe new feature looks less like curation and more like commerce, as things stand – something that may fit in well with Twitter’s desire to make more money from shopping through its social network.In fact, the collections’ launch came as Twitter debuted another new feature: dedicated pages for products and places, to which many of the collections tweets link.“These pages will feature images and video about the product alongside information such as a description, price, and an option to buy, book, or visit the website for more information,” explained Fox.Related:Twitter unveils 'Project Lightning' to bring live events to life“We’re starting to experiment with a small number of products and places. As we test, within your timeline you may see pages and collections of pages that are shared by influencers and brands.”Twitter has been experimenting with online shopping for some time, launching a “buy” button in beta in September 2014. At the Web Summit conference that November, its president of global revenue Adam Baintalked about Twitter’s social-shopping ambitions.“We’re experimenting with different price points with different products, and more importantly what emotions you need to generate as a business to get someone to buy in the moment,” he said.“We’re trying to prove to those marketers that we can actually move transactions, and once that’s in place, a variety of business models come into play.”
Apple will pay royalties to music labels and publishers during the three-month free trial of its Apple Music streaming service, the company has confirmed, after protests from independent labels andmusician Taylor Swift.Related:Taylor Swift criticises 'shocking, disappointing' Apple MusicSwift appears to have been the tipping point in the row that had been rumbling all week, after she published a blog post –To Apple, Love Taylor– calling on Apple to abandon its plans for no payouts during the trial period.Apple’s senior vice president for internet software and services Eddy Cue responded directly to the star on Twitter in announcing the company’s u-turn.“Apple will always make sure that artist are paid,” tweeted Cue. “#AppleMusicwill pay artist for streaming, even during customer’s free trial period. We hear you @taylorswift13and indie artists. Love, Apple.”Cue told BuzzFeedthat Apple will pay a “per-stream” royalty during the trial, revealing that he had already called Swift to tell her about the change of plans.“Taylor Swift’s tweet today solidified the issue for us, we decided to make a change,”he told BuzzFeed’s John Paczkowski, while confirming that Swift hasn’t yet agreed a deal to put her music on Apple Music.Apple Music is the company’s long-anticipated rival to streaming services like Spotify, and isdue to launch in more than 100 countriesat the end of June.Although a monthly subscription will cost $9.99, or $14.99 for a family of up to six people, Apple is making its new service free for three months so that people can try it out. After striking licensing deals with major labels, the company had planned to only start paying royalties after the trial period.Independent label trade bodies in the US, UK, Germany, France and Australia spoke out against these plans in recent days, claiming that their members would be most at risk from any three-month blip in earnings if a large number of people buying music downloads from Apple’s iTunes store switched to the free trial.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'“We struggle to see why rights owners and artists should bear this aspect of Apple’s customer acquisition costs,”claimed indie label group Beggars Groupin a statement published on its website.“As a whole the independent sector is a powerful voice in the music industry but its individual parts , the smaller labels particularly, cannot withstand such a potentially catastrophic drop in revenue,”added British indie trade body AIMin a statement sent out to its members.Rapper Drake helps launch the streaming service in early June.Link to videoSwift’s blog post on Sunday made even more headlines, however. “I’m sure you are aware that Apple Music will be offering a free 3 month trial to anyone who signs up for the service,” she wrote.“I’m not sure you know that Apple Music will not be paying writers, producers, or artists for those three months. I find it to be shocking, disappointing, and completely unlike this historically progressive and generous company.”Swift cited the plans as one reason she would not be making her last album, 1989, available to stream on Apple Music, although she had not announced whether she would be withholding her entire back catalogue from the service as she has from Spotify.Swift has become one of the most vocal musicians in the ongoing debate about how well (or poorly) streaming pays off for artists and songwriters, having taken Spotify to task in 2014 for the free tier of its service.“I’m not willing to contribute my life’s work to an experiment that I don’t feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists and creators of this music,”she said then. “And I just don’t agree with perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free.”Swift took to twitter to celebrate Apple’s change of heart:I am elated and relieved. Thank you for your words of support today. They listened to us.&mdash; Taylor Swift (@taylorswift13)June 22, 2015Swift’s stand against Apple also prompted support from other musicians. Billy Bragg, who has been vocal in his criticism about the levels of remuneration artists receive from streaming, described Apple’s decision as a “very positive step”.Speaking to the Guardian, Bragg said: “The point that Taylor is making is that music has value. It is a very important argument to make, so I am very supportive of the stance. The key thing here is it illustrates the ability and power of the artist to make a stand and think about the rights of the creator rather than the rights of the record labels or the streaming services.”“I’m not big or influential enough to exert any power over something as big as Apple but Taylor Swift is, so consequently her stance is really important. I think it shows that if more powerful artists took a similar stance, we could see a real change.”Bragg acknowledged that it was “not always an easy thing for artists to do”. He pointed out that music rights often belonged to record labels, not the musicians themselves, which took the power of negotiation out of artist’s hands. Swift, however, is on a smaller indie label and is therefore able to exert more creative control over how and where her music can be accessed.“Very few artists of Taylor’s stature have the power to do this, and I think the fact she is on an indie label makes a major difference here,” said Bragg.“It shows more than ever the importance of artists keeping hold of their rights so they are in a position to negotiate with streaming services and I think the future for artists is to be able to exert greater control over these kinds of deals.”
Update: Apple has announced a change in policy, andwill now be paying royalties during its three-month free trial. The original story follows below.Taylor Swift has spoken out again about streaming music, but this time her target is Apple rather than Spotify.Swift has joined independent labels in attacking Apple’s plans not to pay royalties during the three-month free trial of its new Apple Music streaming service.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'In a post on Tumblr, Swift set out her opposition to the plans, days after it emerged that her last album 1989 will not be available on Apple Music, which wasunveiled earlier in the monthat the company’s WWDC show in San Francisco.After describing Apple as “one of my best partners in selling music and creating ways for me to connect with my fans”, Swift did not mince her words over her unhappiness about the company’s free-trial plans.“I’m sure you are aware that Apple Music will be offering a free 3 month trial to anyone who signs up for the service. I’m not sure you know that Apple Music will not be paying writers, producers, or artists for those three months. I find it to be shocking, disappointing, and completely unlike this historically progressive and generous company.”Swift went on to stress that her criticism is “not about me” but rather an attempt to stand up for emerging artists and songwriters.“This is about the new artist or band that has just released their first single and will not be paid for its success. This is about the young songwriter who just got his or her first cut and thought that the royalties from that would get them out of debt,” wrote Swift.Related:Apple Music to pay royalties during free trial: 'We hear you Taylor Swift'“This is about the producer who works tirelessly to innovate and create, just like the innovators and creators at Apple are pioneering in their field…but will not get paid for a quarter of a year’s worth of plays on his or her songs.”Swift’s criticism follows a week in which independent labels have also been criticising Apple’s free-trial plans, on the grounds that small labels are likely to feel the most impact from a three-month blip in revenues.“Whilst we understand the logic of their proposal and their aim to introduce a subscription-only service, we struggle to see why rights owners and artists should bear this aspect of Apple’s customer acquisition costs,”claimed independent label Beggars Groupin a statement earlier in the week.“As a whole the independent sector is a powerful voice in the music industry but its individual parts , the smaller labels particularly, cannot withstand such a potentially catastrophic drop in revenue,”added indie labels trade body AIMin its own public statement.Swift praised Apple for moving the music industry towards a “goal of paid streaming” and urged the company to change its Apple Music policy before the service launches on 30 June.“I hope that soon I can join them in the progression towards a streaming model that seems fair to those who create this music. I think this could be the platform that gets it right,” she wrote.Related:The future of music sales is here. So how CAN the artists make it pay?“But I say to Apple with all due respect, it’s not too late to change this policy and change the minds of those in the music industry who will be deeply and gravely affected by this. We don’t ask you for free iPhones. Please don’t ask us to provide you with our music for no compensation.”The last time Taylor Swift made headlines about streaming music was in November 2014, when sheremoved her back catalogue from Spotifyafter the company refused to let her restrict her music to only paying subscribers.“I’m not willing to contribute my life’s work to an experiment that I don’t feel fairly compensates the writers, producers, artists and creators of this music,” said Swift at the time. “And I just don’t agree with perpetuating the perception that music has no value and should be free.”The Guardian has contacted Apple for the company’s response.
How far away are we from a world where drones deliver packages? If Amazon is to be believed, not far at all. Others are not so sure: technical progress past this point isn’t merely a matter of invention, it’s a matter of public safety.Related:Congress warned that drones present 'a nightmare scenario for civil liberties'Paul Misener, Amazon’s vice-president of global public policy, told a congressional hearing this week that his companywould be readyas soon as all the rules were in place – but Misener gave no hints as to what that would look like beyond joking with a congressman that there was a basket of fresh fruit on the way to his doorstep to demonstrate the technology’s viability. (An Amazon staffer told the Guardian the company “won’t launch Prime Air until we are able to demonstrate safe operations”.)The Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) will finally haveregulationsgoverning the commercial use of unmanned aircraft by June next year. But the technology has a ways to go before then, and larger machines aren’t airway-legal at all yet – only drones up to 55lb will be covered, and the FAA points out in the proposed rules that if you’re going to crowd the skies with radio-controlled flying robots, they had better all be using different radio frequencies that nobody can jam or hijack.Professor Sajiv Singh of Carnegie Mellon University robotics institute, who runs a “critical cargo delivery” company calledNearEarth, said that piloting a state-of-the-art drone was a little more like leaving it a trail of breadcrumbs: go to this altitude, perform this short task, go back home. But even short flights from a mobile landing pad pose serious logistical problems, he said.“They’re not proposing to deliver from one uninhabited place to another uninhabited place; they’re proposing to deliver from a warehouse to where the consumer is, which is likely an urban area or a suburban area,” he said. “In those particular cases, there are going to be hazards along the way that the vehicle is going to have to detect. Maybe there will be terrain that the map doesn’t know about, unless you’ve mapped that exact route before. Even then, maybe there’s construction equipment that wasn’t there but is there now. Maybe GPS signals are blocked or partially blocked in which case it’s going to have an incorrect idea about where it is.” All this is surmountable, he said – but it’s difficult.One major problem is maintaining radio contact with a drone, and planning for what happens if that contact breaks. “If you have an off-the-shelf UAV [unmanned aerial vehicle], it’ll just keep going and crash into the ground,” said roboticist Daniel Huber. That’s not a hard problem for an engineer to fix; it’s just that the fix isn’t yet an industry standard.Related:Amazon tests delivery drones at secret Canada site after US frustrationFurther, “you can’t do everything with a 55lb aircraft”, said Jay McConville, director of business development for unmanned systems at defense and business contractor Lockheed Martin MST. Much of the focus at Lockheed Martin has been on making drone piloting interfaces less like elaborate flight simulators. “Those of us in the aircraft business have to remind ourselves that the operator doesn’t really care about every little thing about the aircraft and wants instead to focus on the end result,” he said. “Operators want to see vehicle status information, they want to see video on their handheld device, or their laptop.”“Technologically, most of the things that are needed for this are in place,” said Huber. He is working on a program that proposes using drones to inspect infrastructure – pipelines, telephone lines, bridges and so on. “We’ve developed an exploration algorithm where you draw a box around an area and it’ll autonomously fly around that area and look at every surface and then report back.”Huber, a senior scientist at Carnegie Mellon’s robotics institute, where he works on 3D systems imagery, said with respect to a program like Amazon’s: “I have heard them say that many packages are lightweight – a drone can carry a kilogram for 15 minutes. If you have a vehicle that can go into a neighborhood, it can deliver from that base. You need a 15-minute distance, and typical off-the-shelf drones have about that distance.” It’s one way, he said, of making sure the surrounding population is relatively safe. “The larger you get, the more dangerous you get.”Autonomy isn’t yet quite up to telling a robot to do the dishes, let alone autopilot a drone delivery service (and definitely don’t tell one to fold towelsunless you have some time on your hands).Logistical problems are in the middle of being solved in some very dramatic ways, Huber said. At a recent conference, he said, a disaster relief drone firm,SkyCatch, demonstrated a robot that could autonomously take off and, when it got tired, land on its own charging station. “It would land and take off, and when it ran low on batteries, it would land, exchange the batteries, and take off again,” he said.Of course, safety remains a major concern – Singh points out that for a commercial aircraft to be considered skyworthy, it has to prove a rate of one serious failure every 1m hours. Drones, he said, are “one or two orders of magnitude away” from that benchmark. “The Reaper drone has one failure in 10,000 hours,” Singh said. An oil leak, by the way, doesn’t count as catastrophic failure – something has to fall out of the sky. “We’re closing the gap,” Singh said. “There’s a lot of interest.”Part of this is simply that air travel is inherently dangerous and thus, standards are much higher. “If you fly commercial airlines, often they’ll say, ‘Oh, a component has failed, we have to go back to the gate,’” Singh said. “And that’s an established industry with 60 years of legacy! I shudder to think that one of these things might come down on a crowded highway.” Part of the solution, Singh said, is simple contingency planning: “If things fail, the vehicle has to do something reasonable.”
Google plans to exclude “revenge porn” from its internet searches in future, limiting the spread of unauthorised nude or sexually explicit photos and videos posted on websites by spurned ex-partners without the subject’s consent.Amit Singhal, a senior vice-president, announced in aposton the Google public policy blog on Friday that the company would soon issue online forms through which members of the public will be able to request that revenge porn content involving them no longer show up in Google searches. Links to such images will not be included in Google search results on that person, though they will remain online.Singhal said Google had no control over the websites to which such images were originally posted. But cutting links out of searches will help limit the damage to victims of revenge porn – “predominantly women”, he said.The step is a major shift for the leading search engine, which normally resists attempts at censorship on internet content showing up in searches. But Google decided to make an exception regarding the unauthorised sharing of nude photos, images often posted by ex-spouses or partners or extortionists demanding money to take down such pictures, all without the consent of the people shown.“Revenge porn images are intensely personal and emotionally damaging, and serve only to degrade the victims – predominantly women,” Singhal wrote.Laws against the publishing of revenge porn have been passed in 21 US states and legislation for a federal ban is expected to be introduced in Congress later this year. Twitter, Facebook and Reddit have already banned nude photos from being posted without the subject’s permission.
£38,120Combined 78.5Top speed 152mphThis week, asMeridian Danraps in his hit song, “I’ve been driving a German whip.” It’s a new word on me, but then I’m always playing catch- up with these grime artistes. A “whip” is any buff car, and specifically a Benz. Dan’s lyrics are genius: “Dem man wanna mess with my aura / Someone said that’s bang out of order…” Anyway, with its tinted windows, imposing spoilers and multi-spoke alloys, I think Dan may, in fact, have had theC300 BlueTEC Hybrid AMGin mind when he wrote the song. Clearly he was referencing the car’s 30-year corrosion warranty when he rapped: “Who told you that I got rusty / draw for the WD40.”Such is the impact Mercedes-Benz has on our culture that it comes pre-loaded with lifestyle references. It’s a synonym for aspiration and affluence; the car of choice for street swanks. I once heard that Mercedes-Benz owners reverse park so as to dazzle passersby with that famous three-pointed star on the grille.The C in C300 stands for compact. This is a compact executive saloon. Compact and executive aren’t words that often share the same sentence, but small-scale up-scale motors are now athing. Just look at BMW’s 3-Series or Audi’s A4 – two other small and snooty German whips.Inside story: the plush and well-appointed cabin does everything to make the driver feel like they are playing the part of the CEO.Mercedes isn’t joking about the C300 being compact. It really is cosy. Its big face and dramatic styling mean it looks large in the picture, but in real life it’s surprisingly small – like a film star. But for metropolitan motoring and coping with the barbarities of parking, the reduced scale makes it very easy to live with. Besides, on the open road it still drives like a big ’un. It’s powered by a 2,143cc biturbo diesel that works hand-in-glove with an electric engine to drive the rear wheels through a seven-speed automatic gearbox. Despite the 152mph performance, the car emits less than 100g km/CO2and does an austere 78.5 miles to the gallon. Today’s executives are all about that bottom line.The car is as smooth as a shaved shin and has virtually no wind drag. This means there’s little buffeting and road noise is minimal. It’s incredibly quiet on the road. An executive doesn’t want to be troubled with background chatter.Delegation is also important, and Mercedes helps the budding CEO offload the more tedious/dangerous aspects of controlling a car. The “Intelligent Drive” package will automatically brake and accelerate in response to what the vehicle in front is doing. It will also detect a car in your blind spot and, by means of one-sided braking, change your direction if there is a risk of collision. The truly toffee-nosed don’t care about such trifling matters – they have chauffeurs. But if you don’t have a man in a cap, the C300 will park itself for you.Humble brag: the sober exterior belies the lavish interior.Inside, it’s a riot of soft-touch rubbers and lacquered plastics. The model I had was polar white with a blood-red leathery interior, so it felt like I was hiding inside a corpse. I’d rather have a red exterior with a cream interior. The sound system, satnav and media interface are all controlled with a touchpad where the gear shift normally sits. It’s like a little smartphone screen, but I never got the hang of it.The car’s jammed with clever stuff, but in the manner of brainy things a lot of them are pretty stupid. Would you really pay £350 for a fragrance Air-Balance package or sign up for the world’s first aircon system controlled from space – where a GPS trace starts air recirculation automatically when you enter a tunnel? And your passengers can watch a “Drive Show” with an on-screen graphic showing where you are, like those you get on a plane. Anything to make the executive feel like they’ve made it.Ride of your lifeLive to ride, ride to live: time for a new set of wheels?Photograph: AlamyThe sun’s out, the women are competing in the Tour of Britain and Chris Froome is in the form of his life for this year’s Tour de France… if that doesn’t inspire you to get on a bike, then nothing will. If you fancy a new set of wheels,eBayis a good place to start. Bicycles, and all things bike related, is one of the online marketplace’s fastest-growing categories – I’ve just checked and seen that there are currently 776,374 bikes listing live on the site – the cheapest starts at £15. I know we all love a list, so here are the Top 10 bestselling bikes on eBay at the moment.1. Cervelo S52. Merida Ride Carbon 94 Road Bike3. Pinarello Angliru4. Cannondale SL3 MTB Hardtail5. Claud Butler Road Bike 53 CM frame6. Scott Foil 30 Carbon7. Scott 2011 Scale 80 MTB8. E-GO Fold Up Electric Bike9. Trek Superfly Carbon 29-er Pro Race10. Carrera Vengeance Ladies MTBEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Up and up the roads toGreen Bankwent, winding into the West Virginian hills as four lanes thinned to one. It was early March and snow was still spattered on the leaf mould between the firs and larches. Hip-hop and classic rock radio stations were gradually replaced by grave pastors and bawdy men twanging banjos and, eventually, they too faded to crackling white noise. The signal pips on my phone hollowed out. I was nearly there.Over a crest in the road was the cause of the electronic silence: theNational Radio Astronomy Observatory(NRAO), an array of radio telescopes set against the indigo vastness of the Blue Ridge Mountains. These giant white ears are cocked to interstellar whispers: the formation of stars, nebulae and supernovae. So sensitive are the devices, and what they are listening for so faint, that even tiny signals nearby can be disruptive: a badly fitted microwave or a faulty electric blanket. It’s like trying to eavesdrop across a room while listening to heavy metal in your earphones.In the same zone is another telescope, run by theNational Security Agency(NSA), and there is a chance some of your Facebook messages may have passed this way. But if that scheme caused international outrage, then the Green Bank telescope has been more controversial locally. Thanks to the unusual lack of interference, the town has become a haven for those looking to escape electromagnetic radiation and over the past decade, as many as 40 people have moved here.It might not sound much, but Green Bank’s population was only 120 or so to begin with. Imagine two million people moving to London and demanding the city be ghost-proofed, and you get an idea of the scale of the disruption. There have been reports of tensions in the town: tales of threats and abuse unfitting to a sleepy mountain village. And it is all the stranger when you consider that no serious scientific study has been able to establish that electrosensitivity exists. According to the World Health Organisation, “EHS [electromagnetic hypersensitivity] has no clear diagnostic criteria and there is no scientific basis to link EHS symptoms to EMF [electromotive force] exposure. Further, EHS is not a medical diagnosis, nor is it clear that it represents a single medical problem.”When I arrived there was not much sign of anything, let alone simmering social unrest. Past five o’clock everything was shut for the night. The air was freezing. For $30 I got a room in a motel where I was the only guest. “Leave the key on the bed when you go,” said its owner, before driving off herself, leaving her business in the care of at least six cats. The next day I headed for the main drag, which was not hard to find in a town with one road. Green Bank is not a metropolis. Along with the telescope, there is a school, church, library and craft shop, as well as Henry’s: a petrol station that quintuples up as a supermarket, public toilet, restaurant and general hub, and where I went in search of breakfast.“You’re not from round here, are you?” said Mary, my waitress. The staff were engaged in trying to balance a green plastic St Patrick’s Day hat on a stuffed moose head. Other diners arrived, heavy-set men in fleece and camouflage. Everyone knew everyone by name and I was the only person without a pickup truck. I confirmed Mary’s suspicions, and asked her about the migration.“People come here because they say they can hear the electrics,” she replied. “I don’t know if it’s a real condition or not. But the electro- sensitives swear it is, so… to each their own, I say.” She didn’t look convinced. “I don’t really mind not having a cellphone,” she added. “You get used to that. And a lot of us have Wi-Fi in our homes anyway, so that’s OK.”Hang on, so in The Town Without Wi-Fi, there is in fact quite a lot of Wi-Fi? I worried that this would not make for as catchy a headline as I had hoped. “Not publicly, but at home some of us do. It’s not illegal, but the observatory has a truck that can sense it. They’ll come round and ask you to turn it off.”At the library I met Arnie Stewart, a longtime resident and retiree. He had an easy manner, and the air of someone who had been asked these questions before. He pitched himself as a conciliatory figure, a diplomat between two warring tribes. “The serious migration has been going on for about six years,” he said. “It depends on the person, but almost all of them are affected by cellphone towers. They’ll be driving along and have to pull over because they have blurred vision, confusion, or their skin will break out in rashes. I think it’s something that everyone is sensitive to, in some degree: I sit in front of a computer for a couple of hours and my face starts to feel warm.”‘It’s something everyone is sensitive to, in some degree’: long-term resident Arnie Stewart.Photograph: Ed CummingStewart said he was sceptical about electrosensivity until he tried an experiment. He held a meeting with some electrosensitives, and didn’t tell them he had a mobile phone in his pocket. “They noticed at once. After that I was convinced. If you’re sick, who am I to shun you? And mostly the electrosensitives have realised that they have to fit in, and it’s been fine,” he adds. “But one person created some tensions.”That person was Diane Schou, one of the first electrosensitives to migrate to Green Bank, and their unofficial local leader. She moved in 2007, after her life was made unbearable by a new cellphone mast at the research farm in Cedar Falls, Iowa, that she shared with her husband, Bert, and their son. She began suffering terrible headaches, along with blurred vision and skin rashes. At first she didn’t know why.“I got the symptoms of radiation sickness,” she told me. Her tone was patient, like a veteran teacher explaining old truths to young students. “I went to the doctor and he wasn’t able to diagnose it. Eventually I established that I was reacting to a buried cellphone tower. US Cellular was the brand – I didn’t react to AT&amp;T, Spring or Cellular One towers.” She reeled off the names as if it would be the most normal thing in the world to have a brand-specific allergy. With her home life increasingly unbearable, she began to travel across the USA and even further afield, to Scandinavia and Nicaragua, in search of somewhere more peaceful. Sweden is one of the few places to recognise electrosensitivity as a disability and the government will help sufferers insulate their homes. “In Scandinavia there were places where electrosensitives gathered, but they didn’t go far enough to prevent the signals,” Schou said. “Farmers still used electric fences for their sheep, or people would use cordless phones.”At last she settled on Green Bank, the “best of the worst,” even though some residents still have local Wi-Fi, and power lines run above ground. “At least they speak English here,” she said. Bert stayed behind in Cedar Falls. “He would move if I asked him, but he gets bored here.” Surely such a move has been difficult for their marriage, I asked? “It has been a challenge, for sure. We used to have three meals a day together, and now we only see each other every few months.”In an effort to make Green Bank more navigable, Schou made some requests of local businesses. A Dollar Store was opening, but its fluorescent and halogen lights would be intolerable. She asked that they were changed. “They wouldn’t do it. And without the light it gets very dark in there, so they’re not willing to turn off the power.” She took to eating her meals in the senior citizens’ centre, where a gap in the lighting gave her some peace. But walking to collect her food entailed exposure to problem bulbs, so she would ask others to wait on her.Things came to a head. A town meeting was called. “She became very demanding, asking other people to turn their lights off or replace their bulbs,” said Stewart. “It was too much. And Schou was encouraging other sensitives to move here, and this is not a town with many jobs or houses to begin with.”Where the locals might have been happy to tolerate one or two of the sensitives, the mass migration was beyond the pale. Another sensitive who moved to Green Bank was reported to have flown into a rage at the library, denouncing the “dumb hillbillies”. “People tell me to stop encouraging others to move here, and to stop bringing them into stores,” Schou confirms. “The hostility continues.” People would walk towards Schou with concealed electronics, in an effort to provoke a reaction. A meeting she and her husband organised to help educate the others about electrosensivity descended into a slanging match. Schou, who has called herself a “technological leper,” said the ill will went further: “I had a visitor staying, a fellow refugee, and the air was let out of our car tyres overnight.”She felt the hostility was best explained as a kind of conspiracy between the ill-informed and Big Telephony. “I believe that there are some people here who used to work for the telephone industry, and are trying to support the industry by getting rid of me.” Schou seemed to accept that her role as a pioneer will ruffle a few feathers. Charlie Meckna, by comparison, was more reserved. Friendly but quietly spoken, he wore blue jeans and white trainers, in that style unique to middle-aged American men. His view is that “attention-seeking” behaviour by “certain individuals” is a distraction from the real issues. This is an argument I heard several times from those with EHS, that their particular condition was real, while others’ were purely psychosomatic.‘It was going to kill me’: Charlie Meckna moved to Green Bank when he believed mobile-phone signals were making him ill.Photograph: Ed CummingMeckna moved to Green Bank last July, after years trying to work out what was making him sick. In particular he found that he was sensitive to cordless phones and public Wi-Fi. “I would feel dizzy and nauseous, and get a bad ringing in my ear. People would find me passed out. It’s not perfect in Green Bank at all, but otherwise it was going to kill me. There are a lot of ignorant people who don’t understand. You’d have thought the population would be more sympathetic, given that 70% of them have diabetes and more than 20 people have cancer. I always say: ‘Do you think I want this?’ No.”None of which gets round the core issue: if EHS is real, I asked Diane, then why has it not shown up in formal experiments? “I encourage scientists to go to where we are and measure the environment,” she replied. “Don’t try to pretend that you’re God and expose us to different frequencies in a lab. That’s like taking someone and breaking their legs and asking how much it hurts.”For Sarah Dacre, the head of the 1,000-strongElectrosensitivity UK, the lack of proof from major studies is merely evidence of a conspiracy between interested parties. “Conventional government-funded science isn’t a reliable indicator of health defects,” she told me. “There’s a vested interest in keeping the truth out of circulation. But the independent science isn’t sceptical about it at all.” Her society was on the verge of exerting great influence on public policy, she added, although progress had been hindered by infiltrators, who were leaking information back to the government and phone companies. “Like spies?” I asked. “Well, they don’t call themselves spies.” No, I said, I supposed they didn’t.Like Meckna, Dacre felt that there were people claiming to be electrosensitive who were nothing of the sort, who were queering the pitch for the others: “You can tell at once who is just pretending,” she said. After I spoke to her, my inbox was deluged by fellow sufferers who had been alerted to this article, linking to the independent studies that support their claims.Perhaps surprisingly, Green Bank was a hard place to leave. After the initial difficulty of organising interviews without a mobile or the internet, I had quickly settled into a slower pace. In my motel I read until I fell asleep. I woke at dawn to the pale light sharking through the windows. It was easy to see how this place could provide solace, even to the non-electrosensitive. Part of the problem, I suspect, is that few of us doubt the behavioural or environmental threats of technology; our endless distractibility, the constant beeps and whirrs and notifications of modern life. You might argue that electrosensitivity is simply an extreme reaction to a whole range of bewildering stimuli. Dacre told me that many come to her after a bereavement or other illness, even a bad insect bite – something that knocks the world off-balance. It is well documented that psychosomatic conditions can provoke real symptoms, and nobody would wish to mock the afflicted.Or at least, not much. As I prepared to make tracks, Charlie Meckna pointed up at some slivers of grey cloud that hung in the vast powder-blue sky.“See those?” he asked.“Aeroplane trails?”“Not contrails – chemtrails,” he said. “The government sprays the air – it gets in the atmosphere.” He paused and looked me in the eye. “The world needs to know what’s happening here.” I drove off, slightly too quickly, eager to refresh my feeds.
They call it the saloon that thinks it’s a coupe. “The Mercedes CLS,” I was sometimes heard to murmur, leaning against it, doing a voice like Sean Connery, “the car made of muscle.” Then I’d set the alarm off and electronically immobilise it, but it was nothing the manual couldn’t fix.So much car jargon, I often think, exists to replace perfectly serviceable words that car buffs don’t know about because they never speak to anybody. I give you “oddment stowage”, the term they use for for “small drawer”. And yet, when people talk about the “build quality” of a Merc, there is no other phrase for it. Everything you open, everything you close, every time you sit down, every time you move, there it is, in a noise or a texture or some ineffable combination of the two: build quality. One might almost just say “quality” for short.I spoke to a driver who’d bought a CLS as a present to himself when he retired, and asked if there was anything that annoyed him about it. “The clock has a tick. It drives me mad.” Won’t it eventually run out of batteries? He shook his head morosely: “Nope. It’s the build quality, you see.”The funny thing is, there are all kinds of touches that say they had a harassed mum in mind at the ideas stage – notably, a grocery drawer that pops complicatedly out of the boot lid; and, while we’re in this area, a boot that you can close with your nose (consult the manual for more detail). Still, to me, it yells “exec”, and makes more sense on an empty urban road at midnight than it does on a motorway (where it performs, sure, but doesn’t get a chance to show off).Whizzing along the M20, I was just one of any number of wise-asses who could drive fast and smooth in a long, straight line. Swishing round a roundabout, the handling was so tight and sure, the whole thing so agile but so weighty, I felt like a shark. Accelerating was like skydiving (a little bit… not exactly. I have never been skydiving). Nor was I imagining things: it has nine-speed automatic transmission and is insanely powerful, yet subtle enough that the power never feels wasted or as though it was devised for some other purpose.The cockpit isn’t perfect. The gears are on a paddle and I twice put myself in neutral trying to turn on the windscreen wipers, which was a bit of a surprise (not the second time – that was more of a doh). While the black leather upholstery is everything a leather-seat enthusiast would ever dream about, the black ash dash is a little naff. There is a whole wide world waiting for the product designer who understands where the addition of a wood trim is classy, and where it is not. At the moment, the arena is dominated by a character out of Dallas. And despite the fact that the engine cuts out when it’s stationary, it is a little optimistic to call any element of this machine “eco”. But it’s a cracker.Mercedes CLS: in numbersPrice£49,950Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62 in 6.5 secondsCombined fuel consumption52.3mpgCO2emissions142g/kmCool rating8/10Eco rating7/10
We all know that it’s possible to share books, CDs and mixtapes, pull them apart, or transfer them to different environments. Their digital equivalents, however, are not so free.On Friday, the high court in Londonruledthat when you rip your lawfully owned CDs, transfer a DVD movie to a USB-only device, or backup your playlists, consumers are potentially “harming” rights holders.Related:Music groups win court battle over private copying of CDsAs a result, an eight-month-old legal provision allowing private copying for personal use has become potentially unlawful.It took until 2014 for the UK to have aprivate copying exception, legalising what everyone assumed to be possible: making copies of content you have legally bought for purposes such as backups, cloud storage and format-shifting.But even then, the UK exception is ridiculously narrow. You must have acquired the content lawfully and on a permanent basis (even though the world is moving to rental and streaming). Your use must be private, personal and exclusive. You cannot share the content with anyone else and you must not use it for any commercial purpose.You are allowed to format-shift (for example, from a CD to an MP3). But ifdigital rights managementtechnology prevents you doing so, then you’re out of luck. Not only that, but you will be up against the law if you use or build anything that can be used to get around those restrictions.The 2014 law creates a sliver of an opportunity to get around this - but itrequires you, first, to seek agreement with the rights holder and, if that fails, to complain to the secretary of state for business. Good luck with that.If this seems draconian, it just got worse: consumers may have to pay extra for this dismal private copying privilege too.To fairly compensate rights holders for the dubious “harm”,other European countrieshave extracted a private copying levy for things like blank CDs, MP3s, printers and smartphones. Theamounts varyfrom a few cents to several euros.This is not compensation to make up for unauthorised downloads, or for the theoretical lost sale of your sister reading a book or MP3 you lent her, instead of buying her own. It is for whatever is lost when you make a personal backup of your lawfully purchased content.When it introduced its 2014 private copying exception, the UK government considered the harm to rights holders so minimal that it would not impose a levy (though it did say that the price could be incorporated into the sale of creative works).In achallengemade last November, representatives of the ever-litigious UK music industryclaimedthis was unlawful and that the law should be struck out.Hammer drops on leviesThe high court has found in favour of the music lobby as it ruled that the government did not have sufficient evidence to show that the harm to rights holders from the new private copying exception was minimal or zero.Although the court accepted that there is an element of art and judgment, as well as science, in the exercise of quantifying potential harm, it found that the government had not gone far enough to prove that the way that the industry already prices in the cost of private copying left harm at a minimal or non-existent level.To a large extent, the court’s hands were tied by law that requires a levy to compensate for plausible harm, as well as a recentrulingof a European court, finding that the exception should be read extremelynarrowly.That means British consumers are required to respect digital rights management restrictions, and could have to pay extra for fewer rights than we have had as audiences before.It is clearly unsatisfactory that our freedoms over the use, sharing and transfer of digital media should be narrower than with physical media. By chasing levies on legal content, thereal issues about copyrightin the digital age are being overlooked.
Hold the phone –Nokiahasannounced its returnto the mobile (cell) market. The Finnish telecoms giant, which was once the biggest producer of mobile handsets in the world, has agreed withMicrosoftto begin designing phones again in 2016.Microsoft boughtthe company’s faltering mobile phone unit for €5.44bn (£4.6bn) in 2013, after declining sales in the face of competition fromApple. But now that Nokia’s chief executive Rajeev Suri hassaidNokia is to return, we can’t help harking back to its pièce de résistance: theNokia 3210. Here’s why we loved it.The battery never diedTheiPhone 6has an average battery life of less than a day, theSamsung Galaxy S6isn’t much better. The 3210? Would last for, like, a week. Possibly two weeks, depending on how often Snake was played.There’s a reason whythisjoke has done the rounds on the internet:Just put on a jacket I last wore at a wedding in 2001 and found a Nokia 3210 in the pocket. It still has 2 bars of battery leftIt literally did not break. EverWe all know that the phone shops in the middle of inner city shopping malls are making a killing from smashed smartphone screens. It would never happen with the sturdy 3210, weighing 153g. The 3210 could survive an atom bomb, an earthquake and possibly the two combined.Drop it on the floor and the cover would pop off, the battery spit out, but it’d be the equivalent of a chipped fingernail. Polish it off, snap it back together, and everything would be ok. No wonder people now joke that dropping the handset would damage the floor, and not the other way around.The3310, the heir to the 3210, which essentially looked like the 3210 had put on a bunch of weight, was even more robust, and led to theIndestructible 3310 meme.Indestructible 3310. Amirite?Photograph: KnowYourMeme.comNokia 3310 being used as battery ram.Photograph: KnowYourMeme.comAll the colours!Never has the word “fascia” been so popular as in the era of the 3210. We were all about the fasciae. The number of colours! The glitter ones! The decals! The stickers! The knock-off ones breaching numerous different film and music copyright! Thecoloured rubber keyboard panels! The fluffy covers! There wasnothingthat was off-limits when it came to decorating the 3210. Porn-inspired fasciae, covers with, randomly,brands of chocolateon them.None of this shit with an iPhone. “Space grey” and “slate”? Could anything be more boring?Snake, obviouslySure, now the greatestElectronic Artsand Rockstar games are available at the tap of an app, gobbling up phone space and hours of time. You can raise a whole family on The Sims or win the Premier League on Fifa, but nothing can beat the pure, and purist, adrenaline rush ofSnake.Pause and you were screwed. Everyone knew that, a rookie error. Apparently, someone once conquered Snake, and the proof is in this13 minute gif. The game was still available to play as a YouTube easter egg until 2014, when Google took it away.Don’t be evil? Indeed.Feeling all nostalgic now? Never fear – the 3210 isstill available to buyon eBay. Not only that, but so are the accessories. Smartphones? Meh.• This article was amended on 22 June 2015. Rajeev Suri is the chief executive of Nokia, not Microsoft as an earlier article said.
If you want to know what’s going on in the collective consciousness of the global games industry, just hang out at E3 for a day. This gigantic three-day celebration of mainstream gaming has just closed up in Los Angeles, and it made a heck of an impression.So here are the key trends that we picked out among the many hundreds of announcements.Nature overcomes civilisationHumankind may destroy itself, but will we take the world down with us? Not so in Guerrilla’s Horizon, Microsoft’s ReCore and The Chinese Room’s Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture. Each of these games present a post-apocalyptic world in which nature survives the collapse of human civilisation, and has begun its slow but inexorable work of reclaiming our towns and cities. It’s a different, more pastoral approach to the catastrophe narratives with which we are so familiar, one perhaps driven by the fact that games are now able to render moss and trees just as well as bricks and rubble.The dawn and diversity of consumer virtual realityThe rush of excitement that accompanied the first wave of VR announcements appears to have cooled a little. VR demos at E3 were, in the main, situated at the periphery of the show floor. What’s clear is that there is no one headset that has everything. Sony’s Morpheus has the best product design and is the most comfortable to wear. Vive offers the most immersive experience, as it allows you to walk around. Oculus has the best physical input device, and newcomer Fove a gimmick that may prove fundamental: the ability to interact with objects and in-game characters using nothing but your eyes. It’s a mess, then, but an exciting one – and some people are going to make (and others lose) a lot of money in the process.The rise of the user-designerCompanies have been encouraging user-generated content in their games for years – it allows players to express their creativity, while keeping a game fresh and stocked with new content for others to sample. Nintendo’s Mario Maker, which allows players to create 2D Mario levels in the style of various titles from across the series’ history is going to indulge fan fantasies on an industrial scale. Sony’s Dreams (made by LittleBigPlanet creator, Media Molecule) will allow users to build and paint a huge variety of hazy, yet beguiling stages. Meanwhile, Microsoft’s decision to allow PC mods to run on the Xbox One version of Fallout 4 will allow the semi-professionals to get involved. And Doom’s new user-friendly snapmap level editor should open up the devilish joy of first-person shooter design to a much wider audience.The battle of the living room PCsXbox One’s forthcoming support for PC mods is just one of a slew of features that are moving Microsoft’s console closer to the territory of PC tinkering. There’s a new controller for the system that has modifiable components (you can switch the analogue sticks out, for example) and an early access programme, whereby a developer can sell an unfinished game at a cut price both to generate income to further fund its work, and also to gain valuable live data for use in tweaking and developing the game further. These three elements are firsts for a video game console, and, in all likelihood, a move from Microsoft to head off Valve’s incoming Steam machines.The search for new ways to tell storiesThe Chinese Room pioneered the (sometimes sneeringly) so-called “walking simulator” with its first release, Dear Esther, a game in which you wander a Scottish Isle, listening to snippets of voiceover that piece together a melancholy narrative. The company’s follow-up Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture takes the theme further: you follow the story of six disappeared people as you roam an abandoned village in Shropshire during the apocalypse. Another PlayStation 4 title, What Remains of Edith Finch offers another example of the weird power of the walking simulator, where the journey and excitement comes not from overcoming challenges or tests of reaction, so much as lingering exploration and vigilance.Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture: you won’t know whether to play it or book a weekend break in it.Women on screen – if not always on stageAfter years of being told that female characters don’t sell games or are too time-consuming to draw, E3 2015 provided a heartening influx of women in leading roles. There was Lara Croft, of course, and Faith in Mirror’s Edge Catalyst. And with these established heroes came Horizon’s post-apocalyptic hunter, Aloy, Dishonored 2’s Emily Kaldwin, the scavenger in ReCore and Evie Frye in Assassin’s Creed: Syndicate. More important was the fact that these characters were presented in such a matter-of-fact way. It was as though the industry was saying “yeahof coursethere are female lead characters, why wouldn’t there be?” There were even jokes about Ubisoft holding the first E3 press conference to pass the Bechdel Test, with the chat between presenter Aisha Tyler and Rainbow Six: Siege star Angela Bassett. Sadly, though, Sony failed to invite a single woman presenter on stage during its entire 90 minute press briefing.Dogs, robots and other petsHuman companions are so 2014: the future of co-operation in games is between humans and animals. Or robots. Or robot animals. Of course, we’ve had canine chums in games sinceShinobi, and helpful droids are always useful backstory-spewing device. But this year, they all arrived at once. Fallout 4 has a dog (and a family robot), ReCore has a robot dog, Metal Gear Solid: Phantom Pain has wolves and Last Guardian has a giant griffin creature. The only question now is: why no cats? Is it too late to have Nathan Drake scoop up an abandoned kitten in Uncharted 4, only to become hopelessly besotted with it, much to Sully’s jealousy? Hmm, that’s probably best left to the fanfic.Fallout 4: ‘Go get that mutant, boy! Good dog’.
Cops and robbers have been such an enduring inspiration for Hollywood, it’s curious that games haven’t really bothered with the genre. Battlefield Hardline may have grafted policeman onto its game of war, enabling full scale urban combat, and Grand Theft Auto V does let you perform heists, but neither is as detailed or ambitious as Payday 2. You’re one of a team of four criminals taking on jobs that range from quick jewellery shop knockdowns to complex operations taking place over several days, starting with casing the joint and finishing when you’ve fenced your ill-gotten goods.In each mission you need to find a way into some premises, then break in using drills that work on a long timer and need to be defended against waves of incoming policemen, or download data from a computer, which takes a similarly long time and attracts the same attention from tooled-up law men. It looks a bit low-budget and aiming your gun is shaky and imprecise, making its chaotic firefights prone to anarchy, while random matchmaking with players online doesn’t often make for rewarding cooperation. Payday 2 has good ideas, but lacks the polish to capitalise on them.
It’s dressed in the trappings of Jurassic World, but this is a Lego game from top to shiny plastic toe, which means you’ll be wandering around smashing everything into its component bricks, before reassembling them into useful machines that eventually lead you to the next area. Arriving on Jurassic Park’s Isla Nublar, you can choose to play through either the original film’s story or that of Jurassic World, in both cases reimagined with a loving silliness through its surprisingly expressive animated mini-figures.Like past Lego games this is aimed at children (quite how it got a PEGI rating of 7 is a mystery - there’s nothing here a four or five year-old would find even remotely distressing), although adults will find plenty to smile about while helping little ones through tricky sections. It may be painstakingly formulaic, but it’s also made with just as much love and attention to detail as Lego Batman, Star Wars, Lord Of The Rings et al.
The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim was a game so titanically vast you could lose yourself in it for hundreds of hours and still stumble across new places. The fact that Skyrim is just one region of Tamriel tells you all you need to know about the mind-blowing potential of The Elder Scrolls Online, which splices this scale with a population of thousands of real players. While the landmass is just as intimidatingly endless as you’d imagine, the experience of playing Tamriel Unlimited lacks the atmosphere and solemnity of the earlier single-player games. Wherever you go you’ll find players running in all directions, swarming enemies and standing in loose gaggles around important points in quests, blasting immersion-breaking drum’n’bass over voice chat or talking loudly to other people in the room with them. Mechanically things fair slightly better, its relatively dull quests underpinned by solid combat and complex, hard-won upgrade paths. It’s not pretty, never coming close to last month’s Witcher 3, and can feel a little monotonous as you trudge between similarly structured busy work, although it is very early days for a game designed to be played for months on end.
The photographs that we share on social networks often have emotional value, but could they have a commercial value too?Although nobody is going to pay for your filtered KFC big-bucket snaps anytime soon, the idea of people paying for amateur smartphone shots is not as strange as it may seem.Flickr had to abandon plans to sell wall-art printsof shots uploaded to its service under Creative Commons licences in 2014. Less controversially, apps such asFotolia,Stockimo,Foap,ScoopshotandDreamstimeare all trying to help people find buyers for their photos.Related:21 tips, tricks and shortcuts to get the best snaps from your photo appsYou can addEyeEmto the latter list. The iOS and Android photography app has 13 million members and in March launched a feature in the US called Market, which catalogued their images for potential media and advertising buyers.EyeEm is now available in the UK. It groups images by themes, including architecture, nature, business and travel, selling shots for a standard licensing fee of $20, or an extended licence costing $250 for larger print or television use, as well as on products.The chief executive, Florian Meissner, said: “Our technology helps photographers get discovered by organising their photos in a smart way, and getting them in front of people who might want to use them.” .He founded EyeEm after moving to New York to work as a photographer. He soon lost all his equipment in a mugging, which in turn spurred his interest in smartphone photography.“We’ve got this very passionate new generation of photographers, who don’t need fancy equipment, but can create very real, authentic photography from the streets. Mobile phones were the grassroots of that movement,” Meissner said.“I’m 100% convinced that over the next couple of years, the majority of images being used commercially won’t come from professional photographers, but will come from the long tail of the industry – people who’ve been hanging out on Snapchat, Facebook or Instagram.”EyeEm’s Market essentially sets the company up as a stock-photography agency for amateur photographers (or, indeed, professionals taking smartphone shots), splitting revenues 50/50 with their creators.Customers can search its database of tagged images, or work with EyeEm to set “missions” for a particular theme and/or location to send its users out on assignment in the hope of getting commissioned.“It’s a playful approach, and a completely new way of hiring a photographer and getting images back within 24 hours,” said Meissner.He added that EyeEm is keen to help its community improve their skills by providing video tutorials and tips, rather than simply seeing them as a resource to be harvested.EyeEm isn’t pitching itself (yet) as a potential killer of traditional stock-photo services like Getty Images or Shutterstock.“They are completely complementary to us. They don’t have access to the kind of images we’re getting, so there’s a beautiful relationship to be had there,” said Meissner, pointing to a deal with Getty Images that sees the latter selling EyeEm shots in 40 countries.EyeEm chief executive Florian Meissner: ‘We’ve got this very passionate new generation of photographers’I’m cautious about the idea of amateur photographers taking over from the pros, based on my own experience as a journalist.Increasingly when I go to a conference, I take a few snaps using my smartphone, which sometimes accompany my articles. On other occasions, there’s been a professional photographer there for the Guardian –Anna Gordon– taking shots.My pics, at best, are serviceably lit shots of people on a stage. Hers are better in every respect: lighting, depth, composition right down to capturing people at just the right point.Both of our shots can fulfil the same function – jazzing up an article – but they’re a world apart in quality. The more I practise my mobile photography skills, the more respect I have for people who do this for a living.Are EyeEm and its rivals dangling an unattainable goal for amateur photographers to compete with the pros? Or are they encouraging their media clients to opt for cheaper amateurs over skilled professionals?Meissner sees it differently, admitting that even before the smartphone photography boom, cheaper high-end cameras had led to “amateur photographers flooding the market with shitty images that led to price-dumping”.“Anyone can become a photographer; it’s the democratisation of the media that’s happening. But it’s harder to actually make sense of that: you can’t manually screen, curate and tag millions of images,” he continued.EyeEm’s argument is that building technology to do that can help ensure that its market isn’t about cheaper shots alone, but about talented photographers who happen to be shooting using smartphones.Related:Yes, androids do dream of electric sheep“If you put yourself in the perspective of a photographer, you have to up your game. But we can help those guys get out there. It’s always been the case that technological evolutions have forced photographers to develop their game and adapt to change.”Meissner added that even though EyeEm has now launched its market in two countries, it isn’t making “sell your photos” the main message.“We don’t think the number one reason people should join EyeEm is to make money. You are on a social network like Instagram or Facebook, plus we can help you educate yourself and improve your skills, and connect you with people who have shared interests in photography.”
Shifera Sahilu thought Uber would be his passport to a better life in America. Instead, he said, the ride-sharing company almost ruined him.The fast-growing tech company has built a global business promising new sources of revenue for “freelance” drivers like Sahilu. This week, in a major blow to the company, a court questioned exactly how freelance those drivers are. Uber’s critics cheered the decision. Sahilu is not so sure it will make a difference.Related:Uber drivers are employees not contractors, California rulesLike many Ethiopian immigrants in San Diego, Sahilu gravitated towards driving a cab because he didn’t speak much English and couldn’t get recognition for his educational qualifications – in his case, a chemistry degree.At the time he started driving for Uber, in 2013, the company promised greater independence and, potentially, higher earnings than he’d had in five years behind the wheel of a city-licensed yellow cab.But in his experience, at least, the promises turned out to be hollow. He invested in a Lincoln Town Car for the Uber black limousine service and, at the company’s insistence, put another $15,000 into the car for improvements. Then Uber told him the car still wasn’t good enough and refused to let him use it. Now Sahilu borrows his wife’s Nissan Versa to drive for the more downmarket Uber X service, earning what he says is less than the minimum wage.He can no longer afford a car of his own. “At the beginning they invite us in a very warm way. They say they need us,” said Sahilu (not his real name, which he was afraid to use). “But we just invest money and we don’t get the money back … Most of my friends get a loan to buy a car and they drive for Uber for a dollar a mile. That’s the worst thing ever.”In theory, Sahilu should have been delighted by this week’s news that the California state labor commission has declared Uber’s designation of its drivers asindependent contractors to be illegal.If the commission’s ruling is upheld, it would mean he and thousands like him would be reclassified as employees, with a legal right to a salary, benefits, payment of expenses mandated by the company and overtime.But Sahilu has little faith now in the company he hoped would help put him through community college and get him an American chemistry degree. “Maybe Uber headquarters is treating drivers badly, maybe it’s the local office, I don’t know,” he said. “But they just collect money. The drivers collect money and give it to the company. The company is rich and the drivers go back home with empty pockets.”According to Sarah Saez, an organizer with the United Taxi Service of San Diego, which advocates for labor rights, Sahilu’s experience is typical. More than 70% of the city’s taxi drivers are from east Africa, and more than 90% are immigrants. “Uber has built a whole empire on the backs of these drivers, getting them to buy cars and take on expenses, telling them how to dress, how to talk, how to have their cars a certain way,” she said.“The company is charging them to work but also misclassifying them and denying protections like social security, workers’ comp, unemployment, healthcare and collective bargaining rights.”Established taxi companies clearly have a vested interest in attacking Uber, which has taken a chunk of their business. But the independent labor commissionrulingis the latest of several indications that Uber’s wildly successful challenge to the traditional taxi-cab industry may be hitting a serious obstacle.The company recently announced its ambition to reach a valuation of $50bn, but it is unclear how much Uber is worth if it has to start picking up expenses it has up to now pushed on to the shoulders of its drivers. Florida recently made a similar ruling saying the drivers had to be classified as employees, not independent contractors. A high-profile class-action suit in federal court in San Francisco is also making headway and more suits are likely to follow in the wake of the commission’s ruling.In March, the California courtrejectedUber’s request for summary judgment in its favour and described the company’s claim to be merely a technology company as opposed to a taxi company as “fatally flawed in numerous respects”.Advocates of the “sharing economy” business model that has gleefully disrupted traditional service sectors from transport to hospitality have expressed dismay at the labor commission ruling. Berin Szoka of the Silicon Valley thinktank TechFreedom said it would have a“chilling effect”on Uber, Lyft, Airbnb and similar companies. “The commission’s ruling could force sharing-economy companies to scale back their offerings and increase prices, which could also rob consumers of the flexibility and broad range of choices currently offered by these companies,” Szoka said.Activists like Saez agree wholeheartedly – the difference being they don’t think it’s a bad thing. “What these companies represent is a form of supercapitalism,” Saez said. “It’s all based on consumer convenience, but that comes at a price … We have drivers out there competing for scraps. We are beyond thrilled [by the labor commission ruling]. These companies are getting what they deserve.”The case that led to the labor commission ruling was hardly a high-powered effort backed by expensive lawyers and noisy consumer groups. Rather, it was brought by a single Uber driver, who worked for the company for just eight weeks and represented herself.Uber driver Barbara Ann Berwick brought the case that is threatening the company’s business model.Photograph: Robert Galbraith/ReutersBarbara Berwick of San Francisco could politely be called an eccentric – a one-time local political candidate who runs her own very small investment business, once wrote a pamphlet on non-violent parenting and enjoys lodging complaints with public watchdog groups like the labor commission. She worked for Uber for just eight weeks before deciding she needed to be treated like an employee with a right to overtime, compensation for every mile she drove and state employment insurance benefits.Her victory before the labor commission only became public, ironically, after Uber decided to appeal against it. Berwick said it was puzzling that Uber would want to publicise its defeat and spend a lot of time and money on what, ostensibly, was an administrative ruling that applied, in the first instance, only to her own circumstances.“It’s a stalling tactic, and it’s going to be a very expensive one,” she said. “The only benefit I can see is that by having a new hearing and appealing and appealing and appealing, Uber gets to have their drivers as independent contractors for a longer time and makes money accordingly.”Uber itself argued in a statement that the labor commission’s ruling was non-binding and applied only to Berwick. It did not comment on why it was pursuing its appeal.Many of the players – on both sides of the argument – feel this is a watershed moment that will determine whether Uber is the face of capitalism to come or a flash-in-the-pan company destined to shake up an industry, make a lot of money very fast and then vanish off the face of the planet like so many revolutionary startups before it.In many cities, Uber and Lyft have been successful because the traditional taxi industry has been bound by antiquated rules and systems of control. In San Diego, for example, the city imposed a cap on the number of taxi licenses it issued, forcing drivers to work for companies that owned those licenses on terms the companies could more or less dictate at will.Now that Uber and Lyft have made their presence felt, however, San Diego has lifted the cap on licenses entirely. Saez, for one, hopes this will lead to a boom in individual owner-operators who can run their own apps and keep 100% of the money they take in. “We are all about democratizing the industry,” she said. “I don’t think Uber has any intention of doing that.”
Heinz has apologised to a German customer after a QR code on one of its tomato ketchup bottles linked to a porn site.After using a smartphone to scan the code, which was meant to provide information about a promotional campaign that offered personalised ketchup bottle labels, Daniel Korell was sent to a German adult site rather than a Heinz-run page.“We really regret the incident,” a Heinz representativesaid on Facebook, offering to send Korell a personalised ketchup bottle as compensation.The QR code linked to a URL used for the “Spread the word with Heinz” competition between 2012 and 2014. Heinz allowed the domain name “sagsmithheinz.de” to lapse after the competition closed, which was subsequently purchased by a purveyor of german adult entertainment.“The bottle may be a remnant, but it is certainly still present in many households,” Korell told Heinz. “It is incomprehensible that you cannot secure the domain for at least one or two years. A .com domain really does not cost the world.”Heinz said that it would rectify future issues revolving around temporary brand extensions online. The pornography site also offered Kroll a free subscription to its service.The condiment company is not the first to forget to renew a domain name with embarrassing consequences. Sony allowed its online entertainment domain SOE.com to expire,taking down the servicelast year.After the FBI’s seizure of the Megaupload.com domain from Kim Dotcom, itbegan serving pornography, drugs and malware after it expired while still being controlled by the US government.All cases show that brand control on the internet is very important and that a web domain is for life, not just for Christmas, or a short-term competition that is likely to come back to haunt you.•Google eyes British partnership to buy firm behind Tesco’s Clubcard
Twitter is going live. After years of attempting to compete with market leader Facebook on its own turf, Twitter is poised to embrace the key aspect that differentiates the two social networks with a new feature, the code-named Project Lightning, which will allow users to follow live events through curated streams of tweets, photos and videos.Those events could be organised events such as the World Cup final or Eurovision, or breaking news events such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks.According to Buzzfeed’s Mat Honan,who met with the team creating the feature, the events will be presented as editorially driven collections.“These collections are designed to take advantage of images and videos associated with a particular event, and to bring them to life,” he writes.“None of that media is presented in the standard Twitter timeline – each tweet, picture, or video will take up the entire screen of your phone. You’ll view them one at a time by swiping. Importantly, collections will include – and thus promote – not only pictures and videos posted to Twitter, but Vines and Periscope videos as well.”Although created by Twitter using its networks, the collections will also be embeddable outside the site, a factor that could prove important in the network’s continuing struggles to attract new users.Eventually, the company forsees creating “seven to 10” events a day and opening up the tools to other organisations.The concept resembles “Live Stories”, a feature introduced in 2014 by ephemeral messaging app Snapchat. Also editorially driven (rather than algorithmically curated), Live Stories sees Snapchat pull in the best photos and videos from an event or location over the previous 24 hours, and present them as a two- to three-minute reel for users to watch.According to Ben Schwerin, Snapchat’s director of partnerships, those stories “draw an audience of 20 million people in a 24-hour window” – a huge number for an editorial product, albeit still small in the world of Silicon Valley user counts.And an estimateby industry news site Re/Codeputs the value of adverts alongside those stories as $400,000 per ad.Twitter has long been the leader among social networks for live events. The app’s focus on displaying the latest tweets, in reverse chronological order, allows it to highlight breaking news far faster than Facebook’s curated news feed.However, Twitter has struggled to turn that lead into financial success, or even use it to increase user sign-ups. The company has stalled at about 300m active users (a fifth of Facebook’s user count) and barely a tenth of its revenue.The issue seems largely to stem from the difficult “onboarding” process at Twitter: it remains hard to leap from being a new user, following no-one, to having a good experience on the site.‘Biggest opportunity’That has led to some pressure on Twitter to become more like Facebook, offering a curated timeline with a de-emphasis on real-time content, even as such changes infuriate “power users” of the site.Project Lightning could see Twitter moving in the opposite direction, doubling-down on what distinguishes it from its larger rival. It bears a strong similarity to a feature proposed ina mammoth June blogpostby Twitter investor Chris Sacca, who wrote that “live is the biggest opportunity yet”.“The necessary elements are: A separate tab in Twitter (or app); thoughtfully curated follows to build the initial stream; human editors; scheduling and promotion to build traffic; [and] no permanent commitment nor login required,” Sacca wrote.Shortly after Sacca’s blogpost, the Twitter chief executive, Dick Costolo, stepped down, and the company’s co-founder Jack Dorsey returned to the fray as interim boss.
When the Japanese game designer Fumito Ueda was a child, he loved to capture and care for wild animals. He was obsessed with the way they moved; and later as a young game designer he imported a copy of the Amiga classic Lemmings, seeing in it something other than a colourful puzzler. “I sensed life on the TV screen for the first time in my life,” he said.Since then, he has become famous for games that explore humanity and companionship. After joining Sony Japan’s development studio in 1997, he oversaw two of the most fascinating and beautiful action adventures of the PlayStation 2 era: Ico and Shadow of the Colossus. These doleful, reflective titles, with their hazy visuals and vast silences, showed us new ways to tell stories and invoke emotions through games. The moment in Ico where the eponymous lead character takes the hand of Yorda, the princess he seeks to rescue from an evil queen, has become one of the great images of the medium.But then, after the wonderful Shadow of the Colossus – a game that brought themes of loss, grief and the fundamental importance of friendship to the standard monster hunting archetype – came the wilderness years. A game codenamed Project Trico, about the relationship between a boy and a giant griffin-like monster, was mentioned, and then officially announced as The Last Guardian at E3 in 2009. Then years of uncertainty as the project shifted from PS3 to PS4, and Ueda announced his separation from Sony Japan.Six years later at E3 2015, Sony began its hugely nostalgic press conference with a revelation: The Last Guardian was definitely in production for PS4. We now know that it is a joint project between Sony Japan and a new studio, Gen Design, formed by members of Ueda’s old Team Ico group. The release date is a tentative 2016. There is still much work to be done. But you get the feeling that Sony Computer Entertainment chief Shuhei Yoshida, always a fan of Ueda’s work, will do whatever it takes to push this through. It is happening.In a quiet meeting room, above the maelstrom of E3’s main halls, Fumito Ueda is showing off the latest build of the game. At the beginning of the short demo, we meet the lead character, a little boy who has been kidnapped (“under mysterious circumstances,” explains Ueda, cryptically) and left in the ruins of a vast stone city. Here he meets a giant creature, Trico, and the two, we’re told, will embark on a journey of friendship.As The Last Guardian world appears on the large cinema screen, it is unmistakably the work of Ueda. We’re in a beautiful but ruined chamber, the intricately carved stone pillars cracked and crumbling, the paving stones punctured with weeds. The light is hazy, the air filled with dust. Pigeons gather and peck at each other in darkened corners, colourful butterflies flutter above. The atmosphere is pure Ico: beauty, solitude and silence.But then Ueda guides the boy into another room and we see Trico, lying still and despondent on the stone floor. Reflecting some of the earliest concept art from the game, he has clearly been attacked. There are two spears protruding from his back, and when the boy climbs up to pull them out, Trico yelps in pain.When the boy protagonist first finds the gigantic creature Trico, he has been attacked seemingly by hunters. The player must remove their spearsThis creature is glorious. Vast and feathery, but with a sad-eyed canine face, it seems to be the culmination of Ueda’s childhood interest in animals. During the demo he explains that Trico is inspired by family pets – dogs, cats, birds – because he wanted players to develop the same sort of affinity for Trico as they would for the creatures they look after in their own homes. Clearly, there is a communication system for giving orders to this giant – the boy can call for him, and enact actions like jumping, to tell Trico what to do.But Ueda was also keen to give this giant pet its own stubbornness and intelligence. “It is based on pets, and people think of their pets as cute, so Trico is cute,” he explains. “But it is also a wild animal, and sometimes even with household pets, you don’t have total control over them. That’s part of the design.”We see an element of this in the demo. The boy needs to reach a balcony, high up on the wall in order to escape the chamber. He orders Trico to reach up to the ledge with its front legs; the creature does as he’s told, but as the boy attempts to climb up his “pet” to reach the higher level, Trico gets back down again. He needs to be encouraged, once again, to get up on his hind legs and form the bridge to the platform. “Sometimes when you’ve taught your pet a trick, you invite your friends around to show them, but he won’t do it,” says Ueda. “Trico is like that.”The scene is important for two reasons. It shows that this is very much the game that Team Ico was making all those years ago.Screenshots released in 2009seem to show this very sequence. But now, Trico is rendered with much more detail and character. The glossy feathers ripple across his body, catching the light as he moves, and his beautiful, globe-like eyes, his little movements, the way he watches the boy wherever he goes, these are animations filled with life and authenticity. Uedo wants us to think of Trico as our own pet, and when we see its head bob upwards with concern when the boy climbs high or gets close to an edge, it is almost heartbreakingly resonant.The sense of formative cooperation between the two continues throughout the rest of the demo. Jumping down into a new room, the boy finds that Trico’s access is barred by a cell door, so he must find and pull a lever to let the animal through. As in Ico and Shadow of the Colossus, Ueda says that players have to read the landscape in order to progress – there are few hints or directions.Then suddenly, they’re both out on to a ledge and the light from outside, bursts across the screen momentarily blinding us. Then we’re in the vast mountainous arena seen in Sony’s E3 press demo; an ancient city, built into the rock, a spectacular huddle of vast circular towers reaching high above, and interconnected with arched walkways that suspend above a vast chasm. Ueda explains how he often uses height to symbolise universal human fears. “It shows the psycholgical stress that the player has to overcome,” he says. “It also shows the vulnerability of the little boy.”To reach one part of a broken wooden catwalk, the boy makes a jumping motion, ordering Trico to go on ahead. Trico leaps a gap and lands on the platform, and the boy jumps after him; in a moment of slow-motion tension, the boy seems to fall far short, but then Trico leans forward and catches his friend, pulling him up to safety. A similar thing happens later, as the walkways begin to collapse – the boy makes a jump toward his companion, but this time trico can’t catch him in his mouth. Instead, at the last moment, he curls down his tale and the boy catches hold.It is beautiful and frightening, the atmosphere accompanied and enhanced by a rush of symphonic music. But Ueda stresses that these aren’t cinematic cut-scenes: this is gameplay. As with his previous titles, Ueda’s desire is to bring the player into the narrative, the moments of drama are emergent and personal; the worlds are vast but quiet and understated. He calls his approach “design through subtraction”, chipping away at superfluous detail until the heart of the thing is clear. His stories are about epic minimalism. The grandeur of even the smallest tokens of love. Two hands joining together. A boy removing an spear.A lot of the action in The Last Guardian seems to involve working out how the boy and Trico must combine their abilities to progressNext, there is a simple puzzle where the player must push a large wooden cage along its tracks and over the edge of the precipice, but this sets in motion a destructive sequence as the fragile landing begins to collapse. The two characters rush for a building and leap across to it, the boy on Trico’s back. Trico grasps for a ledge, hanging onto the side of a stone wall, and the boy must climb up him, onto the ledge and find a way to help his friend haul himself up too. Finally, the two are safe, standing together on a balcony, Trico pecking at his feathers, the boy looking out over the collection of jutting buildings. “Everything you see is explorable,” says Ueda, perfectly timing his comment as the camera pans out to show the scale of the ruins.And this is all we’ll see for now. We’re promised more information about the story later, perhaps at Gamescom, or Paris Games Week, or maybe at the Tokyo Game Show. There are concerns that we’re still seeing elements of the adventure that we were seeing in 2009 – but then perhaps that is part of the emerging marketing plan. Ueda’s games are about hope and vulnerability, and about how desire and ambition can mislead us. Perhaps what Ueda has learned from the last six years is that game development is like those animals he caught as a child - it is never something entirely under his control. So best to go cautiously.The lights go up in the demo room; there is a warm ripple of applause and then we file out into the long crowded hallways of the Los Angeles convention centre. Downstairs there are many hundreds of games telling their stories of revenge and honour, many of them doing it extremely well. But none of them do it quite like Ueda, with that sense of intimate sadness, that sense that life and friendship are brittle gifts far too easily lost or wasted on spurious escapades.
You may have heard of Fitbit, you may even have worn one of its trackers to count your daily steps, but it’s unlikely you would have expected the clamour for its shares to send them soaring 50% when they floated in New York yesterday.Shares in the firm responsible for the gadget took off at a sprint, jumping from their $20 initial price to more than $30 in early US trading to value it at around $6bn – despite the company already having raised its expectation of the price this week and putting additional shares into the float. The stock closed at $29.68.The company responsible for the theCharge HR, theSurgeand the eponymous Fitbit Tracker is the behemoth of the $3bn fitness tracking industry with a 68% share of the market, but is it worth the valuation?If it was just down to sales to consumers, which is a small but expanding market, then it may be questionable. But Fitbit has an ace up its sleeve in the burgeoning “corporate wellness” industry that is set to revolutionise the workplace.From technology firms such as Adobe and Box to traditional corporate giants, including BP, companies have been lining up to fit their employees with Fitbit’s fitness trackers.Thought of as an employee benefit, they’re handed out along with a company-wide fitness social experience where teams of workers can club together and compete on daily, weekly and monthly challenges. Be it steps, number of calories burned or miles covered, everyone’s personal fitness data helps with the aim of encouraging more active lifestyles. The theory is that a healthier workforce is a happier workforce and so is more productive, a win for the workers and a win for the company.Not too dissimilar to the ideas behind company exercise regimes that are characteristic of Japan. The country essentially made these activities law in 2008 with themetabo law, which mandates a maximum waistline based on the age of the citizen.While western workers are highly unlikely to respond to enforced exercise before anchoring themselves behind a desk, Fitbit has been betting on the fact that they might just accept a piece of electronics, especially if there’s some competition in it.Health insurance companies have also latched on to the possibilities of fitness tracking. Fitbit has deals in place with Vitality, formerly PruHealth, in the UK and the US, which provides a discount on your health insurance in return for using a fitness tracker.Fitbit was founded in 2007 in California by two men embracing new wireless technology to create something new in the health and fitness industry. It’s first Fitbit Tracker was released that year, a glorified pedometer that looked like a clothes peg. Over several iterations the Fitbit range grew to include wrist bands and watches capable of tracking heart rate, counting stair climbs, tracking runs using GPS, and monitoring sleep.Fitbit leads the market for fitness trackers, of which 16m were sold globally last year, according to data from research company CCS Insight. Just under 34m are expected to ship worldwide this year, rising to 56m in 2018.“Wearable devices such as fitness trackers is a super exciting space right now,” said George Jijiashvili, wearables analyst with CCS Insight. “Fitbit is looking to replicate the success of GoPro’s initial public offering, and so far seems to be doing so.”The competition in the wearables space is fierce, with several companies fighting it out to seize a slice of the market but failing to live up to Fitbit’s sales.Jawbone, considered Fitbit’s long term rival, has had setbacks in the last year, with product delays hurting sales at a time when Fitbit sold 3.9m trackers in the first quarter of this year. Meanwhile Chinese vendors such as Xiaomi have entered the market with highly capable devices costing less than £20, putting pressure on the price of premium rivals selling at prices in excess of £80.But fitness trackers are under threat from smartwatches too.Apple’s Watchhas sold 2.8m units since its launch earlier this year according to the latest data from Slice Intelligence, while thePebble Time, Google’s Android Wear watches andSamsung’s Gear devicesall boast fitness tracking features.It is conceivable that fitness trackers such as the Fitbit could end up like the BlackBerry of the health world, confined to corporate use while consumers choose smartwatches from Apple and Google for health functions instead. Not everyone agrees.“We don’t believe Apple and company will kill the fitness trackers like Fitbit in the near future,” said Jijiashvili. “A Fitbit has a clearly defined purpose, to track your fitness and sleep, but the benefit of a smartwatch such as the Apple Watch is much more ambiguous while they cost significantly more, often double or triple that of a fitness tracker.”The next big thing in fitness tracking isn’t the hardware, however, it’s about the analysis of the data they collect to produce meaningful feedback, something Fitbit and its rival Jawbone are better placed to do than most of the technology companies attempting to eat their lunch.“Checking a device that tells you you’ve had five hours of terrible sleep is just adding insult to injury. You already know that,” said Riaan Conradie, a computational biologist and founder of LifeQspeaking at CES in Las Vegas in January. “But identifying why I’m not sleeping well after I’ve eaten too much, drank something or not exercised enough, then it becomes useful to change habits and do something about the poor sleep.”Fitbit has one of the most advanced analysis platforms. But rivals Jawbone and Microsoft have made great strides with their number crunching sides, embracing cross-platform data sharing and producing apps that can be installed on smartwatches and other devices for fitness tracking.Fitbit’s profitability and corporate ties are major assets, but the company will have to keep iterating, particularly around its sleep tracking – which is its weakest part – in order to keep ahead of the competition.JawboneJawbone’s delayed UP3 fitness trackerFitbit’s long-term rival Jawbone sells devices costingupwards of £40, but has struggled with product delays in the last six months that have set it back against Fitbit’s controlling 68% share. Jawbone’s biggest strength is its app and data analysis, which it has expanded beyond needing to be linked to its own gadgets to smartwatches and smartphones for tracking fitness without an extra device.MisFitMisfit’s cheaper Flash fitness tracker comes with a clip and a wristband.A crowdfunded success with the unique selling point of being powered with a traditional coin-cell battery like a watch, the MisFit does not need to be charged, and lasts up to six months per battery. ItsShineand cheaper Flash start at £50 and are waterproof, track steps, sleep and calories and connect to and control a range of other devices such as internet-connected lights.XiaomiThe Xiaomi Mi BandPhotograph: XiaomiA newcomer to the industry, Xiaomi’s cheap but effective Mi Band costs under £20 and propelled it fromzero to second-largest wearable devicemanufacturer in the first quarter of this year, according to data from research firm IDC.MicrosoftThe Microsoft Band.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMicrosoft is an old hand in health technology, but has stayed in the data hosting and processing side for years – until now. Its£170 Microsoft Bandis one of the most technologically advanced trackers available, while its Health app is capable of delivering insights into daily life that are at least as good if not better than the competition.AppleThe Apple Watch represents the new breed of smartwatches that might replace fitness trackers.Photograph: Kay Nietfeld/Kay Nietfeld/dpa/CorbisApple boaststhat its smartwatchis one of the most advanced health-tracking devices available. It has a heart rate monitor and can remind wearers to stand when sat at a desk too long, but it costs over ten times as much as a Xiaomi and lacks the extensive health data analysis of its rivals.
High-speed internet access could now be more accessible to low-income Americans after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) passed a measure on Thursday to subsidise their internet bills.Fewer than half of American households making less than $25,000 a year have internet access. The FCC voted 3-2 to expand a Reagan-era measure called Lifeline to include broadband. The subsidy program currently serves 1.2 million Americans, providing $9.25 total per household to citizens who qualify.The Lifeline expansion is a major victory for commissioner Mignon Clyburn, who had been pushing for this rulemaking change for months. But its passage was overshadowed by the death of South Carolina state senator Clementa Pinckney, who was murdered alongside his sister in Wednesday night’s church killings in Charleston, which cast a pall over the open commission. “Clementa and his sister deserved so much better,” said Clyburn in a tearful opening statement.“This program must be free of its current stigma,” said Clyburn. “Consumers should be treated with dignity. They should no longer be forced to turn over financially sensitive information to an unknown person in front of a group of strangers inside of a parking lot or tent. Seniors, veterans, the disabled, children and others deserve much better.”Clyburn also called on her fellow commissioners to focus on making the program “part of the pathway out of the poverty,” and said that the surest way to keep expenditures to a minimum would be to “make this program so successful and enabling that recipients no longer need it or any other federal benefit program because they no longer qualify.“I challenge all of us to be as bold and visionary as the hi-tech companies we marvel over,” she said.Her fellow commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel focused in her statement on “the homework gap”, saying that (as the Guardian has reported) internet offerings for low-income Americans are frequently so sparse that limited availability shuts children out of their schooling, in addition to keeping adult citizens away from doctors, government information and benefits, and loved ones.Republican commissioners Michael O’Reilly and Ajit Pai both dissented from the rule, complaining that the people who qualified for the program weren’t poor enough. O’Reilly was particularly scandalized that poor users might get the internet without having to pay for it. “In no event should the service be free to end-users,” he said, citing the original, Reagan-era program.Chairman Tom Wheeler dismissed the dissenting remarks and said he agreed with O’Reilly that the 3-2 vote should have been 5-0. He also lauded the commission for taking the responsibility for determining eligibility away from the carriers themselves, who would ultimately receive the subsidies. “This isn’t a conflict of interest, this is the fox guarding the henhouse,” he said. Pai noted that carriers appeared to have invented Lifeline subscribers whole cloth in some cases.Brita Strandberg, partner at Harris, Wiltshire and Grannis, a firm that specializes in telecom legislation, said the foxes are relieved, generally speaking. “Carriers are responsible for verifying the customers who get Lifeline support,” she said. “That’s a hard job if you’re a carrier. It’s complex. It’s burdensome. The commission is looking to shift that administration to an official rather than to a carrier,” and carriers couldn’t be more pleased.Strandberg also noted that the last round of expansion created a cottage industry in making cellphones for the very poor – many of the major carriers simply don’t participate in the program, and the FCC is mulling whether or not to allow carriers to negotiate rates into which the consumer pays a small premium alongside the subsidy, in the hopes that reliable broadband carriers will participate. “And requiring the charge would be a brake on fraud,” Strandberg pointed out.TracFone, whose core business is subsidized cellphones, said it couldn’t be more pleased by the ruling and was hoping to expand its business. “As the FCC contemplates the addition of broadband to Lifeline, we stand prepared to work closely with the commission to ensure that any new steps enhance this program that has proven critical to helping low-income Americans find and keep jobs, access emergency public services and healthcare, and remain connected with their families.”
Minicab operators have called on Transport for London to immediately suspend upstart US rival Uber from operating in the capital, after a Guardian investigationraised questions about the robustness of its approval procedures for driver documents.Lawyers representing the Licensed Private Hire Car Association (LPHCA), representing companies that employ 15,000 drivers, argued that Uber’s checks on drivers’ insurance papers are “seriously flawed” and put the public at risk at a meeting with officials from TfL. Uber strongly denied the claims.Related:Uber whistleblower exposes breach in driver-approval processThe battle between Uber and the rest of the taxi trade in London is intensifying. The mayor, BorisJohnson, was embroiled in a foul-mouthed row with a black-cab driverover the issue of whether he properly regulated the minicab booking firm that connects registered drivers and customers through a mobile app.When a driver heckled Johnson over his perceived lack of support for black-cab drivers in their battle against Uber, the mayor replied: “Why don’t you fuck off and die – and not in that order.”Black-cab drivers are also calling for TfL to suspend Uber’s licence. Lawyers for both groups met TfL’s legal counsel, Howard Carter, on Thursday afternoon to make their case.The LPHCA has told TfL its members have “real concerns that Uber ... appears to be accorded differing treatment under TfL’s regulatory regime with real consequences for public safety”.This was strongly denied by Garrett Emmerson, TfL’s chief operating officer for surface transport. He said: “We have not treated, and do not treat, Uber any differently to any other London operator, and we are satisfied that Uber currently comply with legislation and regulations‎ governing private hire operators in London.”Uber admitted last week that it approved a fake insurance document when the Guardian tested its system. Working with the Guardian a whistleblower uploaded an entirely fabricated insurance policy under the logo of a made-up insurance company, “Freecover”, and Uber approved him to pick up customers.TfL launched an investigation in the apparent loophole. Uber suspended the driver from its system for carrying out the test and reported him to TfL and the police, a move the driver described as “shooting the messenger”. He said he was acting in the public interest.The chairman of the LPHCA, Steve Wright, also sits on TfL’s board, and said: “They should be suspending Uber’s licence. They have already been prosecuted for no insurance. If TfL don’t deal with this it has serious implications for our position on the board. There have now been two serious breaches.”Sadiq Khan, one of Labour’s candidates for London mayor, said he would suspend Uber immediately if it emerged just a single driver did not hold genuine paperwork.“The findings of this Guardian investigation are shocking,” he said. “You can’t take short cuts with Londoners safety. I’m putting private-hire companies like Uber on notice; if I’m elected as mayor it will be one strike and you’re out – even if just one of your drivers is found not have gone through the right checks or not to hold legitimate documentation – then your licence to operate in the capital will be suspended instantly.”Caroline Pidgeon, the deputy chair of the London Assembly’s transport committee, wrote to Johnson on Wednesday asking “whether or not Uber drivers have recently been found to be operating without insurance” and warned “public confidence in the safety of private-hire vehicles is undermined by rogue operators whose business practices facilitate or enable the flouting of the law.”The LPCHA’s submission alleges that Uber’s system of checking insurance documents only when the driver registers and when they renew the policy allows drivers to cancel their policies after registration to get a refund knowing that they will face no further checks. It says Uber drivers are “highly likely to be taking advantage of this loophole given the financial pressures they face under Uber’s operating model.”Asked to comment on their claims, Jo Bertram, Uber’s regional general manager, said: “Uber complies with the exactly the same laws as all other private hire operators. All partner-drivers are fully licensed and insured to carry passengers and go through enhanced disclosure and barring service checks before they can drive.“Our operation has been scrutinised by the regulators in every city we operate in and has been praised for the economic opportunities it brings to drivers. TfL has done multiple inspections of our documentation systems over recent weeks and have found no issues.”
“I had one of the first Apple computers, God knows how many years ago, maybe 30 years ago, when it all started. And I could dictate into the machine, and I dictated swear words, it would translate them phonetically. I remember Gregory Peck was staying with us. He was horrified! ‘This is disgusting, Roger,’ he said …”Sir Roger Moore: tech early adopter. Not that the veteran actor would describe himself that way, as he talks to the Guardian about the technological skills of modern children in a familiarly self-deprecating manner.“They use a computer as we can’t. Well, maybe you can: you’re young enough. God, I hardly even learned joined-up writing …”Related:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014Why is Moore talking to the Guardian about children and technology? Because the veteran actor has turned developer (sort of) for a new children’s app calledGivingTales, which launches today for tablets and smartphones.It’s a collection of illustrated Hans Christian Andersen fairy tales, narrated by Moore, Stephen Fry, Dame Joan Collins and Ewan McGregor, and available oniOS,AndroidandWindows Phone.The free app includes Moore’s rendition of The Princess and the Pea, with other stories available as in-app purchases. 30% of the revenues will be donated to charity Unicef, for which Moore is a goodwill ambassador.Moore has history with these stories: in 2005, he wasappointed as an ambassador for Andersen’s workas part of the bicentenary of the Danish writer’s birth.“I had the gall to read The Princess and the Pea to the Danish crown princess at the launch event, and that’s stayed with me. And then my son and his partner in this GivingTales project suggested that they could get Hans Christian Andersen out there in an app, and that there could be profits to Unicef,” says Moore.“I had no idea what they meant by apps. But all they said was ‘can you get a few celebrities to record stories. So I approached Ewan McGregor, who’s an old friend – and I brought him in to Unicef a few years ago, actually – and I called Stephen Fry, and, of course, Dame Joan. So here we are.“They did beautiful recordings. Mine, of course, was rubbish. He says modestly before you could say it! And the stories are beautifully illustrated too, by some wonderful illustrators in Hungary.”The GivingTales app’s narrators in illustrated form.Photograph: PR“We are trying to build something that can last many years, and these stories have proven themselves already over a long time. When children get into this stuff, they listen to the stories over and over again,” says Klaus Lovgreen, chairman of GivingTales.“We’ve done our best to cut them down to modern-day children’s attention time: they last anywhere between six and 10 minutes, so we’re trying to get all the classic parts of the fairytales across in little, compact modern versions that are easy to digest and entertaining.“And they still work! The Ugly Duckling is an amazing story about issues with bullying and self-belief, and while it might have been phrased differently 150 years ago, it’s something we’re still struggling with today.”Related:The best Android apps for kids of 2014Moore also hopes that modern children will respond to the stories in their latest, digital incarnation. “If children are not familiar with Hans Christian Andersen, it’s a wonderful way for these stories to become part of their education. It’s good English, it’s well read – even by me – and the stories are intriguing,” he says.“He was a wonderful storyteller, particularly the fairy tales. Every story has a moral: compassion, selflessness, generosity. There’s a lot to be learned from it. A lot, without it being thrust down their throats.”The app will add more stories over time, with Moore saying American narrators will be included, and ultimately translations into other languages too. “We already have a number of stories in the pipeline to be produced. We are hoping to roll out a new story with a new celebrity every six to eight weeks,” says Lovgreen.The first crop of narrators took little persuasion. “They’re friends, and a lot of friends find it very hard to say no,” chuckles Moore. “Especially when you’re holding a gun.”Moore was appointed as a Unicef goodwill ambassador in 1991, with his role including promoting fundraising campaigns but also visiting its work around the world. In 2012, the charity presented him with a lifetime achievement award.Moore says that he sees the GivingTales app as fitting neatly into that work – and the wider mission of Unicef.“There’s the awareness that one can use the media, and I’ve learned how to tweet and do that sort of thing, so you repeat the various messages going on with all of the things that Unicef is involved with,” he says.“Everything from health through to education and aid in emergencies. We divide the world up into two types of emergency: the ‘loud’ emergency, which is what is going on in Iraq and Syria, the earthquake in Nepal, or a flood. But there’s the silent emergency which is there all the time, which doesn’t get any space.“It’s easy to raise money for an emotive issue when it’s happening and is on the front pages of the newspapers, but it gradually fades away towards the back pages. So it’s up to us – spokespersons for Unicef – to when it’s a silent one make sure that people know what we’re doing.”Moore talks enthusiastically about visiting Unicef’s supply depot in Copenhagen. “It’s very appropriate for Hans Christian Andersen, actually! The supply depot there is quite extraordinary: volunteers will come in when it’s an emergency and do all the packing,” he says.Related:Diversity in children’s apps: ‘Gender depictions tend to be very stereotyped’“It’s now very technically modernised and quite brilliant: they can supply anything from a pin to an elephant. Not that there’s much demand for elephants these days.”Will there be more demand for the GivingTales app – and specifically, the in-app purchases that will be making the money for Unicef – though? The children’s apps world is tough, commercially, withmany parents seemingly unwilling to pay for appseven on a device that cost them several hundred pounds.Lovgreen is optimistic. “I have met my share of pessimists, and of course there are always some people who will not pay for things,” he says. “But we think there is a market out there for a fairytales app that is really well-executed and well-read. I’m very confident that people will be willing to pay if the quality is high enough.”With GivingTales now live, Moore is getting to work promoting it – including on his Twitter account, whichhas more than 32,000 followers. He’s a fan of the social network and its potential for raising awareness of charitable campaigns.“Absolutely, I think it’s quite fascinating, since I’ve been looking at it, to see that amongst the fluff there are serious things. I think it’s well worth looking at.”
What do machines dream of? New images released by Google give us one potential answer: hypnotic landscapes of buildings, fountains and bridges merging into one.The pictures, which veer from beautiful to terrifying,were created by the company’s image recognition neural network, which has been “taught” to identify features such as buildings, animals and objects in photographs.Related:Google frees its dream robots to run wild across the internetThey were created by feeding a picture into the network, asking it to recognise a feature of it, and modify the picture to emphasise the feature it recognises. That modified picture is then fed back into the network, which is again tasked to recognise features and emphasise them, and so on. Eventually, the feedback loop modifies the picture beyond all recognition.At a low level, the neural network might be tasked merely to detect the edges on an image. In that case, the picture becomes painterly, an effect that will be instantly familiar to anyone who has experience playing about with photoshop filters:An ibex grazing, pre- and post-edge detection.Photograph: GoogleBut if the neural network is tasked with finding a more complex feature – such as animals – in an image, it ends up generating a much more disturbing hallucination:A Knight, pre- and post-animal detection.Photograph: GoogleUltimately, the software can even run on an image which is nothing more than random noise, generating features that are entirely of its own imagination.Before: noise; after: banana.Photograph: GoogleHere’s what happens if you task a network focused on finding building features with finding and enhancing them in a featureless image:A dreamscape made from random noise.Illustration: GoogleThe pictures are stunning, but they’re more than just for show. Neural networks are a common feature of machine learning: rather than explicitly programme a computer so that it knows how to recognise an image, the company feeds it images and lets it piece together the key features itself.But that can result in software that is rather opaque. It’s difficult to know what features the software is examining, and which it has overlooked. For instance, asking the network to discover dumbbells in a picture of random noise reveals it thinks that a dumbbell has to have a muscular arm gripping it:Dumbbells (plus arm).Photograph: GoogleThe solution might be to feed it more images of dumbbells sitting on the ground, until it understands that the arm isn’t an intrinsic part of the dumbbell.“One of the challenges of neural networks is understanding what exactly goes on at each layer. We know that after training, each layer progressively extracts higher and higher-level features of the image, until the final layer essentially makes a decision on what the image shows. For example, the first layer may look for edges or corners. Intermediate layers interpret the basic features to look for overall shapes or components, such as a door or a leaf. The final few layers assemble those into complete interpretations – these neurons activate in response to very complex things such as entire buildings or trees,”explain the Google engineers on the company’s research blog.Another dreamscape.Photograph: Google“One way to visualise what goes on is to turn the network upside down and ask it to enhance an input image in such a way as to elicit a particular interpretation,” they add. “Say you want to know what sort of image would result in ‘banana’. Start with an image full of random noise, then gradually tweak the image towards what the neural net considers a banana.”The image recognition software has already made it into consumer products. Google’s new photo service, Google Photos, features the option to search images with text: entering “dog”, for instance, will pull out every image Google can find which has a dog in it (and occasionally images with other quadrupedal mammals, as well).So there you have it: Androids don’t just dream of electric sheep; they also dream of mesmerising, multicoloured landscapes.
Picture the scene. We’re filming a TV documentary called Dambusters: Building the Bouncing Bomb, doing the first test drop of our “bomb”. But when the drop cable gets badly tangled, filming grinds to a halt and it looks like the show may be cancelled. Ian, the director, is pacing around with his phone in hand, all very glum. Meanwhile, I’m sitting down poring over all the camera angles of the failed drop. It doesn’t take me long to figure out what went wrong, and I suggested a solution that, thankfully, worked. Later Ian asked, “How were you so relaxed when we were all convinced it was a disaster?”I am an engineer, and problem-solving is in my DNA. Engineers simply relish a challenge, and the harder it is to solve, the better! Despite the fact that engineering has shaped our world, many people are unaware of its impact. I might ask you about the room that you’re sitting in – do you see any engineering around you? Is there a pen on the table, a kettle boiling or lights switched on? You’re almost certainly carrying a smartphone, and you may be wearing clothes made with synthetic fibres, or have taken transport today. If so, then you are surrounded by engineering!So why don’t we celebrate it more? Well, too often, engineering hits the headlines only when there’s bad news – for example,the recent serious accident on a rollercoaster. The reality is that engineering has countless positive stories to tell –Crossrailis Europe’s biggest ever infrastructure project, and at the Large Hadron Collider,engineers outnumber physicists. And what about Rosetta and Philae, landing on a comet ... spine-tingling! By shouting about engineering only when things go wrong, we leave people with the impression that engineers can’t get anything right. And with gloomy forecasts of askills shortage in engineering, these outdated, negative perceptions of engineering are affecting our ability to recruit and retain the next generation of engineers.Engineering’s greatest strength is its diversity, but is also perhaps its biggest challenge. I’ve been very lucky to work on a wide range of projects in my career, from making plastic bags (which, believe it or not, is a truly amazing technology) to finding ways to help cool our planet using reflective particles in the atmosphere. My colleagues atCambridge University’s Engineering Departmentwork on amazingly diverse topics, like wirelessly-charged electric buses, bioengineering and nanotechnology. For hundreds of years, the work of engineers has shaped our very lives, but right now, it is largely hidden from the public’s gaze. I hate going to airports – such a disappointment! We see nothing of the remarkable baggage-handling machinery underneath our feet, the screening techniques which keep us safe or the phenomenal technology of the engines that propel us across the Atlantic. Everything is hidden, tucked away neatly behind doors and in shiny boxes, quietly working behind the scenes.The same could be said for engineers too. Name any big project, and I guarantee you that there are hundreds of invisible engineers in the background just getting on with it. Unless we wave our arms about a bit we’ll never inspire the next generation. Maybe we worry that it’s nerdy to get excited about technology. Fortunately that word ‘nerdy’ is changing fast – and we ought to celebrate it. This is why I spend so much timetalking to schools and the public; I want to pass on some of the excitement that I feel every day about shaping our world, and to help people see the engineering hiding in plain sight.When it comes to bringing engineering into schools, I believe that many efforts are too focused on adding it into the standard curriculum, which risks it becoming dull. How about instead we encourage children to see the direct connection to engineering in action – the real-world use of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics)? I’d particularly like to see closer relationships between schools and local manufacturing hubs. While games like Minecraft are doing a great job of engaging with children, you simply can’t beat the experience of going into a factory full of machines and lots of noise – watching a plastic toy or an iPhone case being made will leave a much longer impression than reading about the process.It is extremely important to get the next generation of scientists, technicians, engineers and mathematicians on the right track – anything we can do to make students realise that these subjects are cool, relevant and interesting to them can only be positive. In wider society, why don’t we have jet engine models on display in an airport lounge, or awindow into the engine room on a ferry? By opening up engineering, we’ll help people to join the dots about the technologies that affect our everyday lives and open a window to a world to which most children and adults are oblivious.Those of us who work in academia have a particular responsibility to spread the word and to inspire the next generation. We have some of the world’s very best engineering and science departments, filled with skilled communicators. But many of my university colleagues feel that they don’t have time to take part in outreach. It’s all about how universities measure their output.In the UK, teaching and research are assessed separately. Teaching quality is assessed by looking at lectures and student interactions. Under theResearch Excellence Framework (REF), the impact of research is measured in numbers of publications, journal impact factors, and grant income, with some account for public engagement.However, when deciding what funding a UK university receives, its teaching quality doesn’t count for much – funding is awarded mostly on its research output, which leads us to neglect our primary duty – education. Yet it’s a mistake to think that teaching stops outside the lab or lecture theatre.I’ve been involved in developing television documentaries with an engineering focus. Collectively, our TV shows have had somewhere close to 20 million viewers worldwide, yet because they’re not publications in a journal or a research output, they don’t count as “impact” under the REF. I understand and fully accept that. However, it’s not clear as to where this kind of activity is counted – in the current framework for assessing excellence, there is little room for wider outreach. Anyone looking objectively at these sorts of activities can see their value but, as yet, universities don’t have a tangible way to recognise that value. I’ve been fortunate in my department to have been given lots of moral support over the years, andreceiving the Rooke Award from the Royal Academy of Engineeringhas been a huge boost to my call. But not everyone is that lucky.My plea is to those in government and in the UK’s funding bodies to recognise the importance of public engagement, and for universities to find a way to support it. That way, the passionate ambassadors who already work in many faculties will be encouraged and supported to go out and spread the wonderful bug that is engineering. It may be all around us, but if we don’t open the door, how will future engineers ever find us?Dr Hugh Hunt is a Reader in Cambridge University’s Engineering Department. Today he was announced as the recipient of the Royal Academy of Engineering Rooke Award for the public promotion of engineering.
Google has released another product in its Nest Internet of Things lineup. This time it’s an internet-streaming home security camera, which means Google could be watching your every move, if you let it.The Nest Cam,leaked a week beforeits official unveiling, is the product ofanother Google acquisition– Dropcam.The Nest Cam is essentially an improved Dropcam Pro, and is very similar to competitors from D-Link, Samsung and others. The differentiator for Google is Nest’s “Aware” system.The camera is small enough to be relatively inconspicuous – though not a spy camera by any stretch of the imagination – and is designed to be placed on a shelf, attached to the wall or a tripod. It connects to the internet via Wi-Fi and streams a wide-angle view of your room day or night, similar to competitors.But with Nest Aware, Google is also offering to record up to 30 days of video, with audio, to the cloud and do constant analysis of it.Learning more about what’s happening in your homeA Nest supportdocument states: “If you subscribe to Nest Aware with Video History, your Nest Cam will use advanced analysis to learn more about what’s happening.”The system is capable of ignoring everyday events such as car headlights flashing through the window, while looking out for the extraordinary. The camera looks for motion, for instance, and notifies the owner if it sees something, but it can also listen out for unusual sounds while ignoring background hum of the boiler.The owner can also view the camera’s feed through the Nest app on the iPhone or Android device, and the Cam integrates with Nest’s learning thermostat and smoke alarm.The company is also pushing the Cam’s ability to stream video straight to Google’s YouTube, turning it into a live streaming “behind the scenes” camera. . While some may find this feature useful for security and safety, others will raise privacy concerns and may consider constant surveillance sounds rather too much like a dystopian future.Nest states that it respects user’s privacy, and that it does not sell or share user data. Nest also says that it is run separately to Google and that Nest accounts are not cross-linked with Google accounts.However, Nest admits that when connected to Google’s “Works with Nest integration” system, which allows other devices such as ceiling fans, washing machines and car sensors to integrate with Nest’s products, it does share personal information with Google. How much data, users can control.As proved bythe uproarover Samsung’s smart TVs that sent speech recorded from conversations in the living roomunprotected over the internet, people do not like being listened in on.Nest states that it protects your privacy, won’t sell your data or use it to sell you ads, but bringing a camera into your living room, kitchen or kid’s bedroom is a whole other level of trust.•Google takes aim at the internet of things with new Brillo operating system
Apple, Dropbox and Automattic are amongst the companies earning a five-star rating for their defence of user data in the latest edition of the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s annual report, “Who has your back?”The report, which assesses companies on five criteria, ranging from their support for pro-privacy public policy to their disclosure of government data demands, also gives high marks to Yahoo! and Wikimedia, the body behind the online encyclopedia Wikipedia.But two companies, WhatsApp (rated separately from parent company Facebook) and AT&amp;T get just one star, with both losing marks for not telling users about government data demands and not disclosing their policies on data retention, amongst other criticisms.The report, now in its fifth year, has tightened up the criteria required to get a five-star rating, after the wide-ranging success of the EFF’s previous demands. “The criteria we used to judge companies in 2011 were ambitious for the time, but they’ve been almost universally adopted in the years since then,” the group declared.“Now, users should expect companies to far exceed the standards articulated in the original Who Has Your Back report. Users should look to companies like Google, Apple, Facebook, and Amazon to be transparent about the types of content that is blocked or censored in response to government requests, as well as what deleted data is kept around in case government agents seek it in the future. We also look to these companies to take a principled stance against government-mandated backdoors.”The full chart from the report.Photograph: EFFFive stars availableThe report awards companies a star for each one of five criteria they satisfy. The first is awarded for following “industry-accepted best practices” on government data requests, such as requiring a warrant before it will hand over data, publishing regular transparency reports, and establishing public guidelines explaining how they respond to data requests. In previous years, each of those three were a standalone criteria, but in keeping with the EFF’s desire to raise standards, companies must now fulfil all three before they are awarded a star.The second criterion is for companies to inform users about government data requests “unless prohibited by law, in very narrow and defined emergency situations, or unless doing so would be futile or ineffective”. Additionally, the report requires companies to give that notice in advance, so that the user has the opportunity to defend themselves against government demands for data.Third, the EFF requires companies to publicly disclose their data retention policies, so that users can know how long information, including logged IP addresses and deleted content, stay on the companies servers in a form accessible to law enforcement.Fourth, a star is awarded for companies who disclose “the number of times governments seek the removal of user content or accounts and how often the company complies”.Finally, the report awards a star to companies who take a specific pro-user public policy position – this year, that entails opposing “the compelled inclusion of deliberate security weaknesses or other compelled back doors”.WhatsApp, one of the two companies with the joint-worst score, gets its only star for the public position taken by its parent company Facebook against back doors. Apart from that, “there is room for WhatsApp to improve”, the report says.“WhatsApp should publicly require a warrant before turning over user content, publish a law enforcement guide and transparency report, have a stronger policy of informing users of government requests, and disclose its data retention policies.”
I have just bought my granddaughter a laptop for her university work, but it does not have Microsoft Office. I want to know which edition of Office I should buy to put on two laptops. I want to make sure they are for continuous use and will be eligible for upgrades as they are released. Any other advice such as cost and the best place to buy would be very helpful.Desperate grandmother of BrightonSome universities recommend specific software for their courses, and some have deals with Microsoft and other suppliers that enable them to offer programs at low cost. Ideally, your granddaughter will have this information already. If she’s doing a course that requires specialised software, it’s worth checking. If Microsoft Office is a general requirement, it may not be worth the effort.For students, the simplest, cheapest, and most powerful option isMicrosoft Office 365 University, which she can buy online. It’s a fantastic deal. It bundles together the main Office applications – Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote plus, for Windows users, Outlook, Publisher and Access – with a terabyte (TB) of cloud storage for four years, all for only £59.99.Microsoft Office 365 University will enable your granddaughter to run Office on two Windows PCs, Macs or tablets, and two smartphones. The tablets can be running Windows, Android or Apple iOS. Check online to see which operating systems are supported – Windows XP and Vista are not.The Office 365 University programs get updated and upgraded free, via an internet connection. But if smartphones are updated over the mobile phone network (instead of Wi-Fi), the network operator may charge for the data transfer.Of course, your granddaughter will have to prove that she is eligible for Office 365 University. Usually this means having a confirmed email address from a recognised university or college. This is why you can’t buy it on her behalf.The free online storage is valuable – 1TB would usually cost £6.60 to £10 per month, or around £320 over four years. Please encourage your granddaughter to use it to back up all her files. There’s never a shortage of sob stories from university students who have lost several years’ work, or the sole copy of their PhD thesis, when their laptop was stolen or the hard drive failed.One catch is that the 1TB of cloud storage expires with the Office 365 subscription. At this point, users are left with just 15GB of free storage in OneDrive. If they have used more, they can download and delete any files they don’t want to keep online, or switch toOffice 365 Personal. This includes 1TB of free storage for £59.99 per year.Four years is enough for most students to complete their degrees and/or other courses. If they need more time, Microsoft allows students to buy a second copy of Office 365 University after three years.Office 365 University is also available in theUSA, where it costs $79.99 (£50.79) for four years. In European countries such asFrance,GermanyandItaly, it costs €79 (£57) for four years. Check the web or the online Microsoft Store for details for these and other countries.Given the very high cost of attending university nowadays, it would be very silly to risk compromising her work for the sake of £15 or €20 per year.Office for the rest of usMicrosoft Office 365 University will run on two desktops or laptops, so that may answer your question. However, your granddaughter only seems to have one laptop, so I wonder if the second copy is for you …Both Office 365 University and Office 365 Personal, mentioned above, are for individuals. If you want a version that can be used by two or more people at once, the best option isOffice 365 Home. This allows five people to use Office 365 on PCs, tablets and smartphones, and each user gets 1TB of OneDrive cloud storage.At £79.99 per year, Office 365 Home is much better value for a typical family than Office 365 Personal at £59.99 per year. However, even if five students club together for 365 Home, it’s still cheaper – and, I think, better – for them to buy their own subscription to Microsoft Office 365 University.Otherwise, the cheapest way to acquire Office 365 Home is to get a year’s free use with a new tablet or laptop. This includes some Windows 8.1 tablets priced at £79.99 to £99.99, or even less. The obvious drawback is that you have to pay for the second and subsequent years, which is not the case with software that you buy rather than rent.On the other hand, everyone can use Office for free nowadays, because there are versions of Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote and OneDrive online as part of the Outlook.com (and Hotmail) email services. Obviously these are not full-featured versions – and you can’t download them for offline use, as you can with Office 365 programs – but they do the job for people who don’t need complex features. Also, they’re much more “Microsoft Office compatible” than free alternatives such as the open source LibreOffice or the closed, proprietary Google Docs.Buying not rentingCompanies that provide software (Microsoft, Adobe etc) and data (Netflix, Spotify etc) are moving from sales to subscription models, which are cheaper in the short term but more expensive in the long term. However, Microsoft still sells standalone copies of Microsoft Office and, indeed, separate copies of Office programs such as Microsoft Word.In this case, you could buy your granddaughter a copy ofMicrosoft Office Home and Student 2013from Amazon.co.uk for £94.98. This does not include a DVD. It comes as a Product Key Card (PKC) with instructions to download and activate Office. This will keep working “forever” on one PC, and can be moved to another PC in the event of hardware failure.The drawbacks are that it only works on one PC not two, and it doesn’t include any extra Office programs (Outlook, Publisher, Access) or tablet and smartphone versions. Further, it doesn’t include 1TB of cloud storage, or a free upgrade to the next version of Office.Office Home and Student 2013 is good value, as it stands, but not as good as Microsoft Office 365 University.Microsoft usually supports software for 10 years, and support for Office Home and Student 2013 will end on11 April, 2023. It will still work after this date, of course, but it will no longer get security patches.UPDATE: Microsoft UK says that students can get the full Office 365 free if their school or university has a site-licensing agreement, and that “most universities in the UK are part of the scheme”. Students can find out if they qualify by going toOffice 365and clicking the green “Find out if you’re eligible” button.If the school or university does not have a site-licensing agreement,students can still get Office 365“entirely free”. Microsoft says that Office 365 Education E1 “is available to any bona fide UK institution and their students”: the school just needs to contact Microsoft via the website. The E1 deal only provides access to the full online version of Office, not the one that you can download and install. However, students still get the free 1TB of cloud storage and a 50GB email inbox.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Thursday! I’m seeing all of EA’s games on this final day of E3.
Amazon.com, the Federal Aviation Administration and privacy activists sparred in front of Congress on Wednesday over drones and the future of American airspace as one privacy expert warned few laws would stand in the way of “a nightmare scenario for civil liberties”.The subject before the Full House committee on oversight and government Reform was a proposed rule by the FAA, which would permit commercial drone use in a variety of ways (at the discretion of the agency, which would issue licenses).The hearing was silent on the topic of drone use by law enforcement. The agency was, though, very concerned about unauthorized filming of football games, pointing to its No Drone Zone PSA campaign as a marked success.Related:Amazon dismayed by proposed FAA rules on commercial use of dronesThe limitations of the licenses would hurt Amazon, the company’s vice-president of global public policy, Paul Misener, told Congress. Misener said his company was actively working to make drone delivery a reality and that the rule’s restriction on operating drones out of the user’s line of sight would hamper progress. “Our respectful disagreement with the FAA is that we believe that kind of operation can be considered right now,” he said.Harley Geiger of the Center for Democracy and Technology warned the assembled legislators that they must heed privacy concerns before making the skies free for drones.“Here is a nightmare scenario for civil liberties: a network of law enforcement UAS [unmanned aircraft systems] with sensors capable of identifying and tracking individuals monitors populated outdoor areas on a constant, pervasive basis for generalized public safety purposes. At the same time, commercial UAS platforms record footage of virtually anyone who steps out of her home, even if the individual remains on private property. This may seem an unlikely future to some. However, few existing laws would stand in the way, and the public does not yet trust the discretion of government or the UAS industry to prevent such scenarios from approaching reality,” he said.The FAA’s rules would keep drones below 500 feet and away from airports, both of which appeared to be reasonable restrictions to everyone assembled, but there were concerns on various logistical questions. Washington DC representative Tammy Duckworth said that as an aviator she was worried about crowding the skies – in a small plane, she said, “even a small UAS hitting the side of my aircraft will take me out. Even a small bird will take me out.”Maryland representative Elijah Cummings asked, could deliver drones really work? “We’ve got a basket of fresh fruit headed your way right now,” joked Misener.Pressed on the point by Eleanor Holmes Norton, Misener said: “Oh, it’s in the works, Ms Norton.” Misener admitted that self-piloting tech was not ready to deploy that afternoon, but said the technology would be ready by the time the rule was passed.The committee directed most of its questions to Misener and the deputy administrator of the FAA, Michael Whitaker, who said the rule would be passed within a year, and that the questions before the FAA now were largely logistical, particularly with respect to new tech that recalls drones that lose their way. “As that technology is being tested, we have to develop standards for operation, particularly in the radio communications spectrum and how that gets defined.”Kentucky congressman Thomas Massie quizzed Geiger on whether or not there was an appropriate “floor” for drones below which they were trespassing on personal property. Geiger said that if there was, that floor would probably get lower and lower as case law worked out exactly where it lay. “We’re talking about a ceiling of 500 feet – what about a floor? Do you own air an inch above your lawn?” Massie asked.“From a personal property aspect, when are your property rights being violated? An inch above your property? Yeah, you probably own that,” Geiger said. “Thirty feet above your property? We’re not sure. What counts as reasonable as more and more UAS fill the sky – in tens and hundreds of thousands, which is what we predict in the coming decades - what counts as reasonable will probably shrink.”Massie had his own suggestion: “Maybe the floor is the range of a 12-gauge with number six shot in it.”
The first day of the E3 games conference in Los Angeles also brought us the last two major briefings of the year: Nintendo (in the form of its usual live online broadcast) and Square Enix.After the thrills and spills of the Microsoft and Sony events, it was all a little underwhelming. Nintendo immediately charmed viewers with its depiction of its key executives as Muppets, but the actual games content of its presentation left some Wii U owners frustrated by the seeming lack of support.Meanwhile, Square Enix, was still basking in the afterglow of the Sony briefing on Monday, where the Final Fantasy VII remake was a major highlight.Its event was dominated by titles we already knew about, including Rise of the Tomb Raider, Deus Ex: Mankind Divided and Just Cause 3. However , the veteran publisher still had a couple of other treats for its dedicated fanbase.Here’s what we liked best from the games that were officially unveiledfor the first timeduring these events.Star Fox ZeroThe classic flight shooter is returning courtesy of a joint development between Nintendo and the extraordinarily busy Platinum Games. Featuring all the old characters, vehicles and enemies, it’s a sort of re-envisioning of the series so far, with particular debt to Star Fox 64.The most intriguing aspect is the new control system, which uses the GamePad display as a first-person cockpit view, while the TV shows a more cinematic viewpoint of the craft.It’s tricky to get used to, and worked better on some of the showfloor demo levels than others, but it should allow players to target in one direction while flying in another. It’s due out this winter.Hyrule Warriors LegendsHyrule Warriors: Legends – the Wii U title is battling its way onto the small screenNintendo’s million-selling tactical battle game, which features a cast of characters from the Zelda series in objective-based skirmishes, is coming to 3DS early next year.The fresh version includes all the DLC from the Wii U original and adds two characters (and some scenery) lifted from Wind Waker: Tetra and the King of Hyrule. Not a ground-shattering announcement but the Dynasty-Warriors-meets-Zelda format should shine on the handheld console.Metroid Prime Federation ForceMetroid Prime: Federation Force – not exactly the Metroid Prime announcement fans were hoping for, but still...The classic sci-fi series is always a welcome presence at Nintendo events, but this incarnation left viewers scratching their heads rather than whooping approval. It’s billed as a mission-based four-player co-op adventure, but there’s also going to be a three-vs-three competitive mode called Blast Ball, a sort of future sport side... thing.It’s being developed by Canadian studio Next Level Games, previously responsible for a whole bunch of Wii conversions, and is due out in 2016.Animal Crossing Amiibo FestivalIt was a double offering from the popular life sim series this year. The news that Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer will be coming West, was accompanied by the announcement of Amiibo Festival.It’s essentially a take on Nintendo’s board game-like Mario Party titles, but with popular characters from the Animal Crossing universe. The general consensus on the trailer was: this looks weird.Mario and Luigi Paper JamAs the owner of a typically unreliable printer, the words “paper jam” usually fill be with horror and frustration – but not this time! It is of course an origami mash-up of the Mario and Luigi series with the Paper Mario titles, which means papery two-dimensional models of our beloved heroes – but in 3D. If that doesn’t break all the laws of Euclidean geometry. Anyway, it’s due out on 3DS next spring.Mario Tennis Ultra SmashMario Tennis Ultra Smash – Bowser’s really been bulking up for this tournamwentMario’s tennis games have always been super fun, intuitive takes on the sport, and the latest incarnation is no exception. A simple two-button control set up gives you access to top spin, slice and lob shots, and players are able to hold the buttons, or use them in combination, to pull off shots of differing power and technique.At points in a game, mushrooms appear on the court, allowing the players (all familiar Super Mario heroes of course) to grow larger – turning the ensuing rally into a sort of It’s a Knockout tribute. It’s coming to Wii U this winter.Nier new project (working title, obviously)The game currently known as Nier New Project. Not only is there no name, there’s no screenshots either, so we’ll have to make do with concept artPhotograph: Square EnixDirector Yoko Taro is returning to his cult role-playing adventure, working with Platinum Games on a PS4 exclusive follow-up. The original title was famed for its eccentric implementation of various gameplay styles and genres and it looks like the refreshed take on the universe will be similar.Viewtiful Joe luminary Atsushi Inaba, Metal Gear Revengeance designer Takahisa Taura and Dragon Quest X producer Yosuke Saito are also on the project. No release date yet.Project SetsunaProject Setsuna is the first game from Square Enix’s new dedicated RPG developer, the apparently aptly named Tokyo RPG FactorPhotograph: Square EnixSquare Enix has established a new studio Tokyo RPG Factory, which is set to specialise in Japanese role-playing games (JRPG) – and this will be its debut project. The publisher famed for the Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest titles seems keen to maintain a stake in the JRPG business. And that’s pretty much all we know about it, apart from that its coming to consoles in 2016.
Uber has appealed a California labor commission ruling that declared employees of the ride-sharing company are employees and not contractors.In its ruling, the California labor commissioner said Uber is “involved in every aspect of the operation”, negating the company’s longstanding claim that its drivers are contractors.The decision appears to imply that Uber is in reality a transport operator and could have a significant impact on its business model. The company had argued that drivers were contractors, with Uber acting as a logistics software company.If Uber drivers are employees, that opens Uber up to higher costs, including Social Security, workers’ compensation and unemployment insurance. That could affect its valuation, currently above $40 billion, and the valuation of other companies that rely on large networks of individuals to provide rides, clean houses and other services.But the commission said Uber controls the tools driver use, monitors their approval ratings and terminates their access to the system if their ratings fall below 4.6 stars.The company had appealed the commission’s decision to award Barbara Ann Berwick, an Uber driver in San Francisco, more than $4,000 in expenses.The ruling was issued earlier this month and came to light when Uber filed its appeal in state court in San Francisco on Tuesday evening.Uber supporters argued the ruling could have a negative impact on other so-called sharing economy companies that also use private contractors.“This ruling will have a chilling effect on the entire sharing economy,” saidBerin Szoka, President of libertarian think tank TechFreedom. “The independent-contractor business model helped drive the success of Uber, Lyft, Airbnb, and other sharing-economy companies. The commission’s ruling could force sharing-economy companies to scale back their offerings and increase prices, which could also rob consumers of the flexibility and broad range of choices currently offered by these companies.”Reuters contributed to this report
Nokia’s former chief executive, Stephen Elop, who was placed in charge of Microsoft’s mobile devices after Nokia’s handset business was bought by the company founded by Bill Gates, has been replaced in a shake up of staff.Elop, 51, will be replaced by Terry Myerson who becomes head of Microsoft’s newly conjoined Windows and Devices group, responsible for the Lumia brand smartphones and other devices including the Xbox and Surface, and Windows.“We are aligning our engineering efforts and capabilities to deliver on our strategy and, in particular, our three core ambitions,” Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella saidin a statement. “This change will enable us to deliver better products and services that our customers love at a more rapid pace.”A Canadian, Elop became Nokia’s first non-Finnish chief executive in 2010 when he went to the company from Microsoft. He was instrumental in Nokia’s adoption of Microsoft’sWindows Phone operating systemin 2011, replacing its own Symbian operating system on its high-end smartphones.He was also key to Microsoft’s buyout of Nokia’s devices division in 2013, including its Lumia smartphones, which became Microsoft’s devices group. He wascontroversially awarded an €18.8m bonusafter the sale.Eloprefuted allegationsthat he was a Microsoft plant at Nokia whose aim was to bring the company into a purchasable position for Microsoft. He was once thought to be Steve Ballmer’s likely successor at Microsoft, a role that went to Nadella.“Stephen and I have agreed that now is the right time for him to retire from Microsoft,” said Nadellain an email to staff. “I regret the loss of leadership that this represents, and look forward to seeing where his next destination will be.”•E3 2015: Xbox thrills with Lara Croft, Halo 5 and holographic Minecraft
Nostalgia is so hot right now. It is the most powerful force firing the engines of contemporary entertainment. We are enjoying Jurassic World on the big screen, a tour by Nineties shoegazers Ride and TFI Friday is back on Channel 4.Not even video games, that most futuristic of media, have escaped the consumer’s melancholic urge to revisit the past. This was never more evident than during this week’s E3, the annual Los Angeles gathering where game publishers parade their forthcoming titles and promises. Many of those new titles are, in fact, old titles, either repackaged or remade for today.Midway through the rumble and flash of Sony’s press event (held in a vast LA arena on Monday evening), the company showed a trailer for a remake of Final Fantasy VII, the second best-selling game for Sony’s original PlayStation.Released in 1997, it’s also apocryphally known as the most returned video game of all time; players were reportedly lured in by the visuals then repelled by the mysteries of the Japanese role-playing genre.But no one in the Sony crowd was thinking about that as they hollered their approval. The short teaser film, accompanied by that familiar tinkling soundtrack, showed no gameplay footage at all. The reality of the game was not a necessary component.The sentimental ante was upped yet further when Yu Suzuki, the former Sega employee and one of the godfathers of the Japanese video game industry, announced a Kickstarter campaign for the final title in his Shenmue trilogy - a game in hiatus for more than a decade.Rare Replay collectionBackers met the $2m (£1.3m) asking price (a fraction, surely, of what the full game will cost to make – by comparison, the 1999 original cost almost $50m) within a record-breaking eight hours.There were more announcements. During Microsoft’s event, the company unveiled Rare Replay, a collection of 30 titles collected from the back catalogue of the esteemed, titular British game developer.Gears of War: Ultimate Edition revisits Epic’s muscle-bound sci-fi shooter. Uncharted: The Nathan Drake Collectionis an anthology of remastered PlayStation 3 games (optimised for 1080p resolution and an improved frame-rate), the oldest of which is less than seven years old.This industrialised repackaging of the past is, in part, a function of the fact that video games are more prone than other media to obsolescence.With each new generation of hardware and software, scores of titles become unplayable (unless you keep a space for the relevant machine in the overcrowded prime real estate beneath the television).Publishers allow their old titles to fade into extinction and, in making the past difficult to reach, it becomes mystical and, often, somewhat romanticised.An image from the Shenmue Kickstarer which promises to finally complete Yu Suzuki’s fondly recalled trilogy of open world gamesWe remember old games with heightened sense of fondness, perhaps because these were the experiences that defined one particular childhood school holiday, or a fondly remembered relationship.We want them back like someone might want to rediscover the band they listened to years ago, in order to feel the keenness of adolescent catharsis and adventure again. When access is restricted, as with old video games, the experiences warm in the memory accordingly.Video games are also better suited to remakes, or at least there is more justification than in cinema, where so many reworked RoboCops,Karate Kids or Godzillas merely subtract from the originals.Video games are still evolving – many developers talk about how we’re barely out of the equivalent of cinema’s silent age. As processors and graphics hardware improve and expand in power, so they are able to better render the crude pixels and polygons of formative games.Previously voiceless characters can be voiced, the soundtracks can be rerecorded and the games of the past begin to look more like promises that were made for us when they still lurked in the future.‘Pure’ approachThis is, however, perilous work. Video games, more than other media, are iterative; sequels usually build upon the foundations of the past, and bring with them technological improvements (if not artistic ones) rather like a television or toaster manufacturer might better its product.The pure, almost restorative approach as seen in the recent Nintendo 3DS remakes of its seminal N64 Zelda titles - preserving the integrity of the original, keeping its camera angles and pacing, along with the phrasing, while merely introducing brighter, better-rendered polygons - is perhaps the safest route for a developer to take.The brasher angle, which attempts to improve upon the original , risks alienating the audience.The director of theFinal Fantasy VIIremake, Tetsuya Nomura (who served as the character designer on the original game) has a particularly difficult task ahead. The game’s aesthetic was a result of its technological constraints as much as anything: the squat, balloon animal-like characters, the unmoving, pre-rendered sets – they are artefacts of the PlayStation’s limits.With those technological boundaries vanished, the team must build the world anew. Who knows what may be lost in the renovation?It’s a bind that the developer itself acknowledged in the teaser film. At one point the voice over clumsily pleads: “The reunion at hand may bring joy, it may bring fear, but let us embrace whatever it brings.”It seems this is now the mantra of a games industry facing a complex future while seeking to cash in on our adoration of the simple past.
A vulnerability in Samsung’s Android keyboard installed on over 600m devices worldwide could allow hackers to take full control of the smartphone or tablet.The security bug revolves around the update mechanism of the built-in keyboard, which looks for language updates for trending phrases either daily or weekly.“The keyboard was signed with Samsung’s private signing key and runs in one of the most privileged contexts on the device, system user, which is a notch short of being root,” said researcherRyan Welton from security company NowSecurewho discovered the hole.The problem was discovered last year. NowSecure told Samsung about the bug in December. Samsung asked NowSecure to keep the discovery under wraps until it could patch the problem. Google’sAndroid security teamwas also notified.However, six months on it is unclear whether the patch is out. Samsung started that process in early 2015, but unlike Apple’sdirect model of software updates, is beholden to mobile phone providers to push out updates to their users.It is unclear whether that has happened and on what scale users have updated their devices.Users stuck even if they install another keyboard“Unfortunately, the flawed keyboard app can’t be uninstalled or disabled,” said Welton. “It isn’t easy for the Samsung mobile device user to tell if the carrier has patched the problem with a software update.”The problem surrounds Samsung’s integration of Swiftkey’s underlying keyboard engine into its own keyboard software. Swiftkey essentially provides the brains for detecting what a user is trying to type and Samsung does the rest producing the completed keyboard and pre-installing it on its devices.The Guardian understands that the fault lies within Samsung’s code. SwiftKey-based keyboards on other Android devices from other manufacturers, andSwiftKey’s apps from the Google Play Storeor for theiPhone are unaffected.If the Samsung Android device is connected to a malicious Wi-Fi network when the keyboard attempts to update its trending phrases and language pack, a hacker could substitute the update for a backdoor into the phone giving a hacker almost complete access to the phone.According to NowSecure a hacker could remotely access a smartphone’s sensors, such as GPS, the camera or microphone, eavesdrop on calls or attack sensitive personal data.“Unfortunately, we were only made aware of the issue on Tuesday,” said Joe Braid, chief marketing officer of SwiftKey. “We are working as hard as possible to support Samsung and help it fix the issue.”Simply installing another third-party keyboard, including SwiftKey’s full keyboard does not fix the issue, as the Samsung keyboard continues to run in the background.“There isn’t a whole lot you can do except try to steer clear of networks you don’t trust, where a crook might try to intercept and hack your traffic,” said Paul Ducklin fromsecurity company Sophos. “The silver lining, if that’s not too strong a way to describe it, is that a crook can’t exploit this hole just whenever he likes: you have to be on his dodgy network when a [keyboard] update happens, and he has to notice in time to jump in as a man-in-the-middle.”The number of Samsung devices affected is extensive, but includes the latest Samsung Galaxy S models, including theGalaxy S6, S5 and S4.A Samsung spokesperson told the Guardian: “Samsung takes emerging security threats very seriously. We are aware of the recent issue reported by several media outlets and are committed to providing the latest in mobile security.”“It is important to note that the phone’s core functions (kernel) were not affected by the reported issue due to the protection of the Samsung Knox platform in all S4 models and above.”“Samsung Knox also has the capability to update the security policy of the phones, over-the-air, to invalidate any remaining potential vulnerabilities caused by this issue. The security policy updates will begin rolling out in a few days.”•Samsung back on top as world’s biggest smartphone manufacturer
Are password managers the safest way to guarantee digital security? The recent hack of market-leader LastPass has reopened a debate that many thought had been put to bed.In theory, password managers, which let users securely store and sync their usernames and passwords so they can log into websites and services, should improve internet security.By removing the need to use a memorable password they help prevent password reuse and encourage people to pick strong, unguessable passwords. In doing so, they prevent two of the major causes of account breaches.However, password managers are also a fairly obvious case of putting all your eggs in one basket. If your password manager itself is compromised, the damage can be far greater than if any individual account is breached.In a security notice to users, LastPass on Monday announced that it had “discovered and blocked suspicious activity” on its network.Joe Siegrist, co-founder and chief executive, told users what was taken: “The investigation has shown, however, that LastPass account email addresses, password reminders ... and authentication hashes were compromised.”LastPass admitted it had been compromised by hackers.Photograph: LastPassHe emphasised that the holy grail of LastPass - the user vaults - were not accessed.The authentication hashes that were stolen are encrypted versions of the passphrase required to access the passwords on a specific user vault.It is heavily hashed - a mathematical function that makes it computationally hard to derive the original passphrase from the stolen information - but a relatively fast desktop can still manage 2,500 guesses a second,according to security researcher Rob Graham.Even so, even a medium-length password would still take years to crack at that speed.LastPass recommends users change their master password in response to the breach, and will also begin forcing an email confirmation for any login from a previously unused IP address.‘Asking for trouble’Tod Beardsley, security engineering manager of security research firm Rapid7, warns users to keep an eye out for phishing attempts now that the mailing list is public.But the LastPass breach is just the latest practical example of a risk security researchers have been warning about for years: that putting all your passwords in one place may be asking for trouble.In 2014, agroup of researchersfrom UC Berkeley warned:“Widespread adoption of insecure password managers could make things worse: adding a new, untested single point of failure to the Web authentication ecosystem. After all, a vulnerability in a password manager could allow an attacker to steal all passwords for a user in a single swoop. Given the increasing popularity of password managers, the possibility of vulnerable password managers is disconcerting and motivates our work.”That same year, a group of researchers from Microsoft went one step further,recommending that users give up on password managers entirely. They overturned years of conventional security wisdom by advising users to choose weak passwords, and reuse them widely – but only on websites that are not high-security targets.The rationale is obvious, in hindsight: we can only remember so many passwords. The requirement to use strong, difficult to remember passwords is at odds with the requirement to use a different password on every service, and something’s gotta give. Password managers are one solution, but a solution the researchers question.The problem is not just large, centralised hacks of the sort LastPass is scrabbling to recover from. It is also that password managers represent a compelling target for all sorts of malware, and targeted attacks.‘Folk-computer security’A password manager that stores passwords on a user’s machine is vulnerable to malware such as keyloggers, backdoors and so on; while a password manager that uses any sort of cloud-based security just introduces new avenues of weakness; while the password is being sent to the remote servers; and while it is sitting there.As a result, the researchers discounted password managers, and in effect, recommended what many people end up doing anyway - a sort of folk-computer security.That means using a simple, easy-to-remember password for accounts they don’t mind losing to a hack (say, third-tier social networks, or e-commerce sites that do not save payment information), while picking a much stronger password for a few crucial services.Of course, they did not phrase it like that:“Optimally, marginal return on effort is inversely proportional to account values … Far from optimal outcomes will result if accounts are grouped arbitrarily.”In other words, put the most effort in to remembering strong passwords for the most valuable accounts.What is certain is any solution that lies in between those two options is the worst of both worlds. Either never write down passwords at all, or store entirely randomised strong passwords in an encrypted password manager with a trusted cloud service.Just don’t copy the Guardian editor who proudly stores all their passwords in an Excel file on their desktop: “But the computer’s really heavy! No-one’s going to steal that.”That, dear reader, is how not to do cyber-security.
Twitter has justintroduced auto-playing video, Vines and gifs on mobile. “Oh great!” you may say: “Just what we needed! … more things to, er, chew through our data and battery life?”To be fair to Twitter, you can opt out and revert to click-to-play (see below), but Twitter could have just made autoplay opt in. Instead it is forcing users to hunt out a setting and check a box just to keep things the way they were.Twitter isn’t the only one. Autoplay is taking over our smartphones. Facebook rolled out autoplay months ago. Instagram has autoplay if you don’t scroll quickly enough and everything else is moving that way, for good reason.It makes sense for the tech companies, as autoplaying videos are arguably more eye catching and engaging, increasing the amount of video plays they can claim, which is music to advertisers’ ears.But will no one think of the users? Autoplay has some serious downsides – and not just the potential for sudden annoying sound blaring out of the speaker in public, even if they’re muted by default at the moment.Say goodbye to your mobile data allowance. To automatically play a video or gif the app needs to download said video first. That means every video in your feed, whether you care about it or not, will be automatically downloaded if you go anywhere near it. You better hope you’re on Wi-Fi.What’s more the obsession with autoplay is bleeding over to whole articles. Facebook’s Instant articles on its iPhone app, which are designed to load instantly within Facebook when you tap on a link can only do so if they have already downloaded the content. Even if you don’t read it.Snapchat’s Discover section got into trouble for doing just that,destroying users’ data allowances.And it’s not just your data allowance this hurts. Why is your battery down to 30% by lunchtime? It’s those videos being automatically downloaded. After the screen, the mobile data connection is one of the biggest drains on a modern smartphone.Constantly pulling down big files, such as videos, taxes the battery at the best of times, but when you’ve got poor signal or are stuck on a packed commuter with many other people all eating up the bandwidth, it’s even worse.You know those times you have solid signal but nothing happens when you tap on a link, short of the phone getting hot and draining the battery? That’s because there are too many people for the network to deal with. And that’s what will happen all the more frequently when autoplay insists on downloading all videos while you’re stuck elbow to armpit.And then there’s performance. Smartphones often feel slow, particularly if they’re a year old. Autoplay will make it worse, because having all those videos playing in the stream as you scroll is hard work for the phone.You might not notice it on your new iPhone 6s or Samsung Galaxy S6s but on older models or on smartphones that didn’t cost £300-plus in the first place, autoplay will slow down the experience, particularly when scrolling.So it might look pretty, having all those gifs spinning through automatically, but it makes the pain points of smartphones – the battery life and performance – even worse.Instead of sticking with tap-to-play, something which has been working just fine for the last couple of years, autoplay is being forced on to us in the name of progress and revenue models. When did the tech companies forget the user experience is key?How to disable autoplay videos on Twitter’s new version of its iPhone app. Click to play.
The wheels on the bus go round and round... and those wheels have helped British YouTube channel Little Baby Bum overtake One Direction’s biggest hit on the video site’s most-viewed chart.Related:Little Baby Bum: how UK couple built world's fifth-biggest YouTube channelThe channel’sWheels On The Busnursery-rhymes compilation was published in August 2014 and has since been watched more than 655m times, making it the 29th most-viewed YouTube video ahead of1D’s What Makes You Beautiful’s 649m views.While it’s a long way behind the 2.36bn views of Psy’s Gangnam Style music video, which topsYouTube’s chart, Wheels On The Bus is already snapping at the heels of hits including Avicii’s Wake Me Up, Adele’s Rolling in the Deep and Pharrell Williams’ Happy.Little Baby Bumwas founded in London in 2011 by Derek Holder and his wife, after they found themselves disappointed by the quality of nursery-rhyme videos on YouTube.“I was a bit stunned by the lack of decent-quality stuff. There were hilarious videos: one was Baa Baa Black Sheep and it was actually a goat,” holder told the Guardian in March 2015.“In others the sheep was grey or the lyrics were generally wrong. The animation often looked like the animation I grew up on in the 1970s and 80s... We thought why not combine our efforts and have a go? It can’t be worse than what’s on there already.”Four years on from its launch, Little Baby Bum’s videos have been watched more than 3bn times on YouTube, with some 3m parents subscribing to its channel.It’s now the second most popular YouTube channel,notching up 385m views in March 2015 alone, behind only another startling success-story aimed at children: toy-unboxing channelFun Toyz Collector.Wheels On The Bus was the video that kicked off Little Baby Bum’s growth, after the couple packaged together a number of their videos into a single 54-minute compilation.Related:This woman's thumbs are the biggest YouTube stars you've never heard of“From a parental point of view, we know what a pain it is to keep pressing the ‘play’ button. If you’ve got one video that’s 50 or 60 minutes long, you can just press play and leave your child to watch it while you get something done,” Holder told the Guardian.Little Baby Bum and Fun Toyz Collector are part of a wider boom in children’s videos being watched on YouTube.In March, they were joined in the top five channels on Google’s online video service by Russian animation channelsMasha and the BearandGet Movies, with child-friendly Minecraft channelsThe Diamond MinecartandStampyalso drawing large audiences.
DuckDuckGohas recorded a 600% rise in traffic enjoyed in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations two years ago.The site, which does not track user data, now handles some 3bn searches a year - although that is only about the same volume that Google processes in 24 hours.Apple also helped by making DuckDuckGo an option in Safari’s search with the arrival of iOS8 last year.Founded in 2008 by Gabriel Weinberg and based in Paoli, Pennsylvania rather than Silicon Valley, he says the site makes money from keyword advertising that advertisers bid for.Related:DuckDuckGo: the plucky upstart taking on Google with stealth searches“You type in car and you get a car ad. And it’s really that straight forward,”he told CNBC.I just published “Make@duckduckgoyour default#searchenginein#Google#Chrome&quot;https://t.co/uMBwoy2D3e&#10;@duckco@duckduckhack#privacy&mdash; Harsha Bhat (@harshabhat86)June 7, 2015‘Data leak’“Google tracks you on all of these other sites because they run huge advertising networks and other properties like Gmail and photos … so they need that search engine data to track you. That’s why ads follow you round the internet,” said Weinberg.By focusing on web search alone, DuckDuckGo avoids the need for tracking. Weinberg said: “What consumers don’t really understand is that their data is being leaked for other reasons they don’t even realise.”He adds browsing in incognito mode does not protect web users from tracking. “Google is still tracking you, your ISP still knows where you’re going.”While Weinberg believes DuckDuckGo’s share of the search market can continue to rise, he concedes that brand awareness remains low.The site also promises to provide the information users want with fewer clicks through features such as instant answers, themes and !bangs.Putting ! before a search for!amazon shoestakes users directly to an Amazon search for footwear on Amazon.com. !bangs are available for thousands of sites including Facebook, Twitter and eBay.DuckDuckGo hopes these other features will help it continue to build on the audience gained from people looking for more private ways to search the web following the Snowden revelations.
Connected-audio firm Sonos hopes it will be able to strike a deal with Apple to stream its upcoming Apple Music service into the living room, according to chief executive John MacFarlane.His company’s wireless speakers and hi-fis can alreadyplay music from streaming servicesincluding Spotify, Deezer, SoundCloud, Google Play, Rdio, Tidal and Mixcloud, with Apple now high on its wish list for future partners.“I don’t believe you’ll see Apple supporting Sonos at launch, as it’s very much focused on the mobile phone. We focus on the home, but we are a very open platform, so we would love to see them on it,” MacFarlane told the Guardian.He admitted that it makes more sense for Apple to focus initially more on mobile listening forApple Music, which was announced at the company’s WWDC event in June, and is due to launch by the end of the month.“The mobile phone is the most accessible platform if you’re going to launch a streaming service: you’re going to get to a billion people very quickly,” he said.“For a technology company, even if you’re Apple, that’s a no-brainer. It’s natural: that’s the device with you … But after that breadth of access comes quality, and the only environment for quality listening is your home.”Apple already has its AirPlay technology that can be incorporated into hi-fis and speakers to stream music wirelessly from its devices, so may prefer to continue focusing on that route into the living room withpartners like Harman Kardon, Bowers &amp; Wilkins and Bang &amp; Olufsen.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'The company also has its Apple TV set-top box, which is capable of playing music – likely including Apple Music – through the speakers connected to an owner’s television.Variety recently claimed thatApple had cancelled plans to launch a Wi-Fi-connected speakerbeing developed by its Beats Electronic subsidiary – a product that would have competed directly with Sonos.MacFarlane thinks Apple Music will have a positive impact on its supposed rivals, with its global launch and mixture of on-demand music and radio-like stations increasing the interest in both kinds of streaming.“Apple Music is the first shot heard around the world that breaks those barriers down. It will launch across Europe, and they’ll put a lot of effort into paid on-demand in the US,” he said.“It’s all good news for Sonos, because the miracle is to marry on-demand with being able to play it in your home.”
The alarm on your phone buzzes at 2:39am. Bleary eyed, you wolf down your toast and sip your water in the last minute before the day of fasting begins. No eating, no drinking, and no getting angry before sunset. You roll your eyes as your phone pings with notifications of yet another message with a mosque emoticon, or a cheesy “I have a date every night in Ramadan” joke. The fast begins.Observing Muslims might have read this Ramadan joke before.Photograph: mememaker.netYes, it’s that time of the year when Muslims observe the month of Ramadan, and app makers are finally tapping into the billion-dollar Muslim lifestyle industry.Much like how supermarkets have recently begun rolling down the “Ramadan Kareem ☪” banners in aisles dedicated to halal Haribos and samosas, now when you scroll down your “Muslim” search on the app store, you’ll see that the market is saturated with handy apps – for prayer times and directions, Qur’an exploring and even directories of halal restaurants.So which ones are worth downloading to up your spiritual game for the holy month?AlQuran screenshot.Photograph: AlQuran1. al QuranBy Sayed SamedIf you come across people reading their pocket Qur’an on the tube in the next few weeks, it’s because Muslims believe that their holy book was revealed to the prophet Muhammad during Ramadan, and it’s customto spend more time reading it this month.So Qur’an apps such as al Quran are pretty handy: it’s possible to read the entire text, its translations and listen to commentary in various languages – important for a global audience. The app also allows users to search the text, and listen to verse-by-verse recitation.Zabihah.Photograph: Zabihah2. ZabihahBy HalalfireDo you feel like tucking into hummus and falafel to break your fast, or are you craving fried chicken? Well, this is a useful guide for halal food-seekers and the app geo-locates your closest restaurants, markets and mosques. With this app, foodies are able to read and write reviews, review the halal authenticity, view opening times, prices and even prayer accommodations. It features 75,000 user reviews of over 20,000 restaurants,according to it’s website.Muslim Pro app.Photograph: Muslim Pro3.Muslim Pro (Ramadan 2015)By Bitsmedia Pte LtdYou’re on the road and the sun is going down, but you’re not sure when exactly you’re meant to bite into the date in your hand? For that,Muslim Pro is a user-friendly app with large icons, which will notify those observing Ramadan accurate prayer times. Users can choose whether they want visual or audio notifications – and even have the call to prayer announcing it is time to break the fast.4. Ramadan LegacyBy Ramadan Legacy LimitedRamadan Legacy.Photograph: Ramadan LegacyAnew app that has launched in time for this year’s Ramadan, and provides users with an interactive timeline of their Ramadan achievements throughout the month. It has a clean design and works by asking you what your personal goals are for the month, and encourages you to achieve them through inspirational reminders. There is also a social element, and users are able to share their Ramadan photos or reflections with other users across the globe in their live stream.5. Good HabitsBy Good To HearThe Good Habits app.Photograph: Good To Hear LtdThere is a Muslim saying that regular constant deeds – however little – are better than ones you may do once in a while. Yetthis appwill be useful for anyone, during and outside of Ramadan if you want to set a reminder for yourself to do the little tasks. It doesn’t offer pre-determined checklists and it’s easy to add the habit you want to pick up: by clicking the “+” symbol on the top right and adding the habit name, time, colour-code and days you want to carry out the habit.Ramadan Gosling.Photograph: imgflipAnd also …Calorie Counter Diet Tracker.Photograph: MyFitnessPal6. Calorie Counter &amp; Diet TrackerBy MyFitnessPal.comSleepbot.Photograph: SleepbotAlthough scientists are uncovering evidence that fasting – in a balanced way – can have health benefits, during Ramadan it can sometimes be tempting to feast on a spread of delicious food and finger-licking wholesome oily snacks – undoing all the earlier self-restraint. So watching the calories witha tracking appmay be handy.7. SleepBotInstaDeen lite.Photograph: Adiman MuhammadEspecially handy when the days are long and nights are short – this app uses the sensors in your phone to track your movement and the noise you make at night to work out thequality of the sleep you’re getting. It also allows users to set smart alarms for a time when you’ll wake up feeling fresh-faced and naturally rested. Although a log of how sleep-deprived you are while praying and eating in the early hours may not be what you want to see.8. InstaDeen LiteBy AdimanThis is one for the social media philosophers:now you’ll be able to share photos with Quranic versesor Islamic sayings embossed on it.Have we missed any useful Ramadan-happy apps? Share your suggestions below.
The first time Michael Fedak told other researchers he wanted to study climate change by fixing satellite-connected sensors to the heads of deep-diving ocean mammals, the University of St Andrews biology professor was laughed at.But for the past decade, elephant seals have been collecting data from the depths of the ocean via sensors and transmitters stacked on their heads – not unlike fascinators at ladies’ day at the races. Collectively, the sensors have gathered 400,000 data profiles on the temperature and density of sea water, which is being shared globally via anopen web portalin the hope it could help the world better understand how oceans are being affected by climate change.Researchers initially tried working with beluga whales, but when that proved too hard they started working with elephant seals. Such research is only possible thanks to the combination of cheap sensors and ubiquitous connectivity which allows Fedak and his colleagues to build low-cost sensors that can “tweet” data from the heads of elephant seals, via satellites.It’s not the first time the internet of things (IoT) has helped researchers collect data about our world. Writing inSciencemagazine, researchers at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute said “a golden age of animal-tracking science has begun”, predicting that “the upcoming years will be a time of unprecedented, exciting discoveries”.While the Smithsonian project’s researchers have tracked monkeys, bats, sloths and bees,Harvard researchers have also set out a network of sensorsthroughout a forest in Massachusetts, giving the trees ears and eyes to collect data about weather, animals and more.All of that could be done before the IoT, though it was harder. Before the advent of smart, connected trackers, researchers would have to stand in a jungle with an antenna to capture the signal from an animal’s radio collar – often disturbing their subject. Now, tracking can be done from a safe, non-disruptive distance.But that’s animals on land. Before connected trackers, animals such as elephant seals were almost impossible to follow carefully – they dive to depths of 2,000m and traverse the globe from Arctic to Antarctic. So when Fedak came up with a “tag” for the seals and an adhesive to fix it to the heads of the animals, biologists welcomed it – though others didn’t immediately see the potential.Fedak admits the idea was “outlandish”. Elephant seals weigh as much as two tonnes, dive 2,000m below ice and have a habit of rolling around on shore, so it’s easy for the glued-on tag to be knocked off. “The challenge was to get long-term data from a small package in a very harsh environment,” he said.The tag itself includes sensors, storage memory, and a computer loaded with software to manage the whole process, from capturing data to compressing and transmitting it to the satellites. The package also includes the battery. “To be most informative, tags must collect data for up to 11 months or so to capture seasonal changes,” Fedak noted. “How often do you have to charge your phone?”To get around that, Fedak and the others in the team turned to specialised software that uses the on-device computer to make smart decisions about when to collect data and when to transmit – there’s no point in trying to send a text message via a satellite from 2,000m down in the depths of the ocean, after all.The sensors try to collect a few readings each day, and have been programmed to favour data from the deepest dives. “You don’t want a little profile of just the top layer,” Fedak explained. “You want to know what the entire water column is doing.”Every six hours it resets: at the beginning of that period, it will collect data from 1,500m or deeper, but as the time progresses, it degrades its demands – it’s programmed to settle for less. “The tag is selectively trying to make sure that when it turns the sensors on and uses that energy, it is the best possible situation to meet those criteria of getting a profile spread across the day in an even and regular way,” Fedak explained.The tag has the ability to transmit to a satellite up to 250 times a day, but if the seal is below surface, it doesn’t bother sending in order to save energy, instead holding its backlog of data until it’s a good time to transmit. However, the uploads are one-way transmissions – the satellite can’t let the tag know that it’s successfully received the data. To address that, it sends the same message multiple times, taking into account interference; it’s easier to find success with the message in empty polar regions than in busy areas such as the Mediterranean.“The idea of a tag just sort of sending out a tweet is – it’s a lot more involved than that,” Fedak said. “And that’s one of the interesting developments for us, you see – trying to really get those data collections … [and] data transmission strategies to optimise.”Such lessons are surely useful to anyone developing IoT systems, regardless of whether ocean-faring animals are involved or not. However, Fedak noted that his own project has benefited from improvements in consumer technology, too.“We’ve actually been really helped by the general consumer electronics revolution,” he said. “Whenever possible we climb on the back of some other development.”For example, the tags can now send their messages via mobile phone networks, which is not only power efficient but offers higher bandwidth and more coverage. There’s good coverage “because of consumer demand for having cell phone towers every place you go,” said Fedak. If you’ve ever sat along a beach checking your text messages, there’s a fair chance a local seal has done the same.While Fedak’s instrumentation room built the hardware, it’s been used around the world, with different teams of seal experts attaching the sensors and monitoring the data. It’s a truly communal, global project – with technologists, biologists and more from around the world – and of course the seals themselves. “It has depended on all of these different people,” Fedak said.That global network is at the heart of the new data portal, dubbed MEOP for Marine Mammals Exploring the Oceans Pole to Pole. “This project is a consortium of more than ten nations, and each has its own source of funding and [base of operations], so by having a single portal we are making things very simple for the user,” said Fabien Roquet, the Stockholm University researcher who helped set up the MEOP portal . “All the data that comes from very many places is all in one single database, with a level of quality of the data that is standardised. That is very important for scientists but also for operational oceanography, which aims at forecasting the ocean state in a very similar way to meteorology.”That portal will hopefully convince more people of the value of the data, too. Fedak noted the seal project started with a focus on biology – tracking seals to find more information about the animals themselves – but around the millennium he attended an oceanography meeting, explaining how the data could be applied so much more widely. “At that stage, they laughed,” he said. “I mean literally.”Since then, the many papers that have come out of the data has helped convince detractors. “The more data that gets utilised, the more that’ll happen,” said Fedak. “I think we’ll have an even greater positive feedback situation with the utilisation of these tags going up, as well as more people being able to use that data.”He reminisces about one project that was studying ice cells in the Arctic, key to understanding future sea levels. In one seven-week study, a ship with 20 scientists managed to collect hundreds of ocean profiles. The lead researcher also brought along Fedak and a colleague to tag seals, however. They managed to set up only 14 animals, but those seals collected 12,000 profiles throughout the next year, covering a much wider area throughout the seasons. That sort of result not only helps move forward climate change research, but shows the utility of the internet of seals.Next, researchers are looking to add more sensors to the seals’ tags, said Roquet. One will look for fluorescence, which lets researchers measure a specific type of phytoplankton, currently studied by satellite, but that doesn’t let researchers see far enough below the surface. “That’s the first step in the food chain, so that’s the most fundamental type of life in the ocean,” he added. “It’s extremely important to observe.”Seal welfareFedak is frequently asked about the welfare of the elephant seals. Don’t worry, they’re fine: the sensors are attached with adhesive to the hair on their heads or neck, but as the seals shed their hair annually, the sensors fall off.It’s easy to know how the seals with the tags are doing, as they’re being studied in such detail. One was tracked travelling 1,500 miles to the Arctic where she had her pup before rushing back down to the Amundsen Sea. “They do very well and the tags don’t harm them,” Fedak said.Plus, the data is used to help seals. The sensors not only collect climate data, but information about the animals: how long they spend diving or at the surface, where they migrate to and so on. “We can see what kind of water they are in when they get fat, for example, and where they are doing well and what kind of water masses they do well in,” Fedak explained.Plus, the data can be used to analyse the rate of climate change and its effect on the oceans – key to the seals’ own survival, let alone our own. “It’s not just using the seals,” Fedak said. “We’re actually trying to get information that will help us be better protectors of what the seals require from the ocean as well.” And who among us wouldn’t wear a silly hat to fight back against climate change?
