Two stars? 15 years in the making? "If this was 15 years in the making, it makes you wonder what they did for the other 14 years and 10 months,"quoth Neil Davey in his review of the game.Perhaps laying in the champagne? Yup, there it is - No.1 with a bullet. Are you all just sentimental old Nukem players, then? And more important, will it last?Top 10 UK video games, week ending 10 June 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Duke Nukem Forever(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (27)PC (10)12 (1)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)43 (4)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (84)Xbox 360 (14)PS3 (2)114 (–)Infamous 2 (16+)PS3 (99)15 (2)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Xbox 360 (30)Wii (22)DS (21)PS3 (19)56 (3)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)37 (5)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (30)PC (11)58 (–)Red Faction: Armageddon(15+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (26)19 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (26)PC (6)Wii (4)3010 (9)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (31)PC (15)8UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
When Frank Gibeau took over as president of EA Games in 2007, the company had a bloated roster of ageing franchises and movie licences of questionable worth. Together with chief executive John Riccitiello and chief operating officer John Schappert, he set about re-structuring the company, formulating a 'city state'-model in which studios were given greater freedom and individuality.The result has been offbeat originals (Dead Space) a vibrant EA Partners programme (Bulletstorm, Crysis, Shadows of the Damned), and the strengthening of brands such as Battlefield and Need for Speed. The company is now recovering from the financial nadir of 2008 and 2009 (which led to the loss of more than 1,000 jobs), and has been especially successful in the digital arena, earning $800m in revenue from its social and mobile titles last year.So what does EA think of its progress, and where is the industry veteran heading next? To find out, we caught up with Frank during last week's E3 extravaganza. Here's part one of our interview...Over the last two years there's been a philosophy change at EA, with a move away from large rosters of games and close centralised control, to fewer titles created by semi-autonomous studios. How has that worked out?We feel like our strategies are really hitting their stride, they're working. At the time, we were trying to go from 20 average games down to six to eight great games, such as Mass Effect and Battlefield. We're also going from 13 different technology engines down to two or three. We're committed to online, trying to shake the company up around that – we had a lot of bold statements around that, and this last fiscal year we reported record digital revenues of over $800m (£490m) that put us in the top two companies in the world. So from that standpoint we feel good – the strategies are really starting to pay.But we're far from satisfied, and we feel our best stuff is ahead of us. We've got Star Wars coming, and Fifa continues to boom, our social business is really picking up, it's doubled year on year, our mobile business is doing great. There are always challenges and pitfalls out there, but overall we feel like we're going in the right direction. We're on the offensive – we're off our heels and on the balls of our feet! We can finally tell our shareholders, here are some numbers you can believe in! It's a transition from "we're changing the company, trust us". Confidence and innovation are way up. People are excited.Is the move to fewer game engines about freeing up studios and allowing them to concentrate on creativity?To a degree. With Frostbite, we've built a technology that works across genres. I don't want engineers, artists and designers to be fighting their tools, I want them creating great gameplay experiences. That was definitely a conscious decision – we've got to get out of fighting all these engines, because I can't even move an artist from one game to another. The beauty of Frostbite is, the spectacular piece of technology that you see in Battlefield 3 and Need for Speed: The Run is just the tip of the iceberg – we'll be taking that tech across more genres to help us do great things in the future.Social connectivity has become a key element of EA games over the last year with the Autolog and now Battlelog features. Where do you see this going for EA?It's a primary design pillar for us. Social mechanics and social features drive gamer engagement – you stick with the game longer, you play with friends, it gives us the opportunity to put out more downloadable packs, different features and keep you engaged longer. We think of games as a service and underpinning that has to be that you can find, communicate with and compete against others in the community.Autolog was a fantastic innovation from Criterion, but that was just breaking through on a primary level – we'll continue to add design features. When I'm in design meetings with game teams, I'll say: "this is spectacular, but what's the social component?" Deathmatch by itself doesn't sell units, Deathmatch with yourfriendsmatters. Leaderboards that tell you you're the 770,000th best player in Battlefield don't matter, you want to know how you compare against your friend down the street or your college buddy, you compete that way. We're taking a leadership position in this – we're going all out.And in some ways you've won an interesting PR war with Activision. You're not charging for Battlelog, whereas Call of Duty Elite is a subscription-based service. Some see that as Activision exploiting its user-base …[Frank nods, then laughs…]...So when Riccitiello announced Battlelog on stage at the press conference, was that at the back of his mind?This was a conscious decision – we do not believe you should charge for social features. Social features attract gamers and create engagement, but if you want to talk about business strategy, it enhances how you monetise content. But I shouldn't charge you to talk to your friends, or to learn how you did inside the game. That doesn't mean we're opposed to online business models, we just think they have to be the right kind...EA has very publicly stepped in with support for Wii U; Riccitiello was onstage at Nintendo's press conference. How will this system fit in to EA's release strategy?I think that's the first time we've been on the Nintendo stage in my lifetime! We learned a lot from the Wii. I thinkNintendolearned a lot from the Wii. Coming off that generation of game technology, our world views started to align and it led to this relationship. We make HD game experiences that have online components, and they make wildly successful and innovative user interfaces, and there's been a convergence of those different aspects.From our perspective, it's a lot easier for us to build experiences on the Wii U that are closer to what our DNA is all about, that also take advantage of what Nintendo has done with the controller. It's very different than the Wii which was standard def, very different GUI, very young, family-based audience – it was contrary to what we typically do. The Wii U is an important part of our framework, but we're platform-agnostic, we will support all platforms that make sense to us.It's interesting to think about the next generation, because, the last we converted from one set of technologies to another it was crazy brutal. We went from standard def to high def, from single-player to online, from CDs to 25GB Blu-ray discs, from single processor environments to parallel processors … it was like, everything we could change, we changed. And then there were interfaces changes, accelerometers … I think the next generation is going to be a lot more evolutionary from a processing power and display standpoint. Where the big innovation is going to happen is in the online services side and also on the user interface experience side – for us that's great because those are the areas we've been investing.The interview concludes tomorrow.
Pay a visit to the White House this week, and you might spot an alien command centre attacking it. At least, you might if you're using Layar's augmented reality smartphone app.Hollywood studio Sony Pictures is using AR to promote the DVD, Blu-ray and iTunes release of its Battle: Los Angeles film. Agency Zehnder Communications worked with the studio tocreate a layer on Layar's AR platformwhich enables fans to spot virtual alien commanders and battle drones in their real-world location, although the command centres only appear near specific US landmarks.The layer uses some of the newest features in Layar's technology, such as 3D models and the ability for people to share screenshots on Facebook and Twitter, but also includes more traditional marketing elements like movie trailers, a competition and a link to buy the film on Amazon.Sony Pictures is the latest brand to experiment with mobile AR as a marketing tool, following Layar's announcement last week that camera firmNikon is using its platformin the Netherlands, working with local developer Brightin. Layar's rival, Metaio, has case studies on its website for campaigns run byHonda,AdidasandBen &amp; Jerry'samong other brands, although these are not all mobile-focused.These campaigns and others reflect the strenuous efforts being made by the likes of Layar and Metaio to persuade brands that AR should be on their marketing radars. For much of their histories, these startups have spent a lot of time evangelising the potential of AR, but brands are beginning to test the technology's promise.What's not clear for now is how much these campaigns are costing to create and run, or how their effectiveness will be measured by the brands. The Sony Pictures example should be relatively straightforward – how many copies of the film are bought from within the layer? – although generating this data may well be reward itself for the investment made by the studio, to get a handle on the current reach of this flavour of AR.There's also a PR halo effect, of course, for brands who like to be seen to be testing out innovative new technologies. In that sense, though, augmented reality has some disconcerting parallels with the marketing heyday of virtual world Second Life. Brands piled in to Linden Lab's world, paying huge sums to VR agencies and issuing breathless press releases. Most were shunned by its inhabitants, and quietly retreated.Mobile augmented reality is a different kettle of fish in several ways. You could argue that AR users are unlikely to be as brand-averse as the Second Lifers were, and you can also point to efforts by the AR startups to quickly bring down the cost and complexity of creating content to be viewed in their apps.One more positive parallel with virtual worlds is the fact that mobile AR will not be judged solely on the success of branded campaigns. Digital artists are getting to grips with the technology, and there are signs of some genuinely interesting AR-powered services emerging around tourism, entertainment and education which stand alone, rather than advertising a separate product.This Thursday, a one dayAugmented Reality Summitis taking place in London, including several branded case studies, and the launch of anew mobile AR platform from startup String. Questions about a return on investment will hopefully be part of the mix, to ensure the wheels don't come off the branded AR bandwagon. We'll be there to find out.
"We have just come through Alpha. We are screaming and on fire." Andy Wilson, producer of Bodycount, was, I believe, speaking metaphorically when he showed off the latest build of the game at Namco Bandai's big press event in Dubai last month. And after a decent E3 showing last week, the flames must be well and truly doused.It has certainly been an interesting development story. The title drew an explosion of press interest earlier this year when the game's director Stuart Black left the project under something of a cloud. Everyone wanted to turn it into a "studio in chaos" story, but the studio selfishly wrecked those plans by quietly getting on with the job at hand."It kind of did a disservice to the110people who have worked really bloody hard on Bodycount to suggest that one guy going is actually going to make that big a difference," says Wilson. "But, then, if you look like you've been through turbulence, when you get press stories about your 'problem project', it does give you a real underdog feeling. It really makes you want to prove people wrong."But then, many of the staff here have already proved themselves in this sector. A majority previously worked on Black, Criterion's aggressively stylised, effects-laden shooter, that arrived to critical acclaim at the end of the PlayStation 2's glory days. When a proposed sequel fell-through, they joined what would become Codemasters Guildford, apparently to continue Black's legacy. "One of the reasons Stuart leaving hasn't had the impact it could have been is that we locked the content pretty early, which you have to do when you're building a team. If we came racing through production, experimenting all the way, it would have had a bigger impact. I'm happy that the core of everything is what we set out two years ago. We stayed true to it."The result could well be one of the most progressive and individual shooters for a number of years. Set in a dystopian, war-ravaged near-future, the action follows an ex-forces hard nut employed by shadowy private security firm, The Network, to fix combat hotpots around the world (imagine Country House Rescue, but with more gunfire and less country houses). It soon becomes clear that these seemingly unrelated localised disputes are being manipulated by another high-tech corporate presence named Target. Just what the heck is going on?The gameplay high concept is simple; almost every scenic element in Bodycount can be shredded to pieces by bullets and grenades. Brick walls, wooden fences, metal barrels – they're all vulnerable. At the same time, the levels are generally open and expansive, with multiple routes between the mission start point and the eventual destination. The result is an ever-changing, high-octane battlefield, in which cover positions become exposed in seconds as bullet-fire rips through the scenery.It's also unashamedly non-"realistic". "It's an arcade-style experience," says Wilson. "This is not a grim and gritty real-world shooter, it's not set in any particular conflict. It's about accessibility and immediacy." But he's keen that we don't read "arcade" as "easy" or "shallow". Judging by the level I played, set in and around a decrepit dock site, Bodycount should be neither. Within these splintering worlds are enemies who don't infinitely respawn and don't perform endless re-enactments of the charge of the light brigade. Instead, the team has implemented a class-based AI system, allowing computer soldiers to attempt rudimentary squad tactics, or simply to sneak up and pepper you with lead while you're looking in the other direction. At one point during my hands-on, a lone infantryman tailed me up some stairs, through a building, and along a steep incline before taking his chance to blast me in the back. That was quite a surprise.Adding to the chaos is the presence of two warring factions: the army and the militia. Each of these features specialist combatants, such as medics and commanders (who can call in airstrikes) and they'll all fight each other if they meet in the warzone. As everything is procedurally generated, the skirmishes play out differently every time. It might be tempting to sit back and enjoy the carnage, but this isn't a good idea – kills are needed for intel, the in-game currency that every dead body drops. This stuff fills up a meter at the base of the screen, which eventually provides access to four temporary special abilities: explosive ammo, the ability to call in airstrikes, invincibility and a radar, which highlights enemy positions. Each of these can also be upgraded to a second level of lethality.But there's a two-tier system here, which is where the arcade thinking comes in. Just shooting a guy earns you blue "low-yield" intel that takes a while to fill up the gauge. However, perform a skill kill such as a headshot or a multiple kill with a grenade and you pick up yellow "high-yield" intel that powers you up much faster. It's also possible to chain skill kills together, which not only gives almost instant access to abilities, it also multiples your score count for the level. An extra complication is added by the presence of battlefield scavengers, specialist enemies who'll steal intel and ammo if you don't get there quick enough; the equivalent of bonus items flashing and then disappearing in an old school arcade title.This coin-op shooter feel is accentuated by the offbeat sound design. When ammo runs low, every bullet fired is accompanied by a musical note, warning you to re-load. Musical themes also play when you grab intel, which is represented on screen by the glowing neon icons. It all brings to mind the aesthetics of Cave or Treasure title, rather than the slavish authenticity of CoD and its ilk. "This is a deliberate design decision," says Wilson. "We wanted to hark back to the arcade experiences we grew up with. It even extends to the score, where we occasionally introduce the odd 16bit-sounding riff over the soaring strings." In short, this is bullet hell projected into a 3D landscape.These idiosyncratic style decisions extend to the environmental designs. Each of the game's three chapters are colour-coded; the opening is all greens and yellows, denoting a rotting, sickly landscape. When the action moves to Asia in chapter two, it's all Bladerunner-style neon, rain and electric blues. The closing section moves into the Target HQ, where hellish reds dominate. There's a real sense of cinematography and mood; an attempt to convey something else apart from photographic "realism". "A lot of games go down the route of using photographic textures, even Split/Second was like this; you'd use a lot of photographic reference to build your textures – and even if you paint over or into them you still have this real-world basis to the art. Bodycount is very different – it's an artist-crafted game, the art director Max Cant was very keen on this. It's almost painted, it's taken a lot of fine art skill from the design team, and it's tested abilities that a lot of artists in the industry don't have anymore because it's all so machine driven now."This is particularly defined in the Target buildings that players must raid at the end of key missions. These are ominous slabs of cutting edge architecture, the interiors all brushed aluminium, glass and gloss surfaces. We're shown one example, which is all minimalist black and red interiors sectioned off into glass compartments. Target guards, dressed entirely in black, pour out at us, splitting off into flanking squads and whipping in and out between support beams. The whole set up oozes style and threat, like a cyberpunk action sequence directed by Stanley Kubrick. Wilson also references Star Wars and Tron: Legacy as influences.Possibly though, the most interesting facet of the game is its modestly revolutionary cover lean system. Instead of having to "stick" to cover objects, players simply press down the left trigger to go into an iron sight view; while the button is held, you're rooted to the spot, but you can still use each of the analogue sticks to bob about and look around. As Wilson explains, "Not only can I hunker down behind cover and pick out targets, but as the environment shreds down around me, I can get really nice lines of sight through objects."It takes several minutes to get the hang of and may be too much of a lateral step for the CoD crew, but it's a really nice, highly adaptive system that emancipates the whole cover mechanic. I tended to use it when ever I had a slightly obscured vantage point, even if I was several metres form the nearest cover object, playing the angles and, as Wilson says, just seeking out those unexpected engagement lines.Bodycount will be steaming into a crowded marketplace of established FPS mega-brands as well as hyped newcomers such as Bulletstorm and Rage. But it has a very different feel, an openness, a playfulness and a sense of style that will remind many of the classic Rare/Free Radical Design shooters Perfect Dark and Time Splitters. "It's been a great project to work on," says Wilson. "It was a proper trial by fire in terms of building a studio, but it's a brilliant end result as far as I'm concerned." At E3, amid the gritty military shooters and straight-faced sci-fi blasters, he no doubt discovered more about whether the gaming world is ready for a combination of Perfect Dark, Black and Bangai-O. The staff at Codemasters Guildford have built a studio and a fascinating game, the next task – pushing an original IP in the world of franchised super-series – will be their greatest challenge yet.Bodycountwill be released on August 25 for the Xbox 360 and PS3
Samsung will become the world's largest smartphone maker this quarter, overtaking the struggling Nokia, which has led the market since 1996, the analysts Nomura forecast on Monday.Nomura also forecast that Apple will outpace the Finnish phone maker in the top end of the mobile market in the third quarter of this year, adding to its woes, which includedramatic cuts in its profit forecastand a downgrading of its credit rating.Other analysts agreed that Nokia's position as the top seller in smartphones is likely to be overtaken either in this quarter or the next.Nomura is bullish about the prospects for Samsung, a Korean company which makes a broad range of electronic equipment, including smartphones running Google's Android mobile operating system, Microsoft's Windows Phone, and its own bada software.In the first quarter of this year Nokia sold just over 24m smartphones worldwide, but it has since said that its mobile division is coming under pricing and sales pressure from rivals. Apple sold 18.7m iPhones in the first quarter of 2011, while Samsung sold 12.6m. But Samsung has been ramping up its production and shifting its focus to smartphones, which are more profitable than low-end handsets."Nokia looks set to relinquish its smartphone crown to Samsung and Apple," Nomura analysts said in a research note. "Further emphasising the shift in power to Asia is our forecast for HTC to almost match Nokia during 2012."Nokia's mobile division revenues and profits: what the analysts forecastResearch firms Gartner and Canalys both said they saw Nokia – which created the smartphone market with its 1996 launch of the Communicator model – losing smartphone volume leadership later this year."If Nokia's new phones [running Microsoft's Windows Phone software] are not well received in the third quarter and (with) the [Samsung] Galaxy S2 ramping up, Samsung might overtake them and become the smartphone leader in the third quarter," said Carolina Milanesi, smartphone analyst for the research company Gartner.Nokia has lost initiative in the smartphone market to Apple's iPhone with its proprietary iOS operating system and Google's Android devices, and at the lower end to more nimble Asian rivals such as ZTE.Overall, Nokia still makes more cellphones than Samsung due to its strong position in basic cellphones and its wider distribution network in emerging countries. But analysts polled last week forecast that it will ship fewer than 100m phones a quarter this year for the first time since the beginning of 2009, and for only the second time since the end of 2006, as "white label" rivals begin to cut into its share of the wider business.The company isabandoning its Symbian platform for smartphones over the next 18 monthsand switching to Microsoft's software as part of an overhaul of its phone business set out in February by Stephen Elop, a Canadian formerly at Microsoft who was appointed chief executive in September.On 31 May Nokia abandoned hope of meeting key annual and quarterly targets just weeks after setting them, raising questions over whether its new boss can deliver on the turnaround he promised.Shares in Nokia were 0.6% firmer at €4.33 at the start of the day, in line with a slightly stronger technology sector.
Bill Gates'intimate interview with the Mail on Sundayrevealed some entertaining insights about the Microsoft co-founder, who's promoting the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisations conference in London today. We've read it, so you don't have to:• He's given $28bn to charity and is still worth $56bn.• His three children will inherit only "a minuscule portion of my wealth" - said it to be $10m each. "It will mean they have to find their own way." (Find their own way... to the bank, as acolleaguehas just wryly added.)• When asked if his kids have iPads, iPhones and iPods, Gates replied that they have the Microsoft equivalent. "They are not deprived children."• He has a Twitter account but struggled with Facebook because of too many friend requests.• He drove his daughter and her friends to U2's recent gig in Seattle, and then Bono stayed at their house.• In 1994 Gates bought the Codex Leicester, one of Leonardo da Vinci's notebooks, which cost him $30.8m.• He nods to speech and voice recognition as "the next big thing". You'll be able to touch that board or speak to it and get your message to colleagues around the world. Screens are cheap."• He still has a letter from his mother, who died from breast cancer in 1994, in which she says that "from those to whom much is given, much is expected". Of his decision to fund vaccination programmes, rather than developing treatments for cancer, he said: "When you die of malaria aged three it's different from being in your seventies, when you might die of a heart attack or you might die of cancer. And the world is putting massive amounts into cancer, so my wealth would have had a meaningless impact on that."• Regarding his friendship with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, Gates may have let slip that Zuckerberg has become engaged to his girlfriend of eight years, Priscilla Chan - thoughFacebook PR has deniedthis is true. "His fiancée Priscilla thought about education and he gave money to Newark, New Jersey, and we did a co-grant so that some of our people who had some expertise in that field could help him out. He deserves credit. I started meaningful philanthropy in my forties. He's starting way earlier."• And does he mind being called a 'geek'? "If being a geek means you're willing to take a 400-page book on vaccines and where they work and where they don't, and you go off and study that and you use that to challenge people to learn more, then absolutely. I'm a geek."Bill Gates - in numbers. Graphic: Daily Mail
A burst of seven apps for your consideration today. Apps Rush is a daily news post covering brand new apps for the various smartphones and tablets. Note: our weekly app reviews post is published separately on Fridays.InstaPhotoThe flow of new apps for RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook is speeding up, even if some are influenced strongly by what's available on other platforms. InstaPhoto, for example, is a PlayBook take on popular iPhone app Instagram, with a mixture of visual effects to apply to a user's photos.Talking Horse at Royal AscotHeading to Royal Ascot this week? You'll be wanting tips from a talking animated horse, right? Oh. Well, that's the aim of the Talking Horse at Royal Ascot app, developed by Spriing for horse racing administration firm Weatherbys.ZooKeeper DX Touch EditionMore than 5 million people are apparently playing Flash game ZooKeeper. Now it's made the jump to iPhone and iPad with its animal-swapping action.Beats Brainwave EntertainmentBrainwave entertainment? That's the focus of this BlackBerry PlayBook tablet app, but what is it? Developer Jamie Beach says the app's combination of binaural beats and background noises can "bring one's mind into a preferred state", whether the aim is meditation or studying.Lyric Legend BetaTuneWiki's Lyric Legend has been out on iPhone for a while, but has just made the leap to Android in beta form. It's a music rhythm game, but with lyrics the focus, as players tap on word bubbles in time to a song.TwichelinA social location app for foodies? Twichelin wants people to "co-create restaurant guide with friends", rating restaurants out of five stars, and sharing them on Twitter and Facebook. There's also an equivalent of Foursquare's mayorships, as users can become Goer members of specific restaurants.David Haye's KnockoutBritish boxer David Kaye is preparing for his fight against Wladimir Klitschko in early July, and yes, there's an app for that. An iPhone game to be specific, which "matches a pixelated Haye with an anonymous Russian heavyweight".You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Whoa, Monday sort of crept up on us there, didn't it?
A burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Twitter Paradox &gt;&gt; Brian Solis"As we know, numbers don't lie. eMarketer also projects that Twitter advertising revenues will soar from $140m in 2011 to $225m in 2012.  In contrast, the once bursting place for friends, MySpace, will generate $184m in ad revenue this year."And yet, it's not mainstream in the way that MySpace (sort of) was. The paradox is that it doesn't have to be mainstream to succeed.Banner Blindness: Old and New Findings &gt;&gt; Jakob Nielsen's Alertbox)From 2007: "Summary: Users rarely look at display advertisements on websites. Of the four design elements that do attract a few ad fixations, one is unethical and reduces the value of advertising networks."The one that's unethical? Used all the time by scareware scammers. Interesting too for its pointers to what people actually look at on web pages.Transcript of David Einhorn's speech calling for Steve Ballmer's departure &gt;&gt; Insider MonkeyInteresting take (scroll through the Dutch insurance company at the top). Einhorn thinks Microsoft is a great business - but doesn't like its leader.Google Chrome - Why I Hate It And Continue To Use It &gt;&gt;Majd Taby on Chrome, the browser. Interesting points about antialiasing and PDF rendering, where it is definitely weaker than some rivals.Federal government loosens its grip on the BlackBerry &gt;&gt; The Washington PostIntriguing: BlackBerry is losing ground, and Gmail is making inroads. These are extremely valuable and very big contracts, but their effect is also in influence. When the president shifts from a BlackBerry to an iPad, things have changed. But is it anywhere near as secure?My Nokia end is near as I face the final handset &gt;&gt; Techcrunch EUFormer despatch rider Monty Munford: "Everybody in India had a Nokia, one particular handset sold millions, not because of access to the internet or a fantastic camera, but because it had a great torch and having a torch in crepuscular India is a very useful asset.&#10;"Then I went travelling to Ethiopia and Somaliland and I left my Nokia charger behind in India. But whether it was Addis Ababa, Hargesia or a village in the Ethiopian Highlands, I always managed to charge up my Nokia because everybody had a Nokia. Then in September 2010 I came home.&#10;"A lot had changed in two years. People who hadn't worked for ten years had smartphones, women with those weird asymmetrical haircuts who probably couldn't spell four-letter words had iPhones, I even overheard two fishermen in Hastings talking about mobile video and that Harry The Hamster video and their fucking iPhones."The question is whether Nokia will hang on to the Indian market. Or others.Are the carriers strangling Windows Phone 7 at retail? &gt;&gt; PCMagSara Yin: "I did some mystery shopping of my own at retail stores around Manhattan, inquiring about various WP7 devices."It didn't go well. The retailers/carriers seem a lot less keen on it than she was.The 10 strangest facts about graphene &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKIf you don't know what graphene is, you're in for a treat. If you do know what it is, prepare to be amazed at what it can do. Utterly amazing.Google Doodle Strikes Again! 5.35m hours strummed &gt;&gt; RescueTime Blog"Last year we reported on the effect of Google's playable Pac-Man Doodle, so as a follow up we ran the numbers to see if the Les Paul Doodle consumed a similar amount of users time.&#10;"We looked at ~18,500 random RescueTime users who spent time on Google search pages. In previous time periods, users spent a very consistent 4.5 minutes (+/- 3 seconds) actively using Google search. However, when Google released the Les Paul Doodle, the average user spent 26 seconds MORE on Google.com than in previous time periods. On average, users spent 36 more seconds time on last year's Pac-Man Doodle, so you would think that the Les Paul Doodle had less impact. Wrong. According to Wolfram Alpha and Alexa, Google's daily unique vistor count is up to 740m versus the 505m last year.&#10;"Google's Les Paul Doodle consumed an additional 5,350,789 hours of time versus the 4,819,352 hours consumed by the Pac-Man Doodle."Google's daily unique visitor count is up by 46% in a year??Is Apple recalling some iPad 2s? Apparently not &gt;&gt; BetaNewsJoe Wilcox goes to the trouble of calling up some Apple Stores and posing as a worried customer over these rumours. Result: nope. Honestly, Joe, don't you know that what people want is simply to see these things copied on a million websites without any fact-checking? You're spoiling everyone's fun.Malware gang's $14.8 million bank account frozen &gt;&gt; F-Secure Weblog : News from the LabAn Indian and a Swede are on the run having made a lot of money from scareware called "System Doctor": "The US Attorney's office has today frozen a Swiss bank account belonging to Sam Shaileshkumar. &#10;"Mr. Shaileskumar, together with Björn Sundin were the main figures behind Innovative Marketing Ukraine, a malware house that was operating from Ukraine. Neither Shaileshkumar or Sundin were nationals of Ukraine themselves. Shaileshkumar holds a US passport while Sundin is Swedish.&#10;"Amount of money in the frozen account? A cool $14,800,000. This is believed to be only part of the proceeds IMU did while pushing rogue security products like 'Systemdoctor'."Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse &gt;&gt; CDCThe Center for Disease Control has web buttons and everything: "If you're ready for this, you're ready for anything." (Though we think back to Series 1 of The Walking Dead and think hmm, you didn't really follow your own advice, did you, CDC?)Whitebox Makers Second Highest in Global Tablet PC Market Behind Apple - DisplaySearchInteresting: suggests Apple (which sold 4.7m iPads in Q1 2011) is now at just 54% global share because of whitebox tablets going to China: "The whitebox tablet market in emerging regions is price sensitive and is partially able to exist because whitebox tablet makers use panels that are left unused by major brands with slightly lower quality levels, like lower brightness. Using panels from what is essentially a secondary market allows device makers to offer aggressive pricing as compared to iPads. Despite some quality issues of these whitebox tablets, they remain appealing to value conscious buyers, such as students, who are shopping based on price."Cross checks with tablet supply chain participants, such as chipset providers, indicates potential growth opportunities for the whitebox tablet market in the future." (Thanks @rquick)Samsung to Buy Nokia? More Fishiness &gt;&gt; WSJ MarketBeat"The near-flurry of takeover talk likely means somebody, or a lot of somebodies, are lugging a big, losing position in Nokia — the company's shares are down 46% since Feb. 9.&#10;"It's an old Wall Street gambit. Spread semi-plausible takeover theories in hopes that the target stock will pop, and the money-losing position can be dumped more easily."In other words: if you believed Microsoft buying Nokia, or Samsung buying Nokia, they found the bigger fool.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The number of people using Facebook during May fell in the US, UK, Canada, Norway and Russia, according to new data.That means the site's growth has slowed for the second month in a row, even as it approaches 700 million users worldwide.In the US the site lost about 6 million users, from 155.2 million at the start of May to 149.4 million at its end, according to data gathered from Facebook's advertising tool bythe site Inside Facebook.Canada fell by 1.52 million to 16.6 million and the UK, Norway and Russia all saw falls of more than 100,000 users, the site said.The slowing growth in user numbers may indicate that Facebook has hit the limits of expansion in the countries where it was first successful – and perhaps even that some early adopters from those countries have stopped using it.According to the data gathered via the Facebook advertising tool, the world's largest social media site added another 11.8 million users in May, though even that was a slowing compared with April, when it added 13.9 million. Both those numbers were slower, though, compared with the 20 million who have typically been added each month over the past year to take the site to 687 million "monthly active" users – who log in at least once per month.The drops in the US, Canada, UK and elsewhere held its growth back from the typical growth figure. Without new sources of growth, that could limit the site's total audience.Eric Eldon of Inside Facebook noted that "by the time Facebook reaches around 50% of the total population in a given country (plus or minus, depending on internet access rates in that country), growth generally slows to a halt ... So far, Facebook has been able to make up stalls and losses with big gains in heavily populated developing countries like Mexico, Brazil, India and Indonesia."He notes that if it is allowed into China, that growth could take off again towards 1 billion users – although he adds that getting inside the country "could both give it access to hundreds of millions of users and compromise its reputation in the US and many other countries around the world".China's repressive approach to internet use and communication, whereby users inside the country are banned from accessing a wide range of information hosted outside the country with which the Chinese regime disagrees, has led to sites such as Facebook and Twitter being banned from direct access to Chinese net users, who outnumber the total US connected population.Despite the month-on-month fall, the US still saw a 23% overall growth in users between May 2010 and May 2011 to 155.2 million users, while the UK grew by 10% to 29.9 million in the same period. The US is the largest country in terms of users overall, with Indonesia second with 36.4m, followed by the UK and Turkey.The fastest-growing countries among the top 25 largest users areas during the year were Brazil and Russia, each up almost fourfold to 17.1 million and 4.6 million users respectively. A number of other countries nearly doubled their users: India (up 160% to 24.9 million), Thailand (up 143% to 9.1 million users), Egypt (up 108% to 7.1 million), Poland (up 130% to 6.1 million) and Peru (up 126% to 5.5 million).
Earlier this week, two senators sent a letter to the US Attorney General, copied to the Drugs Enforcement Agency, alerting them to the existence of an underground website called Silk Road. Like a lawless eBay, Silk Road users can, according to the senators, "freely purchase and sell illegal drugs . . . from cocaine and heroin, to ecstasy and marijuana". For this they are using the digital currency Bitcoin.Created in 2009 by an anonymous Japanese computer science student using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin was initially adopted by hackers as a means of bartering services. Now it is fast becoming the unofficial currency of the web.Anyone can buy virtual "coins" at a variety of online exchanges, using major global currency – but they aren't just used for drugs. The list of legitimate businesses that accept Bitcoin is growing all the time, from legal services to landscape gardening, video game retailers to makers of alpaca socks. With one Bitcoin currently traded at around £9.22, the value of the whole Bitcoin economy is estimated at around £32.6m and growing fast.Unlike traditional national currencies, Bitcoin has no  central issuing authority. In theory, the "coins" can be  created, or "mined" by anyone, but they require a powerful  computer and a lot of time to generate. Their supply is controlled using a series of complex mathematical algorithms built into the software.What makes Bitcoin so appealing to its advocates, is that unlike other online methods of payment, such as credit cards or Paypal, transactions made using the currency are virtually untraceable, almost like a digital version of cash. As well as appealing to criminals, the anonymity Bitcoin offers is becoming increasingly attractive to ordinary people who object to the vast amount of personal information that is routinely collected by online retailers for marketing purposes.An odd alliance of libertarians, geeks, businesspeople and drug kingpins hail Bitcoin as the future of the internet – global, private and immune from national economic crises and the whims of reckless bankers. Its critics in the political sphere fear that it could give rise to an online Wild West of gambling, prostitution and global bazaars for contraband.Previously dismissed as a nerdy curiosity, the untaxable Bitcoin may soon be due for a crackdown.Ruth Whippman
Nintendo unveiled the successor to the Wii at this year's Electronic Entertainment (E3) Expo in Los Angeles, while the biggest titles of 2011 and 2012 vied for attention on the show floor. Microsoft showed several new Kinect titles alongside an excellent line-up for the end of the year, while Sony let its new handheld console, the Playstation Vita, take centre stage. The quality of the games and consoles on show was extremely high, but there was no single standout.Nintendo's new console, theWii&nbsp;U, is compatible with the Wii remote controllers and fitness balance boards, but also has a new controller with analogue sticks and buttons on either side of a six-inch touch screen. It's a fascinating piece of technology, effortlessly usable and comfortable to hold. It makes it possible to keep playing even when someone else wants to use the television, continuing the game on the screen on your lap. It opens up interesting possibilities for traditional gameplay, too – using the screen in your lap as a tactical map in a shooter, for instance, or as a display for items or weapons on a select screen.Nintendo also showed some unexpected potential – like using the touch controller to pilot a spaceship by tilting the screen around, shooting at friends controlling little spacemen on the TV screen, or using the controller as a shield to catch flying arrows. No games were showcased by Nintendo itself, though Ubisoft showed two shooter titles –Killer Freaks from Outer SpaceandGhost Recon Online– that showcased how core genres worked on the Wii U. Nintendo is clearly trying to position its new machine as more attractive to the hardcore gaming audience, giving it HD graphics and technical specs to rival the Xbox 360 and PS3, but it's also trying to retain the Wii's appeal to non-traditional gamers as well. If it succeeds, it could unify the gaming audience in a way that no other console has before. A prospect that made it all the more disappointing that no exciting software for the machine was on show.Having sold more than 10 millionKinectunits since a record-breaking launch last November, Microsoft made controller-free gaming a focal point of its performance at E3. The emphasis was firmly on core titles rather than the sports, party and kid-friendly games that defined the Kinect launch line-up. Ubisoft showedGhost Recon: Future Soldier, a tactical first-person shooter with Kinect voice commands and an interactive gun-building tool controlled entirely with your hands. EA'sMass Effect 3, the last in a  blockbuster science-fiction trilogy, was also shown off as a voice-controlled experience, letting you select dialogue for the main character, Shepard, by saying the lines out loud. The latest in theFableseries was also announced –Fable: The Journeyis a tightly scripted adventure that puts players in a horse and cart, using the Kinect controller to guide the horse, and includes a controller-free magic system allowing players to pull weapons and objects out of the air by tracing their shape.Clearly more significant than the actual games, though, were Microsoft's announcements about Kinect's potential to turn the Xbox 360 into a controller and remote-free entertainment hub, including integration with the company'sBingsearch service. Being able to search your Xbox for films, music etc by saying "Xbox Bing Westerns" or "Xbox Bing Lady Gaga" sounds like a cool feature, but will it be readily adopted by an audience used to having something in their hands?Sony's excellent end-of-year lineup for the PlayStation 3 includedResistance 3andUncharted 3. The handheld PlayStation Vita, meanwhile, continues to impress with its astonishingly high-resolution graphics – Sony also showcased the console's interconnectivity with the PlayStation&nbsp;3, with a new game,Ruin,running on both the smaller and larger screens, in a coincidental echo of the Wii U.The watchword of this year's E3 was change, through the assault on the traditional controller space from motion control, portable devices and touchscreens. Although the traditional big-budget standard-controller blockbuster clearly still has its vitally important place in the industry – as evidenced by the strong showing ofBattlefield 3andModern Warfare 3among many others – what E3 confirmed was that alternatives are proving to be much more than a fad.Here are the best new games at E3…
A plumber who used the internet to highlight his wife's affair with a director of one of the world's largest financial companies will appear in court on harassment charges. Lawyers believe the case could help define the limits of free expression on the internet.Ian Puddick, 41, from east London, was incensed after learning that his wife had conducted a 10-year relationship with her boss,  a director of Guy Carpenter, a reinsurance company that advises clients on risk management.Puddick  set up a series of websites, a Twitter account and a blog to draw attention to the affair, alleging that the director, who he named, was pursuing an affair with his wife on the company's time and expenses – a claim rejected by Guy Carpenter. The company maintains Puddick's actions forced the director to leave his position due to stress.Puddick's legal team are expected to use the three-day hearing at Westminster magistrates court to examine the actions of the City of London police, which dispatched its serious crime unit to raid his home and office in search of evidence.Puddick's legal team is seeking to summon a number of Guy Carpenter's executives to appear at his trial, a move that promises unwanted publicity for a company that likes to keep a relatively low profile. Internal Guy Carpenter emails obtained by Puddick's legal team and seen by theObservershow that the firm employed a subsidiary – Kroll, a global private investigation agency used by many blue chip companies – in its quest to establish that Puddick was waging a harassment campaign.Kroll briefed Guy Carpenter executives that the police had "offered significant assistance" in dealing with Puddick, whom it believed might be "dangerously unstable". One Kroll director emailed several Guy Carpenter executives on 23 July 2009, following a meeting with City police. "They … warn that the penalties for harassment are not very severe, unless you reoffend, and that the prosecution will be out of our control once the police and the Criminal Prosecution Service agree there is a case to answer. We should remember Puddick may relish the prospect of a day in court."The email continues: "The civil route has the advantage of us being able to cease the prosecution at any stage, and tougher penalties. However, if the police take this on we can avoid being seen to have any role in prosecuting Puddick, which also has advantages. One way to combine the two may be to talk to Puddick post arrest, and warn him of our options in the civil courts to stop him&nbsp;reoffending."The case is likely to be watched closely by legal and media experts as the battle to regulate what is disseminated over the internet is waged in the courts. Recent cases involving new media and super-injunctions have also raised questions on whether regulating the net inhibits freedom of speech.Michael Wolkind QC,  representing Puddick, said his client intended to defend his actions. "This case is about Mr Puddick's right to express his feelings about another person's immorality. Ian Puddick dared to speak out about his wife's affair and it has cost the public £1m for the extraordinary investigation carried out by an unusually enthusiastic police alongside an elite security firm."Puddick's legal team say his home has been burgled and files were stolen as well as some valuables. However, following a police investigation, there is nothing to suggest that Guy Carpenter or Kroll were involved in any illegal activity.Puddick is now reconciled with his wife.• This article was amended on 12 June 2011
TS Eliot'sThe Waste Land, which was first published in 1922, is one of the most important poems of the 20th century. And in case you're wondering what a technology columnist is doing making pronouncements like that, I should explain that I'm just quotingAndrew Motion, who used to be poet laureate and knows about these things. But for mere mortals, or at any rate engineers like me, the complexity of the poem has always put it out of reach. I've lost count of the number of times I've tried to read it before concluding that it would have to be added to my list of futile aspirations.Until now.What has changed is that last weekTouch Press, an innovative publishing outfit founded by Max Whitby, Theodore Gray and Stephen Wolfram, in partnership with the olde-worlde publisher Faber &amp; Faber, launched adigital edition of the poemfor the Apple iPad. It's available from the Apple app store for £7.99.Touch Press's  founders describe themselves as makers of "living books that define the future of publishing". I'd say that they are better described as makers of beautiful things for multimedia devices.Their previous ventures – particularly The Elements, an app about the periodic table, and Solar System, an app that harnesses the computational power of the iPad with terrific graphics and animations – have been revelations of what can be done by combining programming virtuosity with visual creativity.Excellent though they are, though, these apps have been in an area that was predictable given the scientific backgrounds of Touch Press's founders. With The Waste Land, however, they have definitively invaded the second ofCP Snow's two cultures.The Eliot app provides the full text of the poem, plus a useful set of interactive notes to its many arcane references. But to these it adds: a vivid filmed performance of the entire poem by Fiona Shaw, which is synchronised to the text; complete audio recordings of readings of the poem (also synchronised to the text) by Eliot himself, Alec Guinness, Ted Hughes and Viggo Mortensen; more than 35 expert video perspectives on the poem, filmed in partnership with BBC Arena, including contributions from Seamus Heaney, Craig Raine and Jeanette Winterson; and a complete set of facsimiles of the manuscript pages, revealing how the poem took shape under Ezra Pound's editing.For me, the really eye-opening experience was listening to the poem being read, and following the highlight as it moved through the text. Eliot's own readings (there are two, from 1933 and 1947) seem terribly bombastic, as if he were addressing a public meeting, whereas Guinness's is exquisitely feline and revealing, and Shaw's performance is startlingly intimate and conversational. Sitting there, iPad on lap, it was as though the poem had suddenly burst into life.Some of the other stuff is riveting too. There's the interview with Seamus Heaney, and the consolation of hearing him confess thatThe Waste Landhad scared him stiff when he first encountered it. Or seeing Jim McCue explain how the poem came to be published. Or listening to Craig Raine expounding on the significance of nationality in Eliot's life.But best of all, in a way, are the facsimile copies of Pound's annotations of the manuscript. For example, in the passage about the departing seducer who "Bestows one final patronising kiss/ And gropes his way, finding the stairs unlit/ And at the corner where the stable is/ Delays only to urinate, and spit", Pound has highlighted the last two lines and written "probably over the mark" – which explains why in the published version they have been deleted and replaced with an ellipsis.One lesson of this remarkable app is that these things can probably be done only as partnerships. In this case, the partners were Touch Press (which possesses the formidable software and creative skills required to do this stuff well), Faber &amp; Faber (which owns the rights to Eliot's work) and the BBC (which knows how to film and dramatise).A second thought is that this is not so much "the future of the book" as a demonstration of the potential of technology to add significant value to a work of art – in this case a written text of great importance but formidable difficulty.As someone coming from the wrong side of the two cultures, Eliot's poem had effectively been closed off to me for decades. Now it isn't, and that in itself would almost justify the price of the iPad that made it possible.And lastly, in the week on whichBloomsdayfalls, there is the intriguing thought that there is another great modernist text – also published in 1922 – that cries out for the Touch Press treatment. James Joyce'sUlyssescomes out of copyright next year.Some coincidences are too powerful to ignore.
Mr WhaitePop culture artist Mr Whaite has a couple of collection ideas that he displays here. One turns cult movies like Pulp Fiction, Ghostbusters and Back To The Future into brilliant, moving neon signs. The other is a visual mash-up of an actor's career wherein he takes costumes and props from their past movies to create a single image. His Johnny Depp illustration, which combines Edward Scissorhands, Jack Sparrow and The Mad Hatter, has become an internet hit, but equally fun are drawings of Will Ferrell (pictured) and Frank Oz. Elsewhere, a portrait of Jack Nicholson in The Shining is constructed from the typewritten words "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" and boy detective Tintin is turned into a ballerina to celebrate his Jamie Bell/Billy Elliot connection.I'm Not Racist ButAmazing but more than a little depressing, I'm Not Racist But and its sister siteI'm Not Sexist But …are put together by two US college student who trawl Facebook for those two phrases, grab screenshots, blur out the names and post them for our rank displeasure and enjoyment at humanity's dumbness. Of course, rather than proving how not racist these social networkers are it demonstrates the opposite and the bizarre situation that if you deny you're racist it gives you carte blanche to say whatever you like. Comments range from the spectacularly contradictory "I'm not a racist but Hitler had the right idea" to the unusually specific "Why do some white people smell like ham or suntan lotion?" Despite revealing the depressing reality that bigotry is alive and kicking, at least here the "not racists" get ridiculed.Blog roll: GardensEden Project corpse flower.Eden ProjectBehind the scenes at Cornwall's biomes, including regular doses of freaky nature ("with poo").Giant GardeningThe larger-than-life world of 26ft-tall sunflowers and tomatoes as big as your head.ShedworkingTales of upscale sheds including the 1920s tram being converted into a garden office.To The GreenhouseArchive of Everything But The Girl singer Tracey Thorn's gardening columns for Caught By The River.Pencil And LeafCelebrating flowers and British bees with the occasional photo of homemade soup.Guerilla GardeningPimping pavements and inner city allotments, adding tulips to the M1 and tarting up verges.What we learned on the web this weekWhat 23 Daft Punk samples look like.What 23Daft Punk samples look likeThe 100greatest movie threatsHow tomake a visual archive of your social lifeThe firstStar Trek film as all about the shipWhat 9,000TV channel logos looks likeThe beautyof bento box album artDefinitely the bestway to get into a carDon't evercross a grumpy owlThe world'sfilthiest artists are rather dirty
Duke Nukem Forever, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Originally scheduled for release in the 1990s, Duke Nukem Forever's 14-year development process makes even the horrors of filming Apocalypse Now look like a quick, pre-catered picnic in the back garden. Meeting expectation on this epic scale demanded something different, then, and Duke's crude lurch through the game is marked by an inundation of ideas. Along with jibes at its own development hell, Forever contains an astounding catalogue of references to internet memes and other games, and though there are countless swipes at convention – "I don't need no keycard," Duke growls as he smashes through a locked door – it's not afraid to stick to a few of its own. Its big, messy firefights lack the finesse to compete with last year's top-drawer shooters but it's everywhere else that the game shines, from Duke's ludicrous interactions with what is essentially a giant, demented adventure playground, to numerous throwaway gags.2K Games, £34.99-£49.99InFAMOUS 2, PS3InFAMOUS 2.In a story prefaced by comic-book interludes, Cole MacGrath, the cycle courier turned messianic electricity-powered superhero, is back for more high-voltage fun. After you arrive in New Marais, the game's stand-in for New Orleans, your job is to prepare for battle with The Beast – a man the height of a multi-storey car park – by helping (or ruthlessly dominating) the city's populace in return for upgrades to your powers. If you played the original, you can import your saved game as well as the odd encounter with characters who were affected by your past actions, but other than a bit of plot continuity this is a fresh take on Cole's battery-powered heroics. Giving you a decent feeling of potency from the start, InFAMOUS 2 builds on the abilities of the previous game with endearingly destructive special moves, from the tornado-style Ionic Vortex to the Tesla bolt, a rotating, fiery, manually guided missile. You can also make and share your own missions.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £49.99Games newsGetting its announcement in before last week'sE3show – the industry's biggest games exhibition – Sony showed offPlayStationVita, its new, mildly unwieldy handheld, which gives you the power of a PS3 on the bus. The company also announced the grand reopening ofPlayStation Networkafter its multiple hacking fiasco, with the re-release of dear oldFinal Fantasy VIand a slew of free stuff for dismayed users …Red Faction: Armageddon.Also out this week isRed Faction: Armageddon, in which you and your fellow would-be miners take on newly emancipated Martian fauna;Kung-Fu Panda 2, where everyone cashes in on the last iota of Jack Black's waning credibility via the medium of a dull anthropomorphic fighting game; and there's more film-related merchandising withGreen Lantern: Rise Of The Manhunters, which takes its co-op gaming antics into deep space to bump off various aliens and killer robots.
Four years ago, a large-limbed 26-year-old from Pittsburgh named Andrew Mason launched a website called The Point. The point of The Point, immodestly, was "to solve the world's unsolvable problems", harnessing the collective potential of the internet to lobby for social justice. As with the British site Pledgebank, campaigners could wield far greater power by pledging to give money or take action – but only if a certain number of others did the same. (Sometimes, they set other conditions: users once promised to donate "a ton of money" to fight Aids in Africa, provided that Bono retire permanently from public life.) There wasn't a business model to speak of, but Mason didn't really care: at heart, he was a left-leaning musician who played piano in a rock band and had, as he recalls, "an allergic reaction to the idea of making money". It was only under pressure from The Point's main investor that he started looking for ways to make it pay for itself. Why not, Mason wondered, adapt the collective-pledging idea to, say, pizza? A pizzeria, in a quiet period, could offer 60% off a quattro formaggi – much bigger than the usual discount – but only if a sufficient number of customers bought the deal in advance, thus eliminating all risk for the restaurant. The Point, as the middleman, could take a percentage. The pizza place in their office building proved willing to give it a try."And it was probably some time around then," Mason says today, running a hand through his disorganised hair and looking as if he still doesn't fully understand what happened next, which is fair enough, because nobody else does either, "that we had this realisation. It was, like… holy shit."It was around the same time that Mason's allergy to making money seems to have vanished overnight. Which was fortunate, in hindsight, because recently he has been making quite a bit of it.It is moving day when I arrive at the Chicago head office of Groupon, the company that emerged from that initial pizza-discount idea. But then again, as more than one staff member points out, it often is: when you're adding more than 150 employees every month in the US alone, no office space stays big enough for long. What started in one corner of one floor of one converted department-store warehouse now occupies four floors – today's move involves colonising a fifth – as well as another building down the street, another across town, and offices of various sizes in 47 countries across the world, from Britain to China to the United Arab Emirates. Just two and a half years since it was launched, Groupon has more than 70 million subscribers; its revenue for2010 exceeded $700m. Late last year, it astonished the&nbsp;world of technology financing by rejecting a&nbsp;takeover bid fromGoogle worth an eyewatering $6bn.And just over a week ago, it confirmedplans to go public,aiming to raise a sum that would make the company worth around $30bn, higher than the value of Google when it first did the same. It is, at least according to the calculations of Forbes magazine, thefastest-growing company in the history of capitalism. These days, it's not uncommon to hear normally sober commentators talk about Mason as if he had discovered some hitherto secret loophole in the fundamental laws of business. "Starbucks and eBay were standing still compared to what is happening with Groupon," Howard Schultz, the chief executive of Starbucks, has been quoted as saying. "I candidly haven't witnessed anything quite like this. They have cracked the code."Even if you're a regular user of Groupon, or rival "daily deal" sites such as LivingSocial, this kind of talk may strike you as a little absurd. Sure, Groupon is fun: each morning, you open your email to discover one or two offers of steep discounts on restaurant food, or beauty treatments, or adventurous experiences: recent London deals, for example, included 54% off a kite-surfing course, tapas for two at £19 instead of £48, and six sessions of laser hair removal at a quarter of the regular price. Nominally, there's a catch – you get the deal only if it "tips", meaning that a sufficient number of people sign up – but today that almost always happens. And perhaps you even go kite-surfing and enjoy it. But none of that quite seems to explain the way small businesses fight to be featured on the site, so fiercely that in the US barely one in eight of them makes it in. Sometimes, the hysteria has turned unpleasant: some businesses claim Groupon was a&nbsp;disaster for them, swamping them with eager customers they weren't equipped to cope with. (According to the Urban Dictionary website, "Groupon anxiety" refers to the "feeling of anxiousness and not being able to sleep knowing that a new Groupon will be released after 1am".)And yet compared with many of the web's major success stories, the idea behind Groupon – and the army of competitors that has sprung up in&nbsp;its wake, including, most recently, Google Offers in the US – seems almost offensively simple. Be honest: you couldn't have come up with Google's PageRank algorithm, which catapulted it to first place among search engines, and you couldn't have written the computer code that enables video-sharing on YouTube, or friending and poking on Facebook. But if you've ever organised a wedding, or even just a party in the back room of a pub, you've probably already negotiated a group discount. Groupon just does the same via email. Its ceaseless physical expansion, in terms of employees and office space, testifies to the fact that it is, from one angle, a very traditional business. Twitter gets by with a few hundred people to oversee its network; Groupon needs sales personnel to strike deals with merchants, advertising writers – it employs 400 writers and editors in&nbsp;Chicago alone – to compose advertising copy, and legions of customer service reps; it currently has a&nbsp;global workforce of almost 8,000 people."It confuses me, honestly, that this idea took so&nbsp;long to be thought of," says Mason, who since he doesn't have an office of his own is perching on a chair in a conference room, drinking coffee from a paper cup. He is wearing jeans and a wrinkled grey polo shirt that looks as though he may have pulled it from his dirty laundry in desperation."In music, which was my world before, you've got thousands and thousands of years of great ideas that have already been thought of. But the internet is basically 20 years old. So you can be way stupider and still have world-changing ideas. So yes, it is simple." He laughs. "It's ridiculously, enormously simple. It's still a gold rush. Any hick can show up and find a nugget."Groupon's headquarters, as one might expect of&nbsp;any ascendant internet firm, is a buzzing hive of casually dressed, caffeine-dependent, earbud-wearing twentysomethings, many seated not on office chairs but on the bright blue exercise balls that are provided to every employee.The walls are plastered with handmade posters and Photoshopped images perpetuating elaborate inside-jokes. There is still a detectible sense of the entire operation as an ironic satire on the idea of running a multinational company, as if nobody can quite take the idea seriously.The firm's customer service department consists largely of actors and standup comedians from Chicago's flourishing improv scene: "I walk past sometimes and hear them singing to customers," says Julie Mossler, Groupon's communications manager. They have reason to be happy: Groupon in the US has an "open vacation policy", meaning that employees can take as much holiday as they wish provided their work targets are met.A terrifying amount of effort appears to have gone into creating something called Michael's Room, a windowless office converted into a teenager's bedroom, complete with wallpaper, rumpled, cigarette-burned bed, half-finished boxes of breakfast cereal and, bafflingly, an exercise bike that powers a record player that plays a 45rpm vinyl single ofSmooth Operator by Sade; according to a&nbsp;complex Groupon legend, it belongs to a relative of the building's former owner. Mason once told the New York Times his true passion was "building miniature dolls' houses". What keeps all these antics just this side of cringe-inducing is that the collective sense of disbelief at the company's rise to&nbsp;global dominance seems sincere. Groupon is a ruthless, profit-focused enterprise, to be sure. But at least its progenitors have the good grace to find the whole thing rather ridiculous. (It's generally agreed that they overstepped the line with a series of darkly ironic ads that ran during this year's Superbowl, posing as awareness-raising campaigns before revealing themselves as ads: "The people of&nbsp;Tibet are in trouble, their very culture is in jeopardy. But they still whip up an amazing fish curry, and since 200 of us bought at Groupon.com, we're each getting $30 worth of Tibetan food for just $15 at Himalayan Restaurant in Chicago.")All this humour, though, can deflect attention from the Machiavellian manipulation that lies at Groupon's core. Not unusually for money-off deals, there's a built-in time limit; some offers expire within 24 hours, others in a few days. But the voucher, once purchased, is usually valid for several months, so buyers aren't put off by the notion of having to disrupt their schedules in the near future; you need only think of yourself as the kind of adventurous person who really ought to try kite-surfing sometime soon. The risk that an insufficient number of people might opt for the deal unwittingly turns you into an unpaid salesperson, spreading the word among family and friends. Paying upfront acts as a mechanism of "strategic pre-commitment", making it likelier that you'll overcome your natural tendency towards inertia and make a concrete plan; then again, perhaps you're kidding yourself, and you'll never get around to redeeming the coupon. Groupon makes plenty of money either way: its cut is commonly 50% of the coupon's value, and in the UK, at least, they keep 100% if it's never redeemed.From the perspective that Mason and his colleagues like to emphasise, Groupon is far more than a supplier of money-off deals. It is a "discovery engine" – a mechanism for forcing us out of our comfort zones and finding fulfilment. "When we decided to transition from saving the world to hawking coupons, we thought to ourselves, OK, how can we do this in a way that's not going to make us want to kill ourselves?" Mason says. "So&nbsp;the idea was to create something that was just as much a city guide, or a way to put the spotlight on interesting or unusual experiences that people wouldn't normally have. The discount would be a&nbsp;way to reduce the risk of stepping outside your comfort zone and trying something new. I wasn't interested so much in luxury goods – in getting people to buy their 80th purse, or something like that – because it's just more shit people don't need. I think we're tricking people into doing stuff that's going to make their lives better."His concept of himself is as someone with a "bigger, deeper purpose", and it is an unusual one for a web entrepreneur: getting people to spend less time online. "We're reversing this trend of spending more and more time in front of the computer, helping people remember that there's some really cool stuff offline as well."This isn't pure marketing bluster (although it's worth pointing out that an apparently increasing proportion of Groupon's deals in the UK are for fairly mundane services and products, not thrilling adventures). A number of psychological studies testify to the beneficial effects of comfort-zone-busting novel experiences; for one thing, they slow down the perceived passage of time, perhaps because they demand a greater degree of&nbsp;information processing, thereby ameliorating the alarming sense of the years racing by faster and faster as one ages. Couples who pursue novel experiences together report happier relationships than those who focus on familiar rituals.Mason remembers: "We started getting these ridiculous emails, like, 'My husband and I had grown estranged, but because of Groupon we go out more and spend more time together and we're reconnecting'."But there is, of course, an entirely different way of understanding services such as Groupon, which is that they are engaged in persuading you to part with money for things you never thought you wanted – or, more precisely, actually didn't want before receiving a "deal of the day" email. You were feeling fine, but now you're worried you're insufficiently adventurous for having never tried rock-climbing. The thought of hair colouring or nail treatments at 75% off having entered your mind, you're a little more self-conscious about your hair or your nails. Or how about 56% off professional carpet cleaning, another recent Groupon deal in the UK? You'd never given it a moment's thought. But now that you look at that carpet…There is a certain depressing inevitability to learning that the first coupon in history was created, in 1888, by the Coca-Cola company. It offered the bearer "one glass of free Coca-Cola at the fountain of any dispenser of genuine Coca-Cola", and it worked:by 1913, 8.5m free drinks had been claimed,and the company was on its way to soft-drink dominance. In America, far more than in Europe, coupons became a craze: thick booklets fall from many newspapers, or are stacked near the entrances of supermarkets; thousands more can be printed from the web. A subculture of "super-couponers" meet in online forums to share strategies for combining coupons in complex ways so as to reduce the weekly grocery bill to a few dollars, or even to reach the coveted goal of "overage", where the supermarket has to pay you. The US cable TV network TLC broadcasts a reality show calledExtreme Couponing, though John Morgan, the executive director of the US Association of Coupon Professionals, apparently wishes it didn't."These whackjobs who spend 20 hours a week stacking coupons? That stuff drives us batty," he told Wired magazine last year. "They dance all over the rules."Traditional coupons work by exploiting what economists call "price discrimination". If you are, say, a baker making chocolate cakes that cost £1 each to produce, selling them at £1.80 guarantees a healthy profit. But it also means sacrificing all those "price-sensitive" customers who won't pay £1.80 but would pay £1.30, still a profitable sale. A 50p-off coupon allows the cake-seller the best of both worlds: big profits from most people, and smaller profits from those who are willing to put in the effort required to locate, cut out and remember to use the coupon.What's going on with Groupon is significantly more mysterious and complex – to the extent, indeed, that neither economic commentators nor the businesses that participate can agree on whether taking part makes sense for the merchant. By promising thousands of new customers, paying in advance, Groupon can negotiate much deeper discounts, and keeps half the cash anyway, so the coupon itself is likely to result in a much smaller profit, or even a loss. Groupon is less about price discrimination, then, than it is a previously unexplored branch of advertising: merchants hope to win new regular customers, and to benefit from word-of-mouth. (Some kinds of businesses, such as&nbsp;restaurants, can also set the price of the coupon, so it's hard not to spend a lot more when you show up.) Off the record, moreover, businesses that have done deals through Groupon suggest that the savings can be borderline fictional: a £50 deal for, say, a group fitness course that's usually "worth £150" isn't quite the same as saying it usuallysellsfor £150, a claim that is strictly regulated in the UK. Indeed, the specific course may not have existed until it was created for the purposes of offering a deal through Groupon."It's coupons on steroids," saysDonald Marron, a former White House economics adviser and professor who writes a respected blog on microeconomics. "You hear these horror stories of the little companies that get overwhelmed" – one bakery owner in Oregon, in a blogpost that went viral, described the effect of a badly structured Groupon deal on her business as "sickening". But Mason compares such tales to "how the media covers only plane crashes, not safe landings… A lot of those stories are just a natural part of exploring, well, what is this new model of marketing? What is this thing? Everybody's trying to figure that out."One of the company's earliest successes was with discount deals for sensory-deprivation flotation tanks – apparently, in the hyperstimulated world of daily deals, what people crave is no stimuli at all – but Tim Strudwick, owner of the London flotation centreFloatworks, says he's unlikely to want to do a deal with Groupon again. "Honestly, it really wasn't a great experience," he recalls. "The clients they tend to attract tend to be bargain-hunters, people you definitely won't be able to convert into regular customers. If you've paid so little money for an experience, somehow I don't think you attach so much value to it. If you pay £40 [for an hour in a tank], then mentally you're determined to get more value out of it than if you paid £14. It's like how it's different if you buy a designer T-shirt or one from Primark. You'll look after it differently, and you'll feel different when you're wearing it." According to a study this year byUtpal Dholakia, an&nbsp;academic at Rice University in Texas, more than&nbsp;40% of merchants who negotiated deals with Groupon would not choose to repeat the experience, though Mason insists the company's internal research shows that more than 95% would.Restaurateurs have made similar complaints to Strudwick's: that the culture of group-purchased coupons appeals most to "dealseekers", people who have little intention of becoming loyal customers but who would rather eat wherever they can pay the least, ordering little and failing to tip. Perhaps as a result, the anecdotal evidence is that more and more Groupon deals for restaurant food involve a specific set menu that's cheap to provide – the "one pasta dish and a glass of house wine" type of offer. This is the least appealing version of the future conjured by the success of Groupon and its rivals: a&nbsp;planet of obsessive dealseekers, addictively chasing the next bargain, never prepared to pay full price, driving smaller merchants out of business and prompting larger ones to offer ever lower quality products for our ever lower payments, in a&nbsp;frenzied, dispiriting race to the bottom."One thing I've come to learn about myself," Mason says, "is that I have to keep going. I look at being a capitalist businessperson like riding a bike – if I go too slowly, I'll fall over. Or it's kind of like a&nbsp;shark: if I stop swimming, I'll just die." Hence the logical next step, a smartphone application called Groupon Now!, which recently launched in several US cities. It's welcome screen displays just two buttons that between them diagnose the modern human condition: "I'm Hungry" and "I'm&nbsp;Bored". Unlike daily-deal emails, Groupon Now! takes advantage of your phone's geolocation capabilities to work in real time: clicking "I'm Hungry" will notify you of restaurants offering group discounts within a short walk of wherever you are. ("I'm Bored" does the same, except with experiences to help pass the time.) In Mason's dreams, you wouldn't think about Groupon only when its emails arrived; instead, it would permeate your entire experience of local shopping, turning your phone into a forum where merchants compete, minute-by-minute, to seduce you. "Think about it," Mason says. "If I could get a deal on whatever my impulse was, whenever my impulse struck, and it was nearby, I would use that all the time. It&nbsp;would reshape the way that I shop."The standard take on all this is that Groupon is merely facilitating a more perfect exchange of information, leaving everyone happier: a restaurant could run a Groupon Now! deal during quiet afternoon stretches; the customer looking for a 3pm lunch could oblige with his or her business, and save plenty of money. All this is true. And yet Groupon Now!, by throwing the group-deal process into vivid relief, points to another interpretation. If the social, mobile internet is a gold rush, the gold isn't really cheaper pizzas or cut-price hair removal or kite-surfing classes. It is your attention, which Groupon sells to whichever merchant is willing to name the best price. There's nothing inherently wrong with this. It's how advertising has always worked. But advertising is something we usually just tolerate; rarely has participating in the process of being advertised to been designed to be so engrossing or addictive. While it may be true that you're getting a brilliant deal, it's equally true to say that you're the product.
I have a rule regarding the&nbsp;takeaway outlets nearest my flat. I refuse to sample any of them. Not&nbsp;on&nbsp;health grounds, but&nbsp;simply because if they are good, I&nbsp;worry that I'll stop cooking. I feel the same way about electric bikes. I&nbsp;secretly love them – they offer almost all the convenience of an ordinary bike with none of the effort. But if I had one, I fear I would get too lazy ever to pedal properly again.I could feel this happening after two weeks zipping around Berlin on the Twist, the new e-bike from Giant. The Twist is what's known by no one but the manufacturer as a&nbsp;pedalec, which means that you have to pedal for the electric motor to kick in. This differentiates it from models such as the snazzier lookingGocycle, which requires riders to press a button for an electric boost. And no, the battery is not charged by your pedalling. Everyone always asks that, but very few e-bikes include this feature, largely because it apparently requires an impractically large battery pack to capture and convert the energy.The Twist battery is still a bit of a&nbsp;beast – the size and weight of a&nbsp;brick. It is supposed to last anything between 35km and 70km, depending on which setting you use, how much luggage you carry and how many hills you climb. I managed 40km on the north German plains, liberally abusing the fastest of the three speeds (paradoxically named "sport", which means that your legs provide just 30% of the power and the battery does the rest), before it ran out of juice on my way into work. Suddenly, my hare turned into a&nbsp;tortoise. The highest, seventh, gear I had previously dismissed as too low became impossible. For the first time I noticed the annoying tick-tick of the freewheel, which had&nbsp;previously been drowned out by the gentle milk float hum of the motor. Then I had to take out the battery, hidden in the panniers on the back, and plug it into the mains for a few hours.I had a lot of fun during my Twist fortnight, surprising boy racers at traffic lights by zooming off at 25kph. I even moved flats on it – it's&nbsp;a very sturdy workhorse if you have a lot to carry. Just don't try to lug it up stairs. When I took it on an&nbsp;outing to Potsdam to visitSchloss&nbsp;Cecilienhof, the stately home where Stalin, Churchill and Truman carved up Germany at the end of the second world war, I had enormous problems getting it up the station steps on the way home.So is it worth £1,695? If you'd otherwise buy a scooter, I'd say yes. But if you have an addictive personality, beware: you could very easily get used to this.Giant Twist Esprit Power WPrice£1,695 for the 7-speed, single-battery model (£1,895 for the double-battery model)FrameAluminiumGearsShimano Nexus 7-speedWeight27kgExtrasDouble panniers are included, plus an integrated wheel lock and a detachable control panel that turns on the lights and tells you your speed and how much battery you have left.In a wordAddictive
Hackers have stolen a database with names and email addresses of customers of the UK's largest games publisher Codemasters following an attack on 3 June, the company admitted on Friday.But the firm insisted that no financial details and no passwords could have been compromised by the break-in, the latest in a series carried out against gaming companiesincluding SonyandNintendo.In an email sent out on Friday morning to everyone who had registered on the site, the company warned that people should be wary of emails claiming to come from Codemasters which require them to sign in to pages and give their passwords or financial details.A spokesman said that the week-long delay between the hack and the warning happened because the web team had had to investigate the precise cause and extent of the attack.No group has yet claimed responsibility for the hack, which extended through codemasters.com, the Codemasters corporate website and its subdomains, the DIRT 3 VIP code redemption page, and the Codemasters E-Store. Codemasters has taken its site offline and redirected codemasters.com to its Facebook page. "We won't put it back up until we're sure it can be completely secure," said a spokesman.Among the details that the hackers could have accessed are names, addresses, email addresses, phone numbers, date of birth, any biographical details provided, XBox Live gamer tag and order history. A spokesman for Codemasters said that although the hackers had access to the password database, it was "very heavily encrypted" and there was no way the hackers could have read the originals.The company, however, advised people to change their password at once if they use Xbox Live or other services.The break-in is the latest in a spate of hacking attacks in which both the activist group Anonymous and a newer group called Lulzsec have been implicated.
And so it is all over for another year – the hubristic press conferences, the cacophonous mega-stands, the queues of fanboys regaled in freebie promotional tat. E3 2011 was everything that's great and awful about the games industry savagely compacted into 100 hours.The show was undoubtedly dominated by the two new machines: the Nintendo Wii U and the PlayStation Vita. While show-goers were impressed with the potential of both propositions, there were concerns about how either would secure a mass audience (compounded by the unexpected drop in Nintendo' s share price). In the end, Apple didn't (as predicted by some) steal the show by announcing a games strategy at WWDC, but the huge numbers of visitors carrying iPads around with them should have reminded manufacturers that the hardware battle lines have shifted for ever.Away from all that, 2011 certainly wasn't a year for massive game announcements (or "reveals" as the specialist press refers to them). Microsoft tacked Halo 4 on to the end of its press event, but a Kinect version of Minecraft was just as intriguing. Nintendo concentrated on its Zelda 25th anniversary celebrations, but threw in Luigi's Mansion 2 and Star Fox on 3DS, and Super Smash Brothers on both 3DS and Wii U. Sony cluster-bombed us with minor revelations: Starhawk, Medieval Moves: Deadmund's Quest, the potentially fascinating persistent shooter, Dust 514, a couple of Star Trek games and a return for cartoon-style action adventure hero Sly Cooper that brought such a whoop of deafening joy from the man sitting next to me, I thought my eardrums would implode.Amid the third-party publishers, EA had a reboot of its old snowboarding series, SSX, Insomniac's not altogether convincing squad-based sci-fi shooter Overstrike, and an intriguing Facebook version of The Sims. The publisher let Fifa, Mass Effect 3, Battlefield 3 and Star Wars Old Republic dominate. Ubisoft relied on Assassin's Creed: Revelations and Ghost Recon: Future Solider, though Brothers In Arms: Furious Four, Far Cry 3 and Rabbids: Alive and Kicking all drew interest. Activision simply left a huge area of its stand empty and surrounded the carpeted expanse with screens showing a clever collage of Modern Warfare 3 trailers.Elsewhere, Square Enix put on a strong showing, with Hitman: Absolution, Final Fantasy XIII-2 and Tomb Raider all attracting compliments from the gaming press. Bethesda's Prey 2 kept being mentioned as an unexpected highlight, while Warner offered the highly contrasting duo of Batman: Arkham City and Sesame Street: Once Upon A Monster. It also gave space to the absolutely charming indie action RPG Bastion, bySupergiant Games, which deserves the early platitudes heaped upon it by the big American game sites.Batman: Arkham City ... highlight from WarnerFinally, there were delights on the fringes of the show. The Atlus puzzler Catherine managed to tempt sizeable crowds into the smaller Concourse Hall.Here, too, was Blitz Games Studios showing off its fascinating Kitsu, essentially a demo of a new procedural emotional animation system, capable of generating computer-controlled characters that react in real-time to in-game stimulation. Ambitious and important stuff.And in the West Hall, just metres from the giant Sony and Nintendo stands, was IndieCade, an intimate gathering of indie developers, showing off their latest projects. Here, I played the startlingly addictiveSkulls of the Shogun, a pared-down real-time strategy game soon to arrive on Xbox Live Arcade, that will be this year's major breakout hit if there is any justice in the universe. I also enjoyedQ.U.B.Efrom Toxic Games, a Portal-style puzzler, based around manipulating coloured blocks to escape a series of monochrome rooms.These were titles by small, passionate teams, usually working from their homes and co-operating remotely. As usual there was a friendly, chatty community vibe to the whole IndieCade area that provided a few moments of calm amid the corporate hubbub.Not that the noise of the main stands was all bad. EA, Activision and the rest had a more conservative year, but who can blame them right now, and big franchises aren't necessarily evil, creative vacuums. The Guardian team all had sequels amid our highlights – Nick Cowen was astonished by Bioshock, Steve Boxer picked out Hitman, I had a cracking match of Fifa 2012, and loved Batman: Arkham City. If this wasn't an E3 of huge surprises and glittering debuts, it was one of solid endeavour, of development teams using their technical expertise with the current console platforms to get the most from well-known "brands". And it was an E3 withtwonew consoles, based not around sheer processing grunt, but around new interface ideas, connectivity and innovation. Not bad then, not bad at all.
Microsoft has lost an appeal to the US supreme court over a $290m (£178m) award made against it in a patent dispute with the Canadian company i4i, which claimed a version of Microsoft Word infringed a patented method for editing documents.The decision means companies challenging patents being used in court battles will have to provide convincing proof that a patent is invalid if they want to have it set aside. Microsoft had sought to weaken the level of proof needed.i4i sued Microsoft in 2007, claiming infringement of a patent relating to XML in documents by Word 2007 (and products that included it, such as Office 2007). At a subsequent jury trial, Microsoft had argued the patent was invalid; the jury rejected that claim. It then appealed to the supreme court, saying the trial court's requirements had put an "overly demanding" standard to its invalidity defence: it had had to prove its defence by "clear and convincing" evidence, rather than the more relaxed "preponderance of evidence". The difference would be similar to a criminal v civil standard of proof, between "beyond all reasonable doubt" and "balance of probability".The decision will have repercussions in cases where patents are the key element of the case – which will affect everyone from smartphone manufacturers to app developers.The question in the case (Microsoft Corp v i4i Limited Partnership, No. 10-290) was what Congress had meant on that point in the Patent Act of 1952. That only says that patents are "presumed valid" and "the burden of establishing invalidity" rests "on the party asserting such invalidity." That in itself doesn't say what level of proof is needed – and whether it is the criminal-like "beyond reasonable doubt" or the civil "balance of evidence" – whether one side or the other was more likely to be correct.In the adjudication, Justice Benjamin N Cardozo of the nine-member court wrote that patents' legitimacy was "not to be overthrown except by clear and cogent evidence".i4i sued Microsoft in 2007, alleging that its method for applying XML to documents had been infringed by a version of Microsoft Word. It eventually obtained an injunction that prevented the sale of some versions of the program in the US. Itdeniedthe location for the original trial was chosen because it would favour patent litigants: the judge in the case had studied as a computer programmer in school.In March 2010, a circuit courtruledMicrosoft had "willfully infringed" i4i's patent. In July, thevalidity of the patent was confirmedby the US Patent Office.i4i, set up in 1993 by Michel Vulpe, has provided systems for the US Patent Office ("ironic, in the circumstances" remarked Owen), US air force and a number of pharmaceutical companies including Novo Nordisk and Bayer. Basically it takes huge amounts of unstructured data and puts XML wrappers around it, making it useful and usable. The company has repeatedly insisted that it is not a "patent troll" and that it creates real value through the application of its systems for clients.The two companies had held discussions in 2000 and 2001 about XML and custom XML but no business emerged. Microsoft subsequently began using structured XML in Word, infuriating i4i.Loudon Owen, chairman of i4i, said: "Microsoft tried to gut the value of patents by introducing a lower standard for invalidating patents. It is now 100% clear that you can only invalidate a patent based on 'clear and convincing' evidence."He called the ruling "one of the most significant business cases the court has decided in decades. Affirmation of the federal circuit on a ruling in favour of patent holders is virtually unprecedented. While this ruling maintains the prevailing standard, the innovation community must be ever-vigilant to defend its property rights."(The Guardian ran afull interview with Owen in January 2010when it won the appeals court ruling against Microsoft.)Microsoft said the patent was invalid under a provision of the patent laws that removes protection for inventions that had been on sale in the US for more than a year before the patent application was filed. It transpired that i4i had indeed sold another program more than a year before it submitted its patent application, and the examiner had not considered whether the older program contained the main innovation in the later one before issuing the patent.The supreme court did offer a method for future accusations of patent invalidity. Sonia Sotomayor, the second-newest judge, wrote that though courts should require "clear and convincing" evidence that a patent was invalid, the Patent Office's decision to grant one "may lose significant force" where it "did not have all material facts before it." That means, she continued, that "the challenger's burden to persuade the jury of its invalidity defence by clear and convincing evidence may be easier to sustain."Only eight of the nine justices deliberated the case. Chief Justice John G Roberts Jr did not: in a financial disclosure form issued last month, he noted that his family owned $100,000 to $250,000 in Microsoft shares in 2010.
Following theestimate by IDC that PC sales will barely grow in 2011, rival research company Gartner has followed suit, trimming its forecast from 10.5% growth in sales to 9.3%.It says that it now expects 385m units to be sold worldwide, as consumers show less interest in PCs (and especially less in netbooks) and businesses become the prime engine of sales as they replace machines still running Windows XP.The forecast compares to just under 350m PCs sold worldwide in 2010, by Gartner's figures. IDC says that 346.5m were sold that year - but its forecast for 2011, of 361.6m, is noticeably lower than Gartner's 385m.However, the difference of 3.25% is exactly the same as the long-term difference between the companies' quarterly figures going back to 1998, suggesting that their slightly different ways of measuring shipments are the cause.IDC cut its forecast more substantially in percentage terms, halving it for this year while forecasting more rapid growth next year.Gartner's research director Ranjit Atwal said: "Consumer mobile PCs are no longer driving growth, because of sharply declining consumer interest in mini-notebooks. Mini-notebook shipments have noticeably contracted over the last several quarters, and this has substantially reduced overall mobile PC unit growth."He added: "Media tablets, such as the iPad, have also impacted mobile growth, but more because they have caused consumers to delay new mobile PC purchases rather than directly replacing aging mobile PCs with media tablets. We believe direct substitution of media tablets for mobile PCs will be minimal."But he also sees a transition underway from a "one size fits all" computing to more specialised devices which are able to complement other devices. "The PC market is experiencing dramatic structural changes," said Atwal. "PCs will no longer be a market by themselves, but part of a larger device market that ranges from smart televisions to the most-basic-feature phones."He expects businesses to drive growth in the next 18 months, even while consumers sit the market out or buy other products. "Businesses sharply reduced replacements and extended PC lifetimes in response to the recession," said Raphael Vasquez, research analyst at Gartner. "Businesses have begun replacing aging PCs more vigorously. We expect the growing urgency for businesses to migrate away from Windows XP will drive significant professional replacements."George Shiffler, another Gartner research analyst, said PC vendors had only experienced minor disruptions to shipment growths from the Japanese earthquake and tsunami in March, though forecast PC shipment growth in the country itself was cut to just 2.4% for the year.
Danish developer Io Interactive garnered a serious reputation thanks to its Hitman games, starring the mysterious Agent 47 – a man with a barcode on the back of his shaven head and unrivalled skills when it came to dispatching even the most heavily guarded targets.But since 2006, the laconic fellow has not been seen, with Io instead making two Kane and Lynch games which, frankly, were rather rubbish. Someone, though – either at Io itself or publisher Square-Enix, which owns the studio – has finally seen sense, and after a five-year hiatus, the company has returned to its alma mater in the form of Hitman Absolution, due for release some time in 2012 on PS3, Xbox 360 and PC.Gratifyingly, at the Hitman Absolution demo we were treated to at E3, it more or less instantly became obvious that Io Interactive has also returned to its comfort zone. The game – being shown for the first time – generated quite a buzz. What we witnessed was pre-alpha software, but it already looked like a major leap for the franchise.Like many games at E3, it was clearly a product of the late period in a console cycle, when developers work out how to extract the last ounce of their graphics processing abilities.The action opened with a sweeping shot of the surroundings: a dank, relentlessly rainy Chicago. A certain amount of table-turning was in play – Agent 47, the consummate hunter, was himself the subject of a city-wide manhunt by the police.Io Interactive outlined a few of the game's key aspects.– The developer has enhanced the game's artificial intelligence engine, so that the enemies you encounter behave in a more nuanced (and less predictable) manner; Agent 47 has a new feature called Instinct, which lets him size up situations before taking multiple enemies down; and he is now supposed to inhabit his disguises more convincingly.The avowed goal of all the games enhancements – it uses a new engine Io has dubbed Glacier 2 – is to give players freedom of choice. You should be able to play in whatever manner you desire, something many games have promised but few have delivered.Agent 47 took refuge in a creepy abandoned library, crumbling and still full of books. It rapidly filled up with unfeasibly large numbers of cops, and he set about dispatching them individually, stealthing around, employing cover and unleashing vicious take-downs, including a garrotte with a power cord.Eventually, the demonstrator tired of that approach and confronted a large group of policemen, grabbing one as a human shield, stealing his mac-22 sub-machinegun, dispatching several and making his escape up a fire escape.Working his way up the building triggered a sequence that was more appreciably cinematic than in previous Hitman games. He ran up a staircase, taking out a number of cops below by shooting a chandelier. A police helicopter was called in, whose relentless machinegun-fire was destroying his cover, but he leapt thrillingly to a nearby building.Finding an isolated policeman, he took him out stealthily and stole his clothes, before entering a flat which turned out to be full of a bunch of hippies curating a marijuana-growing enterprise. Naturally, they scattered in hilarious, stoned panic – we saw a glimpse of one trying to flush his stash down a toilet. Soon the real cops appeared, and Agent 47 took one out by hitting him over the head with a handy bong.The last mechanic we saw involved Agent 47's ability to move around in disguise – his Instinct told him when the cops he was sidling past in order to exit the building were becoming suspicious of him, and he was able to hide his face or, in one instinct, grab a doughnut from a handy box (doughnuts are always at hand when there is a large concentration of cops).It was such a joy to see Io Interactive back doing what it does best – making Hitman games. Graphically, Hitman Absolution was fantastic, and the gritty depiction of Chicago looked very convincing. But the prevalence of big cinematic-looking sequences and the amount of humour on display were more surprising, but very welcome indeed.Welcome back, Agent 47 – where have you been all this time?•Hitman Absolution will be released for  PS3, Xbox 360 and PC in 2012
Epic knows it was on to a good thing with Horde Mode in Gears Of War 2. It's not just that tons of fans spent hours of time battling through 50 waves of Locust soldiers while the AI got progressively more difficult. The popularity of Horde is also shown by the fact that in the years since Gears of War 2's release, versions of the mode have popped up in numerous other shooters. You know you've had a good idea when competitors start pinching it. Really, Epic hardly needed to look to their fans to see they'd hit pay-dirt.Still, the developer obviously took fan feedback to heart when they set about creating the Horde Mode for Gears of War 3 – or Horde 2.0 as it's known. Some of the major changes seem to have been made after watching how players behave in Horde matches with reference to how they defend choke points and how they work as a team. In some maps in the original Horde Mode, for example, players were fond of sticking shields into the ground to create barriers against the oncoming Locust soldiers. Rather than punishing players for that, Epic has taken this piece of in-game creativity to heart and allowed it to inform many of the numerous tweaks it's made to Horde 2.0.Players start each Horde Mode match by building a command post at one point in the map. These areas are predetermined and appear as translucent green outlines. That done, players are then able fortify the area around the command post, with barriers, sentry guns, decoys and gun turrets. Once again, the places where they can put these items is predetermined, but naturally, the fortifications are positioned in sections of the map designed to optimise the players' defence.The fortifications are also all upgradable. For example, barriers start off in the form of a rail of spikes across a section of path. Players can then upgrade these spikes, at first level to a roll of barbed wire, at second level to an array of electric lines which shock any enemies trying to cross them and the highest level, to a set of lasers. The sentry guns and gun turrets upgrades cause more damage and allow for more accuracy. The decoys simply become more robust and engage the Locust for longer periods of time.Players pay for these fortifications and upgrades with cash they earn on the battlefield for every kill they make and every ally they revive.  There's also the option to save up cash and buy a large, heavily armed battle-mech called a Silverback. Once this is brought on to the battlefield, though, it's not like survival turns into a cakewalk. The Silverback has absolutely no rear armour so players riding inside it will need the other members of their team to watch their backs.This sense of teamwork is carried through nearly every aspect of Horde 2.0. Players can now trade weapons, give each other ammunition and cash and even pool their resources to beef up the fortifications around their command posts or buy that expensive Silverback. Of course, the reason to play nice with others is basic survival; if they don't work as a team, the players will die.And surviving in Horde Mode is a little more difficult this time round. The basic structure of the mode is unchanged; players start off by reducing basic Locust foot soldiers to puddles of jam, but the size and toughness of their opponents increases with every wave. Then at the end of every 10 waves, there's a boss battle and the boss is always randomly generated. Players never know what sort of boss they're facing until it lands on the battlefield and it can be anything from a Lambant Bezerker, to a squad of Reavers to a massive Brumack lumbering into view.So, as you can imagine, it pays to keep those fortifications in good repair, the ammunition well stocked and as much cash in the bank for emergencies as possible. On top of that, players are able to take part in mini-challenges which pop up in the odd wave – such as completing a certain number of headshots – to earn loot boxes, the contents of which are also randomly generated. They also have access to all the lovely new weapons from the multiplayer beta to help them. It all adds up to one of the best co-op multiplayers I've played all year.Epic's design director, Cliff Bleszinski, is fond of saying in interviews that Gears of War 3 is a game he wants players to marry, not just date. From that one can infer he's not too keen to see copies of Gears 3 in the pre-owned racks at retailers anytime after its release. It's a smart sound byte, but on the evidence of the work that Bleszinski and Epic have put into Gears 3 thus far, it's quite clear he means it. Beast Mode, Horde 2.0 and the competitive multiplayer all seem in place. Now, if the campaign mode lives up the promise of the demo at Microsoft's press briefing, Gears Of War 3 could well be one of the best games of this year.•Gears of War 3 will be released for the Xbx 360 on 20 September
There's always an arms race of sorts outside the LA Convention Centre when E3 is in progress: a struggle to grab the most prominent banner-advertising spot. This year, all other contenders were trumped by Bethesda Softworks, which turned the entire side of the nearby Hotel Figueroa into a billboard for Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. It seemed more appropriate than hubristic, given Skyrim's vaulting ambition – to be nothing less than the best fantasy RPG ever.For years, Bethesda has been locked in a battle with BioWare to achieve top-dog honours in the RPG genre, and judging by the demo of the game we saw at E3, Skyrim should see it nudge ahead, at least until next year, when Mass Effect 3 is due. RPG enthusiasts should be well acquainted with the Elder Scrolls franchise, but this return to the magical land of Tamriel is by far the most ambitious yet. As ever, it's set in a huge, open world, which you can explore to your heart's content, but Skyrim brings plenty of new aspects to the Elder Scrolls blueprint.The team behind it previously made the legendary Fallout 3, and the first thing it did was rewrite the game's engine, which basically means it looks absolutely stunning. Tamriel has never been more lush, and it has tricksy details such as properly modelled snow, rather than mere snow-coloured texturing. Bethesda explained that it has revamped the view in third-person mode, but it is clearly designed to operate as a first-person game, with an innovative control system in which the right trigger controls your right hand and the left trigger your left. So there's no distinction on the buttons between weapons and magic – you can equip a spell in your left hand and a sword in your right, and so on. If you equip spells in both hands, casting them simultaneously will give them a power-boost.Playing as Dovakhiin – who, crucially, is known as The Dragonborn – you can avail yourself of one special ability at a time, accessed via Standing Stones. Naturally, whatever successful actions you perform improve your skills – there's a skills upgrade tree which is modelled on constellations in the sky, and as you level up, you unlock perks. There are more than 280 of those, plus countless skills, spells, objects and weapons but, thankfully, the inventory system looked pretty understandable and well designed – much better organised of Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion's equivalent. You can bookmark favourite spells, for example, for quick access.Bethesda explained that it wanted to make Skyrim a working economy – enter a village and you will find people beavering away at forges and the like and, if you want, you can jump into a bit of gainful employment – by chopping wood, say. Local taverns, according the RPG convention, are sources of quests as well as refreshment. Intriguingly, Bethesda says the game has a dynamic quest system that adjusts itself according to what you've done previously.Dragons and shoutsWe don't want to be accused of propagating spoilers, but the story does have some key general elements that bear repeating. Dragons feature prominently – Skyrim is the northernmost province of Tamriel, and was occupied by an ancient Nordic race who used to worship dragons. The dragons were thought to have disappeared, but they have returned, and as the Dragonborn, you have been taught how to employ shouts, which add an extra layer of spell-like abilities. As far as we could tell, these provided an extra means of casting spells when your hands are full with weapon and shield.We saw a Wordwall, where you learn new dragon words of power – each shout has three words, and the more you find, the more powerful the shout. Dragon-fighting features prominently – they are essentially mini-bosses. We saw Fire and Frost dragons, and when you kill them, being Dragonborn, you can absorb their souls, which act as currency to unlock shouts.Dungeons and citiesNo RPG would be complete without a set of dungeons, and there are more than 150 in Skyrim. We saw one classic example, populated with various predatory types and rival adventurers – it was satisfyingly dank and atmospheric, with the requisite chests full of swag, weapons (such as an Elven-made glass sword) and puzzles. There are also five cities in the game – we glimpsed one from afar but, alas, didn't enter it.What do we think?Sure, Skyrim has the requisite dungeons and dragons that form essential constituents of conventional fantasy RPGs, but there's nothing nerdy about it. It looks stunning, conveys a sense of a real, functioning world, is clearly well structured and, in general is an RPG-lover's  dream.Without a doubt, this is the sort of game you could find yourself inexorably sucked into for months. In pure RPG terms, it represents the state of the art. When it comes out in November, that may be the last you see of your RPG-loving mates until 2012.•The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim will be released on 11 November for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
During Sony's packed E3 press conference, the console manufacturer showed a few snippets from the latest entry in the much-loved Uncharted series. The climax showed Nathan dangling precariously from the open cargo doors of a plane as it zooms through the sky. Even for a brand known for its mammoth set-piece events, this looked spectacular.In an E3 demo room kitted out to resemble an old Anderson shelter, developer Naughty Dog showed off the level that leads to this climatic moment. Nathan and his regular cohort Elena are breaking in to a guarded aerodrome, where a cargo plane can be seen in the near distance, its propellers just starting to whirr. Yes, Elena is back, and so is Chloe, but they will apparently play smaller roles. "We're constantly trying to keep things fresh and to draw out different aspects of Nathan's personality, based on the characters he surrounds himself with," says Evan Wells, co-president of Naughty Dog. "Chloe and Elena are not the focus of the story as they were in Uncharted 2. The emphasis this time is on Victor Sullivan, and their relationship is sort of mentor/protégé, we get to find out how they met, what makes them tick, and as you go further into the game the boundaries and strength of that relationship are really tested."And of course, we have a new enemy this time, in the shape of Katherine Marlowe, the leader of a 400-year-old secret order who wants to get hold of the ring that Nathan wears around his neck and which may solve an ancient mystery – a mystery that will take our cast to the Arabian desert, seemingly on the hunt for a lost city filled with treasure.Back to our demo, and Elena and Nathan must clamber over roofs, jumping between buildings until Drake has to scale a high fence, refusing to let Elena follow. "Let's be honest," he tells her, "this is a one in a million shot." Instead, he orders her to escape in a nearby jeep, then heads out again toward the plane. We see several examples of the game's extremely robust and varied melee combat mechanics – Drake grabs one enemy and chucks him from the roof, while another is laid out over a pipeline then knocked senseless with one thudding punch.Suddenly, the plane is taxiing along the runway, and Nathan gives chase on foot, but he's too slow – cue Elena in a Jeep, who drives past, picking him up en route. From here, the player must line up the car with the plane's front landing gear, then get Drake to jump on to the wheel support before the plane takes off. Inside the plane's hold, there's another meaty punch-up with an enemy, who tries to open the cargo bay door and chuck Nate out. We've heard about Nathan's new ability pick up and use scenic objects as makeshift weapons, but here, he attempts to pull a gun, only to have it knocked from his hand by his attacker. Again, it's raw, physical stuff, which recalls the fight scenes in Casino Royale.Instead of being sucked out of the craft, though, our hero clambers free, releasing the parachute strapped to a car and causing it to fly out into the stratosphere, taking several huge storage boxes with it; the enemy disappears into the void, but Nathan clings on to some netting and must struggle back onto the open door and into the craft.It's an intriguing level, with lots of lovely graphical flourishes. "We keep pushing the technology further," says Wells. "We've added a lot of particle systems, the sand is obviously going to be a big feature in our environment in the later levels; then there are the fluid dynamics in the water effects – we pride ourselves in getting the most from the PlayStation hardware."Alongside the main campaign is a large multilayer component, that Wells hopes will help convert more casual players to the delights of online competition. "We've added a ton of new features to multiplayer. I think we offer something unique. There are a lot of first-person shooters out there that are beginning to look and play very similarly. I think the third-person viewpoint, together with the traversal moves that Drake has that lets him climb over his environment, create this amazing multiplayer experience. What we're also trying to do is bring in a lot of that cinematic quality so all those big over-the-sequences from the single-player are being put into multiplayer. A couple of months ago we showed off one level that has players driving Jeeps down a runway, attempting to jump from truck to truck and onto the plane – it's a very exciting moment that you might expect only to experience in single-player.Then the fight continues on the plane."We also have this new mode called 'Hunter' where you've got two heroes fighting a bunch of pirates – two are human-controlled. So it feels more like a co-op mode but there are two humans in there, spicing things up.Perhaps if a player enjoys that mode they may try the full-on competitive five-on-five mode."So, the levels we've seen of Uncharted 3, including the impressive scene aboard a sinking cruise ship shown at the Sony event, hint that the series has lost none of its appetite for big Hollywood spectacles. But what about its future? Are we about to play the closing instalment? "It was never conceived as a trilogy," says Wells. "Every episode is a standalone adventure. This goes back to the pulp roots that we draw from: there are throughlines with the characters, but anybody can pick up and play any of these games and totally understand them. I don't see why we wouldn't keep going, as long as we have the ideas." But is there a risk of Naughty Dog becoming complacent? Wells grins. "We still feel like the underdogs. We've got to constantly prove ourselves, and keep raising the bar…"
An investor group involving the chief executive of games publisher Activision Blizzard, Bobby Kotick, is in advanced talks to acquire a controlling stake in News Corporation's troubled social network Myspace, according to reports.Kotick's involvement, reported on the Wall Street Journal blog All Things D, would be as an individual investor and not on behalf of Activision Blizzard, which is controlled by French media and entertainment conglomerate Vivendi. He would not take a management role in the new company.Universal Music, part of the Vivendi group, is an investor in Myspace Music, which streams songs online.Under the terms of the proposed deal News Corp is understood to want to retain a 20% stake in MySpace, which remains the number two social networking site after Facebook, but with far fewer users. In April, Facebook drew nearly 700 million users, while the Myspace following fell to 77 million.Kotick is the latest in a string of names to be linked to MySpace, after News Corp appointed investment bank Allen &amp; Co to look at strategic options for the business in March.Vevo, the music video venture owned by Vivendi's Universal Music, Sony Music and the Abu Dhabi Media Company,was reported to be in talks.Talks with other potential bidders, including Myspace founder Chris DeWolfe, current chief executive Mike Jones and several private equity firms are reported to have "not worked out".Activision Blizzard is an online and console game publisher that makes Guitar Hero, Call of Duty and World of Warcraft, as well as games for film franchises including Spider-Man, X-Men, Shrek and James Bond.In January Myspace cut 500 jobs, nearly half its workforce, and handed responsibility for UK advertising and sponsorship to News Corp company Fox Networks.Facebook overtook Myspace as the leading social network in the US in May 2009, and that summer it cut about 1,100 jobs and closed some of its international offices.
In a world where we've now got 70-year-old rock stars, 40-something gamers were inevitable. They're the clear target audience for the return of the vest-wearing, ass-kicking, shamelessly inappropriate Duke Nukem because, while this first person shooter – some 15 years in the making – scores on the nostalgia stakes, it's hard to see modern gamers responding to an, at best, average game.And even the nostalgia – and bad taste humour – can't make up for the frustrating load times. The game sets its stall out early. Literally: it opens in a toilet, with Duke facing the bowl, and an instruction to press RT to piss.After a basic pre-credit tutorial, the game proper then kicks off with Duke receiving a (thankfully offscreen) blowjob from twins.  Sensitive souls need not apply. Having lived a few years in peace, Duke is the king of all he surveys – or Vegas as we know it. Girls want to be with him, guys want to be him and interaction with the locals (plus assorted objects) will boost your ego, the Duke Nukem take on the life meter.However, the aliens are invading and they've made it personal by abducting women and, somewhat inevitably, nothing stands between Duke and his babes. It is "time to kick ass and chew bubble gum ... and I'm all outta gum."However you dress it up, Duke Nukem Forever is Doom with added political incorrectness, or "same old, same old" as far as the character is concerned. That's not necessarily a problem – the old adage about things not being broken is one many developers could pay more attention to – but what do you get for 15 years of patience?Not much at all. Visuals are grainy (perhaps a deliberate throwback to older Nukem titles?), aiming is clunky and there are occasional frame rate issues and buggy moments.There are fine touches – a shrunken Duke zooming around on a remote controlled car for example – and nostalgia and bad taste jokes help you overlook some shortcomings, but fond memories only go so far while the gags just get repetitive.And then there's the load time. The game is tough – a good thing – and you're regularly thrown into hard-fought battles with multiple enemies and rampaging bosses. You will die, frequently, and often after only 30 seconds or so of action ...  And you then have to wait some 45 seconds or so to have another go. If you think the Duke's pissed off, see how you feel after 20 minutes of that.A mark for nostalgia then – it's the Duke, after all – and one for the game. If this was 15 years in the making, it makes you wonder what they did for the other 14 years and 10 months.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChromebooks go on sale – finally! &gt;&gt; Chrome OS SiteNot on sale, but on pre-order. Or there's the Kogan ones...Is HP's TouchPad too pricey? &gt;&gt; AllThingsDWhere "too pricey" means "not cheap enough": "While we expect HP's webOS platform to be a differentiating factor compared to the many Android tablets expected to reach the market, we do not think the price points on the TouchPad are aggressive enough to attract the incremental buyer from the iPad," JP Morgan analyst Mark Moskowitz says. "We do not think HP's pricing [is] good enough."As in it doesn't undercut Apple, just matches it.How to Buy Microsoft Office 365 &gt;&gt; MicrosoftHere's Microsoft's cloud offering, getting a proper launch later this month. Does it entice you?The Critical Path #1: The Five Year Plan &gt;&gt; 5by5We don't often link to podcasts, but Horace Dediu has a really interesting take on the meaning of Apple's iCloud initiatives, if you've got an hour to spare. Tech Weekly it ain't, but discursive it is.Smartphone apps in Europe: the 8th mass market media channel &gt;&gt; GFlurry blog"For this report, Flurry used data from over 45,000 companies across their more than 85,000 applications.  Flurry Analytics tracks over 15B user sessions per month across iOS, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone and J2ME."UK has the greatest penetration of smartphones.APPtrition - or why app store size does not matter that much... &gt;&gt; AppsFire.com blog"The projection that Android Market is going to surpass the App Store (now over 425,000 available apps) in size in late summer is wrong, or at least misleading. As is a separate data point by Distimo that there were more free apps on the Android Market than the App Store as of March 2011, though that will happen soon. The Market, although growing at a faster rate than the App Store, is still far behind in the number of available apps and will need more time to catch up."Hon Hai says IPad production advances to start paying off in second half &gt;&gt; BloombergFoxconn: "Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. Chairman Terry Gou said steps to more efficiently make Apple Inc. (AAPL) products including the iPad will start to pay off in the second half of this year and next year.The contract electronics assembler's profit gains have lagged behind those of Apple because the devices are "very difficult to make," Gou said today at Taipei-based Hon Hai's annual shareholders meeting. "If they weren't difficult to make, people would have been making them for ages already, surely. Foxconn had profits of $1.4bn but has made less because of higher wages and costs in moving to China.Windows 8 is Windows 3.0, and Windows 7 is…DOS &gt;&gt; Technologizer"This situation [with Windows 8] sounds a lot like the computing lifestyle that PC users lived with from 1990-1995 or thereabouts, when the commonplace state of affairs was to run Windows 3.x on top of DOS."Back then, DOS was tried-and-true, and Windows 3.x was a reaction–albeit a rather delayed one–to the trends Apple put into place with the original Mac. Every Windows user ran it on top of DOS, since Windows was at that point an environment rather than a self-contained operating system. And the vast majority of users split their time between new-wave Windows apps and old-school DOS ones."Intriguing way of viewing it.Texas Instruments slashes outlook, faults Nokia &gt;&gt; Reuters"Texas Instruments slashed its earnings and revenue forecasts and blamed the shortfall on major client Nokia's ailing cellphone business.&#10;"The chipmaker's stock dropped 5% initially. But it later recouped losses and went up slightly after the maker of chips for everything from cellphones to cars reassured investors that all business units -- apart from wireless -- were meeting expectations."Nokia can't buy a friend at the moment.Richard Dreyfuss reads the iTunes EULA &gt;&gt; CNET Blogs"You're gonna need a bigger remote." Next: Shakespeare rendered as an EULA?Why we secretly love LulzSec &gt;&gt; Risky Business"It might be surprising to external observers, but security professionals are also secretly getting a kick out of watching these guys go nuts.&#10;"I wrote my first article on information security around May 2001. It was about the Sadmind worm and it ran on the letters page of the IT section of The Age newspaper in Melbourne.&#10;"No one who mattered listened. Executives think it's FUD. They honestly think that if they keep paying their annual AV subscriptions they'll be shielded by Mr. Norton's magic cloak.&#10;"Security types like LulzSec because they're proving what a mess we're in. They're pointing at the elephant in the room and saying 'LOOK AT THE GIGANTIC FUCKING ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM ZOMG WHY CAN'T YOU SEE IT??? ITS TRUNK IS IN YR COFFEE FFS!!!'"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Sometimes I feel like my aesthetic tastes let me down as a games journalist and this week, at E3, no other game has made me feel more dejected about this than Forza 4.Here's the thing; I can objectively state that Forza 4 looks like it's going to be an incredible game. But I also know, that however great it turns out to be, it won't appeal to me.Oh, I'll be able to play it; as Turn 10 Studio has pointed out, Forza 4 caters to the skill level of nearly every player. Having made it around a couple of the game's tracks without crashing into a barrier, albeit on the easiest difficulty, I can report on the accuracy of that statement. But I will never love it as much as its intended audience because I am not a petrol-head sim-racing obsessive for whom gazing at cars generates the same excitement as looking at pornography.If you are, then Forza 4 contains probably the most enticing feature in any game scheduled for release this year: Autovista. This is a virtual showroom which allows players to select their dream machine of choice and then to simply ogle it lovingly from every conceivable angle. Not every single car in the game will be available for Autovista. Turn 10 says the cars that have been selected are those for which the best virtual tours could be provided.As players pan around the car, icons appear over points of interest, offering the opportunity for closer inspection. When selected, the camera zooms in, a list of design specifications pops up and a disembodied voice reels off stats and figures. Top Gear fans will be pleased to know that Jeremy Clarkson is in the game, providing his personal opinion on each car available in Autovista mode.Aside from being eye candy for boy racers, Autovista is also a way to show off Forza 4's stunning graphics engine. Turn 10 says that one of the things the rest of the game has benefited from in the Autovista mode, is the engine's Image Based Lighting technique (or IBL for short). IBL uses all the lighting bouncing off the environment to light the cars in the game making them look more realistic both in the Autovista showroom and in the game's races.The game's career mode is packaged up as a world tour which sees players dot from track to track around the globe. When they go to a location, the choice of race events available there is based around the cars the player has in the garage, as well as the cars they use the most. Players who picked up a copy of Forza 3 start with advantages over newcomers, as Forza 4 reads in their profile, giving them extra cars and extra credits.There's also a bit more variety in the types of races available; aside from straight bumper-to-bumper competitions, there are Drift races, multi-heat races and Autocross. Each race gifts the player credits and unlocks new vehicles. This time, though, players have a choice of three cars to pick from so they aren't forced into owning a vehicle they won't use.The World Tour mode also changes its difficulty based on how well the player does. From one race to the next, Forza 4 constructs a trending line and adjusts the difficulty accordingly. The AI also upgrades itself and the developers have limited the types of cars that players can bring to specific races, keeping everything on a much more level playing field.Community has always been important to Forza and Turn 10 has added a couple of new features. First off, there are Car Clubs, which are pretty much as you'd expect. Players can start a club and can add people from their friends list and create a shared garage. Club members can challenge each other, swap paint liveries, gift each other credits and customise cars. It also allows them to collaborate on creating dream machines in the club's motor pool.Then there's the new Rivals mode, where players can challenge other people either from their club or the Forza 4 leaderboards.  Each challenge has a bounty depending on how hard it is to beat, based on the players' skill level. If they manage to successfully beat another player's challenge, that player will receive a notification telling them, and will be given the opportunity to challenge right back.Finally, Forza 4 allows players to use Kinect in a couple of modes, although the anti-Kinect brigade will be pleased to hear it's not required to play the game. In Autovista mode, the Kinect sensor moves around the car in accordance with how the player moves. If they crouch down, for example, the camera will zoom down to the wheels and if they step right or left, the camera moves around the car. Kinect isn't required for Autovista mode, but it is needed to hyperlink between the game's various menus.Turn 10's racer looks very impressive. Its career mode seems robust, its graphics look amazing, its Autovista mode is sure to be a hit with car lovers and the community options look set to ensure its longevity once everything in it is unlocked. The best compliment I could pay it would be to say it makes me wish I was more of a petrol head.•Forza 4 will be released in October for the Xbox 360
Friday! E3 is so over. I'm on a plane back to the UK!
Destruction and creation are popular themes within gaming – occasionally intertwined to the extent that they are difficult to separate – with some offering creativity and destruction at the same time, presenting an often intriguing dilemma.Red Faction: Armageddondoes not dwell excessively on this conundrum, instead grounding itself in the concept that knocking things over (in as creative a fashion as possible) is simply a lot of fun. And happily here, it really, really is.A lot of games claim full destructibility of environments, butRed Factionactually has it – everything can be turned to rubble, even the bridge that's needed to advance to the next part of the level. Thankfully, there's also a rebuild ability, causing structures to snap back into place at the touch of a button if the mayhem goes too far.This creative destruction is at the heart ofArmageddon. The well-paced but forgettable narrative takes you through the story of false accusations, megalomania and a human-colonised Mars under threat from a dormant colony of violent native aliens, but it's the unrivalled potential for demolition that will keep players coming back.Weapons such as the Maul Hammer and a gun that fires tiny black holes play right into this central appeal – and it just doesn't wear off, aided and abetted as it is by some brilliant vehicular destruction. The action is always high octane and enjoyable, and multiplayer options extend this glorious ruination, giving it more space to breathe.
Steve Jobs gave a masterclass in how to charm your local council planning meeting this week, personally presenting for 20 minutes on its ambitious plans for a new headquarters in Cupertino.The small Californian town, which is part of the patchwork of cities that make up the sprawl of Silicon Valley, has become synonymous with Apple, which employs 2,800 people at the base on Infinity Loop.With a very different persona to the one we see at Apple's product announcements, Jobs was authoritative but humble, and personal enough to give anecdotes about growing up in Cupertino. He was also disturbingly thin and at times seemed breathless, and when one councillor asked on Apple's no-smoking policy he snapped: "Both my parents died from lung cancer, so i'm a little sensitive on that topic."The vision of a vast, circular building is designed to impress. Jobs told the council that through its experience building retail stores, Apple has developed a specialism in building the biggest curved pieces of glass in the world for architectural use. Jobs, who has a summer job as a teenager at Hewlett Packard when it used own the land, said there used to be apricot trees on the site and wants to plant apricot orchards. The 150-acre site will be 80% landscaped, he said.Ground breaking will start next year and the campus will be finished by 2015.Apple's plan for a new headquarters in Cupertino, CaliforniaIt will be four storeys high, hold around 12,000 people and have its own auditorium. Perhaps future WWDCs will be held here, instead of the Moscone Centre? "We put on presentations, much like we did yesterday, but we have to go to San Francisco to do them."One councillor asked how Cupertino residents will benefit from Apple's new campus in the city. "Well, as you know we're the largest tax payer in Cupertino and we'd like to continue to stay here and pay taxes. If we can't then we have to go somewhere else like Mountain View and we'll take our current people with us and the city's largest tax base would go away." He added that Apple employs a lot of talented people who end up being affluent members of the community.Couldn't Apple at least provide free wifi, suggested the councillor? "I'm a simpleton," said Jobs. "I think we pay taxes and the city should do those things. If we can get out of paying taxes then I'd be glad to put up wifi. I think we bring a lot more than free wifi.""I think we do have a shot at building the best office building in the world. I think architecture students will come here to see this."
HP will start selling the Wi-Fi version of its new TouchPad tablet in the UK from "mid-July" at prices of £399 (16GB) and £479 (32GB), the company said on Thursday.The device, which has a 9.7-inch screen, the same size as Apple's iPad, runs HP's own webOS operating system inherited from Palm, whichHP acquired in mid-2010.HP's greatest strength is that it is the biggest seller of PCs to corporations, and so wields enormous power in seeking to sell tablets to the same customers. In that it is likely to vie with RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, with its PlayBook device which runs RIM's own QNX operating system.Meanwhile RIM's 7-inch PlayBook will go on sales from Thursday 16 June, priced at £399 for a 16GB model. It will be sold through Dixons retail stores, Carphone Warehouse, Best Buy, Insight UK and Phones4U.Apple's iPad 2 costs £399 for a 16GB Wi-Fi version, and £479 for a 32GB version, making the TouchPad exactly price-competitive. A key differentiator though may be how quickly HP can persuade corporate and third-party developers to write applications for its app store.Another challenge is likely to be persuading phone operators to sell the forthcoming HP Veer, a followup to the unsuccessful Palm Pre, which can act as a companion to the TouchPad. The Guardian understands that European operators have been wary of committing to the Veer after the Pre's disappointing sales performance in 2009.The TouchPad has a 1.2GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon processor and includes NFC (Near-Field Communications) for interaction with HP smartphones such as the Veer.Preorders will begin on Sunday 19 June, though the company did not say whether that will be through retailers or its own website. No retail partners were announced.The tablet - HP's first using webOS - will be available in the US, France and Germany from 1 July. Availability is scheduled for "later this year" in Ireland, Spain, Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand and Singapore.HP has previously tried to sell Windows-based tablets, even being featured in speeches by Microsoft chief executive at the keynote speech at the 2010 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. But it has seen little takeup.Now, the company plans to put increasing emphasis on the possibility of webOS to differentiate its products from those of other PC manufacturers: Leo Apotheker, the new chief executive, said earlier this year that a growing number of HP PCs will ship with webOS as a layer running alongside Windows."What makes HP TouchPad a compelling alternative to competing products is webOS," said Jon Rubinstein, senior vice president and general manager, Palm Global Business Unit, HP. "The platform's unmatched features and flexibility will continue to differentiate HP products from the rest of the market for both personal and professional use. This is only the beginning of what HP's scale can do with webOS."Rubenstein knows the size of the challenge he is up against: he is the former head of hardware at Apple, and was there when the iPad was being developed, though he left before it was released.• Motorola shipped 250,000 of its Android Honeycomb-based Xoom tablets in the first quarter of 2011, the company has told the Guardian. The figures indicate the number sent for sale to shops. There are no figures yet on how many have been sold through retail and other channels. Richard Windsor, technology analyst at the brokers Nomura, has estimated that around 100,000 have been sold in the first quarter.Scott Forstall, Apple's head of iPhone software, said earlier this week that Apple has so far sold 25m iPads - which implies that it has sold around 5.5m already in the first two months of this quarter. That would put this on track to be its best-selling quarter so far, ahead even of the Christmas quarter.
The role of mobile developers has changed dramatically over the past three years, from a lowly position as back-room engineers to the much sought-after engine that drives mobile software innovation.Never before have developers, from big development houses to aspiring students to garage entrepreneurs, had such an enormous impact in mobile industry innovation and dynamics.Handset manufacturers, platform vendors and even network operators (or carriers to our American readers) are competing over who's going to build the biggest developer community, as success today is measured in terms of thousands of apps and billions of downloads.Platform and OS vendors are the most active in this game, trying to steer developer mindshare towards their platform and create a new plateau of innovative services, as well as a whole ecosystem around them.So, which platforms lead the race and which are lagging behind?In the platform race for developer mindshare, there are some clear winners. According to our research, the developer mindshare is firmly flowing towards Android and iOS, with 67% of developers currently using Android and 59% using iOS.These figures show a considerable increase since last year, with the two platforms climbing nearly 10%. In contrast, the 'old guard' comprised of Java and Symbian are leaking developer mindshare.However, the most surprising finding is the adoption of mobile web, ie the platform for apps written in HTML or JavaScript, which claimed the third spot in terms of developer mindshare, being used by over 55% of the developers. We do not attribute this to the ease of learning this platform (which has a deceptively steep learning curve, as you can see in thefull report), but rather the influx of non-mobile developers to the industry.Also, mobile web is fast becoming the de facto cross-platform choice for developers, especially now that Java and Flash are waning. In addition, there is a veritable host of HTML-to-native development tools that are helping HTML/JavaScript developers target smartphone native app markets.How do developers make that all-important decision of which platform to select? Well, according to our research, the biggest driver in platform adoption is large market penetration – a sentiment shared by 50% of our respondents, irrespective of the platform they spend most of their time on.But what exactly is market penetration? A platform's installed base is an important aspect – ie just how many actual handsets can run a given app – but that is not all. Penetration is also measured in terms of a platform's ability to reach users and that is also a factor of how and where that content is available. A centralised distribution and discovery point, such as an app store, accessible by mobile devices, tablets and PCs, goes a long way towards providing developers with a direct access to their customers.Proving that there's more to market penetration than a large installed base, we present the case of handsets sold vs apps. There is a large discrepancy between the number of handsets sold and the number of apps available on a given platform.In an app economy with close to 1bn apps, more than half of those are concentrated on two platforms: iOS and Android. It's easily apparent from the graph that vastly more pervasive platforms in terms of total shipments, such as S40 and Java, claim just a fraction of the app pie. Granted, this is a smart-centric game, but even a pervasive smartphone platform such as Symbian cannot match up to the two app moguls.Do apps mean money? Not directly, but it's no coincidence that 2011 marks the first time Apple overtakes Microsoft in terms of revenues and Android rushes past the finally burned-out Symbian platform in terms of shipments.
I have a two-year-old HP laptop. When I switch it on, it does nothing for up to an hour then it suddenly springs into action and fires up. The local "computer chaps" say it is the motherboard. I'm not convinced, and it is still working after six months of the same. Loose connections? I have shaken it. Dust and muck? I have used a hairdryer, to no avail. Do you have any thoughts – or is it just the motherboard!Paul WrightIntermittent faults are very hard to diagnose, and it would be worth your while searching for [laptop "intermittent start" OR "intermittent boot"] and the model number of your laptop. If you happen to have an HP dv6000, some versions seem to have been a bit of a nightmare, judging by the long discussion in HP's own forum atHP dv6000 laptop start-up problems.PCs are supposed to beep to indicate any problems following aPOST or "power-on self test", where one short beep means everything is OK.The beeps and things like flashing cursors usually tell you where to start looking for the fault. Most operating systems also keep logs that can indicate problems. If you are running Microsoft Windows XP, read support document Q308427:How to view and manage event logs in Event Viewer in Windows XP. Vista and Windows 7 have much-improved versions. With no hardware or software indicators to go on, we're reduced to experiment and guesswork.In this case, it could be the motherboard, a loose connection, the hard drive failing, the power supply, or something attached to the computer, such as an external hard drive. (Unplug everything you've plugged in.) I think it's more likely to be a hardware than a software problem, but it could be a bad video driver. It might even be malware such as a boot-sector virus, and it's never a bad idea to check for those.The hard drive would be my biggest worry. If it is failing to start for anything from a few minutes to an hour, then one day it could fail to start at all. Make sure all your data files are backed up. Also, keep a USB thumbdrive plugged in while you're working, so you can quickly back up the most recent files.Several small applications will check the health of your hard drive and predict when it will eventually fail. Run Pantera Soft's freeHDD Healthand see what it says. Also, see if you can hear whether the hard drive spins up when you turn the power on, and whether the laptop boots only after the hard drive kicks in. With a desktop PC, one idea is to lift the lid and hold the drive lightly, because your fingers will feel the disk start to spin. You might be able to feel it through the laptop case.You can also try changing the boot order in your laptop's BIOS set-up chip so that it tries the optical drive before the hard drive. If your laptop will boot immediately from your Windows DVD, or a Linux Live CD, that suggests a hard drive problem.With a laptop, there is no good way to isolate hangs that might be caused by loose connections. On a desktop, it's relatively easy to check that all the internal plugs and wires are correctly seated and that no expansion cards are slightly loose. It's harder to get to connectors on a laptop, but reseat any that are easily accessible.Also, while waiting for the laptop to start, try pressing down gently on the keyboard and other parts of the case. Sometimes a slight movement will get things going, perhaps because there's a loose connection or because the motherboard has what we used to call (in the days when every home had a soldering iron) a "dry joint". However, if you can't recognise a dry joint on a motherboard – and I couldn't – then you have no chance of fixing it yourself. See if varying the power supply makes a difference. Try starting your laptop with the battery removed and the mains adaptor plugged in. Also, if possible, try it with a different mains adaptor.There are a couple of things that you can do to find possible software faults. First, assuming your Windows installation is up to date, run a few searches to see if you can find more recent drivers, particularly video drivers.Guru3D's Driver Sweepercan help you clean out old drivers.Second, run a check for rootkits and boot sector viruses. Microsoft's Windows Sysinternals has a freeRootkitRevealer, butSophos Anti-Rootkitand Kaspersky'sTDSS Killerare worth a go. Finally, runMalwarebytes Anti-Malware Freefrom your desktop, selecting the Quick Scan option.Knowing you have a secure backup, you could also try a "factory restore". To do this, reboot, your laptop and press F10 a few times when the HP logo appears. When you see the recovery screen, choose Next and then Yes to perform a non-destructive recovery. If that doesn't solve the problem, you could try choosing Advanced and then Yes to perform a destructive recovery. You will have to reinstall your software (including a lot of Windows updates!) afterwards, but a full reset can clear out a lot of junk and solve many niggling problems.Alternatively, if your system is running Windows XP or Vista, then you could upgrade to Windows 7, preferably the 64-bit version. This provides much better monitoring (start typing "performance monitor"), which helps when things go wrong.If all else fails, take your laptop to a local computer repair shop, since these have tools that can more easily identify faults. They should give you an estimate of the cost of attempting to repair it, though success is not guaranteed. It would be a shame to give up on a two-year-old machine that would probably run Windows 7 or Windows 8 for several more years. However, a quick look atebay.co.ukshould give you a good idea of the second-hand value of your PC, and there's a limit to how much it's worth spending to fix it.
The "Spec Ops" option was Modern Warfare 2's nice little surprise – a range of challenging, self-contained co-op missions based around maps from the campaign.It looks as though MW3 is going to build on that recipe, and at E3, Infinity Ward and Sledge Hammer were showing off a new Spec Ops mode, "Survival" – a sort of Horde variant in which a duo of players must survive through wave after wave of enemy attacks.The map I tried (there are apparently a range of Survival environments to test yourself against) is called Dome, and it's set in and around a – yes – dome-like satellite station. On one side of the map, there's garage-like building dug into the hillside, and the other a slowly rising incline.In the middle are various meagre cover points and a few little cul-de-sacs where you can hunker down and scope out the bad guys, who will spawn from several areas, including inside the sat-base.Each wave is themed, and they get progressively more challenging. At first, it's just one or two grunt soldiers coming at you. Then they come with dogs (who seem to spawn from separate areas, just to confuse you).Later, you have tricky spetsnaz forces, who'll roll and dive about the place attempting to sneak up on you, and even helicopter attacks where you and your friend will need to shoot down two choppers, carefully listening out for the telltale whirring noise that lets you know they're about to strafe the bejesus out of you with twin miniguns.My favourite wave involved soldiers strapped with C4 who would explode when shot. Well, Ithoughtthat would be my favourite until the next level, which added dogs strapped with C4 explosives. You want to shoot those guys from a distance if you can.Fortunately, there is an escalating response to all this. Though you start out with a basic handgun, every kill earns you cash which can be spent at the armoury; you can either buy new weapons, drawn from the entire MW selection, or upgrade the models you're already carrying (I'm advised by my Activision co-op instructor to go for the ACR 6.8 – a good fast weapon for this compact map).Alternatively, there's an equipment store where you can buy armour, gun sights and tasty treats such as automatic gun turrets. Each player earns a separate pile of cash, but it's possible to swap money between the two of you, so the more proficient killer can help out his friend. This altruism extends to the revive feature that lets you save your downed partner – though if you're both killed, it's game over.In the background, the development team has added a persistent ranking feature to the mode, so you can earn experience points, rank up and earn cool new stuff as you go, just like in multiplayer. But actually, this is all separate from your multiplayer rank, so you'll have two numbers on your player card – another reason to give Specs Ops some serious attention.The main reason though, is that it's an absolute blast. Although the Dome map is very small, there's a huge range of tactical approaches, and it's enormously fun to start working out how to divide up each wave between you and your partner, and how to use the familiar weapons and equipment of the MW multiplayer experience in a very different scenario. I'm really interested to see the other maps – co-op survival mayhem on the streets of London would be a highly welcome addition.•Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 will be released for PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 on 8 November
BioShock Infinite has impeccable pedigree. It's the brainchild of Ken Levine and Irrational Games, the people behind Bioshock, arguably the best story told in video games in the last 10 years. The brief taster of the game in August last year prompted choruses of approval from the industry's media, even if some of them grumbled that it was little more than a gameplay trailer.The teaser revealed BioShock Infinite's centrepiece, the flying city of Columbia. Pitched as a floating fair promoting American exceptionalism and progress, Columbia was also presented as a city on the brink. However, while the teaser showed Columbia as the American Dream city turned into a nightmare, it didn't explain what had happened to cause this.At the top of BioShock Infinite's E3 demo a few plot points are revealed. It turns out that Columbia was meant to promote a new American world order, but things went slightly awry. At the turn of the century in 1900, during the Boxer Rebellion, Columbia opened fire on a group of Chinese civilians and was henceforth disavowed by the US government. The floating city then disappeared into the clouds, becoming a kind of roaming boogieman moving from place to place and imposing its will on people below.The city has also split into two factions. On the right – the very far right – stand The Founders who are lead by a character called Comstock. It's this group that took the city from a flying promotional advert for American values and turned it into a hive of xenophobia. On the left are the Vox Populi; they initially emerged as a peaceful alternative to The Founders, but have now become as militant and brutal as the forces they oppose.We're also told that the player takes on the role of an ex-Pinkerton detective called Booker DeWitt. He's been hired to rescue a woman named Elizabeth, who is being held captive in a tower in Columbia. Elizabeth's only companion is a large, iron bird-like creature called Songbird, who is also her jailer. As the demo begins, DeWitt has rescued Elizabeth and they're on the run from Songbird, trying to make their way to Comstock's tower. The reason for this is that Elizabeth has developed supernatural powers which terrify her, and she's convinced Comstock has had something to do with this. She refuses to leave the city with DeWitt until she knows more about her situation.While this all sounds quite barmy, it's also a pretty juicy setup for what follows when the lights go down and the demo commences. It starts with DeWitt and Elizabeth picking their way through a deserted junkshop in an area of Columbia called Emporia. While the pair pick past knick-knacks, fireworks and jingoistic posters, DeWitt helps himself to the change in the till and picks up a gold-plated handgun. Then an ear-splitting metallic scream rips through the shop and Elizabeth and DeWitt duck under cover. A shaft of light pokes through the windows, searching for something and then abruptly leaves. Elizabeth then makes DeWitt promise to kill her rather than let Songbird take her back.It soon becomes apparent, though, that Elizabeth is far from a damsel in distress. It seems that with her powers she's able to manipulate what she refers to as "tears", which appear in the game as flickering objects such as carts, rail-cars and turrets. When she opens a tear, she can makes those objects materialise, which can aid DeWitt immensely during combat. There's also a particularly mind-bending moment in the demo where she tries to heal a dying horse which is lying on top of a "tear" and the world of Columbia briefly disappears. It's replaced with what looks like a street outside a movie theatre advertising Revenge of the Jedi as the main feature.If all this sounds confusing, then believe me, the audience at the demo is right there with you. With it's gorgeous, yet eccentric visuals, intelligently insane plot and larger than life characters, BioShock Infinite comes on like the illegitimate offspring of  John Steinbeck and Fritz Lang. And this is before you get to the combat, which looks utterly bombastic.DeWitt has two main attacks. First, he can fire whatever firearm he's holding – and over the course of the demo he gained access to a pistol, a shotgun, a machine gun and a crank-powered grenade launcher. Second, he can use vigours; these are powers he's earned through ingesting tonics, such as Bucking Bronco, which launches enemies skyward, and Murder of Crows, which directs a flock of flesh-eating birds at any target.Then there's Elizabeth, who can open tears to tip the balance in DeWitt's favour. She can call in carts which provide cover or turrets which open fire on enemies.DeWitt also has a sky-hook which he can use to ride the rail-lines which connect the floating districts of Columbia. It works the same way as a one-man portable roller coaster and allows the player to outdistance and flank opponents, as well as reach higher points in the environment or escape attacking crowds of enemies.Watching all of these factors come into play in a pitched battle in the demo is an absolutely mind-blowing experience. It's a vicarious thrill to watch DeWitt vault from sky-rail to sky-rail and call in crows to attack foes while peppering them with lead. In one memorable sequence, DeWitt lifts a group of enemies into the air with Bucking Bronco, and then has Elizabeth materialise a cart to push them all off the edge of a platform.Of course, all good things come to an end, and this demo ends with Songbird arriving and making off with Elizabeth. In stirring scene she begs the robotic creature to spare DeWitt's life, in exchange for her returning to captivity. It's a poignant moment which hints at a deep, layered story which obviously can't be summarised in a brief, 15-minute demo. Still, in that short time, it's evident that there's something special about this game. In a world where every second shooter seems either built on pure testosterone or intent on outgunning the Call Of Duty franchise, BioShock Infinite is a beacon in the mist. I can't wait to get my hands on it.• BioShock Infinite; Irrational Games; 2K; release date: 2012; PS3, PC, Xbox 360
Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elop dismissed as "baseless" rumours that the electronics giant Samsung is bidding for the company in London on Thursday.Speaking at the Open Mobile Summit, Elop said that "all the rumours are baseless" and reiterated Nokia's intention to create a third smartphone ecosystem to compete with Apple's iPhone and Google's dominant Android mobile operating system.He said that Nokia designers are working on designs for new phones which will use Microsoft's Windows Phone operating system, which he has previously said will come out later this year using the so-called "Mango" version. That is due some time in the autumn.Earlier this week rumours began to circulate that Samsung would bid for the Finnish mobile company, which still makes more mobile handsets than any other, but which has seen its stock pummelled afterit warned at the end of Maythat it might make not make any profit on its mobile business this quarter.Previous buyout rumours had suggest Microsoft would bid for Nokia, but the company previously denied those too.Elop insisted that Nokia continues to have a huge following in many emerging markets such as Asia.It also emerged on Thursday that Nokia's chief technology officer, Rich Green, is taking a leave of absence from the company. Officially it is for personal reasons, though other reports brought conflicting explanations. The Wall Street Journal suggested it was for medical reasons, but the Economic Times said Green had disagreed with Elop, who took over as chief executive in September 2010, over the scrapping of the MeeGo platform.But Richard Windsor, a marketing analyst from the brokers Nomura who saw Elop speak, told the Guardian that he thought the company faced at least four more quarters of significant problems."In smartphones, any company that loses market share has gone on to have significant problems," Windsor said. He thinks that Nokia will face dwindling market share which will bring its margins and profits under enormous pressure, particularly as Chinese handset makers produce cheaper versions of Android phones selling for less than $200."Nokia is strongest in markets where it hasn't yet been challenged by sub-$200 handsets," he added. Nokia's smartphones, of which it sold 24m in the first quarter, had an average selling price (ASP) of €147 (£130). By contrast most smartphones have an ASP of about $300, while Apple's iPhone has an ASP of $660."The high end is gone for Nokia – it can't get it back," said Wilson. "And it won't be able to get the price of its Windows Phone devices down low enough to make a profit. The hardware requirements of Windows Phone are quite hefty [Microsoft specifies a 1GHz processor, faster than any other platform] and so they'll never be able to get the price low enough."
Every year, the Fifa juggernaut barges into the release schedule and every year the EA marketing machine scrabbles through its thesaurus, looking for new ways to say "groundbreaking", "realism" and "our best Fifa yet". It's easy to forget that, behind all the bluster there is an obsessively dedicated development team that genuinely wants to innovate in the sports genre. Fifa 11 disappointed some by adding very little of true substance to the mix, and perhaps it was never going to top the majestic Fifa 10, which brought the series to its zenith and really turned the thumbscrews on PES. Fifa 12, though, could well be the next genuine leap forward.In a cosy demo room, hidden within the vast EA super-structure on the E3 showfloor, Fifa producer David Rutter is his usual bombastic self. "We believe we have a special year for Fifa," he says, before explaining the three key gameplay additions.The first is the player impact engine, a real-time physics system, that lends genuine force, momentum and consequence to every action. Sliding tackles now carry with them, the body mass of the player, apparently leading to proportional injuries for anyone on the receiving end. And instead of canned animations, there is grace and responsiveness."It creates these really fluid moments," says Rutter. "In Fifa 11 you had these momentum-breaking glitches, where a player gets stuck in a little animation cycle against another player. It drags you out of the moment.The impact engine isn't just a physics engine, it's a continuation engine, it adds a smooth believability. The strength and weight of the players leads to different outcomes – there are limitless collision animations in the game. Every nuance is captured."The sheer range of movements seems to have been multiplied too. During one match I saw defenders desperately lunging a leg out behind them to stop a shot, and the interplay between ball and foot seems more refined and expressive. There's a new precision dribbling system, which allows players to protect the ball while looking for opportunities to lay it off. When a skilful player turns, the ball stays in close proximity. As Rutter explains: "I can alleviate the pressure in defence, keep the ball away from an attacker then release the ball out to the wing if I need to. It happens every week, in every match in professional football." The left stick can be used to fool defenders, selling a left turn, for example, before your player heads off to the right.In practice it seems that you can build a more expressive and dynamic style of play – one that won't rely so much on bombing down the wing and belting in crosses. With Fifa 11, I always felt like opportunities were constantly being closed down; there was no room to manoeuvre. This is much less robotic. It's like every attack, and every encounter between players, could play out differently.Another major new system is tactical defending. "When you used to press a button as a defender, it would be like launching a homing missile up the pitch; he'd bully the player with the ball into submission. Now we've removed that ability entirely. Now there's a "contain" button: when you press that, you shepherd the guy with the ball into a disadvantageous position – which is what defenders do." Added into this is a range of more aggressive interactions. We've had barging in football for years, but in Fifa 12, we should see players grabbing at each other's shirts and really pushing at each other in desperate last ditch attempts to break down an attack.And in the background, there's the interesting EA Sports Football Club, a merger of Autolog and Fifa 09's live season concept. Fans will be able to track their rank on both global and friend-based leaderboards as well as tracking the performances of their mates. Plus, every Fifa 12 owner will accumulate XP as they play, and there's some sort of levelling up mechanism as a reward, although the details aren't clear at present.You'll also be able to pledge an allegiance to your real-life club in the game, and a league table will be formed of the teams, which have the most successful supporters. Regular online challenges are also set to rip scenarios from real-world football. So you might be asked to replay, say, last week's astonishingly stylish Manchester City derby victory to secure a win for United. Not that you'd want to, of course.Based on my brief demo of Fifa 12, it looks like it's a game where innovations and major systemic changes have brought about a genuinely more enjoyable and rewarding experience – not always a given with annual sports sim updates. The player movement just looks so varied and natural. With Pro Evo 12 also looking strong, the battle for supremacy is gearing up again. A genuinely interesting title race is assured.
The Isle of Wight Festival app kicks off the summer music festival season in style, offering an interactive package foriPhoneandAndroidsmartphone users that is comprehensive enough to kill off the expensive festival programme.Screenshots from the Isle of Wight Festival iPhone appThe free app, produced by Vodafone, offers a complete schedule for every stage, allowing users to build a personal festival schedule by selecting favourites and displaying them on a separate screen, with a reminder option should you be stuck in a queue for the toilets when your favourite band is due to start playing.An interactive map shows where you are within the festival site and, crucially, how to get where you want to go – easier said than done at 10pm after a hard day consuming pricey, watery lager. You can also drop pins on the map for where your tent is or where your friends' tents are sited or set meeting points so you don't get lost.Almost anything you do on the app can be shared via Facebook, Twitter, text or email, and users can upload photos to the festival gallery and view others' snaps. Updates are also promised to the schedule, should any band pull out or a reshuffle takes place, and there is plenty of site information and safety advice for festival-goers.The only thing the app can't do is control the weather – though there is a one-touch facility to look at the forecast. But one note of warning – the app will only work as long as your battery does. So either pack a booster or be prepared for long queues at the phone-charging points.
We have seen so many different Google Doodles - the customised logos on the Google homepage - since they started in 1998 that most of us barely notice them any more. But there are just a few hours left to appreciate arguably the best Google Doodle yet - a playable, recordable homage to what would have been the 96th birthday of guitar legend Les Paul.Hardly anything remains of the Google logo itself, abstracted into several guitar strings, bridges, a pick up and a recording button - but brush your cursor over the strings and they strum. Use the keyboard, and you can play chords. Click record - and infuriatingly, this feature doesn't seem to work outside the US - and record a few seconds of whatever you can create and share the URL of that recording. Send that URL to someone else and they can join in on a duet.Failing that, record it yourself and post to YouTube. Plenty of people already have...Other notable doodles this year celebratedCharlie Chaplinon 16 April, the 117th birthday of dancer/choreographerMartha Grahamon 11 May andJohn Lennon's 70th birthday on 9 October. Another, to mark 30 years of Pac-Man on 21 May, generated more than 5m playing hours on the doodle alone. Such was the demand, Google had to create apermanent homefor it.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat's Twitter's identity now that it's Apple's identity provider? &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Facebook has set itself up as the leading identity provider on the Web, with more than 2.5m sites that operate Facebook Connect and social plug-ins, and something like 700m active users. Now Apple is propping up the smaller–and different–Twitter as a competitor.Twitter has 200m total accounts–it doesn't specify how many of them are active, or how many of them are real people. Apple, coincidentally, has sold 200m iOS devices total."Path CEO Dave Morin, who knows firsthand the challenges of social log-ins from his photo-sharing app, tweeted during the keynote yesterday, 'Twitter is the luckiest company on earth today.'"But at least one analyst and many onlookers are playing devil's advocate by arguing that Apple is the bigger winner, having avoided paying to buy Twitter and reducing it to utility status."Nokia: the patient's heart has stopped. Now the doctor 'helps' by starting to strangle the patient too &gt;&gt; Tomi Ahonen"The retail chain has spoken. They are sending a message to Nokia HQ. No price discount, no new model, no marketing gimmick, no apology by the sales rep, the regional sales manager, the global VP of sales, not even a total retraction by the CEO is now enough. The retail channel is strangling Nokia in a death-grip choke-hold. They will not let go, until Nokia Board of Directors fires the CEO and reverses the stated strategic direction to Microsoft."Hmm, unlikely to happen. The board wanted Elop because he would tear up the old Nokia. But it is currently looking like the Greece of the mobile industry, and suffering the equivalent of a gilts strike by carriers. They won't give it anything long-term.IPv6 statistics &gt;&gt; AkamaiHow was it for the world? Quite busy, it seems.Problems &gt;&gt; Project EulerWe mentioned Project Euler yesterday; here are the problems to consider before you kick in. First one: "Add all the natural numbers below one thousand that are multiples of 3 or 5."Remember, you're looking to get a computer to do this. If you can get it to play FizzBuzz while you do it, bonus points.IPhone 4 dethrones BlackBerry as top-selling smartphone &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Carriers worldwide sold more iPhone 4s in the first quarter than any other smartphone, suggesting Apple may benefit from holding off on the iPhone 5."Strategy Analytics said the iPhone 4 knocked BlackBerry Bold 9700 from the top spot after the Research in Motion device held the position for over a year."Of course there are dozens of Android devices; Android share is still gathering pace. But RIM's problems - no phone in the top three for the first time in two years - are starting to snowball. Its quarterly results come out in a week.Steve Jobs pitches Cupertino on stunning new Apple campus &gt;&gt; Mac Rumors"Late last year it was revealed that Apple purchased a 98-acre campus from Hewlett Packard, just up I-280 in Cupertino. Last night, Apple CEO Steve Jobs, in trademark black turtleneck and jeans, explained Apple's plans for the space to the Cupertino City Council. Here's what the new 4-story building holding 12,000 employees will look like when it's completed in 2015: "Actually, you have to see if for yourself and decide which spaceship it looks like. Independence Day? Kingdom of the Crystal Skull?GridCalc - Grid calculator and generator &gt;&gt; Problem ABBecause CSS can be a pain: "GridCalc is a easy to use grid calculator. Just enter the desired width of your page and an aproximate range for your column and gutter width and the calculator will give you all the possible combinations within the limits you entered."Don't say we never do anything for you. (Via @katybairstow.)iCloud's real purpose: kill Windows &gt;&gt; I, Cringely"Jobs is going to sacrifice the Macintosh in order to kill Windows. He isn't beating Windows, he's making Windows inconsequential."Having been shown the way by Apple, I expect Google to shortly do the same thing, adding automated backup, synchronization and migration to Android and Chrome.Both companies will be grabbing for data, claiming territory, and leaving Microsoft alone to defend a desktop that will soon cease to exist."And what happens once all our data is in that iCloud, is there any easy way to get it back out? Nope. It's in there forever and we are captive customers — trapped more completely than Microsoft ever imagined."Woah, slow down there. Chromebooks will nibble at Windows if they're successful. iCloud will make teeny dents in Windows revenue. What Apple (and likely Google) will want is to tie you more closely into their best ecosystems. Microsoft can play that game too, though. It already tries to.July 2008: Global PC Installed base passes 1 Billion &gt;&gt; GizmagAn interesting data point from July 2008: "Gartner's latest figures put the number of installed PCs worldwide as just having surpassed 1 billion units and at a growth rate of just under 12 percent annually, will surpass 2 billion units by early 2014.&#10;"So currently, it would appear, there are at least three times as many active mobile phones in the world as there are PCs, and internet access via the mobile phone is outpacing wireless access from a PC in many of areas of the world."Mature markets (North America, western Europe, Japan) counted for 58% of installed PCs, but just 15% of the population. Gartner expected uptake to increase rapidly in emerging markets. We'll have to ask them...Steve Jobs presents new campus plans to Cupertino City Council &gt;&gt; YouTubeIncludes some interesting reminiscences from the Apple chief exec from his boyhood. Note how cleverly he negotiates things with the councillors. "Do we get free Wi-Fi?" "I think we pay taxes and the council should do that.."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The final day of E3! What mysteries does it hold?!
The consensus from panelists in the first major discussion of theOpen Mobile Summitin London today was that mobile data access will increasingly be bundled with paid apps as operators push to develop more efficient ways of using an overstretched mobile spectrum. That might see Angry Birds, for example, available to use even on overseas roaming at no extra cost.Rovio's 'mighty eagle' [insert quip here] Peter Vesterbacka said that as long as the objective is long-term audience growth over short-term money making, bundling data with apps is a good idea. "We only care about our fans and our brand, so if it's a great experience, we'll do it."Peter Vesterbacka. Photo bydailylifeofmojoon Flickr.Some rights reservedDeutsche Telekom's senior vice president of mobile products, Dr Rainer Deutschmann, said the company has already introduced an easier to manage data roaming service which lets customers login online to buy day passes."There should be lots of innovation in the way we provide connectivity. That might include paying $5 to speed up one particular download, or like our roaming day pass, an alert that lets you know when you're used 80% of that allowance." Deutschmann  pointed to Facebook Zero, a free, paired-down Facebook service that the social network has negotiated with local operators. "Freemium apps are not truly freemium because users still have to pay for access.""We need spill, entry-level tariffs for people who haven't used a smartphone before, another tariff for advanced users and another for business," said Deutschmann. "It's not just about downloads, but about speeds for example, or getting a package designed to optimise games."Spectrum needs massive investmentOlaf Swantee, executive vice president of Orange, warned that networks needed major investment if they are to support the growth in demand for data services.  "In Europe, we need massive investment in networks that are seeing double data growth every year…. average revenue per user is not going up… we require governments to provide the digital dividend is a fair way to avoid the escalation of pricing for consumers. And we need to spend time and energy on the networks we build now so that they are really capable of dealing with growth."Swantee claimed that what Orange spend on networks improvements is more than Apple and Google combined, but that connectivity needs to be considered in new ways in pricing bundles rather than just hiking prices. He added that payments via mobile are also a big growth area and not just in the developing world, were few people have credit cards or even bank accounts."This is not not where we take the bank's role - we just facilitate the service… it's an important area and not just in Africa; payment transfer is interesting for mature markets, where sharing small amounts of money can be useful for the immigrant or youth sectors."The unfulfilled promise of mobile advertisingStill equivalent to just 1% of US TV advertising spend, mobile advertising has  along way to go. Rovio's Vesterbacka said that shift will just take time because of the establish devalue chain. "There are people out there paying $300,000 for a 30-second ad during Glee. We can do a lot for $300,000 in Angry Birds…" As for commission, Vesterbacka said it's right that Rovio takes 95% of revenues because they put in the work building the game, and even Apple's 30% take is very fair compared to revenue deals they used to have to negotiate with operators in the days before the app store.Amazon's mobile services lead Aaron Rubenson said developers are very interested in introducing advertising. "There's a whole new realm of opportunity operators have because of the billing information they have, the context of information that game developers have, the social analytics layer - the possibility to serve up much more relevant targeted ads."Operators vs apps"It's not in our core competence to build an app store," said Deutschmann. "Our core competence is in helping the customer find the right device, the right tariff, the right apps and network functionalities."Swantee pointed to the after-sales role for operators. Though iPhone is supposed to be a simple experience for consumers, Orange has found that at least 25% of new iPhone customers are willing to pay for a start-me-up service that explains how the phone works and how to get started. "Customers in stores don't even realise that choosing a device also means choosing an operating system and an app store." Until there is more standardisation between platforms and app stores, operators will continue to play an important role with services like contacts updating between phones with different operating systems. "We'll try to move that forward with other content," said Swantee."It would be great if there was just one app store." said Vesterbacka, "but that's just not going to happen. But more app stores help more people into the market." Ribenson added that app stores have a major role in app discovery as well as billing. For Amazon, that means tapping its 137m-strong existing customer base with purchases and ratings they already know. "We've taken the first steps towards a unified vision with Kindle - buy on Kindle and you can read on an app on any device."
It's not often you hear a developer trumpet their game as the best title available for a control interface, but then it's not everyday you sit down for a chat with Peter Molyneux."I'd say that the greatest Kinect game is probably Fable: The Journey ... " he says through a sly smile.The journalists in the demo room shoot each other some knowing looks as the head of Lionhead Studios chuckles softly."Here we go," he laughs. "I see you all scribbling down, 'He said the words again! Great! We've got our headline!' But really, the only reason I say that is because we've had two years of great experience with Kinect, but it doesn't look like it did in the press briefing. It doesn't look as exciting as it is when you play it."Molyneux is fielding a question about the resistance a lot of the hardcore gaming audience has to Kinect. Over the past couple of days at E3, a lot of gamers online and certain segments of the gaming media have vented their frustration over what they see as Microsoft deserting its core audience in order to push its hands-free interface and attract more casual gamers. Molyneux's point is that this isn't the case, although he understands how gamers got that impression from Microsoft's keynote."I know controller-based gamers want more controller-based games and I understand that – I love them as well," he says. "But I think there's a wonderful opportunity with Kinect to give gamers something fresh and different."Molyneux's contribution to the steadily growing Kinect canon at this year's E3 is Fable: The Journey, a first-person adventure set in the fantasy world of Albion. It was unveiled at Microsoft's press briefing at the beginning of the expo, and while it showcased an admittedly enchanting feature in which the player seems to be able to weave magic out of thin air, it also looked like a rail-shooter. Molyneux is quick to quash that perception."We begged for eight minutes," he says. "We only got four so it was really hard to get across what Fable: The Journey was. We only had time to show a bit of navigation and a bit of magic and a lot of people have written that this is Fable on rails!""Well, it's not on rails," he continues, with a trace of exasperation creeping into his voice. "Part of making a Fable experience is to give the player a sense of freedom, and we absolutely will give you that here."The way Molyneux and Lionhead have managed this is to structure Fable: The Journey in such a way as to allow the player to navigate Albion using a horse and carriage. The player steers their horse along pathways through the fantasy realm by pretending to hold a pair of reins. By pulling left and right, the player can guide the horse along the track. If they pull back on the reins, it'll stop and if they pretend to crack the reins against the horse's back, it will move faster. If the player abuses their horse by whipping it too much, it gets fed up and slows down.All the while, the Kinect centre also tracks the player's head movements so they look around the environment for points of interest to investigate. At these instances, the player will invariably need to use their character's magical abilities. These sections are again, as Molyneux is keen to repeatedly stress, not on rails.The player accesses the magical powers by making a weaving motion with their hands. When they do this, blue balls of light start to fill two reticules on the screen. At the start of the game, the balls of light are very small, but as the player progresses and becomes more experienced and battle-hardened, their power source will grow. As they become more powerful, a meter at the bottom left-hand side of the screen will start to fill up - when it's full, the player unlocks different spells. Molyneux says that giving the player a sense of individual creativity was very important."In a sense we want you to think of the magic as a toy. Like magic plasticine in your hands," he says.The simplest attack is to throw the balls of energy at opponents. If enemies arrive carrying shields, they can block this attack, but the player can also direct the balls of light once they're thrown to get around this defence. There are enemies in the game who throw projectiles at the player, but they can counter this by using their magic to slow time and then deflect the attack.Players can also put their hands together and rapidly pull them apart to create a huge ball of red energy on the screen, which can then be hurled as a much more powerful attack. Perhaps the most intriguing aspect of the magical feature is the way in which players can create magic items by making weaving motions with their hands. The item shown in the demo was the same as at the keynote, the spear, which can be used to blow up structures and kill enemies.Watching a player conjure these items out of thin air is actually quite eerie to watch. It gives the proceedings, dare I say it, a real sense that something magical is happening. Molyneux says the player will be able to create other weapons as well, such as a hammer, but that the magic creation isn't limited to combat. The player can also create items such as telescopes to scout out the road ahead or fishing rods, which presumably will open up a fishing mini-game.Aside from the Kinect-based controls, there's a lot about Fable: The Journey which will strike fans as familiar. The world of Albion looks as be beautiful as ever, and the characters who populate it  are distinctly Terry Pratchett-esque. There's also a collection of moral conundrums placed in front of the player, and they'll be able to customise their character. One of the main differences, though, is that the player doesn't start off the game destined to be a hero. They're just an average, everyday conjurer. They happen across Theresa, the blind prophetess of Albion, who has been wounded by the Corruption, the faceless protagonist from Fable III. It's up to them then to restore her power and save Albion."It's set after Fable III on a parallel track," says Molyneux. "But we didn't want to make a game that depended on any pre-knowledge of Fable.""Our hope is that we've crafted a game here which people who love controllers will prefer to play with Kinect and people who hate controllers will feel is accessible enough for them."It's a tall order indeed, but it looks like Molyneux and Lionhead just may crack it with Fable: The Journey. The game looks lovely, boasts some creative and magical gameplay and while I can't confirm at this stage if it is the best game ever made for the Kinect interface, I can say this: it's not on rails.
A Michigan company,ForeSee Results Inc., has filed a declaratory judgment suit against Lodsys's four patents with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. It could have a dramatic effect - or it could have no effect. ForeSee is asking the court to set all of Lodsys's patents aside; the court might rule that it agrees. Or it might not, in which case everything continues as before. But the suit exposes a lot of intriguing detail about Lodsys too. I'll get to that in a moment.It's quiet - too quiet (at least from Apple and Google)On a related note, there's no news onLodsys's lawsuit against app developers from Apple and Google(filed at the end of May) at this point.More than a week afterLodsys sued seven little app developers, Apple and Google (a reminder: one of the accused products is an Android app) still have not declared publicly what, how and to what extent they will cover developers who have been or may in the future be sued by Lodsys. It's a bit too early to say that this means they won't act, and I think it makes sense to wait at least until the end of Apple's ongoing Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC), but it's getting time for the big players to answer the question of coverage.Apple'sletter to Lodsysis not enough. Not by far. It didn't prevent Lodsys from suing, and the defence presented by Apple isnot necessarily going to workin court.I understand that large companies need time to turn things around, but in this case, they've already had several weeks. Lodsys's lawsuit was not at all surprising. When Ianalysed Apple's letter to Lodsys, I said that unless Apple and Google pay something to Lodsys to make the threat go away, there was going to be some next step in the process. And it was very obvious that Lodsys would sue developers. Lodsys had consistently said, from the beginning, that Apple's and Google's licenses to the patents in question don't extend to the way the accused apps allegedly practice the claimed inventions. So Apple and Google have known for weeks now where this was heading, and what they've done so far is insufficient. Apple's letter was good news at the time being, but all by itself it's not enough. Google hasn't said or done anything (at least nothing that the media would have reported on).Declaratory judgement: a quick explanationSince Lodsys has forced many people who'd rather write code than read about the law to give thought to patent issues and litigation, I guess this post will be read by many app developers, so I'll try to explain in simple terms what a declaratory judgment action is about.The thing you'd typically associate with a legal action in terms of lawsuit is a complaint by which one party (the plaintiff) demands that the other party (the defendant) do or stop to do something. Or both:Oracle, for example, wants Google to pay big bucksfor (alleged) past infringement of its Java patents and to stop distributing Android's Dalvik virtual machine unless it gets a license from Oracle, on Oracle's terms.If someone files a declaratory judgment action and wins, there's none of those effects. It is, as the name indicates, merely declaratory: the court speaks out on an issue, in an effort to clarify who's right on a disputed question, and that's it. But that can still have a lot of value in itself. It can prevent a lawsuit, or even a whole series of lawsuits, by resolving an issue pre-emptively.It happens frequently that declaratory judgment is requested as a pre-emptive strike by those who consider themselves or their customers/partners likely targets of an infringement suit. And that's what has now happened to Lodsys: a company whose customers received Lodsys's assertion letters decided not to wait until Lodsys might sue those customers, but instead asked for declaratory judgment.Requests for declaratory judgment don't have to be proactive. They can also be reactive: as a counterclaim against a company that has already sued. That's also happened to Lodsys recently (I'll talk about that below). A company that's sued for alleged infringement of a patent could just raise certain defences, the two most important ones of which are invalidity – the defendant disputes the validity of the asserted patent(s) – and non-infringement – the defendant disputes that the asserted patent(s) read(s) on the accused product(s). But additional declaratory judgment counterclaims go further because they ensure that the questions of validity and infringement really have to be adjudicated on their own and with definitive clarity (unless the parties settle, of course).Declaratory judgment actions against LodsysOn 11 February 2011 - about three months before Lodsys sent its first known assertion letters to little app developers - the company filed its first infringement suit. I mentioned that one in previous posts. The defendants are Brother, Canon, HP, Hulu, Lenovo, Lexmark, Motorola Mobility, Novell, Samsung, and Trend Micro.In that lawsuit, Lodsys asserted three of its patents: the '078 patent for which it provided claim charts according to which it reads on in-app upgrades; the '565 patent that it also asserts in its suit against seven little app developers; and another one, the '908 patent. The particularly (in)famous '078 patent is asserted against all defendants; the '565 patent against all but Hulu; and the '908 only against Samsung and Trend Micro.Meanwhile, all of those defendants have reacted with an answer to Lodsys's complaint or a motion to dismiss it in its current form, except for Novell, which requested – and was granted – multiple extensions (understandable since it was just acquired and is probably undergoing some significant structural changes).Two of the defendants have not only raised defences but also brought counterclaims: Brother and Lenovo asked for declaratory judgment on (a) non-infringement by their products and (b) invalidity of the two patents over which Lodsys is suing those companies as well as seven little app developers ('565 and '078).The non-infringement part is product-specific and since that's about printers, its outcome can't put to rest the question of whether in-app upgrades infringe those patents. However, a declaratory judgment of invalidity – in this case even by the same court – would be very helpful if it happened in time. App developers would no longer have to worry if both patents asserted against them have been found invalid. Of course, the big problem is that little app developers generally don't have the resources to defend themselves, so unless Apple and Google finance their defence, they may be forced to give up before the lawsuit even gets to the point at which a possible invalidation decision would help.Yesterday, the aforementioned Michigan company –ForeSee Results, Inc.– filed a proactive declaratory judgment action against all four Lodsys patents. In that complaint, ForeSee Results Inc. said that Lodsys had "threatened assertion" of one or more of its four patents against ForeSee's customers. Foresee names three examples of customers that received letters from Lodsys:• Adidas (I havepublished that assertion letter on Scribdso you can take a look at it; it includes a claim chart that looks similar as the ones that many app developers received, though it relates to a different patent)• Best Buy• WE EnergiesForeSee did the right thing by taking action against all four patents, not just the one to which the relevant claim charts related. I thinkApple should also have taken some similarly forceful actionto protect its app developers and customers.By suing in another district first, ForeSee has greatly reduced the likelihood of any infringement assertions against its customers being decided in the Eastern District of Texas. If Lodsys filed any such lawsuits there, ForeSee could request transfer to the Northern District of Illinois on a first-to-file basis and would be reasonably likely to succeed. Apple was so slow that Lodsys was able to deliver the first strike.One of the reasons for which ForeSee Results filed in the Northern District of Illinois is stated in paragraph 11 of its complaint:"Upon information and belief, this Court has personal jurisdiction over Lodsys because Lodsys' Chief Executive Officer and sole employee resides in, and conducts business from, this Judicial District."If this is true, Lodsys is only formally headquartered in East Texas (because of that district's reputation for troll-friendly decisions) but its actual operations – at least at the level of the CEO, and it's questionable whether the company has any other employees than him – are in Illinois.Speak softly and bring a big lawyerIt's also worth mentioning that ForeSee Results is represented byMcDermott Will &amp; Emery, a top-notch law firm that does a lot of work for major technology companies. In August 2006 that firmhelped Creative Technology get a $100 million check from Appleas a result of a patent settlement over the iPod's menu system. (The money quote, if you like, from Steve Jobs: "Creative is very fortunate to have been granted this early patent." You can almost hear him grinding his teeth.)If ForeSee's declaratory judgment action against Lodsys succeeded before the case against the seven little app developers is decided, it could be helpful, but the court in East Texas is very fast.And even though I repeat myself, the real issue with little app developers is that they can't really afford to defend themselves, which will in many cases require them to take licenses from patent holders no matter how doubtful the validity of the relevant patents or the infringement allegations may be...A version of this articleoriginally appeared on the FOSS Patents blog, where Florian Mueller has been tracking patent rows between Google, Apple, smartphone and mobile companies, and more recently app companies and patent holders.• If you'd like to be updated on the smartphone patent disputes and other intellectual property matters he covers, please subscribe to Florian Mueller's RSS feed (on his blog) and/orfollow him on Twitter @FOSSpatents.
Reaction to Nintendo's Wii U, unveiled at the E3 show in Los Angeles on Wednesday, has been mixed.• The stock market hated it: Nintendo's stock fell by 5% to ¥16,970 – taking it down to levels last seen before the original Wii launched in 2006. Analysts said they were unsure how well it would be able to compete against smarpthones and tablet-based products such as the iPad, especially when device-based gaming already has to vie for time with fast-growing social networks."People are puzzled whether this will really sell," remarked Shuji Hosoi, an analyst at Daiwa Securities. "The competition is so intense. People have already changed [their habits].""Although some experts seem to like the new device, I expected Nintendo to move more into the social networking business," said Mitsuo Shimizu, deputy general manager at Cosmo Securities in Tokyo. "It's a warning from investors that the company should reconsider its business strategy and move more aggressively into social gaming operations."• Our own Steve Boxer,ushered into a bomb-proof nuclear shelter, could see through his own – and your – scepticism: "In typical Nintendo fashion, Wii U is one of those objects that you have to get your hands on before you get what it is trying to achieve. The new controller is such an odd, unlikely-looking thing that it will undoubtedly generate a wave of early cynicism. But the joyously unusual nature of the gameplay experiences that even a couple of hastily assembled tech-demos can engender bodes more than well."• At Ubisoft, chief executive Yves Guillemot was keen: "This new controller really revolutionises the traditional pad," hetold MCV UK. "In Assassin's Creed, you can just imagine what the multiplayer will look like and Ghost Recon Online will leverage the fantastic connectivity of the new controller."• Alsoat MCV, Ken Levine, creative director for Irrational Games, said: "It's a full console experience. [For example] if my wife is asleep I can put in headphones and play a full hardcore console gaming experience in bed on this smaller screen. That's a really revolutionary thing for me as a gamer. It seems like Nintendo heard the voices of the hardcore gamer."• AtVG247, Keza MacDonald breathlessly tried out the games on offer and summed up with this: "This is exciting technology, people. When someone starts showing some actual games, we can expect to be very impressed indeed."• You'd expect excitement from Hotnintendostore.com, butnot so: "I get this sinking feeling of déjà vu. I remember saying exactly the same thing about Wii. I was blown away by how cool it was. How innovative the controller was, and the more I thought about it at the time, the more I thought that we were on the verge for a new dawn of gaming. The reality is, though, we weren't. While the hardware was cool and interesting, the reality for most gamers is that Wii is one of the least-played consoles of recent years. It sold incredibly well – it was the machine everyone wanted to have. But the same can be said for the latest fitness machines: they are bought, they are played with for a while, and then they gather dust. And unfortunately that's also true for most Wiis out there."• Lots of other gamers seemed to be the same: aroundup at International Business Timesfound people being unhappy. "The majority is still unconvinced about the potential of multi-screens. 'How is holding up another, smaller screen in front of your big TV screen any better than simply overlaying a HUD or pressing select to access the map or inventory like we've been doing for decades now?' asked one gamer."Then again, you could alwaysread the initial reaction to the Wii (from when its named was changed from Revolution): "By lunch time PDT, gamers and game industry analysts were in full howl. The general consensus: as far as names go, the Nintendo Wii sucks. Michael Goodman, an analyst at the Yankee Group, had a pretty strong reaction: 'I thought Revolution had much more meaning ... Wii just doesn't do it for me. How do we even pronounce this? WEEE? I'm not sure this is technically a word.'" Nintendo will probably settle for the 86m consoles sold.Meanwhile, have a look atthis user review of the Nintendo Wii from back in 2005and you'll realise that first reactions often aren't all they're cracked up to be. Except our own experts', of course.
Facebook, Google, Yahoo and hundreds of the world's largest websites are now testing the enormously expanded internet address system, known as IPv6, in preparation for the time – expected within the next year – when it becomes impossible to add new sites to the web using the existing system, called IPv4.The biggest problem though in implementing the new system lies inside people's homes – where barely any of the broadband routers now in use can handle the new system.In the UK, the communications minister Ed Vaizey is marking World IPv6 Day with an industry summit to discuss progress on switching to the new protocol. Vaizey said: "We must ensure we create the conditions that allow the internet to continue to grow and for companies to produce fresh innovations. IPv6 is key to the continued growth of the internet. It is essential industry deals with the switchover before there is an impact on the internet."Akamai IPv6 statisticsEarlier this year the Google chairman, Eric Schmidt, said that the IPv4 address exhaustion was "one of the urgent problems" that the industry needed to tackle.The "test flight" day is being used to motivate organisations throughout the internet industry – including internet service providers (ISPs), router manufacturers, computers running Microsoft Windows and Apple Mac OSX and web businesses – to get ready for the time when the IPv4 "address space" runs out.Only 5,375 of the top 1m web sites by popularity have IPv6 connections,according to Atoom Net. The amount of IPv6 traffic has spiked since Tuesday as the test began, according to thewebsite provided by Akamai recording it.Sites on the web are connected using "internet protocol" addresses, which work rather like telephone numbers. The IPv4 system, introduced in January 1980, uses "dotted quad" addresses such as127.255.255.0.25577.91.248.30to allocate locations to sites. That allows a theoretical maximum of 4.2bn connected devices on the network, though various workarounds have allowed that to be greatly expanded.Once there are no more IPv4 addresses, new sites will only be able to join the net via an IPv6 address. That will mean people using IPv4-only equipment will not be able to reach the site. They could type the URL into their browser, but the address that it translates into will be unreadable by their computer and/or router.The IPv4 address space has almost completely run out. The last blocks were allocated in Europe earlier this year. The growing shortage of available addresses that can be reached by existing systems has led to concerns that there will be a crunch in 2012 around big events, particularly the London Olympics, as a huge number of devices are attached all at once to the net.Growth of global internet users since 1995 Photograph: RNGS/ReutersIPv6 allows 3.4 x 10^38 (340 trillion trillion trillion) internet addresses, which is enough for every IPv4 address to have its own internet of IPv4 addresses. That should mean that once a shift to IPv6 is made, the world – and even other planets – will never run out. It offers a large enough address space for everyone to have their own internet space.The problem for users, ISPs and webmasters is that IPv4 addresses cannot be translated directly into IPv6 addresses. Though an IPv4 address may point to the same site as an IPv6 address, the two use different addressing methods.The key obstacle lies with the home routers used by millions of users, which may not be able to handle IPv6 communication. It may be possible to update their software, but the scale of the problem could mean that users or ISPs will have to carry that out manually.In the UK, the government has supported the creation of 6UK, a not-for-profit organisation that aims to help smooth the transition to IPv6.Abour 0.05% of internet users may have problems reaching sites which are using the system – but with more than a billion people online, that could run to tens of millions.Microsoft has offered a fix for affected Windows users.People can test their readiness for IPv6 atthe IPv6 test site.Piers Daniell, of Fluidata, an independent connectivity company which has been working on the changeover in the UK, said: "What's going to be really interesting is to see how companies and ISPs will work with IPv6 on a daily basis. Getting websites to be viewed over IPv4 and IPv6 is proving problematic for some. Indeed, much of the rationale for World IPv6 Day is driving companies to combine their IPv4/IPv6 websites. What most companies don't realise is that their website, for a time, will need to be seen by both. This means that companies need to almost dual-stack their sites, but this is problematic and so the focus must be on solving the issue on a wider scale. Even today most hardware shipped by ISPs to providers still doesn't cater for IPv6 or will only once a software patch is applied."• Listen also to theTech Weekly podcast from February on IPv4 and IPv6.Updated to correct the example of an iPv4 dotted quad.
