"RealNetworks has struck a deal to make its Rhapsody software the default for playing and buying music on Hewlett-Packard's consumer PCs in the United States -- replacing Apple's iTunes in that role," reports theSeattle Post-Intelligencer.Clicking on an audio file will, by default, open the Rhapsody music management and playback software, which contains internal connections to both the store and the paid service. In addition, an icon on the PC desktop will link to the Rhapsody software.The deal is a coup for RealNetworks and the latest step in the unraveling of HP's partnership with Apple, announced with much fanfare by former HP Chief Executive Carly Fiorina at the CES two years ago.Comment: This isn't surprising given that HP ditched its rebadged version of the iPod last year, and merely completes the unravelling of what always looked like one of Carly's dumber deals. However, you can bet the unravelling will not get anything remotely like the press attention devoted to its announcement.
I run a small business with a website and a catch-all email address. I keep getting emails headed Mail Failure Notification addressed to postmaster@(my web address). It looks like someone is sending spam and pretending it is from me, but these messages are not going out through my mail system. How can they do this and how do I stop it? Dr Jim SpeakmanYou can't. It's very easy to forge the From and Reply-To address in emails, and many companies simply bounce rejected and undeliverable messages to these addresses, even though everybody knows it's not where they originated. There have been attempts at patching this defect in the internet email system, and the leading example is SPF (Sender Policy Framework).With SPF, you publish a record that states explicitly that, for example, "XYZ only sends email from IP address 123.45.678.90 and the mailservers at xyz.co.uk" and so on. A service provider that uses SPF, such as AOL, can check incoming emails, and if they didn't originate from the stated places, discard them as forgeries. SPF is not in widespread use, but it probably does have enough users to reduce the volume of forged email.Full details of how to set up SPF are published on the Open SPF website atwww.openspf.org. If you control your own domain, the site has a wizard that will enable you to publish an SPF record. If not, you can contact your ISP and encourage it to start using SPF.So while you cannot stop people from forging your address, you can reduce the amount of forged email that is delivered.You could also considering changing your catch-all email address. A catch-all address is useful if your name, or your business name, is often misspelled, because it will accept all email sent to your domain name (anything@xyz.co.uk). You can change this and only accept email sent to specific addresses (jim@xyz.co.uk, sales@xyz.co.uk and so on). You can then reject emails sent to unspecified addresses at the server. However, your domain should have working postmaster and abuse accounts.Finally, you can improve your spam defences by getting your mail from a server running Spam Assassin, or routing your email via a cleaning service that usesSpam Assassin.Spam Interceptoris a web-based option. If you have to do your own filtering, tryPost Armor, which being Java is cross-platform, orMailWasher Profor PCs. These can delete unwanted mail on the server, without downloading it. Both have free versions.Web extra:: It's also worth reading a blog post by Jeremy Zawodny onUsing Gmail as My Spam Filter.
Will I damage my computer and video equipment if I disconnect it overnight? I am concerned that most of my power consumption is during "standby"! Richard BeatonThere certainly used to be a feeling that leaving equipment running gave better reliability, by avoiding power surges and the mechanical strains involved in starting things like hard drives. However, I can't see any evidence that this applies today, and much equipment now "stops" to a standby mode simply to save startup time. (A PC's off switch may not turn it off, unless you hold it down for about five seconds.) You may reduce the risk of fire if you physically unplug electrical equipment.You can get a rough idea of electricity use from the size of the item's power supply. To check standby use, it may be worth investing in a simple plug-in mains power and energy monitor such as theL61AQ from Maplin. For monitoring household use, an Australian invention has arrived in the UK as theElectrisave-- a small device that clips on to your electricity meter and tells you how much your house is spending per minute.Footnote: If anyone knows of a better/cheaper device than the L61AQ (which seems ot have doubled in price), please let me know!
I am unable to access secure websites with Internet Explorer. Veronica WhiteSorry, there is no simple solution. First, go theVeriSign siteto verify that your browser should work correctly at https/SSL sites. Next, try to repair your version of IE, as described on theElder Geek site. You need a Windows CD to do this. Microsoft also has a help page:How to troubleshoot problems accessing secure Web pages with Internet Explorer 6 Service Pack 2. Some secure sites, such as bank sites, will only work with IE, but it is worth trying an alternative browser, and both Firefox and Opera are free.Update: Dave Budd says: "At our (Manchester University) site, we've found that a common reason for being unable to access https sites is that the user is running Norton Internet Security. Sometimes a full product update (not just the definitions) fixes it."
Picture the scene. You've convinced your reticent partner that the Xbox 360 is the future of entertainment, able to show movies, pictures and play music. And games, though you kept fairly quiet about that. The killer app in your battle though was the 360's design - ta-dah, you said, in one move we can get rid of that ugly black box that you hated and instead run our hi-def digital future from this one off-white piece of loveliness. Convinced by this wire-free vision they gave in - after all, the 360 does look so much nicer than the original Xbox.Sadly this was only a pyrrhic victory. Microsoft'sannouncementof an external HD-DVD drive for the 360 will ruin those clean lines in your living room. More seriously though, you have to wonder how many 360 owners will stump up for something that really should have been included from the off, even if it meant delaying the launch. And also, external add-ons - do they ever really work?
There is an argument that technological innovations over the past 25 years have democratised music. Get yourself a laptop and some cheap (or free) software and you can make the kind of composition that would once have cost Pink Floyd a fortune. Music - electronic music in particular - is finally for the masses. But the net result has been a proliferation in the sheer amount of music now available. Unsurprisingly, it isn't all good.All of which has made the task of finding something you love that bit harder. The old answers - riffling through your elder sibling's LP collection or tuning into pirate radio - won't suffice. Record shops, after all, list alphabetically or by broad genre, not "X sounds like Y".The web's potential is obvious. Amazon will tell you that "customers who bought this also bought ..." and allows customers to create lists they can share. Apple's iTunes store has a "listeners also bought ..." and a recommendation system that suggests "You bought X, you might like Y".Websites such as allmusic.com and Boomkat.com draw on the knowledge of a team of music writers to point users in the direction of things they might like, as well as offering sample clips.Now, though, there are signs of more sophisticated attempts to recommend music based on individuals' unique tastes. While each has flaws, and the technology is in its infancy, the development could point the way to something wonderful.Creating a stir online since its launch in August is Pandora (http://pandora.com), an offshoot of the Music Genome Project, set up in 2000 by a group of musicians and music technologists who wanted to create "the most comprehensive analysis of music ever".Treating music choice as an objective science rather than a subjective art form, the team assembled hundreds of musical attributes - "genes" - which, when combined, would reveal the musical holy grail: the essence of a song. This database of more than 70,000 songs by more than 10,000 artists is used by Pandora to guide listeners to music they might like. You go to the site (you'll have to give it a US postcode, as the rules insist you must live in the US; but it can be fooled) and are invited to create a "radio station" by picking a tune or artist you like. The site then picks songs with similar musical qualities such as form of melody, harmony and rhythm, instrumentation, orchestration, arrangement, lyrics and so on. A simple thumbs up or down tells the program if the choices are right or wrong. (Two thumbs down for a particular artist banishes them from that "station". But you can create multiple stations, on different genres.) The results can veer wildly, though generally, the broader the range you enter, the more likely you will approve of the output."It's quite fun just putting it on when you're doing something else but I'm not sure I would use it as a music recommendation site yet," says music writer John Mullen. "It's a bit too random. And I really don't like its pretensions that it is offering some kind of universal truth about music.Changing your tune"It just got it wrong for me too often. For example, I put in Nirvana and it was playing bands that would make Kurt Cobain turn in his grave. It's a bit crude. Often, bands that are similar on paper using their method aren't alike in reality. You could say Radiohead and Pink Floyd have similar musical 'genes' but really they create incredibly different music."Pandora is also flawed to the extent that users' personal stations, by definition, are narrowly defined."Pandora creates playlists of songs with similar musical characteristics - it's not designed to make random jumps," says chief executive Tim Westergreen. "But what I think most excites customers is that it can truly help you discover music that's similar to songs you already know and love, from artists you've never heard of."Pandora's top-down approach to music recommendation is in stark contrast to rival Last.fm's bottom-up approach. "The last radio station you will ever need," as it calls itself, uses an "audioscrobbler" program to collate information on the music that users play on their PC. It then builds up a musical profile that is used to match you to others with shared tastes, and so recommend songs and artists that others have but you don't."The recommendations work by finding music from users who are similar to you, who we call neighbours," says Last.fm founder, former Austrian radio DJ Martin Stiksel. "We then play you music they have listened to but which you don't have in your profile. So if you have 100 records, and 80 of them are the same, it's very likely you are going to be interested in those 20 that the other person has but which you don't."Pandora relies on a team of experts classifying the music, whereas with us it's the knowledge of the crowd, so to speak. &#91;The crowds&#93; know more about music, in our opinion, than a few experts."This produces startlingly different outcomes, though each site makes its cash in the same way - by linking listeners to online retailers. Last.fm, for example, brings up music people have in common, while Pandora brings up music that sounds alike. Tap in ambient pioneer Brian Eno in Pandora and the program plays obscure acts with similar sonic qualities. The same name in Last.fm throws up listeners who also had Talking Heads and Pixies records.Up streamEncouragingly, most of the recommendation programs have one thing in common: decent sound quality from the streams. With Amazon continuing to provide poor quality clips for customers and iTunes only offering 30-second snatches, this has to be a good thing. Decent sound quality is also a feature of Artist Radio, Real Networks' recent venture into the music recommendation market. This limited offering builds a personal station based on the music of a fairly restricted and mainstream set of more than 200 possible artists. It's a weak alternative to the likes of Pandora and Last.fm, and doesn't allow users to skip a track they aren't enjoying.Both Pandora and Last.fm also have another benefit: artists and labels can submit music - providing a new way for acts to market themselves if they have been ignored by the major record labels.And Stiksel argues that they also offer the potential to steer illegal downloaders into legal ways of accessing music. "We believe in streaming rather than downloading," he says.While the recommendation sites may require fine tuning, he adds, they offer a fantastic way to navigate the ever-larger ocean of music. "In this day and age it's really difficult to find the music you like without having something like a music profile. Sites like this are going to become more and more crucial."Mullen thinks there is potential. "It feels a little bit like a quaint parlour game at the moment," he says. "I'm sure in five years' time, things like Pandora will be awesomely accurate. But like computer games, you start off with the ZX Spectrum and you end up with Grand Theft Auto."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Which were the most common viruses in 2005?According to F-Secure, the LovGate virus (first seen in May 2004) topped the list, making up 8.9% of those it observed online. In the rankings, it was followed closely by Netsky.p (8.8%, March 2004), Mytob.x (8.2%, May 2005), Mytob.az (8.1%, May 2005), and Sober.y (7.4%, November 2005). A long way behind were other variants of Netsky and Mytob, with shares around the 2% mark. The volume peaked in June/July.Right now, though, it's the Sober.y virus that's on the up: this one presents itself with a message saying "You visit illegal websites" or "Your IP was logged". And tomorrow it will download a program from a website. What the program will do, nobody yet knows.Is Google launching its own PC?Rumours abound ahead of the speech tomorrow by Google's Larry Page at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas that the company is going to announce it will sell an own-brand PC, based on a version of Linux. The Los Angeles Times said Google has been talking to giant retailer Wal-Mart, and that the Google PC (for want of a better name) might sell for just a few hundred dollars.However, nobody can quite explain how the company would make any profit, or benefit from selling something that would inevitably generates costs - in the form of support calls - rather than useful revenues. But this time last year the talk was all about Google launching a VoIP service, which some pooh-poohed; but it did happen.Is it time for a war on computers?After the war on drugs and the war on terror, things aren't going too well for the US in the war on cybercrime either. Last year saw the most computer security breaches ever in the US: an adviser for the Treasury Department's Office of Technical Assistance estimated that cybercrime proceeds in 2004 were $105bn (&pound;60m), greater than those of illegal drug sales.There were more than 130 major intrusions reported, which exposed more than 55 million Americans to identity theft and credit card fraud. At the same time, the research budget for cybersecurity programs at the Department of Homeland Security was cut by 7% to $16m.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If the chief executive of Cadbury-Schweppes speaks at a conference, or Nike's boss introduces a new kind of trainer, you might expect to see it covered in specialist magazines, then quickly forgotten. But on Tuesday a chief executive will stand up and announce something, and within minutes it will be scrutinised across the web and on stockbrokers' computers. It will be in newspapers. They'll talk about it for months.That chief executive is Steve Jobs, and I know why that speech makes an impact. To a casual observer it is just a guy in a black shirt and jeans talking about some new technology products. But it is in fact an incredibly complex and sophisticated blend of sales pitch, product demonstration and corporate cheerleading, with a dash of religious revival thrown in for good measure. It represents weeks of work, precise orchestration and intense pressure for the scores of people who collectively make up the "man behind the curtain". I know, because I've been there, first as part of the preparation team and later on stage with Steve.Objectively, Apple Computer is a mid-sized company with a tiny share of its primary market. Apple Macintoshes are only rarely seen in corporate environments, and most software companies don't even offer Apple-compatible versions of their products. To put it another way, Apple is just bit larger than Cadbury-Schweppes and about the same size as Nike or Marks and Spencer in terms of annual sales.Such comparisons come up short in trying to describe Apple's place in the world of business, because they leave out a key factor: Steve Jobs. That's something only one other company - the filmmaker Pixar - can claim. He's the closest thing to a rock star you will find in the world of business.When Apple announces something new, people pay attention. This is due, in large measure, to Steve and the way he delivers Apple's messages. His preferred method of making major product announcements is at one of his public presentations, or "keynotes" as they are called inside the company.Steve starts his preparation for a keynote weeks in advance, reviewing all the products and technologies he might include. Although development and release schedules are set far in advance, he still has to satisfy himself that the chosen products are keynote-ready. For software, this can be hard to decide: the engineering work is usually still underway, so he will make a preliminary determination based on seeing unfinished software. More than once this has caused some tense moments in rehearsal when programs haven't behaved.Baptism of fireMy first experience of this preparation came in the runup to the Macworld Expo keynote of January 2001, which was to include new Macs able to burn DVDs - then an amazing capability. Steve wanted to show off the new software, iDVD, that could do it. As I was the product manager for Apple's DVD software, I had to organise everything that Steve would need.The team and I spent hundreds of hours preparing for a segment that lasted about five minutes. Several weeks earlier Steve summoned me to demo the software, and highlight what I thought were its most interesting aspects. Of course he already knew most of this, but the process was still useful. He used the key points from these demos to mould his overall presentation and decide how much time each product would get.Next, my team was given the task of locating movies, photos and music to be used when he created his sample DVD on stage. Most companies would just choose some clip art, or hire a video producer to make some simulated "home movies". Steve wanted material that looked great, yet was possible for an average person to achieve. So we called on everyone we knew at Apple to submit their best home movies and snapshots. Before long we had an amazing collection of fun, cool and heartwarming videos and photos. My team picked the best and confidently presented them to Steve. True to his reputation as a perfectionist, he hated most of them. We repeated that process several times. At the time I thought he was being unreasonable; but I had to admit that the material we ended up with was much better than what we had begun with.Then came the process of the demo itself: what precise steps Steve should follow, whether the program should already be running on the computer, what sample movies to play, everything.With the demo set, my role was to stand by in case of technical problems with the software, or if Steve wanted to change anything. This gave me the opportunity to observe what was going on around me. The big keynotes require a very large crew with separate teams for each major task. One prepares the room to seat several thousand people. Another group builds the stage with its motorised pedestals, risers, trap doors, and so forth. A third manages the stage lighting, audio and effects.Yet another sets up and calibrates the state-of-the-art projection systems (complete with redundant backup systems), and a huge remote video truck parked outside has its own crew handling video feeds for the webcasts and playback of any video needed during the show. Then there are the people who set up all the computers used in the keynote, each with at least one backup that can be instantly brought online with the flick of a switch.And of course there's the secrecy. The impact of Steve's presentations depends on surprise; so once the rehearsals begin, security people help keep the curious out and the secrets secret. It was fascinating to watch. No detail was overlooked: for example, while rehearsing the iDVD demo, Steve found that the DVD player's remote control didn't work from where he wanted to stand on the stage. The crew had to make a special repeater system to make it work.So when Steve steps out on that stage, with its stark black-on-black colour scheme, and does his apparently simple demos, he brings the combined energy and talent of all those people and many more back in Cupertino, California, and channels it to the audience. It makes me think of a magnifying glass used to focus the power of the sun on one small spot until it bursts into flames.Fast forward a year; much to my surprise I was asked to do a demo in the keynote. And then I really learned about demos. In mid-2001 I had been promoted to manage both the DVD products and Apple's professional video-editing software, Final Cut Pro, a new version of which was to be released in early 2002.But Steve never does the demos of the pro software; he always relies on someone on the product team more familiar with its features and operation. The job fell to me. It turned out to be my lowest and highest point at Apple.Steve usually rehearses on the two days before a keynote. On the first day he works on the segments he feels need the most attention. The product managers and engineering managers for each new product are in the room, waiting for their turn. This group also forms Steve's impromptu test audience: he'll often ask for their feedback. He spends a lot of time on his slides, personally writing and designing much of the content, with a little help from Apple's design team.As each segment of the show is refined, Steve and his producer edit the slides live on a PowerBook so the revised slides can be used immediately. That day Steve was very methodical, going through every aspect of the show. He would test variations of content and flow, looking for the combinations with the most impact. When introducing a major new product, he also liked to show the TV commercial Apple would be using to promote it. Often these had been finished just minutes before rehearsals; Steve would sometimes preview alternate versions to gauge the team's reaction before deciding which to use.Crunch timeOn the day before showtime, things get much more structured, with at least one and sometimes two complete dress rehearsals. Any non-Apple presenters in the keynote take part on the second day (although they cannot be in the room while the secret parts - the unveiling of hot ticket hardware such as a new iPod or laptop - are being rehearsed.) Throughout it all Steve is extremely focused. While we were in that room, all his energy was directed at making this keynote the perfect embodiment of Apple's messages. Steve doesn't give up much of his personality even in rehearsals. He is strictly business, most of the time.I had worked on my five-minute Final Cut Pro demo for weeks, selecting just the right sample material and honing (I thought) my delivery to a fine edge. My boss and his boss were there for moral support. Steve, as was his custom, sat in the audience. I was very nervous, and having Steve's laser-like attention concentrated on me didn't help. About a minute into the demo, Steve stopped me, saying impatiently, "you gotta get this together or we're going to have to pull this demo from the keynote."I was devastated. I didn't even know how to respond, or if I should respond. Mercifully my boss and Phil Schiller (Apple's head of marketing, and a frequent keynote presenter) came to my rescue. Over the next few hours they worked with me to polish my demo. More importantly, Phil gave me some great advice: "Those 6,000 Mac fans out there in the hall aren't against you, they're the best friends you can have." The next day at final rehearsal, Steve watched me again. This time he gave it his nod of approval. It felt great; but the real work was yet to be done.Next morning, as I sat in the front row waiting for my turn on the stage, the full weight of the event hit me. There were several thousand people in the room, and approximately 50,000 watching the webcast. It was the very definition of pressure. Steve started the segment that preceded mine, and my heart started pounding. I felt those hundred thousand eyes all about to be focused on me and feared I would crumble. I had done a bit of public speaking before, but nothing like this.The assistant producer came over to me to guide me to the stairs at the side of the stage. I stood in the dark, watching Steve put up the slide that introduced me. Just then a wonderful thought hit me; in five minutes the whole thing would be over. If I could only keep going for five minutes I would be fine. I bounced up the stairs and on to the stage, and everything was suddenly OK. The demo worked perfectly, the audience seemed to love the product, and their applause was an incredible adrenaline rush.When it was over I received many compliments on how well it went, including the one I prize the most, from Steve himself.In the following months I was on stage for two more keynotes, and each time was incredibly grateful for the apparently harsh treatment Steve had dished out the first time. He forced me to work harder, and in the end I did a much better job than I would have otherwise. I believe it is one of the most important aspects of Steve Jobs's impact on Apple: he has little or no patience for anything but excellence from himself or others.&#183;Mike Evangelist left Apple in 2002 and is writing a book about his time there, provisionally called Jobs I've Known, live on his site,www.writersblocklive.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
To do a more exclusive search of government websites, you need, in Google, MSN or Yahoo, to add "site:gov.uk" at the end of your key words. With all three, this will restrict the results to material from websites with addresses ending in "gov.uk".It's not a perfect method. Firstly, you exclude public sector websites using different endings, such as those reserved for the UK military ("mod.uk"), academia ("ac.uk") and schools ("sch.uk"), as well as organisations that use the likes of "co.uk" and "org.uk", which although meant for UK companies and organisations respectively can be bought by anyone worldwide.Secondly, the results are ordered by the search engines' mathematical formulae, which endeavour to rank pages by their popularity. This usually produces the best results for the user, but is not so handy for the state sector trying to direct users to a certain place.Read the full article in this month'sPublic
The UK games industry got a royal nod again at the new year, with EIDOS founder (and essentially Lara Croft's sugar daddy) Ian Livingstone receiving theOrder of the British Empire. He joins other British games luminariesJez SanandPeter Molyneuxin the upper echelons of modern aristocratic culture. Congratulations!Hmm, don't see theRockstar Northboys getting anything yet, though they have produced the most successful computer games series in the world. Methinks this year'sBullywon't do much for their chances.For God and the Empire, indeed.viaMCV
No review this week so only one gaming article today'sTechnologysection. Luckily then, it's agood 'un. Our very own Keef gazes into his Live-enabled crystal ball and predicts that while the hype in 2006 will be on the next-gen battle, the games worth getting excited about remain on the current platforms. And he's right, with Twilight Princess being the perfect example. I've yet to hear how his spiv-em-up pitch went - 50 shillings anyone? - but fingers crossed.
This week's section is online. We've got an exclusive look at how Steve Jobs of Apple - who'll give another keynote next Tuesday - works up to his presentations: the amount of rehearsal (lots or none?), the secrecy, the backup systems. It's the story calledBehind the magic curtain, and it's written by former Apple staffer - and keynote co-presenter -Mike Evangelist.Meanwhile, if you want some new music but don't know where to listen, perhaps you need amusic recommendation system? Mark Lupton investigates.Then we have stories aboutthe Japanese vision of robots and humans, and Jack Schofield investigatesIntel's plans to leap aheadthis year.Danny Bradbury gets charged up onbattery technology- why isn't it better?There'sTechnobile- wondering why you can be a whizz at multitasking, but still get nowhere because the computer can't keep up.Two new sections:Short shriftthis week finds outWhich were the most common viruses in 2005?, is Google launching its own PC?, and is it time for a war on computers?MeanwhileNoteslooks at this week's important questions:How can I see all Caravaggio's master works in one place?;Can we stop talking about the Million Dollar Homepage yet?; andwhat is a WMF, and why should it worry me?Vic Keegan asks if youget the feeling you are being watched?, looking at last week's successful launch of Europe's Galileo global satellite navigation system, which will take surveillance into a whole new era.Gamesblog looks ahead to 2006:Love the new consoles, shame about the games. We have our ownpredictions for 2006(will Apple and the Xbox360 do well? Should they?)There arethis week's letters and blogs; send your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk. (please include your address and telephone number.)There's this week'sAsk Jack(send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk, and visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.)
Nintendo has just put out an extremely ebullient press release concerning sales of the DS and its software. Apparently the console has now shifted approximately four million units in North America and five million in Japan:"This makes the Nintendo DS the fastest-selling video game machine in the history of the Japanese video game market. In addition, Nintendogs, Animal Crossing: Wild World and the two games in the brain-training series (Brain Age and Brain Flex) achieved sales of more than 1 million units each."Surely this'll be the year that the whole 'brain-training' thing hits the rest of the world? These IQ-testing titles have been huge in Japan all year, but have yet to receive English translations - are we not interested in improving our minds in the West?Meanwhile, American gamers have bought one million copies of Mario Kart DS since November 14, and cutesy puppy sim Nintendogs has reached the 1.5 million sales mark. Great to see that there's still one area of the industry untroubled by the gangland shooter - or its cousin, the urban racer. I can't imagine Mario directing gamers to pimp his ride.Anyway, the seasonal cheer doesn't end there...Interestingly, WiFi multiplayer figures are also reasonably impressive:"All around the world, players have been competing on the new Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection wireless gaming service. Within seven weeks of the service launch more than 10 million game connections have been made and more than 550,000 unique visitors have connected globally."I'm really fascinated to see how handheld multiplayer gaming develops in 2006. There's scope here for a whole new etiquette to develop, a new world of transient leagues and tournaments springing up for a few hours then drifting away as journeys end and competitors move on. A whole new genre of game may be demanded to exploit the phenomenon.So what have your experiences of WiFi gaming been?
Apologies for the delay in delivering the lowdown on Bill Gates CES keynote - the venue was pretty much devoid of Wi-Fi and I've only just come up for air.But what happened?Well, Bill Gates told us a lot about where he sees the future of connected communications going. It's all a little bit Minority Report, but would be quite inspiring if it actually worked. A demo involved a touch-screen in the kitchen that displayed useful information like TV news, web feeds and calendars. A quick synch then enabled him to cart that data around and use other devices (like mobile phones) to stay connected. There was a very interesting triple screen that had a 3D desktop on it which may be a sign of things to come.Elsewhere, he told us that MTV's going to launch a new music service called Urge that looks like it will be integrated into Windows Media Player. In fact, Justin Timberlake came on stage to prop this one up, but he didn't elicit much response from the audience, who I guess aren't that into boyband pop singers - go figure.There was also the juicy tidbit that Microsoft are working with Sky to launch a video-on-demand TV service over the internet for British customers.They showed off Vista a bit, and some of its capabilities looked good - but many of them looked like things that other systems (including Apple's OS X Tiger) already do. Personally I'm fed up of seeing these demonstrations of new operating systems that all run on high spec machines which few of us are actually going to have in our homes.For light relief, Steve Ballmer came on to challenge Bill to a game of Fight Night on Xbox 360. No surprise that Gates won out against a supremely bouncy and aggressive Ballmer, but judging by the way Steve yelped and shouted his way through his appearance, I'm more convinced than ever that he's related to Howard "The Scream" Dean.What else? Oh yes: more bad news for Blu-Ray, as he confirmed that MS are going to be releasing a plug-in HD-DVD drive for the 360. How things change.Incidentally, when I was standing in the queue to go into the venue, one Mr Gates brushed past - replete with security detail and a striking red pullover. But when he stepped up onto the stage, he was jumperless. What happened Bill?He was probably worried that we'd think he was a creative communist or something...
Forged and bouncedI run a small business with a website and a catch-all email address. I keep getting emails headed Mail Failure Notification addressed to postmaster@(my web address). It looks like someone is sending spam and pretending it is from me, but these messages are not going out through my mail system. How can they do this and how do I stop it?Dr Jim SpeakmanJack Schofield replies:You can't. It's very easy to forge the From and Reply-To address in emails, and many companies simply bounce rejected and undeliverable messages to these addresses, even though everybody knows it's not where they originated. There have been attempts at patching this defect in the internet email system, and the leading example is SPF (Sender Policy Framework).With SPF, you publish a record that states explicitly that, for example, "XYZ only sends email from IP address 123.45.678.90 and the mailservers at xyz.co.uk" and so on. A service provider that uses SPF, such as AOL, can check incoming emails, and if they didn't originate from the stated places, discard them as forgeries. SPF is not in widespread use, but it probably does have enough users to reduce the volume of forged email.Full details of how to set up SPF are published on the Open SPF website atwww.openspf.org. If you control your own domain, the site has a wizard that will enable you to publish an SPF record. If not, you can contact your ISP and encourage it to start using SPF.So while you cannot stop people from forging your address, you can reduce the amount of forged email that is delivered.You could also considering changing your catch-all email address. A catch-all address is useful if your name, or your business name, is often misspelled, because it will accept all email sent to your domain name (anything@xyz.co.uk). You can change this and only accept email sent to specific addresses (jim@xyz.co.uk, sales@xyz.co.uk and so on). You can then reject emails sent to unspecified addresses at the server. However, your domain should have working postmaster and abuse accounts.Finally, you can improve your spam defences by getting your mail from a server running Spam Assassin, or routing your email via a cleaning service that uses Spam Assassin (http://tinyurl.com/bh7ma). Spam Interceptor (http://si20.com) is a web-based option. If you have to do your own filtering, try Post Armor (www.postarmor.com) which being Java is cross-platform, or MailWasher Pro (www.mailwasher.net) for PCs. These can delete unwanted mail on the server, without downloading it. Both have free versions.Power savingWill I damage my computer and video equipment if I disconnect it overnight? I am concerned that most of my power consumption is during "standby"!Richard BeatonJS:There certainly used to be a feeling that leaving equipment running gave better reliability, by avoiding power surges and the mechanical strains involved in starting things like hard drives. However, I can't see any evidence that this applies today, and much equipment now "stops" to a standby mode simply to save startup time. (A PC's off switch may not turn it off, unless you hold it down for about five seconds.) You may reduce the risk of fire if you physically unplug electrical equipment.You can get a rough idea of electricity use from the size of the item's power supply. To check standby use, it may be worth investing in a simple plug-in mains power and energy monitor such as the L61AQ from Maplin (http://tinyurl.com/amsw7). For monitoring household use, an Australian invention has arrived in the UK as the Electrisave (www.electrisave.co.uk) - a small device that clips on to your electricity meter and tells you how much your house is spending per minute.Secure sitesI am unable to access secure websites with Internet Explorer.Veronica WhiteJS:Sorry, there is no simple solution. First, go the VeriSign site (http://tinyurl.com/5at4o) to verify that your browser should work correctly at https/SSL sites. Next, try to repair your version of IE, as described on the Elder Geek site (http://tinyurl.com/56rjh). You need a Windows CD to do this. Microsoft also has a help page: How to troubleshoot problems accessing secure Web pages with Internet Explorer 6 Service Pack 2 (http://tinyurl.com/ey3s8). Some secure sites, such as bank sites, will only work with IE, but it is worth trying an alternative browser, and both Firefox and Opera are free.Backchat&#183;Last year, Tony Mackie asked about defragmenting his XP hard drive, and my answer mentioned the master file table and the "MFT Zone". Dave English, a software and systems engineer adds that "the XP command line 'defrag -a -v c:' will report the number of MFT fragments. Apparently it can get it itself down to two." He uses a free SysInternals program called Contig to defragment individual large files, and says: "Apparently its PageDefrag will defragment system files such as the registry at boot time." Seehttp://tinyurl.com/932zu.jack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
An interesting sidebar to the whole of CES is the fact that the technology show this year is running alongside another Las Vegas favourite: the Adult Entertainment Expo. According to one local listings mag, this gathering of porn luminaries "manages to bring in fans from around the world who are eager for a chance to catch sight of and get autographs from the biggest stars of the 'other' Hollywood". I don't know if they're going to be extolling the virtues of high definition TV as well.I'm not sure whether I should suspect that there's something behind this interesting clash of dates - it certainly panders to my worst instincts about the tech industry - but of course I'm actually quite concerned that some unfortunate CES attendees could turn the wrong way down a corridor and find themselves in the middle of something rather surprising.
One of the big scraps here at CES is clearly over whether Blu-Ray or HD-DVD will emerge as the standard for high definition storage. If you've not kept up with this, both are essentially attempts at a next-generation disc that will be able to store top notch high def pictures. While I've levelled questionspreviouslyabout whether the entire HD disc question is overblown, the manufacturers have clearly gone off all guns blazing.So this morning, Toshiba - the main player behind HD-DVD - was extolling the virtues of its plans and revealing that its first players would behitting the market in March this year. First blood, then.On the other hand, Philips - which held a press conference this afternoon - was being more circumspect. As a European company, I was hoping that Philips would have home markets in mind: not so.While Rudy Provoost, the chief executive of Philips CE, was showing off a Blu-Ray player and pronouncing that Blu-Ray was "positioned to become the de facto standard", he said it wouldn't hit the American market until the second half of 2006 and remained utterly vague on price.He was relatively clear on when we might see Blu-Ray in Europe, though - not for a long time. The continent is "still in HD broadcast adoption", he said, continuing by saying that "we will probably first focus on north America". In many respects this makes sense; after all, if Britain is yet to have any mainstream high definition programming, it seems unlikely that there will be a huge market for HD players before the end of this year. But what if HD-DVD gets there first?Another interesting piece of information which came out was when Provoost said that Philips was in cahoots with Microsoft to "take VoIP on PC to a whole new level". Looks like one to watch when Bill Gates steps up to the podium later tonight. Hopefully we'll be bringing you Gates' keynote speech as it happens.
A WMF is a Windows Metafile - an image - and is the latest avenue for attack on hundreds of millions of Windows PCs around the world. And the fact that the existence of this hole only emerged during the Christmas break has given malware writers a valuable few days to subvert computers that might otherwise have been protected.A (still) unpatched hole in Windows means that those PCs, perhaps including yours, could be compromised or taken over simply as a result of viewing an infected image file. And such "infected" files began circulating at the end of last year, while links to images circulated via instant messaging programs.The vulnerability goes a long way back. It is a feature of code written in the 1980s and affects all versions from Windows 3, released in 1990. F-Secure, a security company based in Finland, says it "probably affects more computers than any other security vulnerability, ever".The exploit was publicised on December 28, but made little impact outside security circles; most people were still enjoying their Christmas break. But the potential exists for disaster, as malware distributors could find plenty of victims as innocent users return to work.The attack comes when Windows' Picture and Fax Viewer program is used to display a WMF image. Unfortunately this is not easy to avoid, for three reasons. First, the WMF can be renamed as a JPeg, and Windows will still open it. Second, many programs in effect open image files without displaying them: Google Desktop Search is one example. Third, even if you use a different program to view images, it may still call the underlying Windows code to display a WMF.Microsoft's advice is to unregister shimgvw.dll, the file Windows uses to display WMFs. This may stop users from viewing JPeg files; use other programs instead. A temporary fix for Windows XP SP2 by Ilfak Guilfanov (http://tinyurl.com/8eruk) works on many versions, but not Windows 98/SE/Me.Use Firefox or Opera rather than Internet Explorer for browsing: they will at least ask if you want to open WMFs (say no). Also, update your antivirus software. The WMF exploit is not a new kind of malware, just a new way of inserting a backdoor that can be used by identifiable Trojans and viruses, or new variants. Anti-virus developers are also trying to block the WMF exploit, while waiting for a Microsoft patch. For more, visitwww.f-secure.com/weblogand athttp://blogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Games journalists would have you believe that every year in this industry is one of relentless excitement - it's how we justify those easy-to-write preview features that dominate games mags every January. But 2006 - with a three-way battle between Microsoft's Xbox 360, Sony's PlayStation 3 (PS3) and Nintendo's Revolution - will justify the hype. This is year one of the next generation - a generation of multicore consoles that take a great swing away from past technology.However, those hoping for a new game type to take us into the high-definition era may be disappointed. The most anticipated titles of this year are franchise old-timers - Final Fantasy XII on PS2; Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess on GameCube; Metal Gear Solid 4 and Vision Gran Turismo on PS3; and Tomb Raider Legend on practically everything. Publishers are still relying on games that have been around for more than a decade. Yawn.Perhaps the best we can hope for is a few genre mashups. Dirge of Cerberus from Square Enix, for example, is a shoot-'em-up based around role-playing game (RPG) classic Final Fantasy VII, while the long-awaited Starcraft Ghost will be a stealth action take on the successful battle strategy series. I fully expect some bright spark to combine last year's key genres - the second world war shooter and the gangland adventure. In this spiv-'em-up, you travel around Europe selling silk underwear and contraband dairy products while occasionally bashing Fritz. Come to think of it, I'll pitch it to Electronic Arts this afternoon.A few original titles lurk in the shadows. If you own a PS2, the domestic robot sim Chibi Robo, the surreal collecting game We Love Katamari and the extraordinary Japanese adventures Shadow of Colossus and Okami should all be on your must-have list. The Nintendo DS has more offbeat treats, with courtroom drama Phoenix Wright and hospital adventure Trauma Centre coming soon.Those despairing to ever see a game hero named Alan should hold out for Xbox 360 psychological horror title Alan Wake, about an author who finds himself in his own nightmarish fictional world. The 360 does well for original titles - look out for Bioware's much-vaunted sci-fi RPG Mass Effect, and Too Human, a proposed space adventure trilogy from Silicon Knights, the Canadian chaps behind Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes and excellent GameCube adventure Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem.Of course, there will also be Rockstar - this time with Bully, a Grand Theft Auto-goes-to-school shocker. As for leftfield sleeper hits, I'd put a few quid on Psychonauts, a surreal cartoon adventure by Tim Schafer, the co-creator of such LucasArts classics as Day of the Tentacle and Grim Fandango. It's another one about school kids - this time set in a psychic summer camp. Perhaps education will be the hip genre of 06. Now that really would be shocking.blogs.guardian.co.uk/games&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Phishing will still be a reality with IPv6Key claims in the article on IPv6 (Bigger and better: the internet gets a sixth sense, December 22) are wrong. Even if most of the internet migrates to version 6, spam and phishing can still occur. The people sending these will write viruses that take over computers, and issue messages coming from them. This does not involve spoofing of email headers. So the ability of version 6 to detect the latter is moot. This already happens under version 4. Some spammers use this to inject their email into the net.Wes BoudvilleIt can go two ways. Tim Berners-Lee's way - where IPv6 will enable us to make free mobile calls, send video clips and films to each other without spending a penny, and video conference with the fridge to see its contents ... or Santa Claus's way - "I want your money baby, HOHOHO!" Let's hope for the former.www.playwithus.co.uk/blog.htmlOpenOffice still has timeWhat a change to see someone not evangelising about one software camp or the other (If this suite's a success, December 8). I am, however, under the impression that you are seeing the Microsoft product through rose-tinted glasses. OpenOffice is only on its second open source release. How many (major) releases of Word have there been? About eight? So the bug in version 1 is still there ... but so is the fact that Word still cannot cope with large documents. The jury is out as to whether open source is faster to fix bugs, as OpenOffice has several years in hand when compared with your benchmark - Word.Andy SimpkinsOpen source is the best way to provide competition to software monopolies. The commercial stuff gets better, faster, than it otherwise would. For users who can't afford commercial products, open source creates an alternative that is nearly as good in most areas, better in some, and worse in some areas, too. But that's a lot better than no alternative.Rick BoothI was surprised you printed a letter in support of Andrew Brown's deluded article. I know the suite has its problems, but it is a poor choice as the paradigm for the open source software movement. Firefox is a far better example: a great many people - unpaid, in the vast majority of cases - have combined to produce a stable and effective product with community support.Stuart DunkeldNot the full pictureContrary to what David Hewson says, you can buy Fujifilm 1600 ISO film in any camera shop (How to shed light on dark photos, December 22) and it is processed exactly the same as any other colour negative film. Boots accepts it and the results from my point-and-shoot camera are excellent, with or without flash.Joe TarrantI thought Hewson's article didn't give a full picture, and came across more as an advertorial for Fuji cameras, which I have tried on several occasions and always found disappointing. Fuji's hexagonal CCD technology, while a clever idea, is poor in execution, and Fuji shots are typically soft - looking out of focus at worst.There are two main issues with low-light digital photography, which are mentioned - noise and camera shake. Noise is caused by squeezing too many photo elements into too small a sensor. This is why a six megapixel digital SLR will produce a cleaner image than an eight megapixel compact: the sensor in the SLR is bigger. Leaders in the field of anti-shake technology are Konica and Minolta, who use it in their models.Rob McMinnBuckinghamSpiders need feedingJust one point to add to your article about RSS feeds (The price of full feeds, December 8). Full feeds make life easier for automated aggregators. They are more predictably structured than most HTML, and spiders can pick up the whole post more easily and work out what the blogger is writing about.David Harbottle
Intel plans to leap ahead this year with a new strategy based on its Core Solo and Core Duo processors, a new media PC platform called Viiv, and a new logo where the "Leap Ahead" tagline replaces "Intel Inside". That, in one sentence, is the gist of the speech that Intel boss Paul Otellini will give later today in the theatre of the Las Vegas Hilton, on the first day of the giant Consumer Electronics Show (CES). If you miss that, Intel is planning a $2.5bn marketing blitz to make sure you've got the idea.But Viiv - which rhymes with alive - is just a new version of the Entertainment PC that Otellini's predecessor, Craig Barrett, showed in his CES keynote a year ago. And the Core chips that will ultimately replace the Pentium brand name are just the long-expected continuation of the Pentium M line.Of course, platform companies like Intel and Microsoft cannot keep their announcements secret. There's no point in Otellini doing a song and dance routine for a new chip. It only makes sense when hundreds or preferably thousands of manufacturers start building it into saleable products, and these take months to develop. In fact, more than 200 companies are due to launch notebook PCs based on Core processors, and NEC announced one in December.Apple could also make an announcement next week at its Macworld show and, given Steve Jobs's negotiating skills, may be the first to ship Core Duo systems, if only by hours.The first dual-core Core Duo chip was previously known as Yonah, and the codename indicates the revolution that has already happened. Yonah is part of a series that started with Banias - the processor used in the Centrino wireless mobile PC chipset - and continues through Dothan and Yonah to Merom. All come from Intel's lab in Israel, which jumped off from a Pentium III design codenamed Tualatin, after a river in Oregon.Many of Intel's US designs got their codenames from local rivers, including Deschutes, Klamath, Yamhill and Willamette, all in Oregon. This line of fast but hot-running Pentium chips is now being superseded as the power-efficient Israel-derived processors take over the mainstream.Indeed, it's tempting to wonder whether the choice of Yonah (Jonah) signifies repentance for the Pentium 4's NetBurst architecture, which stalled at less than 4GHz.Either way, Shmuel (Mooly) Eden, general manager of Intel's mobile platforms group, claims in the current issue of Business Week that: "It's a change from speeds and feeds to customer needs."The first customer need is for mobile PCs that are smaller, lighter, faster, cooler and run for longer on batteries. Intel reckons Yonah (Core Duo) chips can cut power consumption and size by about 30% while delivering almost 70% better performance than old single-core Pentium M chips.The second need is for small, fast and extremely quiet PCs that are more suitable for home entertainment systems than old-style tower cases with high-speed fans. You could think of them as basically notebook PCs with a separate LCD screen - or without a screen, like Apple's Mac mini. Home entertainment is the target market for many Viiv designs, and it is rumoured that Apple will offer a Mac OS X-based alternative.TThe third need is for cooler chips for multi-processor servers, particularly the ones packaged in thin cases for blade servers. Core chips should deliver more than enough performance while reducing the cost of cooling systems and slashing electricity costs. On the way is a server-class chip code-named Sossaman, and according to Tom's Hardware website (www.tomshardware.com), this will be followed by Woodcrest, with the quad-core Clovertown and Whitefield versions expected in 2007 and 2008. There may even be eight-core versions.Where the Banias/Donath/Yonah line does not shine is in applications where maximum performance is required, especially high-speed gaming. Intel knows it can be done, because AMD chips have often delivered better gaming performance at lower clock speeds. But users will have to wait a year for the first real desktop processor in the Core range, Conroe, named after a lake in Oregon.Then we'll find out how far Intel has really changed, apart from the marketing.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If computers are so fantastic, so amazingly smart and clever, how come I'm so much faster at doing things?Like your fat friend at school, computers lag behind, slowing you up. You want to check your email while writing a letter. So you click on the email program. "Hang on," pants the overweight jumble of chips, "I'll be there in a sec."You wait a bit, give up and decide to get on with writing the letter. Blimey! it wheezes, give us a second, I haven't even got to the inbox yet. Never mind. But get half a sentence in, and there, it throws up the email program, blocking your way. If you're unlucky enough to be holding down the shift or control key at the time, suddenly you've given it some command and off it shoots doing God knows what."Oh, sorry about that. Didn't realise you had &#91;wheeze, splutter&#93; moved back to the, er ..."Yes, thank you. Can't you try to please be a little quicker?Even if you give your computer extra Ram, perhaps even splash out on a new, faster hard drive, the same thing eventually happens. Sure, it's delightful for a few weeks. But that's just because of the difference. Before you know it, it is back to its old ways, stuffing its face with data and painfully keeping up the rear.In the modern world, we're expected to multitask, so why the hell can't our computers? It's not as if you're asking that much. Its day's work comprises: wake up, open browser, connect to internet. Open word processor. Open email. Then, eight hours later, close them all. Even that, it seems, is too much.It used to be that I could press the power button, walk to the supermarket, buy some bread, a paper and some milk, and get back just in time for the sweaty mass to ask for my password. These days,with the extra Ram, I have a quick shower and it pretends it's been ready for ages. Within 20 minutes, the pretence is dropped as an unexpected PDF attachment gives it a hernia.Other times, it just gives up. "Program has encountered an error" it gasps, and collapses on the sofa where you have to do the equivalent of bringing it a cup of tea and promising to go slower in future. Why should I have to be nice to this thing? It's a machine. If the lawnmower cut the grass as badly as my laptop carries out its tasks, it would be in a skip.Wouldn't it be nice if, just for once, you turned on your PC and it opened the self-same programs you open every single day without you having to go over here and double-click, and go into that menu and click. And scroll to that option and click. And click OK. And click OK ...It's not OK. It's not Cancel either. It's Get Your Arse In Gear Son.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Whatever gadgets you got for Christmas, one thing's certain: amid specifications as speed, megapixels or tariff, nobody asked how long the battery would last.Yet batteries matter more and more as growing numbers of gadgets turn portable. Whether it's a camera or digital music player, radio, camcorder or mobile phone, it has a battery.The energy that a rechargeable battery can store depends on its size and "energy density" - the amount of power stored in a given volume of material, normally measured in watt-hours per kilogram (Wh/kg). Given the emphasis on smaller, lighter consumer electronics products, higher energy density is the holy grail.Rechargeable batteries release electrical power by reacting chemicals inside them; they store it when electricity flows into them, reversing the chemical reaction. Designers seeking higher energy density have struggled to find the ideal chemical mixture, but other considerations have complicated matters: how many times can the reaction occur before it is irreversible, killing the battery? How quickly can the reaction be reversed for recharging?For mobile phones, at least, the industry had solved the battery problem in the early 1990s, recalls Mark Western, who works at Phillips advising on market trends for its mobile phone research and development. "It got difficult again when 3G came along," he says. "Now, with multimedia phones, battery life is becoming a real battleground." Meanwhile, laptops still cannot offer a full day's battery, and camcorders are limited to a few hours' filming.The energy requirements of consumer devices have increased faster than rechargeable batteries' capacities. Low-capacity nickel cadmium (NiCd) batteries, with a density of around 50Wh/kg, were superseded by higher-capacity nickel metal hydride (NiMH) in the late 1980s, taking density up to around 80Wh/kg. But these batteries were flawed: unless fully discharged from time to time, the chemicals degraded to a stable, electrically inert substance. This gave the batteries an unwanted "memory", limiting capacity; and they tended to discharge when not used.Longer lifeToday's notebook and phone batteries use lithium ion (Li-ion) technology, with a density of about 150Wh/kg, and no memory problem. Nevertheless, all is not well in batteryville, says Mike Trainor, whose card describes him as "chief mobile technology evangelist" at Intel. "Li-ion technology advanced in capacity terms at 10% per year through the 1990s before tapering off," he says. Current Li-ion battery packs for laptops carry around 55Wh of energy. To reach Intel's stated goal of an eight-hour battery life, that needs to be about 72Wh. But how?Don't expect a new technology to replace Li-ion, says Donald Sadoway, professor of materials chemistry at MIT. "We're not going away from lithium. That's the best there is," he says. So how can researchers improve its capacity?One way to increase the capacity of a lithium battery is to make the electrodes (the electrical terminals inside the battery) from different materials. Last February, Sony exchanged the graphite traditionally used for the anode for a material based on tin, which can store more lithium atoms. A month earlier, Panasonic, working with Intel, added nickel to the cathode, reducing the voltage level at which the battery must be recharged, thus increasing its capacity.These and other techniques will increase the capacity of Li-ion dramatically in the next five years, says Sadoway. "If we put everything together in an intelligent way, we should be looking at something in the vicinity of two times &#91;present&#93; Li-ion performance," he promises; that equates to 300Wh/kg in 2011.Another solution could be zinc-air batteries, which have high energy density (around 200Wh/kg) and need no fuel, instead oxidising air with zinc. This technology, often used for hearing aid batteries, has a crucial downside: it is not rechargeable. Nevertheless, Nokia has been experimenting with it for Bluetooth headsets.Improvements in Li-ion performance will mostly be incremental, warns Intel's Keates, who says that in recent years performance has increased just 6-7% per annum. Can that rate of improvement continue? "We think so, but we don't know at this point." This is why the company is hedging its bets with investments in Li-ion research, fuel cells and other alternatives. A promising firm in its portfolio is Zinc Matrix Power, which hopes to bring rechargeable silver-zinc batteries to the notebook market in mid-2007. The upside: a 240Wh/kg energy density. The downside: the high cost of silver, which will be passed on to customers.Don't expect to see a huge step change in portable energy for some years. In the meantime, we'll have to rely on a combination of better chemistry and smarter power management. Intel has already tackled power issues with the Centrino and its coming dual-core chips will continue to drive notebook requirements down. A combination of R&amp;D efforts in both chemistry and silicon will help keep us going for longer before juicing up.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
At the recent international robotics exhibition in Japan, Joe Engelberger blasted the Japanese robotics industry for wasting time and money making humanlike robots. He saw "nothing serious. Just stunts. There are dogs, dolls, faces that contort and are supposed to express emotion on a robot. They are just toys."Engelberger is considered by many to be the father of robotics. His company, Unimation, installed the first robot in the General Motors car plant in 1961. Along with other robotics experts, he believed then that by the early 2000s, robots would have taken over many jobs. They haven't.Engelberger is critical of efforts by Japanese companies to create humanoid robots. He sees such efforts as a distraction from developing robots with a specific function. He believes companies such as Honda spend money making walking, talking robots such as Asimo as a way of demonstrating technical competence.But not everyone shares Engelberger's view. Professor John Gray, a robotics expert based at Salford University, thinks that trying to create a humanoid robot is as useful as trying to get a man on the moon. "It was by taking on such an enormously difficult scientific challenge that a lot of spin-off technologies were created," he argues.Gray points out that the drive to get a man to the moon also had critics, who demanded the money be spent on more directly beneficial research. But Gray believes it was America's commitment to the space race that resulted in its becoming "paramount in technology".Cultural differenceEngelberger also argues that the Japanese interest in humanoid robots is partly cultural. Takuya Fukuda, senior manager at Kawasaki Robots UK, agrees. He thinks the Japanese fascination with robots starts at a very young age: "A lot of us grew up reading Atom Boy manga comics. Now we are the ones developing the robots."But part of Engelberger's argument is that robots don't have to look human to be useful to humans. The average industrial robot, for example, looks nothing like a human but has transformed manufacturing. His company, Helpmate, has developed a robot that delivers medicines in hospitals. "It looks like a fridge on wheels, but people still talk to it."Engelberger wants to see more service robots, and is keen that technology be used to create robots to help care for older people. For Japan, along with all the other industrialised nations, faces a demographic time bomb: by 2050 more than a third of its population will be over 65. Engelberger points out that the market for such robots is worth about &pound;6bn a year.But it seems the Japanese are already on to this. Professor George Bekey, of the University of Southern California, led a team of US robotics researchers on a tour of robotics laboratories in Japan and Korea. They visited 25 labs and "about 90% were involved in some way with the design of robots for the elderly".Professor Bekey believes that such work has led to "great advances in sensors, actuators, controllers, stability and software", which will find their way into this new generation of service robots. He insists that "human-robot interaction, including the ability to express and interpret emotions, will be a significant component of future systems".So will robots step out of the factory floor and into the home to look after ageing parents - or our ageing selves? Dr Ken Young, chairman of the British Robotics Association, is not convinced. "The British will not be satisfied with the idea of robots looking after the elderly. It would seem like a factory to maintain old people and what kind of existence is that? I'd rather be shot."But the Japanese vision is of robots working alongside humans. Honda has just announced that from April, it will have a robot working as a receptionist, while in Tokyo recently, the latest "female android" was paraded. Young recognises that the Japanese "don't feel any ethical dilemmas about these things".But it is clear from the latest UN survey that the use of robots is continuing to grow. In 2003, about 400,000 "domestic" robots were bought; by 2007 that is expected to reach 4.1 million. They are also present in electrical appliances, security systems, medicine, defence systems, and cleaning equipment to name a few. They are taking on jobs in food manufacturing and silicon chip factories.But the growth in robots is the fastest in Asia: their number grew by 57% in the region in 2004, but doubled in Korea.When Engelberger introduced robots into industry people were soon talking of "lights-out" factories run solely by robots. This hasn't happened everywhere; but it's clear that the rise of the robot is continuing. Who knows, one day they may even be looking after you.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you think surveillance in Britain has reached the limits of acceptability, then think again. Last week's successful launch of Europe's Galileo global satellite navigation system will take surveillance into a whole new era. When it is fully operational in 2010 it will be able to locate people, cars, mobile phones, planes, trains, goods in transit, front door keys, and maybe even footballs, to within a metre of where they are - and it will be able to tell how far off the ground they are as well. It will make the present US-controlled global positioning system (GPS), which claims 10-metre accuracy if the location is right and you are outdoors, look like an early Meccano set.Will protesters hit the streets complaining about yet more invasions of privacy? I doubt it. As with CCTV cameras - of which Britain has more per capita than anywhere else in the world - the benefits will hugely outweigh the loss of any personal liberty. We will probably embrace the change faster than most European countries and could also take the lead in creating applications. The omens so far are good. The satellite launched last week on the back of a Russian rocket was made by a University of Surrey spin-off company. Britain also supplied 40% of the ideas for commercial applications in an EU-organised competition though it was not the actual winner. That was a French company, which is planning fleets of lightweight "green" vehicles that can be left anywhere in a city and then located by any signed-up users through their mobile phones and activated by smart cards once they have climbed into the driving seat.When it was first mooted, Galileo was dismissed by some critics as the common agricultural policy of the skies. After all, the world already had a free GPS system, albeit controlled by the US military, which could switch it off or downgrade it in emergencies, so why waste taxpayers money on a duplicate?Actually, Galileo is looking like the smartest commercial move the EU has yet made - and that includes the highly successful Airbus and maybe even the adoption of a common GSM standard for mobile phones, which was mainly responsible for Europe acquiring a world lead in wireless technology. It could propel Europe into a leading-edge role in the exploitation of accurate satellite positioning products even though China is a partner as well.What products? The most successful applications may well be those no one has yet even envisaged - but there are still plenty of obvious ones that will almost guarantee a multibillion business emerges.If locator chips were embedded in cars and trains it could lead to a dramatic improvement in safety as automatic warnings could be given to drivers about speeding, driving too close to the car in front or even veering from a lane at a dangerous moment. If they were embedded in all cars it would make car theft pointless. It would be a dream for governments considering electronic congestion charging.The provision of location-based services (nearest restaurant or cash machine, etc), games and child locators would be a doddle. You won't need to worry how long it will be before your guests arrive - just look on the internet for where their car is. It is a small step from this to being able to pinpoint the nearest webcams (eg, to discover weather or traffic conditions) by tapping in a postcode.There are frightening implications for civil liberties if people or organisations (governments, criminals) abuse this awesome monitoring power - though it would probably only take the arrest of one high-profile drug dealer or terrorist as a result of a tracking device for the nation to relax.The most likely outcome is that the country that spawned Nineteen Eighty-Four will embrace battalions of little brothers. The critical thing is who is ultimately in control. It is the difference between you knowing where your phone is and your phone knowing where you are.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
The wonder of digital photography has allowed a collection of 57 high-resolution photos of the 400-year-old originals to be created for a travelling exhibition. Created by the Italian government's broadcasting agency, Rai-Radiotelevisione Italia, the collection, entitled Caravaggio: una mostra impossibile! (the impossible collection), showcases full-scale reproductions of the masterpieces. They have been mounted on boards and lit so that they recreate (as far as possible) Caravaggio's interplay between dark and light - the "chiaroscuro".Trying to get all his surviving works into a single exhibition would require loans from museums, churches and private collections across the world - and create a security and insurance nightmare. Far simpler, then, to take high-definition photographs, create full-size prints, and exhibit those, lit from above or behind to create effects like an X-ray or a transparency, where cracks in the original can be seen.Rai says it used experts to ensure the colours matched the originals; that sometimes required four or five reprints. The organisers insist it is not a replacement for seeing the originals, but works as a teaching tool; and a much cheaper way to create a travelling exhibition.More than 300,000 people have viewed it in Europe, in places such as Rome, Naples and Malta - though the UK hasn't been on the itinerary. (The exhibition is currently touring the US.)The project has been expanded to 20,000 high-definition pictures of other works of art, which will be used for more "impossible" exhibitions. These could be by artist or theme, says Renato Parascandolo, assistant director general of Rai. "The aim is to let millions of people all over the world see the masterpieces of Italian art. It's an example of the 'democratization' of art," he writes in the exhibit catalogue.See the pictures, with an online "tour", atwww.caravaggio.rai.it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Almost. The scheme to sell every pixel on a 1,000 by 1,000 pixel webpage to advertisers for $1 each is almost over: the owner, Alex Tew, says he's down to the last 1,000 pixels (so he's $999,000 ahead already). There's an eBay auction (http://tinyurl.com/bov9o) where the highest bid, when we last looked, was $21,500 (that's $21.50, or &pound;12.60, per pixel) the auction ends on Wednesday.The site would probably give web design guru Jakob Nielsen a fit. It's a shimmering metropolis, as if every advertiser on the web were simultaneously yelling out to you. Not pretty, but profitable.Tew, 21, had the idea in August and is counting the days before he can leave the page to its own devices. He will still have to pay for its hosting, which could be pricy; the site received more than a million visitors in the past few days. The idea was to pay for his education - he's in his first year of business management at Nottingham University. Tew recently passed his driving test, so he has spent some of the money on a new black Mini."Some are wondering why I don't open a second page. I am determined to maintain the degree of exclusivity intrinsic to the ... concept," Tew explains on his blog.In a world where many people think the source of online riches lies in spamming, or selling pornography and unlicensed drugs, Tew may have proved you can make big money legitimately. In a marvellous irony the page contains links to companies offering "Find FREE MONEY for your Education!" and another suggesting "Advertise for free on my million dollar adpage". Yes, others are trying to mimic Tew's idea.Steel yourself for howls as would-be entrepreneurs wonder why nobody has visited their million-pixel pages - and the inevitable followup, where they hire spammers to pollute blogs and emails to push their ripoff version.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Philips plans to show a prototype of its Entertaible tabletop gaming platform at this week's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, combining "multi-player board and computer games in a uniquely simple and intuitive way," it says.The Entertaible -- developed at Philips' HomeLab research center in Eindhoven, the Netherlands -- is based on a 30-inch touch screen LCD with "a series of infrared LEDs and photodiodes discretely mounted around the perimeter. Entertaible can simultaneously detect dozens of objects, including fingers," says the company.It's not going to be cheap, so Philips is targeting "the out-of-home game market such as restaurants, bars, and casinos". However, it reckons the Entertaible could evolve into a viable consumer product.As well as storing a number of games, it could also be used to download new games and to play online.It will be at CES booth 9024 for visitors to play.
A press release just landed in my inbox from Philips, hitherto makers of high-end technology and former dabblers in computer games appliances (for a bit of computer games history, check out the handbags at dawn between Philips and Nintendohere). TheConsumer Electronics Showhas kicked off in Fabulous Las Vegas and at their booth they'll be showcasinga 30-inch horizontal LCD incorporating touch screen-based multi-object position detection and allows players to engage in a new class of electronic game, which combines the features of computer gaming, including dynamic playing fields and gaming levels, with the interaction and tangible playing pieces - such as pawns and dies - of traditional board games.At the minute it may not be able to play the likes of Halo 2, or any other mega-graphics thing, but with Phillips' cash behind it, we can expect something like the Entertaible to hit the ground running instead of gasping its last for want of cash before it's released. It could even usurp the casual gamer market, like interactive DVDs did to shoe-inBuzz! The Music Quizthis Christmas.Previous novelties that have recently been predicted to revolutionise videogames include the next-genNintendo controllerandthisbizarre creation that seeped through internet waters last year from Total Immersions.
So finally, after just over a week, we reach the last two questions. But first, the answers toyesterday's questions:15) Dongle. Back in the days when piracy was rife and few people had instant communications to send each other licence numbers, software companies figured that the best way to get around people making copies of products was to have a physical product that was needed to activate the software. And it's a UK invention - credit goes to Graham Heggie, who used a passive device that ordered how pins from a cassette linked to the computer, to protect the Wordcraft program. And it worked - sales grew. Of course, they do tie up a port on the machine; and your machine might not have the right port (think of an office with a mixture of old and new machines; you'd need a mixture of USB and older-style connector dongles).16)NSLU2. There are plenty of articles about hacking it, of course; the top result on Google for "Linksys file server", in fact.And now,today's questions- the final two:17) ADSL is a popular form of broadband Internet, but what type of connector does the standard cable that plugs into the modem use?18) Which programming language is a human readable form of machine language?Answers tomorrow. If you want to see the preceding questions and answers (right back to thefirst), click the "Challenges" hyperlink by the post title above.
MacInTouch has surveyed more than 10,000 readers about "every laptop capable of running Mac OS X, encompassing 41 models sold over seven and a half years". More reliable models are highlighted in green and less reliable ones in red. Conclusions are drawn. For example:The white 12" iBook G3 series became much less reliable through its first five revisions, reaching a 73% failure percentage! The last revision dropped to a 49% failure percentage  much improved over the previous model, but still unconscionably high. The problems appear to have been solved, for the most part, in the newer iBook G4 series.By contrast, 17" and 15" Aluminum PowerBooks, PowerBook G3, and iBook G4 12" models all appear to have become more reliable as new versions were introduced. This may indicate that Apple engineers were able to learn from early problems and fix them.In the Conclusions section, MacInTouch says:Given the rate of repair of Mac laptops in our survey, extended warranties appear to pay off almost as often as not. We're somewhat concerned by the repair rates we saw in our survey, but PC World's January 2006 laptop reliability survey placed Apple squarely at the top of the list for both low problem rates and high owner satisfaction.Comment:I'd have liked MacInTouch to get its readers to runCoconutIdentityCard, which tells you about where and when your Mac was made, just to see if there were any significant differences between the various Taiwanese and Chinese manufacturers. Maybe next time?
A quick Christmas story. Many people experience chest pains at this time, and some of these are of the cardiac kind. Others are due to the nature of the feast.A 33-year-old lady was brought in with chest pain. She had all the "oh, oh" symptoms, with crushing central chest pain, profuse sweating, dizziness and nausea being prominent. Her initial ECG showed no changes. And bloods were taken. Her bloods came back negative.All is still not well ... she's sitting with her oxygen mask on, groaning in pain. We gave her a tickle of morphine and some metoclopramide and monitored her, because ... we were not happy to discharge her at this point. ECGs were performed and another set of bloods taken. After the all-clear for her heart, she was given advice about not overeating, and was discharged.Later, I had a conversation with a colleague whose boyfriend happened to be a waiter in the restaurant this lady had visited. It turns out she had started with soup, and then salad, then lobster with all the trimmings - three times. Then dessert, followed by cheese and biscuits. Topped off with coffee and a chocolate.It can be a real bugger when your stomach is so full that it's pressing hard on the diaphragm ... She really couldn't see that she didn't have a fatal illness, and could not relate to her intake of food being the cause of the problem.www.bogstandard.blogsource.com
Rebecca MacKinnon, "a recovering TV reporter-turned-blogger," has posted a long and interesting report aboutblogging in China, and censorship on Microsoft's popular MSN Spaces, amongst others. It says:On New Years Eve, MSN Spaces took down the popular blog written by Zhao Jing, aka Michael Anti. Now all you get when you attempt to visit his blog at:http://spaces.msn.com/members/mranti/is the error message pictured above. (You can see the Google cache of his blog up until Dec.22nd here.)Note, his blog was TAKEN DOWN by MSN people. Not blocked by the Chinese government.Anti is one of China's edgiest journalistic bloggers, often pushing at the boundaries of what is acceptable. (See a recent profile of him here, and an interview with Anti here.) His old blog at the U.S.-hosted Blog-city is believed to have caused the Chinese authorities to block all Blog-city blogs.Numerous people are up in arms about this, of course, including Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble. But there are also local complications, such as the competition between Bokee -- "China's largest domestically-owned blog hosting company" -- and MSN Spaces. Here, MacKinnon quotesRoland Soong:Bokee is going to go down in Internet history as calling in the Internet police to crack down on a blogger for exercising his constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech and the police did just that, and the motivation of Bokee was commercial in nature (that is, they want to use the government's security apparatus to damage MSN Spaces as a competitor). I know that this is one columnist's opinion, but Bokee had better make it very clear that they did not support that opinion AND also they do not support the disappearance of the Anti blog..But whose "constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech" is that, exactly? If a Chinese blogger writes in Chinese using a Chinese service (inlcuding MSN Spaces, operating in China), then surely local laws apply. You're not going to get "freedom of speech" in the UK or the US if you want to publish racist or seditious material, child pornography and similar things, regardless of any laws that might apply in your country of residence. There's nothing new about censorship, and it certainly isn't restricted either to MSN Spaces or China.Writing in English on a US-based service is another matter, but even then, a local administration can decide to take local action -- as the Chinese authorities seem to have done when they blocked not justAnti's blogbut all Blog City blogs from China. So one man's freedom to be heard ends up depriving many other people of their freedom to be heard.... as it would if all MSN Spaces were blocked in China.
Microsoft released its WMF security patch early, by mistake, reportsCNet:"It really was an inadvertent thing that happened," Fry Wilson said. "We have the security update on a fast track...(and) somebody accidentally posted a prerelease version on a community site. It has been taken down, and we don't recommend customers use it -- it is not the version that we will be releasing on Tuesday."The story adds:Microsoft's fix appears to be nearly done, said Steve Gibson, the president of Gibson Research in Laguna Hills, Calif. "It works great," said Gibson, who downloaded the file and tested it. It even works with a patch developed by European programmer Ilfak Guilfanov, he said.Steve Gibson comments: "The updated GDI32.DLL file contained in this patch, was built in the evening of December 28th, LAST WEDNESDAY. It is clear that Microsoft jumped on this problem  and had it resolved  almost immediately. But the nature of the installed base of Windows systems, and Microsoft's understandable need to be absolutely certain they don't break anything else with this new replacement GDI32.DLL, requires that they take the time to thoroughly test anything they change."The WMF exploit has hit about a million PCs, which is less than 0.2% of the user base.
If you're lucky enough to live with the countryside on your doorstep, bully for you. For us city-dwellers, however, the pastures pleasant of rural life can be the best part of an hour away by bike. Which is why green spaces are such a godsend.In this case, I have in mind Richmond Park. At nearly 2,500 acres, Richmond Park is definitely a lot of green space. In fact, it is Europe's largest urban walled park - walls first built in 1637 by Charles I, who brought his court to Richmond to escape an outbreak of the plague in London. Nowadays, the plague is slightly less of a factor, but the park is a popular oasis for urbanites of all stripes, and cyclists in particular.I was there last week, during the cold snap, and it was pleasant riding. The only real obstacle was the line of cars slowing down for the south-west London safari experience - deer-stalking in 4x4s - but at least it meant they were obeying the 20mph limit for once. To be fair, the deer are picturesque. They come in two types: fallow and red. The fallow deer are not much bigger than a large dog, but even in this smaller species, the stags look pretty magnificent; the antlers on the shaggier red deer are decidedly scary.But the human wildlife is distractingly exotic too. There are the dog- owners and walkers. Then the joggers and runners, whippet-like in their nervy leanness. And the portly, middle-aged men on mountain bikes - in shorts and T-shirts despite the near-freezing temperature. How do they do that?The majority of cyclists stick to the road circuit, a lap of about seven miles. On the long drag up from Richmond Gate, I overhauled another cyclist; we ended up riding together for a time. I admired his bike, which was obviously brand new. "It's titanium," he replied. But I knew that already.Because this is how evolved we human males are: we don't need to establish status by displaying huge horny growths on our heads like those dumb old deer. That's what we have bikes for.
ModelSaab 9-3 SportWagon 1.7 TiDPricefrom &pound;22,310Top speed121mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.5 secsConsumption51.4mpg (combined)Emissions:149g/km (road tax band C: &pound;115)At the wheelSven-Goran ErikssonThey'd rather walkSir Alex FergusonOn the stereoSmooth FMEn route forVilla ParkIf any company is in a position to sportify the estate car (an unlikely, even Sisyphean task), then Saab ought to be. The Swedish former aeroplane designer might now come under the arm of General Motors, along with Vauxhall and Chevrolet, but it still appears to be quietly minding its own business, slipping out cars that have, over their rivals, a touch of the maverick about them, a carefully preserved eccentricity and the air of something slightly from left field.You think of Saab's Swedish competitor, Volvo, and you think of safety and of drivers for whom self-protection has become the abiding and perhaps even sole concern - and if that means driving a car with all the romance and vim of a five-door meat locker, then so be it. You think of Saab, on the other hand, and you think of ignitions where the handbrake ought to be and handbrakes where the cupholders ought to go and of dashboards that look the way aeroplane cockpits used to look, back in the days when aeroplanes had propellers and a rear gunner. You'd back Saab more heartily than most to come up with a vehicle capable of implying that having fun and having an estate car were not mutually exclusive notions.So here comes the all-new Saab 9-3 SportWagon. At which point, be jubilant that you are reading about this car in a British publication, because the cosy and pleasant term SportWagon is, apparently, exclusive to the UK market, and everywhere else in Europe, people are going to be obliged to refer to this car as the "SportCombi" - a word that, surely, would prove difficult to say out loud in a dealership within the earshot of strangers without either giggling or experiencing a mild regurgitation.The SportWagon is Saab's first attempt to produce a medium-sized estate car for the premium market. Of course, it is nowhere near as sleek and desirable as the 9-3 saloon that gave rise to it - but neither would you be, if someone had just extruded your rear end and stuck a top-hinged door in it. Saab, for their part, claim to be heart-pumpingly proud of the SportWagon's "hewn from solid" look. But this may be their way of conceding that, from certain vantage points, it looks like a fallen chestnut tree.However, what's more important is that the SportWagon steers as tightly as any saloon, thunders away from standing positions, even with a modest 1.9 diesel engine in it, and corners in the manner made famous by slaloming skiers - this thanks to a special Saab arrangement whereby the rear wheels agree to help out, from time to time, with the steering. All of which converts the 9-3 SportWagon into a highly unusual, even unlikely wedding of practicality and, if not thrills (which would be asking too much), then at least a distant relation of thrills. As for the "medium-sized" aspect, I can only report that, with the back seats flattened, I got an adult bike in the back of my 9-3 SportWagon, without breaking anything, either on the car, the bike or myself.Meanwhile, the aeronautic cockpit, the ignition where the handbrake ought to be ... all are present and correct. And you can build on the eccentricity, if you wish, by adding on the optional "Smart Slot" system, which enables you to find a permanent and purpose-built home for, among other things, your ice scraper.Note also the switch that takes out all the dashboard's backlights, bar the one illuminating the speedometer, for a properly darkened, night-time driving experience. (If there is something you need to know, such as the fact that your water tank is about to explode, the relevant dial will, allegedly, reilluminate on its own.)Saab maintains that this is primarily a safety device, minimising the number of internal distractions available to the driver and finally dissuading him from studying the movements of the oil pressure gauge while navigating a treacherous mountain road after midnight. All true, undoubtedly, but let's not overlook the device's self- announcing possibilities as a seduction tool, making it, in its own way, as bachelor-tastic as the dimmer switch in a single man's sitting room.Of course, purists are bound to sigh deeply and lament that this is all fundamentally wrong - that you used to be able to rely on a Saab to look pleasingly like a boat, or certainly around the bonnet region. That was until, rather disappointingly, Saab began going in for the crimps and lines that characterise the more pointy, more thrusting front ends of their rivals' cars. (In the status-conscious modern saloon, the tendency is for the bonnet to look less like a lolling tongue and more like a sheriff's badge.) But if the new 9-3 doesn't resemble a boat, at least on the plus side it can, in SportWagon form, carry one - courtesy of the optional, roof-mounted canoe/kayak-clip.The roof-mounted kayak-clip may never know the fashionable glory, as a car accessory, of the roof-mounted ski-clip. (Back in the mid-1990s, roof-mounted ski-clips briefly and mysteriously enjoyed a vogue among rich professional footballers, despite the fact that rich professional footballers are disqualified from skiing by their clubs' insurance policies. But, hey, that's fashion. And rich professional footballers.) On the other hand, who knows? We could be about to enter the era of the kayak-clip. After all, a kayak-clip is undeniably handy, not only for sporty people, but also for that ever-expanding portion of the population that lives in areas prone to flooding. Accordingly, we may come to look back and appreciate that, in this area, Saab were ahead, literally, of the wave.
This week'sGo Digitalshow is up on the BBC site, and the tech programme has laid into (in a good way) the topic of Massively Multiplayer Online Games. I get a bit psychological with presenter Gareth Mitchell whileWonderland's Alice Taylor takes him through the juggernaut World of Warcraft, dropping a few of thosesuperb statisticsthat she's been so busy compiling. The show also meets Robbie Cooper, the photographer who's made his business taking snaps of avatars and their real-life counterparts.You can hear the whole thing by clicking throughthislink (the MP3 link isn't working).
I've arrived in Las Vegas ahead of theConsumer Electronics Show, one of the most high-profile tech fairs in the world - and the event that kicks off the new year for many tech-heads.It's a packed event at CES this year - bigger than ever before, and featuring a world of gadgets and gizmos of all shapes and sizes. Starting tomorrow with Microsoft big cheese Bill Gates, there are speeches from the industry's biggest wigs - the likes of Sony boss Howard Stringer, Intel head honcho Paul Otellini, Yahoo's Terry Semel and Google co-founder Larry Page.Of course, Page's talk will be closely watched since therumour of a Google PCsurfaced, but that's far from everything that's happening here: the show floor is immense (I've seen the figure of 28 football pitches bandied about) and full of interesting nooks and crannies.We'll be bringing you updates on the highs, lows and inbetween-bits.
"Ilfak Guilfanov's HexBlog web site has been administratively suspended due to excessive use. (Yeah, no kidding!)," writesSteve Gibson. He's one of the people hostingGuilfanov's unofficial patchfor the WMF vunerability. This is up to v1.4, but if you have already installed one version, you don't need another.CastleCopshas taken over the hosting of theHexblog forumandFAQ, and is also hosting theWMF fix.TheSunBeltblog is also hosting the patchhereMicrosoft has published another response on itsSecurity Response Center Blog. Kevin Kean says: " we have finished development of a security update to fix the vulnerability and are testing it to ensure quality and application compatibility. Our goal is to release the update on Tuesday, January 10, 2006, as part of the regular, monthly security update release cycle, although quality is the gating factor."The more formal version is theMicrosoft Security Advisory (912840).Meanwhile it's not clear how many people are at risk. At eWeek,Larry Seltzersays: "I have been testing a lot tonight and it appears to me that iDEFENSE is right: In a practical sense, only Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 (in all their service pack levels) are vulnerable to the WMF flaw. On other platforms, unless you have installed your own vulnerable default handler for WMF files, the likelihood of compromise even when a system is bombarded with malicious WMFs is low."Avery Parker adds: "I've been testing this for a couple days now and can find no configuration that a Win98 SE test system has been compromised. I've used IrfanView on the system as well." Detailshere.But as Sergeant Phil Esterhaus used to say after rollcall, "Hey, let's be careful out there."
Microsoft has updated itspage on the WMF vulnerabilitythough the best way to describe its stance is like Corporal Jones in Dad's Army: "Don't Panic!". (We'd prefer it to have sounded like Hitchhiker's Guide..)Microsoft has completed development of the security update for the vulnerability. The security update is now being localized and tested to ensure quality and application compatibility. Microsoft's goal is to release the update on Tuesday, January 10, 2006, as part of its monthly release of security bulletins. This release is predicated on successful completion of quality testing.So just stay calm.. breathe deeply.. and don't look at any images you shouldn't. Simple, really. Read something really in-depth about it at thisMicrosoft Security staffer's blog.Meanwhile theunofficial fixis being used pretty widely by all those who are concerned - though the site is very overloaded.Ed Bott also has aninteresting postshowing who did and didn't react quickly to the vulnerability: it's an interesting list. Is your AV vendor there? And in which group?Update by Jack: there are three links to the unofficial fix on theAsk Jack blog....
According to theLA Times:Sources say Google has been in negotiations with Wal-Mart Stores Inc., among other retailers, to sell a Google PC. The machine would run an operating system created by Google, not Microsoft's Windows, which is one reason it would be so cheap  perhaps as little as a couple of hundred dollars.Bear Stearns analysts speculated in a research report last month that consumers would soon see something called "Google Cubes"  a small hardware box that could allow users to move songs, videos and other digital files between their computers and TV sets.Larry Page, Google's co-founder and president of products, will give a keynote address Friday at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Analysts suspect that Page will use the opportunity either to show off a Google computing device or announce a partnership with a big retailer to sell such a machine.Comment:Doesn't sound like a good idea for Page &amp; Brin to get into a business they know nothing about, but there are plenty of manufacturers who would be happy to stick a Google badge on something to exploit the brand name. Of course, browsing systems like Microsoft's WebTV (with hardware from Sony, Phillips Magnavox, RCA, Mitsubishi etc) and numerous network appliances (i-Opener etc) all failed miserably in a previous century, but the market is much bigger now and there may be enough stuff on the web to make the idea viable.But if Google Cubes have problems, it could easily wipe tens of billions off Google's market value....Update:Google denies Google PC reportssays CNet's Google Blog. "We have many PC partners who serve their markets exceedingly well and we see no need to enter that market; we would rather partner with great companies," Google said in a statement.
"A statement made by Nintendo boss Satoru Iwata as the year drew to a close revealed that over five million units of the Nintendo DS had been sold through before the New Year sales period even began in earnest in the last week of December," reportsGamesIndustry.biz.According to Nintendo, the DS reached that total in just over a year, compared with 17 months for the PS2. It also claims that, in the Japanese market, the DS "has now outsold the PSP by a ratio of 2.5 to 1 overall", says the site.Update:The latest figures for DS sales are 5 million units in Japan, 4 million in North America and 3.5 million in Europe, reportsGamesIndustry.biz.
Photo: Seattle P-I"Bellevue-based eMagin Corp. has developed a wearable headset system that plugs into Apple Computer's portable media device and displays video from it in front of one eye, using optical technology designed to give the picture a higher resolution and make it appear larger than on the iPod's screen," reports theSeattle Post-Intelligencer."With the proximity of the screen to the eye, and the magnifying effect of the company's optical technology, the company says that using the [$599] headset is akin to watching a 105-inch display from 12 feet away."
Starz Entertainment Group is introducing a $9.95-a-month subscription service that will allow people to download movies from the Internet and watch them on their computers, portable video players and television sets. The new offering, called Vongo, comes at a time when movie studios and television networks are rapidly expanding their efforts to distribute their content over the Internet, experimenting with both paid and advertiser-supported models," reportsThe New York Times.As a subscription service, Vongo will allow users to download as many movies as they want for $9.95 a month. They will be able to choose from an ever-changing roster of about 800 movies, including about 300 films in rotation on the Starz cable channel (mainly movies released in theaters one to three years earlier) and 500 older titles.Comment:Starz already offers a movie service via Real's RealMedia. However, the NYT says Vongo will switch to Microsoft technology, then add Sony's Connect download service. That's three incompatible DRM (digital rights management) systems. It could add Apple but Apple doesn't make its DRM available.
As an amateur wordsmith with the irritating habit of pronouncing aloud preposterous British town names every time I'm on a road trip, I was awfully pleased to catch the first of BBC2'sBalderdash and Piffleseries on Monday night at 9. The show aims to establish new dates of origin of popular words and phrases than listed in the Oxford English Dictionary (last night was Ploughman's Lunch, pass-the-parcel, pear-shaped and other P-words). By gum if they didn't have an excellent section on the underground language of mid 20th-century British homosexuals,Polari. FromBBC Cambridgeshire:Polari is often referred to as an 'anti-language' or the lost language of gay men. Whilst hundreds of Polari terms exist, most users only have a knowledge of 20 or 30 terms: A gay man is known as an omi-palone; a woman is a palone and naff - a term we're all familiar with - is originally a Polari word that has crossed over into our everyday English language.To tie this into gaming, according to the programme Polari wasn't established by the gay community, the term refers to any language which is shared by a sub-culture. My mind immediately jumped to the programme, then, when I foundMemoryCardscribe Mia Consalvo's post on MMOG language. See if you can understand this:I was LFG for a while, so I went to Gusgen to fight Wights for a chest key drop, so the next time my RSE time comes up, I can just find a treasure chest and get the pants for my WHM. Then I went to Pashow, leveled my NPC a bit and managed to raise my staff skill, in addition to making about 34k from some nice drops. I finally got a party, which was a sorta-Manaburn that worked out well (we had a NIN and DRK for some reason), got about 5k XP using an Empress Band, called it a night, and then found a Morion Tathlum in my delivery box- was an Xmas present from a friend in my Shell.Eh? Raise your hand if you can follow.Mia suggests two questions which are rather important to broadening the market of MMOGs specifically and games in general:Is a bad sense of language going to keep you from fully enjoying a game? Is knowledge of game lingo tied to gaming capital?This is exclusionary practice now, and a way to eke out similar others. What phrases of the above do you think will meander into the mainstream as Joe and Jane Bloggs get into virtual worlds like the 2006 predictions suggest (The Sunday Times,Clickable Culture,Terra Nova,Information Week)?Certainly, I predict that the word "avatar" will be on the tips of tongues, if only so that tech journalists can stop adding "the identity that represents you online" every time it's included in an article. If anything, that definition should be added to theOEDalong with the others:1. Hindu Myth. The descent of a deity to the earth in an incarnate form.1784 SIR W. JONES in Asiat. Res. I. 234 The ten Avatrs or descents of the deity, in his capacity of Preserver. 1858 BEVERIDGE Hist. India II. IV. ii. 28 The fifth avatar, called Varuna, because in it Vishnu assumed the form of a dwarf.2. Manifestation in human form; incarnation.1815 SCOTT Paul's Lett. (1839) 325 A third avatar of this singular emanation of the Evil Principle [Bonaparte]. 1878 R. SAYLER in N. Amer. Rev. CXXVI. 94 McClellan was..the very god of war, in his latest avatar.3. Manifestation or presentation to the world as a ruling power or object of worship.1859 MASSON Milton I. 226 The avatar of Mathematics had not begun. Ibid. 447 Glad that the avatar of Donne, as an intermediate power between Spenser and Milton, was so brief and partial. 1883 Harper's Mag. Mar. 541/1 The Baireuth festivals..the completest and most characteristic avatars of art our century can shew.4. loosely, Manifestation; display; phase.1850 L. HUNT Autobiog. ii. (1860) 36 She ended with enjoying, and even abetting, this new avatar of the Church militant. 1880 L. STEPHEN Pope ii. 29 Wit and sense are but different avatars of the same spirit.I have to admit, I cringe every time I hear anyone saying "LOL" and "teh" in the real world, but will we be talking about XP and drops by this time in 2007?
Just to catch up on anamusing upsetin America Sony has been widely rebuked for daubing graffiti-style PSP ads on the sides of buildings in several cities  including Philadelphia, which has strict billboard controls and is famous for its community-minded murals. City authorities have served Sony with a cease-and-desist order, while enraged civilians are apparently painting over the offending 'artworks'.Of course, there's no overt branding on Sony's cartoon figures  this is a piece of edgy stealth marketing - part of an ongoing pan-corporate attempt to reach out to young consumers who no longer respond to traditional advertising methods. But many also see this appropriation of youth culture as cynical and damaging to the urban landscape.Justifying the campaign to Wired.com, Sony spokeswoman Molly Smithstated: "With PSP being a portable product, our target is what we consider to be urban nomads, people who are on the go constantly"Urban nomads?! Is that a real demographic, or just the wishful fantasising of an under-employed marketing junior? It could be real - I have no idea, I live in Somerset where cloudy cider is still very much part of the contemporary zeitgeist. Are there really hip youngsters flitting around our cities, able to decode and respond to subliminal ad messages? I really want to know.
All right, end in sight, you're nearly there, don't give up now..First let's answeryesterday's questions:13) Copyleft. Because it's not copyright - geddit?14) Easter egg. There are so many famous ones; here's asearchable database. The original were built into command line utilities in Unix, though there's a claim here that the veryveryfirst was on a DEC TECO editor. The first games one seems to have been inan Atari game in 1980.And nowtoday's questions:15) What's the slang term for a device that must be plugged into a computer before certain software will operate?16) What is the name of the file server Linksys produces?Answers tomorrow. If you want to see the preceding questions and answers (right back to thefirst), click the "Challenges" hyperlink by the post title above.
Happy New Year and all that. Anyone else made any gaming related resolutions? Chances are it could be just me, but anyway. Mine are:1. Restrict World of Warcraft to 50% of my overall gaming time. That damn game still takes up far too much time, especially as I got reacquainted with it over the Christmas break.2. Take a day off after playing Mario Kart DS - it's the only way to save my fingers from arthritis in later life.3. Actually complete more games - aside from games I am actually reviewing there are far too many titles in my pile that remain unfinished. We need shorter, less flabby, games in 2006.4. Games Detox - for a whole month avoid playing any game that is a sequel. And drink lots of green tea, obviously.Anyone else got any?
"When the mainstream media addressed the John Seigenthaler Sr affair  he's the respected journalist who wrote an op-ed in USAToday complaining that slanderously wrong information about him was in Wikipedia for four months  the subtext couldn't be clearer: The media were implicitly contrasting Wikipedia's credibility to their own. Ironically, the some of the media got the story fundamentally wrong, in tone and sometimes in substance," writes David Weinberger on hisJOHOblog.
"Terry Semel, the former movie studio chief who now leads Yahoo Inc, is back in show business. His Web portal has filmed a pilot for a reality series called Wow House that will be broadcast online within the next few months," reports theSan Francisco Chronicle."The program, which follows two families as they refurbish their homes with $10,000 in new electronics, is the most concrete example yet of Yahoo's Hollywood ambitions. It's just an early step, analysts said, in Yahoo's ultimate goal: creating television of the future."The idea of Wow House is that viewers vote who did the best job, and the winning famility keeps the kit. The story says:"Semel will probably address Yahoo's video strategy in a speech Friday at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Until now, he has spoken mostly in broad terms about his company's plans."
