Video swapI wish to exchange video clips with my grandchildren in New Zealand. What is the longest duration clip one could feasibly zip and attach to an email? Should I upload bigger files to a site where my grandchildren could download them?Paddy MurphyJack Schofield replies:Email was designed for sending text, and it's not a good way to send video clips. You can do it by splitting a video into parts usingHJ Splitand sending each part separately, but a 10-minute video (100 megabytes) would require from 50 to 200 parts. If one part is incomplete or corrupted, the whole thing won't join and play. As for uploading it to a sitewhere your grandchildren can download it, sad to say there are not many free ones that allow large files. I tried Yahoo, but its servers corrupted AVI files by adding an extra byte. Someone suggestedX-Share, but I couldn't even connect to its site.However, it is possible to useAOL Instant Messenger, to transfer files directly between two computers. You and your grandchildren (and perhaps other relatives) could set up a closed "buddy list" and only allow other buddies to get files from shared directories - and you can chat (via instant messaging) at the same time. AIM can resume downloads if the connection is dropped (ie it can start again where it left off), but this does not always work, so it is best to chop files into chunks that don't take too long to transfer. This depends on   your connection speeds. I've found 25MB chunks are convenient with broadband connections, but it's perfectly possible to swap 100MB and larger files.Good old FTP (File Transfer Protocol) is another option for transferring files between PCs. Unfortunately, many users seem to find FTP hard to use, though there is a good introduction atwww.ftpplanet.com.GazumpedI forgot to pay the annual charge for a website and the address has now been taken over by a sex stories site. Unfortunately, the website URL is published in a book that I compiled and edited, so if anyone goes to it from the book, it won't look too good.Savita BailurJS:There are rules against cybersquatting, so you could try to dispute ownership of the domain name. Cases often seem to revolve around trademarks, service marks and proper names but include the possibility that domain names are being used in bad faith. Seewww.icann.org/udrp/udrp.htmandwww.icann.org/udrp/udrp-rulesfor a guide to the rules that will be applied. You could also contact the URL's new owner and ask if he wants to sell. You can get contact details by doing a Who Is search atwww.networksolutions.com/en_US/whois.End of lifeWindows 98 support is being discontinued on January 15, 2004. How can I do reformats without losing all the updates - more than 50 of them!Phil HuettJS:You can download all the fixes separately by going to the Windows Update site and choosing the Windows Update Catalog. The site says: "If you're a network administrator or advanced user and you need to download updates for other comput ers, take advantage of the Windows Update Catalog. Simply click Windows Update Catalog in the left navigation pane (if you don't see it, click Personalize Windows Update to see options for displaying this link)." Create a folder called C:\Updates for saving the files. But perhaps a better idea would be to create a new installation with all your fixes and customisation and take a back-up of that.However, I expect all the fixes will still be available after support is discontinued - they are still available for Windows 95. It's just that Microsoft will stop producing new ones specific to Windows 98.Backchat&#183;One of last week's topics was reinstalling Windows from scratch. Phil Coughlin says: "One additional caution is that you will lose the virus definition updates to your AV software. Once you reinstall the AV software, you should immediately update the definitions to get back to where you were. With commercial AV packages, you have to keep in mind your subscription status and whether you can re-establish it after re-installing."&#183;Tony Houston works abroad a lot and wanted to access files wherever he was. I suggested Yahoo Briefcases and mentioned Xdrive. Peter Bowen saysHostfileis cheaper than Xdrive, "with file storage from $3.85 per month and lots of other facilities. I found it very simple to use". Hans Sluiman uses a small, portable hard drive: "Admittedly, this is not free but you are not dependent on a live internet connection."Martin Huckerby wondered why I didn't suggest "using one of the USB keys/mini-stores that can carry 32/64/128MB etc". An obvious question, perhaps, but I didn't think of it at the time.
A $246m (&#163;145m) lawsuit has been filed against the designer, marketer and a retailer of the video game series Grand Theft Auto by the families of two people shot by teenagers allegedly inspired by the game.The suit claims that Sony Computer Entertainment America, the designers Take 2 Interactive Software and Rockstar Games, and Wal-Mart, are liable for $46m in compensation and $200m in punitive damages.Aaron Hamel was killed and Kimberly Bede was seriously wounded when their cars were shot at in June as they passed through the Great Smoky Mountains.William Buckner, 16, and his stepbrother Joshua Buckner, 14, of Newport, were sentenced in August to an indefinite term in state custody after pleading guilty to reckless homicide, endangerment and assault.The boys told investigators they got the rifles from a locked room in their home and decided to shoot randomly at tractor-trailer rigs, as in the video game Grand Theft Auto III.The lawsuit alleges the retail giant sold the game to the Buckners about a year before the shootings.
Jak 2: RenegadePS2, &#163;39.99 Naughty Dog/Sony &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The original Jak &amp; Daxter was the finest platform games of recent years, eclipsing even Mario's last effort. But ousting the lardy plumber from his platform mantle was not enough for the developers. Grand Theft Auto 3 has raised the gaming bar and it is with this in mind that Jak 2 arrives on the PlayStation 2.This time around, the platforming has been toned down in favour of hover-board jacking, varied missions and a lot of attitude. Gone are the slightly cartoony visuals, replaced by a darker, more mature look. Jak, too, has toughened up with a variety of powers becoming available at certain times.Thankfully, the platform heritage hasn't been totally dispensed with. The outdoor locations, in particular, are packed full of leaps and jumps. This is a real looker, too, with quality graphics. Even the cut-scenes, so often a source of irritation, are highly watchable, with sharp and humorous dialogue. Jak 2 lacks some of the charm of the original and the marriage of platforming and GTA   elements doesn't always gel. But these are minor gripes. As a technical and gaming achievement, Jak 2 sets high standards on PS2.Greg HowsonSpace ColonyPC, &#163;34.99 Firefly Studios/Take2,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In a strategy game, it's hard to think of your units as being anything more than mere pawns that you can use and abuse to meet your despotic goals. Space Colony, however, is different. It's all about personalities and handling the whims of 20 space colonists stuck in a galaxy far away.The object of the game is to take your team of colonists and build a base that keeps them happy enough to work for you, helping you fulfil your mission objectives. These can range from attracting space tourists to mining the planet or taking a laser to a few of the more aggressive locals. There's a good selection of missions, and an in-game editor so you can   create your own levels. Each colonist has its own, rather exaggerated, personality traits, which means you will have to build the appropriate facilities to keep them sweet, such as saunas, discos and even robot psychiatrists. Maintaining a happy base is hard work, though, especially as your colonists are prone to getting on your nerves with their moaning and arguing. But be kind to them, or they are likely to go on a mad rampage around your base if they don't get what they want.The isometric graphics engine may appear slightly dated, and reminiscent of games such as Theme Hospital, but there are lots of fascinating details that make even sitting back and watching the base whirring with life a pleasure. Being lost in space has never been so much fun.Rhianna PratchettViewtiful JoeGameCube, &#163;39.99 Capcom,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;A side-scrolling, 2D beat-'em-up may sound like a throwback to a bygone era, but this particular game manages to feel both fresh and original. That is because it emerged from the fevered mind of Hideki Kamiya, who directed Devil May Cry and Resident Evil 2.The Japanese are the masters of reclaiming seemingly moribund game genres and giving them 21st-century twists. Playing as the eponymous diminutive superhero with the giant head, you can call on "VFX" powers to slow down time, speed it up or "zoom" to different sizes to defeat enemies. But it is not enough just to punch and kick baddies into submission: you must do so with style. That is because you have been sucked into a film you were watching with your girlfriend Silvia, who you must rescue.As you may have guessed, Viewtiful Joe is a classic example of the sort of extreme Japanese weirdness that gamers, and particularly those who own GameCubes, crave like nothing else. It also has a very distinctive look that, for once, avoids the temptation to recreate the Manga or anime styles and takes its own, bold direction. A visual feast with absorbing, unusual gameplay. In other words, a cult classic.Steve Boxer
When computing behemoth Dell re-launched its retail site last week, a spokesman said: "We wanted to make it easier      for customers to do business with us." Improving the design of the customer, or user, interface is now high on the      list of business priorities.The introduction of rationality into design can only be a good thing. In its day, user-centred design was a radical and      empowering concept, but its acceptance masks less inspiring developments.       In the decades since its conception, much has changed in the world of the "user". However, user-centred design has      largely lost its ambition and been supplanted by one of its elements: the relatively conservative concept of      usability.In the early period of web design, novice practitioners and nervous clients colluded in creating unusable and badly      designed sites. It was important to establish that people should be served by design, and that usability was an      essential component.Usability has since become a dominant mantra, and has lost its enlightening power. Moreover,      the sense of human agency implied in the term "user" has been forgotten.       Usability is a valuable element of the process, but it can't substitute for it, as it is limited. Usability can be used to      improve an innovation, but it can't drive innovation.Usability has come to dominate thinking about the design process. As Pentagram's Robert Brunner argued last week      at the HITS (Humans/Interaction/Technology/Strategy conference in Chicago: "It doesn't matter if something is      usable. What matters is that it is useful. Even better if it is desirable."       To break the deadlock in user-interface and product design, we need radical innovations. We could start by going      beyond the text- and list-based interface of Google, and should be debating what could be learned from Grokker's      information visualisation-driven product.Too much user focus may be a barrier to innovation. Research is likely to tell us that users desire an improvement      on something they already understand. Ask them if they would use a proposed innovation and they will say no - and      then adopt it when they have seen its utility demonstrated.       Recognising this, designers should rise above the interests of particular users and push their own intuition for      innovation. They might note the sentiment of BBC titan Lord Reith, who when asked whether he was going to give the      people what they wanted, replied: "No. Something better than that."The design challenges of networked and digital products are greater than ever. Designers - in collaboration with      clients prepared to make the investment - need to innovate to deliver imaginative products. As well as empathising      with people, they should recognise their intelligence and pragmatism, and understand that they will take time to      learn things that will deliver them real benefits.With this approach, online retailing stories may amount to more than a web site re-jig.
Get Your Geek OnThis month is Computer Learning Month. Polish up your computing skills by visiting TechTutorials. Free tech tutorials are available in a variety of categories including Unix, hardware, and several flavours of Windows. There's also Beginners.co.uk, which offers free tutorials, online training courses (for a price) and a database of more than 17,000 available IT jobs if you've already got your computer skills.www.techtutorials.comwww.beginners.co.ukDo the bus stopIf bungee jumping is a little too much for your nerves, try some Stealth Disco instead. Stealth Disco is merely the art of sneaking up behind people - usually at work - and disco dancing. This site has video clips of successful stealth discoing and the occasional co-worker who's caught discoing. Alas, no references can be found to stealth moshpits or stealth slam dancing.www.stealthdisco.comDon't try it at homeNo, really. You like jumping off tall places with a cord attached to your leg? The Bungee Zone lists jumping clubs all over the world (including a big list of clubs in the UK). If you'd rather enjoy the bungee experience vicariously, you can learn about the various types of bungee jumping (there are different types?), browse through a photo gallery, and - if you   want some reasons not to go bungee jumping - read descriptions of some bungee disasters.www.bungeezone.comRevamp roombaWhat is it with us humans that we can't leave a nicely packaged bundle of electronics alone? We've got to tinker with it. Enter Roomba Community. This site is for tinkers and enthusiasts who have hacked their Roomba robot vacuum cleaners and want to talk about it. There's a whole section devoted to Zoomba, a Roomba with its microprocessor replaced so it can be used for robotics experimentation.www.roombacommunity.comHistorical planningIf you want to plan your next holiday around cultural sites and historically significant buildings, there is now a quick and easy way to narrow your criteria. The site lets you search more than 1,600 museums, galleries and historic houses in the UK and Ireland. It allows you to search the listings by keyword or classification from agricultural to watercolors and drawings. You can also choose a region to search. Choosing Ireland brings up a more detailed map divided into six regions. Clicking on the Midlands brings up an even more detailed map with six museum listings. Information includes telephone, fax number, email and web site links, as well as opening times, admission fees, and a description of the site.www.mghh.co.ukCan't get enoughIf you can't get enough of searching weblogs, check out Bloogz. The front page allows you to search weblogs in five languages - Italian, English, German, Spanish or French. It is unclear how many blogs are indexed, but there is a link to list all posts made daily. Results include title, abstract, date of the post and URL.www.bloogz.comGhostbustersAre you a ghostbusters fan? Apparently, you're not the only one. Get the lowdown on how to equip yourself for some 'bustin'. There are more than 250 props on the site. Categories for props include Ghost Traps, Uniforms, and Slime Blowers. Click on the uniform category amd you'll see pictures of how people have put together props, some plans, some of which are incredibly detailed and FAQs - pointers for resources on flight suits, name tags, elbow pads and so on. The site also contains information on the parts used in the props, photos of props used in the movies, tutorial listings, and several message boards.www.gbprops.comNew &amp; notedMetaScope - The Google Images Screen Saverwww.krazydad.com/metascope.htmlSix of the best:  Roller CoastersAmusement Park Physicswww.learner.org/exhibits/parkphysicsBritannica Presents: Roller Coastershttp://search.eb.com/coastersThe Roller Coaster Databasewww.rcdb.comUltimate Rollercoasterwww.ultimaterollercoaster.comCoasterimage.comwww.coasterimage.comRollerCoasterWorld.comwww.rollercoasterworld.com
PC sales are booming. Worldwide PC shipments for the past three months have climbed by 14.1% to 42.5 million units, according to Gartner, and by 15.7% to 38.4m units, according to rival research company, IDC. The figures are diffferent because of different polling systems, but nobody really knows how many PCs are shipped. It's an open market, and millions of home users and "Fred in a shed" manufacturers assemble systems from parts.There are several reasons why the PC market is improving. These include the move towards notebook PCs; the battle between Dell and Hewlett-Packard; the fact that PCs bought to avoid Year 2000 problem are slow by today's standards; and the success of   Microsoft Windows XP.Sales of notebook PCs have been boosted by tumbling prices and Intel's heavily marketed Centrino wireless chip set. The Centrino's Mobile Pentium processor has turned out to be a great performer - the 1.2GHz version is about as fast as a 2.2GHz desktop Pentium. Sales will be even better when corporate buyers catch on, and Intel cuts the price.The rivalry between Dell and HP is also helping. Both want to be number one, and that means cutting prices to win market share. In the third quarter, both grew their sales by about 28%, with Dell shipping about 6.67m units and HP shipping 6.55m, according to IDC. The difference is less than a day's sales.Dell took 15.3% of the global market, against HP's 15.1%, according to Gartner. IBM trailed in third   with 5.3%, ahead of Fujitsu Siemens and Toshiba.It's not clear how much impact the long-awaited "PC upgrade cycle" has had, if any. However, there was a bubble in PC sales in 1999, so there must now be a bubble of PCs reaching the end of their useful lives. Four-year-old PCs have a zero book value, and if you weren't sharp enough to install Windows 2000 when it appeared, they now cost more to run than they're worth.The PC industry is encouraging replacement purchases by offering new features. Intel has the Centrino for notebooks, and hyper-threading Pentium 4 chips for desktops. AMD and Apple have introduced 64-bit systems. There's also the adoption of USB 2.0 ports, Serial ATA (Advanced Technology Attachment) disk drives, and the PCI-Express bus for peripherals   and graphics cards. And everyone is offering LCD screens.On the software side, Microsoft Windows XP has been a big hit. It shipped 113m copies for desktop PCs last year alone, according to IDC, and it is already used by 38% of the PCs accessing Google, compared with 29% for Windows 98/SE/Me. Given the rapid falls in PC prices, it's more tempting to buy a new PC to get XP than upgrade an obsolete model. And with the Tablet PC and Media Center versions of XP, buying a new PC is obligatory.PC industry suppliers, looking for growth, are attacking the consumer electronics markets for mobile phones, electronic organisers and games consoles, and are just starting on TV sets. But with sales of PCs approaching half a million units a day, the PC market is still far from dead.Google Zeitgeistwww.google.com/press/zeitgeist.htmlSerial ATAwww.serialata.orgPCI Expresswww.pcisig.com/specifications/pciexpress
After months of speculation, Sony Ericsson has unveiled the successor to its top-end smartphone, the P800. Due on sale in the UK next month, the P900 keeps many of the features of its predecessor, including its Symbian 7 operating system, yet it is slightly smaller and lighter, boasts a third more memory (16MB rather than 12), has a faster processor as well as an improved flip-open keypad.The most significant difference, though, is the screen. The P900 features a 64K colour screen, an improvement on the P800's 4096 colours. It also has a built-in POP3 email client, full HTML internet access via its Opera browser, PDA-style organiser facilities, Bluetooth, Java and still and moving image (MPeg 4) capture.Sony Ericsson also paraded a mid-range camera phone called the T630. It is a candy bar-style model similar in form to the company's popular T610. In addition to its 64K colour screen, the handset features triple band facilities, Bluetooth and Java. It is available early next year.
Cut-price computerYour feature on building a PC (Start here, October 16) overestimates the cost. For a budget system, the Asus A7N266-VM motherboard can be bought for around &#163;40, and includes video, sound and networking hardware. Combine this with a low-end processor (for example, XP2000+, around &#163;40) and say 512MB memory (again, about &#163;40). Result: a bargain system for about half the price of your &#163;300 system, while including as much hardware (albeit not of the same spec) as your 8RGA+.Ross ClementR.P.Clement@westminster.ac.ukMuscling inADSL may now be coming to the capitals of Orkney, Shetland and the Western Isles via a collaboration between BT and Thus, but only after a local company announced a programme to provide technically superior wireless DSL networks that would allow virtually all islanders to have a broadband connection. Market spoiling or what? That Highland and Islands Enterprise is subsidising one of the world's largest telecoms companies is worrying. How much will be left to aid local initiatives?Dr Francis SedgemoreShetlandOpen formatI agree with John Yardley's sentiments in his letter (October 16) that the BBC should not be using a propri etary protocol for the delivery of radio programmes across the internet. However, MP3 is not, as he states, an open protocol. It is patented by Thomson and Fraunhofer and royalties are due on all players. If you are using an MP3 player, then royalties should be paid by the developer of the player.Happily, there is an open alternative:Ogg Vorbis. This is "a completely open, patent-free, professional audio encoding and streaming technology with all the benefits of Open Source". The BBC was doingsome trialsbut these have been discontinued. A chap fromXiph, the developers of Ogg Vorbis, indicated on Slashdot some months ago that they were having talks with the BBC. Let's hope they take up a truly open format.Dave Clarkepinguino@clara.co.ukTied inThe problem faced by the BBC is that it has a huge investment in Real Media technology, and to switch to another format would be very costly. It would entail replacement of software, hardware and re-training of staff. The BBC has experimented with other formats (BBC Radio 4) in the past and audio is available as Windows Media Format now.  The BBC may have to change its format once this generation of PCs is replaced. As Yardley points out, obtaining a free copy of Real Player is becoming almost impossible, and online listening figures will begin to drop.Roland J Youngwww.rolandjyoung.co.ukIn-car solutionsIn reply to the item about connecting MP3 players to your car stereo (Second Sight, October 16), there are a couple of other options. First, many modern cassette and CD tuners are capable of controlling a CD changer, and some manufacturers will supply a   cable that will connect an auxillary source to that audio input of the unit. These retail at about &#163;10 to &#163;15.Second, you can get FM modulators that connect between the car aerial and the car radio. These are legal because they use wired connections and are therefore much lower-powered. They retail at about &#163;30.Finally, I found two user-reviews of wireless FM modulators, and neither was good. In one, the transmitter frequency drifted around so much the radio kept losing it, and in the other, the modulator frequency could only be adjusted over a small range of frequencies at the Radio 2 end of the dial, and the user could not find a frequency not being used by a Radio 2 transmitter in his area.David WilsonCheshireMore MP3 ideasGetting MP3s to play in the car is simplicity itself. The sametape adaptorthat can be used with portable CD players works perfectly for playing MP3s. The adaptor was purchased from theSony centrefor about &#163;10. There are other ways to get MP3s in the car, such as a CD player thatsupports MP3s. Then there is thecassette MP3 player, which helps one embrace MP3 technology while not wandering too far from older, more familiar technology.Dominik SupenyDom_supeny@hotmail.comIn tuneWith this new device, surely it's also possible to drive alongside a car with an MP3 transmitter and tune into a fellow driver's choice of tracks. This could bring a whole new dimension to file sharing!Daniel WatersSt. Albans
Online bank Egg is abandoning any attempts at international expansion and will shut down its French operation unless it can find a joint venture partner, its chief executive said yesterday. Paul Gratton said 70 jobs would be lost as a result of the decision to retrench internationally.He is resisting any calls for him to immediately pull back from the loss-making operation in France until he has pursued talks with potential part ners with deeper pockets. Egg, whose shares fell 6.25p at 145p, revealed that the French business had suffered &#163;69.5m of losses in the first nine months of the year which had helped to drive the entire group to a &#163;24.9m loss. In the same nine months last year, Egg made a &#163;3.9m profit.In the third quarter alone the loss in France was &#163;20.8m which wiped out the &#163;20m profit made in Britain.Still majority-owned by insurance company Prudential, Egg has concluded that to continue trying to offer credit cards to the French will take too long and cost more than it wants to spend.Mr Gratton said French customers had started to realise they were being "ripped off" by established lenders but Egg risked being beaten to customers by "fast followers" copying its marketing-beating rates."We believe it is in the best interests of our shareholders to form an alliance with a strategic partner and accordingly, we are in negotiations which may lead to a joint venture or other transaction," Mr Gratton said. He indicated that he would reach a conclusion on the future of the French business by the end of the year.Analysts at Commerzbank criticised Egg for not taking more decisive action over the French arm. "Egg refuses to bite the bullet," the analysts said.Mr Gratton pointed to strong performance in Britain, where it made &#163;56m of profit in the nine months compared with &#163;21m in the earlier nine.
Finishing Office 2003 has taken Microsoft longer than expected; we first saw beta code in February and the final launch was only this week. But with many companies questioning the cycle of hardware and software upgrades, has it been worth waiting for?It has been a long time since we have seen anything radically new in standard business applications: working with a word processor, spreadsheet or presentation package hasn't changed substantially over the past 10 years. Office 2003 doesn't break a lot of new ground, either. Being able to burn a CD with your presentation on directly from PowerPoint or get all the features for managing a list of data automatically added to your worksheet will simplify your life and save time, but they don't change the way you work.The reading view in Word and the reading pane in Outlook both make it easier to read information on screen; but it's about time software made information easier to read. Threading messages properly in Outlook is useful, too, but again, it's something that should have been there long ago.Dynamic virtual Search Folders for organising email are an innovation, though: only Opera has anything similar and it's far harder to use.If much of what's new in Office 2003 is more of the same but better, the XML support is one real development, and InfoPath is the other. You can already save files in XML format in Office XP, and in just about every other office program on the market, too. What Office 2003 lets you do is use your own XML in a document; if you have a schema for job applica tions, product specifications, monthly reports or annual accounts, you can use that to label the information you put into a document by hand, or extract the information you need from a database automatically. You can write code to guide people through adding, using and submitting the XML- identified information to make sure it works properly in your databases, and these Smart Documents are more secure than macros, too.InfoPath combines the powerful and flexible structure of XML with a familiar interface and editing tools. Users don't have to worry about connecting to databases or issuing complex queries, or fitting complicated information into a rigid format. Repeating and optional sections mean you can fill in as much detail as is relevant for as many items as you need without having to put "not applicable" in all the extra fields - as long as the schema that controls the InfoPath form and the elements of the form are designed for it.That's the bit few users will be able to do themselves. InfoPath isn't something you start using straight away because you need the schema to base the form on, and connections to the back end systems to make it useful. You need SharePoint or similar to build a workflow system with it. And you need someone who can design the forms. InfoPath is only in the Enterprise edition of Office 2003, which makes sense because you will need those resources to develop a business system that makes it worthwhile.Lewisham Town Council is switching to the new Office and putting InfoPath on Tablet PCs so council housing inspectors can do their paperwork while they're out and   about. While the development was something they could do in-house rather than calling in consultants, it's not like macros that any power user can write themselves.You don't have to start from scratch, though. ScanSoft has added InfoPath to the new version of OmniPage Developer Edition, so you can scan a paper form, or open a Word document in OmniPage and convert it into an InfoPath form.Linking in programs and services from other suppliers - the Office Marketplace - is another key feature in Office. You can send and receive faxes in Outlook via the internet, but you'll need to sign up with a service that lets you do it. The Research Pane offers extra services and features, from document management systems to pay-for news and research from Factiva, translation services or details of books from Amazon. The Amazon Research Service uses Amazon's XML Web Services, so that when you click on the name of a book, you can get the ISBN or the cover art.This kind of integration makes Office 2003 interesting, because you can use it as a platform, adding tools and services that people can use while they're dealing with the documents that take up so much of their working day. It also means thatOffice isn't a one-off purchase, and you will be developing and rolling out systems rather than just installing a new word processor or spreadsheet.Just as you'll need Exchange as your email server - specifically the new Exchange 2003 - to get the most from Outlook on the move, other new Office features need Windows Server 2003.Information Rights Management lets you lock a document so only certain people can open, print or forward it by email depending on how you set it up. It's not a complete security lockdown, but it's simple enough to use and it gives confidential documents a reasonable amount of security. The rights management service you need to use the feature is free - but it only runs on Windows Server 2003.If you want to set up workgroups for collaborating on documents, Outlook lets you do it as you attach the file to an email. The Document Workspace task pane in Office applications makes it easier to keep track of who's doing what on the document.Although you can still buy the full-feature SharePoint Portal Server software, you can also get the basic Windows SharePoint Services needed to run the workspaces free - but again, only for Windows Server 2003. And, don't forget, you'll need Windows 2000 or Windows XP on the desktop. If you're using earlier versions of Windows for business, it's worth upgrading anyway, and this might be the push you need. It's   one more piece to put in place.Any company using Outlook is going to want the new version because the Reading Pane, Search Folders and properly threaded email make a huge difference to working with messages. But it's not the actual features in the main Office applications that matter when you are deciding whether you need to upgrade.As Simon Berlin, head of e-government for Lewisham Town Council puts it: "It's the integration facilities, not the fact that Microsoft Word might have some new features: we can get to where we need to be more quickly if we don't have a wide range of integration issues. And for the users, options like publishing to the web aren't a separate activity from what they're doing day to day in Office; it will be natural to them."Using the XML features to get information in and out of Office documents makes a lot of sense when you have proper backend systems that ought to be storing information that ends up in documents scattered around various desktop PCs instead. Compared to that, the new features in the applications are a nice bonus but almost irrelevant.Office 2003www.microsoft.com/uk/officeOffice Onlinehttp://office.microsoft.comOffice Marketplacehttp://office.microsoft.com/marketplaceScanSoft OmniFormwww.scansoft.com/omniform/developer
Council attacksA local authority early warning system is being set up to make government information systems more resilient. A pilot scheme, set up in London, will expand into a nationwide network of warning, advice and reporting points (Warps). It will eventually make information available to private businesses. The London Connections Warp issues bulletins that bring together intelligence gathered by the 33 London boroughs and from international bodies and IT security companies. The nationalsystem will go online next April.www.lcwarp.orgOut of orderBritain and other European Union countries are acting illegally in forcing internet and telecoms service providers to retain customer data, according to a legal opinion commissioned by Privacy International. US-based law firm Covington &amp; Burling says that forcing blanket retention of communications data - numbers called, websites visited, and mobile phone locations, rather than content - is illegal under the European convention on human rights. Privacy International says it will pursue test cases, probably starting with Denmark, where legislation is in place but not implemented.Spam trapMore than 98% of spam emails could be blocked using Bayesian filtering, according to messaging specialist GFI. In a white paper, it explains that a probability filter can be created where each word is weighted according to how often it occurs in spam compared with legitimate mail. To build the filter, outbound emails can be analysed for key words specific to a the business.&lt;A HREF="http://www.gfi.com/mes/wpbayesian.htm"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.gfi.com/mes/wpbayesian.htmMarks tagsMarks &amp; Spencer last week started a test of RFID (radio frequency identification) tags, partially funded by the DTI. The tags are being attached to removable paper labels on men's suits, shirts and ties in its High Wycombe store. However, M&amp;S says it is not tracking customers: the tags are activated only at the warehouse, on entering the shop, and on a daily sweep of the stock. M&amp;S says it has discussed its plans with civil liberties groups. It has 2m RFID tags on pallets used by its food suppliers.Radio wavesThe Radiocommunications Agency and Radio Authority has started a public consultation on use of two bands of   radio spectrum, both of which could see internet access competing with other uses. The 1.5GHz band - which has multiplexes able to handle broadband speeds greater than one megabit per second - is being considered for fixed and mobile data services, and for broadcasting. The VHF III band, once used for 405-line television, has areas that could be used for mobile data broadcasting, but the needs of transport companies and broadcasters are also being considered. The consultation closes on January 12.Consutation PDFTxt to busMetroline is adding text messaging to the 1,089 vehicles in its fleet of London buses, to make sure they don't all turn up at once. Each bus gets a text message dashboard, so the driver can read messages from the control centre alerting them "to maintain the correct intervals". The system, trialled with 28 buses, uses the Orange GPRS network to locate buses and establish the headway (the time/distance between buses).China leadsChina is taking the lead in grid computing with the launch of the China Education and Research Grid by China's Ministry of Education and IBM. It will start by linking six universities, with more than 200,000 students and faculty members, and will eventually reach almost 100 universities across China. Working as a "virtual supercomputer", the grid should eventually be capable of performing more than 15 trillion calculations per second.Office suitesMicrosoft's Office 2003 provides a market for many companies that develop applications to extend its functionality. Factiva, a Dow Jones and Reuters company, has released Factiva Search, which enables information workers to access more than 8,000 sources from inside their office documents. Financials specialist Coda is releasing Collaborative Close, which uses the SharePoint server to speed up the process of balancing and closing company books. OneSource, a supplier of financial data services, has developed Account Intelligence, a Word and Excel plug-in that links to OneSource and updates tagged information every time a document is opened.www.factiva.com/factivasearchwww.coda.com&lt;A HREF="http://www.onesource.com"TARGETwww.factiva.com/factivasearch
In the trade, it's called the Shepway problem. A couple of years ago, Shepway district council in south-east Kent received &#163;550,000 from central government to set up an electronic change-of-address service for its residents.The plan was that when people moved house, they would need to fill in only one online form, rather than separately notifying libraries, council tax, electoral register and other departments of their new details.Nearly everyone likes the idea. There is one snag: sharing information in this way is illegal. The council was forced to spend a large part of its "pathfinder" grant on lawyers who advised that, even when citizens give permission, councils do not have the   legal power to join up databases of personal information. The legal term is "ultra vires". And because the Data Protection Act requires organisations to process data lawfully, any council acting ultra vires could be prosecuted.Shepway put the service on hold. In its official report, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, which funded the project, put a positive spin on the effort, listing "full exploration of legal issues" as one of the project's achievements. However, the citizens of Shepway still don't have a one-stop change of address service. A search on its otherwise fine websitewww.shepway.gov.ukthis week produced only: "Change of address could not be found in the database."Change of address is not the only   service to face data-sharing problems. Wolverhampton city council's pioneering bereavement service, designed to ease the bureacracy of dealing with a death in the family, found it was not allowed to pass on notifications of death to central government departments such as the Inland Revenue. "The legislation is rather long in the tooth," says Wolverhampton's head of IT, Fahri Zihni.Elsewhere in the world, governments take a more gung-ho view of data sharing. The government of Singapore's e-citizen portal &lt;A HREF="http://www.ecitizen.gov.sg"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.ecitizen.gov.sgcontains a "change of address" button, which is supposed to notify all government agencies (though this week it threw up an error screen when tested).However, some local authorities are beginning to grow impatient at what they see as a ridiculous legal barrier. After all, people are unlikely to complain if, when they update their council tax records, the public library is informed as well.At a conference last week on data sharing organised by the web publication E-Government Bulletin, speakers urged local authorities and central government to be bolder. Jim Norton, a former adviser to the Cabinet Office on e-commerce, said that the govern ment had not explained the potential benefits for citizens. "It is not clear to me what the vision is behind the sharing of information, the case is not made. If it was, people might be surprised at the positive reaction."Rupert Battcock, of solicitors Nabarro Nathanson, which advised Shepway, said that "some councils are being a little more cautious than they need to be" in interpreting the law.Central government has been promising to clear up the mess for more than a year. Last spring, the Performance and Innovation Unit called for legal reforms to allow routine sharing of information between and within public agencies. "It's something we are looking at," said the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.As part of this process, the Department for Constitutional Affairs will next week publish a document on information-sharing protocols. Officially, this will only contain guidance for the public sector explaining the law as it stands. However, the intention is to explain it in ways that will make it easier for government bodies to share information with the subject's consent.Moves in this direction risk becoming embroiled in political rows about sharing of information without con sent. There are two reasons why this is topical. First is the plan to set up integrated databases of children to identify cases of mistreatment. Measures to set up child registers are expected in the Queen's speech on November 26. Controversially, these databases may need to contain information about parents and carers - reports of drug and alcohol abuse, for example.A second measure under discussion is a national population register, being investigated by the Treasury and the Office for National Statistics. This would create a national database of contact details for access by government agencies. It would also underpin a national ID card.A feasibility study of the register is in the hands of ministers, revealed Len Cook, registrar general for England and Wales, in a letter to the Guardian this month. "The report recommends further investigative work, which it is anticipated will last between 15 and 18 months, before any final decision is taken."Such a register will have strong backing from e-government enthusiasts in Whitehall. It is quite possible that when Shepway finally gets its local one-stop change of address service, it will be courtesy of central government's computers.
How have you taken to using your computer?I'm not really a natural. The main thing I wanted it for was to be independent in composing my letters because I can't write legibly. TheDragon Naturally Speaking software, which Pamela Hardaker from AbilityNet gave me last year, allows me to do that. I was despairing that I wouldn't get the computer at all but she tells me I'm getting there. I'm not computer literate so thank goodness my carer is. My skills improve the more I use the computer.So you've been learning to use the computer simultaneously with    Dragon software?Yes, although I'm much more interested in actually getting the letters done if there's someone there who can use the computer - it takes me so much longer to do emails myself. We use the computer now for advertising for carers onGum Treeand theTNT magazinebut I don't find it easy. I'm on a very steep learning curve!What does the Naturally Speaking software allow you to do?I had triedViaVoicebut it didn't get my voice. Pamela tells me I'm a brilliant pupil with Naturally Speaking as my voice is just right. Because I have very shallow breathing, I can manage it much better in the mornings than in the afternoon_ it's that sensitive. I was amazed that after only a few lessons I could dictate and it would copy it out.Is the software still quirky?No, it's much better than it was. If I don't sit up straight, or I'm feeling tired, then I tend to give up. If it's not doing things right for you then you can't really alter your voice - although you can spell out words that the computer won't accept.How important has AbilityNet been in opening up the world of computers to you?Very important because they've helped me become independent to write and respond to letters. I would recommend them to anyone with limited hand use. I have a tiny keyboard, about 4in by 10in, which I use for scrolling down.How are you finding your way around the internet?Some of the websites I can open up but with a lot I need a little help. But I'd rather read a good book! It's fascinating if you need to find out information about a place   you're going to visit or if we're watching a programme on TV and they give out a website address. It is another world, but I don't think things have progressed enough for people with disabilities.Any improvements you'd like to see to your software?I'd like to be able to tell the computer to open my email program. I had to visit theIBMoffice for AbilityNet and I remember saying to the technicians: "You may think you know what you do for people with disabilities but you don't know the half of it. Unless you're disabled, then you can't possibly appreciate fully the good your work is doing."Visit:www.abilitynet.org.uk
When computing behemoth Dell re-launched its retail site last week, a spokesman said: "We wanted to make it easier
    for customers to do business with us." Improving the design of the customer, or user, interface is now high on the
    list of business priorities.The introduction of rationality into design can only be a good thing. In its day, user-centred design was a radical and
    empowering concept, but its acceptance masks less inspiring developments. 
    In the decades since its conception, much has changed in the world of the "user". However, user-centred design has
    largely lost its ambition and been supplanted by one of its elements: the relatively conservative concept of
    usability.In the early period of web design, novice practitioners and nervous clients colluded in creating unusable and badly
    designed sites. It was important to establish that people should be served by design, and that usability was an
    essential component.Usability has since become a dominant mantra, and has lost its enlightening power. Moreover,
    the sense of human agency implied in the term "user" has been forgotten. 
    Usability is a valuable element of the process, but it can't substitute for it, as it is limited. Usability can be used to
    improve an innovation, but it can't drive innovation.Usability has come to dominate thinking about the design process. As Pentagram's Robert Brunner argued last week
    at the HITS (Humans/Interaction/Technology/Strategy conference in Chicago: "It doesn't matter if something is
    usable. What matters is that it is useful. Even better if it is desirable." 
    To break the deadlock in user-interface and product design, we need radical innovations. We could start by going
    beyond the text- and list-based interface of Google, and should be debating what could be learned from Grokker's
    information visualisation-driven product.Too much user focus may be a barrier to innovation. Research is likely to tell us that users desire an improvement
    on something they already understand. Ask them if they would use a proposed innovation and they will say no - and
    then adopt it when they have seen its utility demonstrated. 
    Recognising this, designers should rise above the interests of particular users and push their own intuition for
    innovation. They might note the sentiment of BBC titan Lord Reith, who when asked whether he was going to give the
    people what they wanted, replied: "No. Something better than that."The design challenges of networked and digital products are greater than ever. Designers - in collaboration with
    clients prepared to make the investment - need to innovate to deliver imaginative products. As well as empathising
    with people, they should recognise their intelligence and pragmatism, and understand that they will take time to
    learn things that will deliver them real benefits.With this approach, online retailing stories may amount to more than a web site re-jig.
Putting it all together: getting startedFirst of all, you need a clean, dust-free workspace. One that is well-lit is useful, because there is a lot of peering into dark corners during the process. A separate lamp is also useful, and a flashlight probably essential.During construction, you'll be handling lots of sensitive electronic components, and there is a danger that static carried in or through your body will fuse or short them if not handled carefully. When that involves a £100 motherboard, it is worth being careful.There are two ways of dealing with static by making sure you are earthed. The first is to buy an anti-static wrist strap (which will cost around £5 from an electronics store), which comes with a lead and crocodile clip. Attach the clip to an earthed object (I used a radiator). The other option is to plug the computer's power supply into a wall socket, but switch the socket off - the earth on the power lead will still be in use.In particular, make sure you earth yourself - before removing components from their anti-static packaging - by touching a safe metal surface. It is safest not to remove the packaging before you need each item. You'll also need screwdrivers, especially Philips screwdrivers.Time-wise, it took me an evening and a morning to fit it together so, depending on your ability, you'll need between six and eight hours from start to boot-up, all going well.AssemblyHere's what I started with:&#183;Antec Solution SLK3700AMB mid-tower case with 350 watt power supply, £65&#183;Asus A7N8X Deluxe Socket A motherboard, £90&#183;AMD Athlon XP 2500+ Socket A processor (retail box with heatsink), £73&#183;Western Digital Caviar UltraDMA100 80 gigabyte hard drive, £70&#183;Crucial Technology 512 megabyte (2 x 256MB) DDR PC2700 Ram, £71&#183;Asus Nvidia Geforce4 MX440 8x AGP video graphics card, £30&#183;Total: £398My aim was to keep the price at around £400 but still have a PC that was respectable in terms of performance and upgradability. With a few pounds more, I would buy a larger hard drive, with a 120 gigabyte drive costing another £20-£30, and more and faster random-access memory.The graphics card is a cheap one, but pretty good value for money. I did not need a sound/audio card, because the A7N8X Deluxe motherboard has excellent onboard sound thanks to its integrated support.For those wanting a budget PC, the price could be taken down to around £300 by substituting a slower processor, a smaller hard drive, and only 256MB of Ram. The keyboard, CD drive, monitor and mouse were reused from my previous PC.Both the Antec case and the Asus motherboard were value for money in one other respect: both suppliers include stacks of extras with their kit. In the case of the motherboard, Asus include all the cables (including SATA and UltraDMA twisted cables) and extra brackets needed, while Antec add in enough screws and parts to comfortably roll your own PC at home.Installation1. Remove the case from packaging and sort through the components (a power cable comes with the case, which has an inbuilt power supply. For cases without power supplies, start by installing the power supply and fans).2. Remove the side cover from the case, and any other things, such as fascia, that might get in the way of installing the motherboard, as well as any removable drive cages. Work out where everything is going, and decide where hard drives, floppy drives and optical (CD or DVD) drives will sit, removing any covers for them as required. Watch out for sharp metal edges on the case - good quality cases won't have sharp edges, but cheap ones will.Insert the port template (called an I/O template) supplied with the motherboard: this is where the motherboard's installed ports, such as serial and mouse (PS/2) ports, will project out of later. Most cases come with templates installed, which will have to be removed.3. Remove the motherboard from its packaging and look to match the stand-off spacer holes in the motherboard with the holes inside the case. Spacers keep the motherboard away from the frame of the case, and in this case looked like brass screws with a long neck.The case will have a variety of spacer holes to fit different types of motherboard: identify the ones that match the holes in your motherboard, and screw them into the case. Do not add extra spacers: that may short the motherboard. Do not fix the motherboard into the case yet.4. Familiarise yourself with the motherboard and its manual, noting where leads and cables will be attached, especially the hard drive cable (which may also carry the optical drives) and the motherboard's power supply input.5. Remove the processor and heatsink/fan from its packaging. Attach the processor to the motherboard - in the case of an AMD processor here, it is attached using a "zero insertion force" socket. Align the pins of the CPU with the socket and gently lower it in, then pull down the attaching lever, which should click into place over the lip of the processor.6. For AMD Socket A processors, now comes the very tricky part: attaching the heatsink to the processor socket. This was, frankly, a terrifying experience. If you get it wrong, you can snuff out £160 worth of kit just like that. The heatsink has to fit over the chip exactly, but a great deal of effort is required to slip the heatsink's metal clip over the extruding plastic tabs of the socket.After all the exhortations about treating the processor with zero force, you suddenly require great force to seat the heatsink. The AMD documentation wasn't much help either, as it seemed to show pictures of a different heatsink, although there is online help atAMD's websitethat is more useful (and carries the phrase "Use caution!" several times).The trick is to slip one end of the bracket over one tab first, then apply downward pressure, perhaps using a flat-headed screwdriver, on the opposite side of the clip to push it over the other tab. It sounds easier than it is: the metal clip requires a surprising amount of force to bend it over the second heatsink tab. One slip, and your motherboard could be a widow. Intel processors don't have this problem.7. Phew. That's the hardest part done, but you won't know whether it has been done properly for a while yet. If you heard a cracking sound while attaching the heatsink clip, start worrying.8. Attach the memory cards. Open the slots first by pushing back the plastic tab on each end, and align the cards the right way. Some motherboards have three memory slots, and require cards to be put in in a certain order. Push the cards down by applying consistent firm pressure to seat them in their slots, at which point the plastic end tabs will spring up and close over each end. Help them along if they don't quite snap up all the way.9. At this point, check jumper positions from the motherboard's manual, and work out which settings you are going to require. Make sure the jumper blocks are in the right settings. This is fiddly but very important. It may not require any changes, but you must make sure.10. At this point, some technicians say that you should attach the drive cables to the motherboard, but I am not convinced that having large cables dangling around is a good idea. But if the cables will be hard to reach and connect when the motherboard is installed inside the case, it may be worth it. If your case doesn't have a removable hard drive cage or easy access, it may be a good idea to install the hard drive into the case first (but first read the master/slave setting information below, in point 15).11. Carefully pick up the motherboard and lower it into the case to sit on its already-installed spacers,carefully aligning the motherboard's ports with the case's holes (you installed the motherboard's supplied template in the case first).Then go around adding the top screw through the board into the open end of each spacer. Do not screw them down too tightly - finger-tight will do it. Do not force the motherboard into shape: you may have to manoeuvre the board to get the top screws aligned, but be careful while doing so. This part can be very difficult - one tip is to start off each screw, so the motherboard aligns, and then go back and screw them all the way down (but not too tight, of course).Make sure no screws get lost inside the case: one lodged in the wrong place could easily short the board when it's switched on, especially if it gets between the underside of the motherboard and the case. Remember to put a screw into each spacer hole - don't skip any, they're all important for the motherboard's functioning. Some useful tips on handling this part of the installation ishere.12. That's the second hardest part done.13. This is perhaps the right time to attach the cables to the motherboard that connect to peripherals such as drives and expansion cards, and the leads from the case's switches, external lights and outlets (such as Firewire and USB ports), as well as the heatsink's fan power supply lead to the motherboard (which is vital, otherwise the processor will overheat in about 60 seconds and blow up). The case leads are the most fiddly, so do them first.The floppy disk drive (FDD), hard drive (ATA or UDMA) ribbon cables are the largest and require firm pressure to seat them into the motherboard socket, so do them last. Make sure the plugs are correctly aligned with their cables, although this is hard to get wrong (SATA drive cables don't have these problems, and are smaller and much easier to connect.) This is also a good time to identify and unbundle the motherboard's power supply connection, which is easy to spot, generally being bigger than the rest of the power leads. If case fans require leads attached to the motherboard, do that now.14. Before installing the hard and optical drives, check the manual settings for their master/slave configurations. What are they? Most motherboards now have two IDE sockets (labelled primary and secondary, with any luck), and internal IDE or ATA devices - those that have cables attached to the IDE sockets - can share one cable and one socket between two of them.But the devices have to be told who's the boss. Usually, with one hard drive and one optical drive, the hard drive will be configured as master, and the optical drive as slave. It is also possible that the hard drive is configured as sole master and attached to the primary IDE socket, while the optical drive is a master connected to the secondary IDE socket. Hard drives usually have the configuration choices printed on their cases. If not, check their manual. The new SATA drives don't have these issues.15. Now install the appropriate drives into the case: hard, floppy and optical. The optical internal drives may need to have rails attached first, while hard drives may be installed within removable cages. In any case, with all internal drives, do not tighten the screws attaching them to tightly, as doing so may warp the case (although that should be a problem with a quality case, just cheap ones) or harm the drive. Again, finger-tight is all that's needed.16. Insert any expansion cards - graphics, sound, internal modems, additional expansion slots for infra-red or wireless devices, or extra USB ports. Only a graphics/video card will go into the AGP slot. All the other cards will be for PCI slots, of which there will be four or more. Again, firm pressure along the length of the card will do it, being careful not to warp the card or force it in. You should have already removed the expansion card metal case slot covers: keep these for a later date, as they may be needed to be replaced one day if a card is removed. The cards may take some jiggling to sit comfortably.17. Attach the various internal drives and cards to their appropriate cables.18. Unbundle the rest of the internal power cables and plug the appropriate ones into devices. Be careful to match the type of devices with the right cables: this shouldn't be hard.19. Nearly there. Check everything over, and give the case a gentle shake to expel any rogue screws.20. Now check all the leads again, making sure that everything is plugged into the right place according to the motherboard manual. I failed to do this properly, as we'll see.21. The acid test. Attach a monitor, keyboard and mouse, then attach the external power lead at the wall. Prepare for the moment of truth ... but do not replace the case cover just yet.22. Switch the PC on using the case's power switch. All being well, the fan should whirr and the processor run, and the PC will boot up into the motherboard's on-board BIOS (the meta-system that gets a PC up and running before handing over to an operating system such as Linux or Windows).Switch off and then reboot, going through the BIOS settings this time, referring to the motherboard's manual as to meaning, and change the settings you prefer. The boot process will run through hardware onboard and should confirm that everything is in place and recognised. If it is not, go back and check the cable positions and configurations or each device not functioning or recognised.23. Power the computer off again and reboot it, inserting a CD with the operating system of your choice. Go through the loading and formatting process.24. And that's it! One last thing to do is to run what the experts call a "burn test" - leaving the PC on and operating at least overnight or for several days. This will determine whether the PC's hardware has any problems: hardware problems usually arise within the first couple of days in serious use, so you want to find out if anything is likely to go wrong in order to return faulty hardware to your supplier. It works best if the PC is running a process during that time: specialist "burn in" software packages can be downloaded (some free, some not) that do this and provide diagnostic tests.It's not working!That's what happened to me: I checked everything, did the big switch-on ... and silence. As Spike Milligan once wrote: "Suddenly - nothing happened. But it happened suddenly." I went over everything, and found with relief that I hadn't plugged the hard drive's IDE cable in, so nothing would happen. Easy.That fixed, the switch was then pushed again - and still nothing happened. Panic started to creep in, and I took the thing apart, checked all the power cables, reseated a lot of cables, just in case. Two hours later, still nothing, and I'm cursing my folly.I thought it probably wasn't a dud power supply because, thankfully, Asus had added an on-board light to show that the motherboard was receiving power. Many other motherboard manufacturers are not so thoughtful. After going through every option, I eventually noticed that the motherboard's manual was ambiguous about the position of the lead connecting the case on switch and the motherboard, and by a fraction of a centimetre I had placed the lead in the wrong position. That fixed, I pressed the on button, and there was a roar of the processor and fans starting up instantly - a great relief.The result is a PC that works perfectly. I can identify every piece of hardware within it as old friends.Have I missed anything out? Inevitably, because hardware configurations are all different. I have tried to keep things as basic as possible to cover as much in common between them as possible, but your motherboard's manual should have all the information required.Building a computer can be fun - or at least informative - combined with moments of terror and uncertainty. The satisfaction of having done it all yourself is enormous.
The release tomorrow of Panther - the new version of Apple's OS X operating system - is far more significant an upgrade than the change in version number from 10.2 to 10.3 would suggest.The new system, which Online has been able to put through its paces, is the most mature version of OS X so far, and lies at the centre of efforts by the company's chief executive, Steve Jobs, to revitalise the company.First launched in March 2001, Mac OS X v10.0 promised much. It proved stable, but was found to be extremely slow and unpolished. In the three years since, Apple has released three   major revisions to Mac OS X. Version 10.3 finally delivers the operating system that Mac users have been waiting for.The first major difference is that the Finder has been re-written and is now "user-centric", making the filing and retrieval of files much easier. Adopting the brushed metal look of iTunes and iPhoto, the new Finder has a sidebar on the left-hand side of its window. This allows faster access to disks and customisable locations such as the user's home, documents and pictures folders.These sidebars also appear in the redesigned open and save dialogs, which were, in earlier versions, unwieldy and unintuitive. Panther also supports encryption of the user's home folder, with a near-transparent process that adds a new layer of security for users.Overall performance is also much   improved. Applications now launch considerably faster than under previous releases of OS X. Startup and shutdown times have been reduced, too, with these improvements most apparent in dual processor systems.Panther also tackles the bane of many a computer user today: multiple open windows. Running with lots of documents, in several applications, it can be difficult for users to find the window they are looking for.Apple's answer to this is Expos&#233;. By pressing a user-definable hot key or moving the mouse to a specified corner of the screen, all the open windows are reduced to miniature versions, allowing the user to pick the one they want. They can also be quickly slid off to reveal the desktop.Fast-user switching is a feature Apple will happily admit it has copied from Windows. This allows multiple users to be logged in to the   same Mac at once, while preserving a setup unique to each user. Typically, Apple has implemented the functionality with rather more style than Microsoft; given a suitable graphics card, the switching effect has the appearance of a giant cube rotating to reveal each user's desktop.Other features include iChatAV, first released as a public beta in June, which allows video chat via a Firewire web cam or DV camcorder and a broadband internet connection, and audio chat via a microphone and dial-up connection.Meanwhile, Safari, Apple's web browser, has become more closely integrated into the operating system in a similar way to Windows' integration of Internet Explorer. The new mail client, for example, uses the Safari rendering engine to display HTML formatted emails more accurately, and the engine is accessible to   developers writing their own applications. The bundled Apple mail client now includes support for accessing Microsoft Exchange mail servers and address books.Finally, recognising that most Mac users work in a heterogeneous computing environment, Panther considerably improves support for integration with Windows PCs. Included is improved ability to access Windows file servers, print to Windows printers and to share the resources of the Mac (file sharing and printers) with Windows PCs. For the corporate user there is enhanced support for Microsoft's Active Directory.In summary, this is a far-reaching and impressive upgrade to the Mac experience. It justifies its &#163;99 cost far more than the 0.1 version change would suggest.&#183;Seewww.apple.com/macosx
'Tell me a joke." A small audience sits in front of a big screen waiting for a response to pop up. A short pause - then some type flickers up onscreen. "Why did the chicken cross the road?" A slight groan from the audience. A reply is dutifully typed up. "I don't know - why did the chicken cross the road?" Another pause. Up on screen, more type appears. "Because it was stapled to the elephant."Welcome to the Loebner prize contest, an annual attempt to find the world's most "human-seeming" chatbot. A chatbot is a program designed imitate human conversation in text form. This year's event took place at the University of Surrey. Last Saturday, eight chatbots and two human "confederates" lined up in one room of the university's Guildford campus.Down the corridor, nine judges sat at terminals for short text chats with each bot and human "confederate", without knowing who or what they were talking to. Then they had to rate each conversational partner according to how human they seemed to be. Sections of the chats were relayed to a small audience, who seemed to enjoy the stops and starts and the old jokes.At the end of the afternoon, as expected, the two humans came out top, though rather perplexingly, one judge decided that both only rated one on a scale of five when it came to seeming human. (The same judge gave all the bots one, as well.) The chatbot that came next (and hence won) was Jabberwock, created by Juergen Pirner, a German publisher of fantasy and science fiction. The highest-placed Brit was programmer Rollo Carpenter, whose Jabberwacky bot came in equal third.Now in its 13th year, the Loebner prize is a version of the Turing Test, proposed by mathematician Alan Turing more than 50 years ago as a potential measure of machine intelligence. Turing suggested that an intelligent machine and a human be set up in one room, and that they should engage in "teleptyped" conversations with a human interlocutor in another room. If, after a given time, the human interlocutor could not tell which of their conversational partners was the machine and which was human, then the machine had passed the test and could be called "intelligent".Hugh Loebner, the American businessman behind the annual prize, says it's still a good measure of machine intelligence. The ultimate Loebner prize, he explains, is a gold medal and $100,000, which will go to the chatbot that passes the Turing Test. The contest is held every year   and the program that seems most human (ie. the one that comes third, after the two human "confederates") wins the bronze medal and $2,000."I don't think I'll live to see it but my goal would be a life of slavery where the slaves are the computers. I'm very, very lazy. Sloth is my favourite vice. No, maybe it's lust, but after lust, sloth."Loebner has some colourful interests. Aside from the Loebner prize, he champions sex workers' rights. Over the years, his contest has upset the AI. academic establishment. They see it as a diversion, a chatbot beauty contest. MIT's venerable AI. academic Marvin Minsky has even offered money to anyone who can stop Loebner from holding his contest.At this year's event, Loebner stayed outside the main contest room. "It's just something I find almost a little painful." That's a pity, because this year's event was fun.Organiser Lynn Hamill, of Surrey University's Digital World Research Centre, says she saw the contest as an amusing way of advancing the interests of the Centre, which was set up to look at the way people and technologies interact. "The Loebner prize   is a useful way of getting people to think about these things," she says, adding that it may help AI. research in general. "It brings people in from outside the academic world. Sometimes the best innovations come from outside the university."This year's contest was notable for the poor showing of the well-known open source chatbot Alice. Created by maverick academic Professor Richard Wallace, it has won the Loebner prize twice, but this year came second to last.Alice is built on Wallace's belief that human conversations aren't quite as complex as we think, that a dumb machine with a sufficient number of pre-programmed responses (he estimates around 40,000) could manage most human conversations.Lynn Hamill agrees that "a lot of our conversation is fairly ritualised", but adds that for chatbots to advance, they need to go beyond the "pattern matching and keyword spotting" and develop a real sense of context and how that informs meaning. The way forward might be to get chatbots to "learn as they go along. Turing envisaged this. You don't expect a one or two year old to converse   like an adult. It takes a lot of learning to build up a sense of context".That is the approach adopted by the third-placed Rollo Carpenter. When people talk to his Jabberwacky bot online, their responses are saved. During subsequent chats, Jabberwacky searches its database, using "contextual pattern matching techniques" to find an appropriate response. "In speaking to you it uses only learnt material. With no hard-coded rules, it relies entirely on the principles of feedback," Carpenter explains. "Only learning artificial intelligence technologies will ever pass the Turing Test."It's a little galling for Carpenter to lose to Juergen Pirner's Jabberwock, which adopts a simpler approach. Pirner's bot uses fairly standard chatbot techniques (the pattern matching and keyword spotting mentioned by Hamill) but brings all this together in a strong character. Jabberwock presents itself as a talking dragon, a descendant of the fantasy creature from Lewis Carroll's famous poem.Pirner says it was interesting that a "talking dragon" seemed more human than other bots coded to resemble people. "But then, what does   humanlike mean, especially during this kind of 'typed' conversation?" He believes chatterbots have more to do with interactive fiction than artificial intelligence. Jabberwock is both part of a story and a storyteller, a storytelling game you do by conversing, Pirner explains. "If you look for artificial intelligence in the scientific meaning of the word, perhaps you're looking in the wrong place".A sense of character is important, says David Hamill, who co-organised this year's event with his wife. Hamill came second in the 1999 contest. He explains that bots could be interfaces to expert systems, or guide users through websites. One day they might even live in appliances and advise people on how to use them. Hamill believes the future for chatbots is in entertainment, either in interactive fiction or smart toys. One day, chatbots might even be sold as companions for lonely singletons.He is researching affective computing, ways to add emotions to chatbots and to get bots to recognise emotions in their users. What's really required he says, is time and money. But, thanks to the dotcom crash, it's hard to attract investors. Meanwhile, the Loebner prize helps bring people together and advance ideas. But there's a long way to go to the ultimate prize, Hamill admits. "I think Loebner's $100,000 is safe for a few years yet."Useful linksJuergen Pirner's Jabberwock botwww.abenteuermedien.de/jabberwockRollo Carpenter's Jabberwacky botwww.jabberwacky.comThe full results of the competitionwww.surrey.ac.uk/dwrc/loebnerHugh Loebnerwww.loebner.netAlicewww.alicebot.orgMaybot Ltdwww.maybot.com
"Less than 5,000 units of Nokia N-Gage hardware were sold in the United States in the system's first week of release, according to independent research firm Arcadia Research. That figure takes into account all retail locations that sold the N-Gage, including both videogame specialty retailers and cellular phone retailers," according to1Up."We've sold around 400,000 N-Gage in the first two weeks," Ilkka Raiskinen, senior vice president entertainment and media at Nokia Mobile Phones, told Reuters in a telephone interview. The number refers to models Nokia has sold to shops and other retail outlets since the launch on October 7, saysReuters. "Analysts were not very impressed with Nokia's initial sales."Comment: 5,000 US sales could reasonably be regarded as disastrous.
Apple has announcenew G4 iBookstoday, in addition to therecently speed-bumpedPowerBooks. The new machines start at £849 (incl VAT) for a 12-inch, 800 MHz model, rising to £1199 for the 1GHz 14-inch version. This, naturally, only adds to the dilemma of deciding which machine - iBook or PowerBook - should replace my much-travelled, endearingly-coffee-stained-but-now-rather-obsoletefirst edition iBook. Decisions, decisions...
Online retail giant Amazon has made its first profit outside the traditionally busy Christmas holiday period, propelled by the company's free post and a surge in DVD sales driven by Lord of the Rings.The company, which has outlasted most of its rivals from the dotcom boom to become one of the biggest names on the internet, made a pre-tax profit of £9.5m compared with a loss of £21m a year earlier.Chief executive Jeff Bezos said he expected the Christmas season to bring in record-breaking profits for the online retailer of books, music, DVDs and dozens of other products from toys to electrical goods."Thanks to free shipping and low prices, we expect more customers than ever to turn to us for their holiday gifting needs this year, producing our biggest holiday season ever," he said.Amazon's free shipping offer, which in the UK applies when customers spend more than £25, has helped encourage customers to up the amount they spend with each transaction.Much of the growth in Amazon's sales has been driven by sales outside the US. Sales through its international division, representing sites in the UK, France, Germany and Japan, grew 61% on last year to £253m.The UK managing director, Robin Terrell,said that whereas in the last quarter the latest Harry Potter book had been its biggest driver of sales, the third quarter had seen a record 50,000 people pre-ordering the second Lord of the Rings DVD."We have also seen really exceptional growth in sales of electrical goods. Although that category started from a fairly small base it is becoming a substantial business and growing fast through the sale of items such as DVD players, MP3 players and digital cameras," he added.While expensive in the short term, Mr Terrell said the company remained committed to free shipping as a way of attracting customers and keeping prices down."We know it's expensive but it's the right thing to do. We will always look at ways to keep prices down for our customers," he said.Part of the company's growth has also come from sales to and from hundreds of outside retailers such as Toys R Us, which pay Amazon to manage their e-commerce operations.These sales, which represent 22% of the company's overall revenues, carry a lower risk because they do not rely on external inventory and warehousing.But like fellow dotcom growth story Ebay, Amazon is coming under pressure from heightening expectations from investors. Fears that a handful of strong online stocks are creating a "mini-bubble" have led to analysts and investors expecting them to outperform their sales targets.Online auction site Ebay last week reported an annual 70% surge in profits but this was still not enough to impress Wall Street and the value of its stock dipped.The same phenomenon affected Amazon after its results were released to the New York stock exchange,  with shares, which have more than tripled in value over the last year, dipping in value as the company matched, but failed to beat, analysts' expectations.Mr Terrell said a certain degree of analyst uncertainty about annual sales targets was inevitable when so much relied on the vital Christmas period."As a retail company so much of our business depends on the key fourth quarter so it's hard to predict what the situation will be like this time next year. Some of the comments are based on fears that growth will slow but it's impossible to say how external factors such as interest rates will affect us," he said.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
The charities minister, Fiona Mactaggart, urged voluntary organisations to include the "costs of doing business" in funding applications as she launched a government grants website today, which provides a single point of access to £182m of funding.At a conference in London, Ms Mactaggart promised to deliver "a more modern relationship between the government and charities and voluntary organisations", moving from one where "the government is giving to you to the government paying you for what you have to deliver."Ms Mactaggart said: "Both sides have been in a sort of conspiracy. Traditionally in the voluntary sector in Britain we do things on a shoestring in order to deliver services to clients."Running costs were often absorbed by charities so they could "look lean and mean" but "later on organisations find the costs of doing business are a problem," she added."It's important to recognise more and more that as the government hopes the voluntary sector can help it modernise, help it deliver services in health and education in a more dynamic way . . . that actually it's not about us generously giving you money . . . but us investing in a better quality of service . . . and that you have a right to charge the costs of business."She urged voluntary organisations to "stop lying - I know it's not lying, I know it's trying to look good," and include overhead costs including the cost of making funding applications.The creation of the website, Governmentfunding.org.uk, might seem "a bit obvious, a bit basic", but the aim was to bring together information about funding streams from various government departments and, later, to allow the government to be "more proactive" in targeting funding.The site, developed and managed by the national charity, the Directory of Social Change, contains searchable information and downloadable application forms for grants from the Department for Education and Skills, the Department of Health, the Home Office and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.Registered organisations will also be able to receive email updates about new programmes or revised schemes.Online grant applications will be possible next year and a directory of users will encourage networking by enabling groups to find details of other organisations that have registered with the site.Alison Baxter, the director of information and communications at the Directory of Social Change, said the website would make a big difference to organisations looking for government support for their projects."It is often difficult to know where to start when it comes to government funding programmes," she said. "This new website will enable groups to search under a range of criteria to quickly find the programmes that suit them."
A briefing paper warning NHS managers of weaknesses in the government's &#163;2.3bn programme to introduce sophisticated computer systems into the NHS has been withdrawn from the official health service website after it provoked questions from journalists.The document by Catherine Ebenezer, a former NHS librarian, supported the government's objectives, but warned of 13 "significant problems and weaknesses" in the plan for an electronic patient booking system.It was withdrawn after the magazine Computer Weekly asked the Department of Health to respond. The department said last night that the material was removed because it had been displayed "prematurely", before the normal process of peer review.The system is intended to allow NHS patients to make appointments at the most convenient hospital with the shortest waiting lists. More than 30,000 GPs in England should get the necessary software by the end of 2005.The critique by Ms Ebenezer, information systems manager at the Royal College of Midwives, was designed to brief NHS managers on the strategy. She warned that the "very tight" implementation timetable could cause problems and that healthcare organisations were "ill-equipped to deal with the additional demands" of the programme.The magazine said although the paper had been available on the NHS Electronic Library for Health for several weeks, "it was withdrawn the day after Computer Weekly contacted the department".
Jefferson Grahamreports on Apple's rushed and buggy attempt at Windows software, without mentioning its failure to follow Windows' user interface conventions. However, he does reckon there is a way out of Apple's lock-in strategy (Apple music store -- Apple-only AAC format -- Apple client software -- Apple iPod): "Burn a CD, then rip the files to MP3. Once that's done, you're free to do anything you want with the file and put it anywhere you want to."
"Japanese electronics and entertainment giant Sony Corp. plans to eliminate up to 20,000 jobs, or more than 12 percent of its work force, by March 2006 in a major restructuring, a Japanese newspaper reported Monday," saysAP.
Sun Microsystems "actually lost $286 million, or 9 cents a share, compared with a loss of $111 million, or 4 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue was $2.54 billion, down 8 percent from $2.75 billion a year earlier," reports theMercury News."The just-ended quarter also marked the first time in nine years that Sun reported negative cash flow, a measure of the amount of money coming in vs money being paid out."Also, "One day after Transmeta Corp announced its latest lines of processors, the company reported that it continued to bleed red ink. Transmeta said it lost $23.7 million on revenue of $2.7 million in the third quarter. The company's revenues were about half of the $5.1 million Transmeta reported in the second quarter, and about a third less than the $6.4 million the company reported in the year-ago quarter,"reports eWeek.Comment: the company says "sales of Transmeta's existing Crusoe chips had trailed off more quickly than expected." Having tried one, I'm not a bit surprised.
"A large number of Windows users have jumped at the chance to try Apple Computer's iTunes jukebox software--and reactions are ranging from unabashed praise to complaints of bugs," reportsCNet.D'Oh: And here's the one I thought I'd posted earlier. Must write myself a note about hitting the Post &amp; Publish button. "The new Windows iTunes jukebox, which is compatible with Windows 2000 and XP, has the same look and feel of the Mac version. It supports Apple's copy-protected Advanced Audio Coding format as well as MP3 -- but not Microsoft's Windows Media Audio (WMA) format," reportsCNet, which has a video clip of Jobs in action. "This is not some baby version of iTunes or the music store," Apple CEO Steve Jobs said at the Moscone West convention center here. "This is the whole thing." In his typical marketing hyperbole, Jobs declared, "iTunes for Windows is probably the best Windows application ever written."
I'm in Korea this weekend, at theWorld Cyber Games. Rather unexpectedly - especially for the hosts, Korea - the German team has just secured its third gold medal, and top prize for the games overall. Their effort has been helped, in no small measure, by having *two* players facing off in the Fifa 2003 soccer final - and the players are twin brothers, too. They're pretty happy about it all - the German team captain is currently racing around the press room, waving his flag and whooping... More in Thursday's Online.
I was flying to Korea at the time, so missed the announcement, butApple(as expected) launched iTunes and iTunes music store for Windows on Thursday. Jobs used quite a funny line to announce the new line, although everyone knew a Windows version was inevitable.News.comreports on praise for the new software, and some gripes, including bugs and the lack of support for any player other than the iPod. Now, hell reallywouldfreeze over if that was included... Latest info on a European version remains that it may show up in the Spring of next year, in Mac and PC form.
The last 10 years have seen computer games develop from being a niche entertainment medium, used only by a hardcore few, to become an industry worth $6bn (£3.6bn) in European sales alone."But with new consoles like Sony's PSX and the handheld PSP looming on the horizon gaming is looking at its next stage of evolution and how it can embrace and become accepted by so-called "mainstream culture".Hardcore games players have previously formed the main target audience and have, in turn, become the evangelists of gaming by championing products, creating fan sites and original content, and spreading what PR just can't buy - namely, good word of mouth.But, one of the major challenges facing the games industry at the moment is how to convert the elusive nonbelievers.Ray Maguire, managing director of Sony Computer Entertainment in the UK, believes that the games industry is already failing a large percentage of people in this country simply because it has not been able to reach them."If we've got 7 million PlayStations in homes and half of those are PS2s, then that's only around a third of the UK. So what's happened to the other two thirds and why can't we get to them?"He believes the industry still has a lot of transition to do in terms of getting products which appeal to the other two thirds.Last week's columnlooked at how mobile games are hooking in casual players by encouraging them to try out more up-to-date games on their phone. But Maguire insists that understanding why non-gamers are not playing is also important in helping the industry cast a bigger net."If you talk to non-players and try to understand why they're not playing it's not driven by price," he says. "It's usually an emotional reason, like they feel uncomfortable with it or sometimes there's a time element to it and a certain misunderstanding of what gaming is all about."Games are starting to have a much more noticeable influence on TV, with programmes like Gamepad, Gamezville and the upcoming Golden Joystick awards (which is to be televised on MTV this year). Whether or not you agree with how the programme creators have decided to interpret games and games culture, it's nonetheless hard not to notice that these shows exist.Let us also not forget the online world. With the Xbox and PS2 network offerings still in their relative infancy, there is still plenty of scope for gaming to reach out to a wider audience, with ideas such as episodic adventures that players can download and pay for incrementally.Industry analyst Screen Digest has predicted that online consoles will be the biggest gaming market by 2006, with mobile games coming a close second.Meanwhile David Gosen, MD of Nintendo Europe, thinks the most important factor in the "mainstreaming" of gaming is not for companies to squabble over a piece of the market share, but instead to actively try and grow the market from the ground up, creating different games for different people and, specifically, simpler games for those who don't have the time to devote to complex titles."Games that are simple give the people who are very time-pressured the chance to play videogames as part of a number of other activities that they partake in," he says."Historically, we used to talk about disposable income being the deciding factor in game choice, but I think that time has now become a key factor."As the games industry looks towards moving out of its entertainment niche and into the mainstream, the key theme that runs through the avenues it has been taking in order to push itself forward is that of giving people more choice.Like films, gamers like to play games that meet their needs at a given time; a quick beat 'em up with mates after the pub, a strategy game for when they have time to exercise their minds, or a quick go at a blocks puzzle when they're waiting for the bus.To cater for new audiences, without alienating the existing ones, different games of varying complexities need to be made more available to the spectrum of potential gamers. Build them and they will come.Charts - full price softwareOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, GC)Electronic Arts - £37.992) Club Football (PS2) Codemasters - £39.993) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.994) Conflict Desert Storm II (PS2, Xbox, PC) SCI - £39.995) Soul Calibur II (GC, PS2, Xbox) Nintendo/Electronic Arts - £37.996) Hulk (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games - £20.997) Formula One 2003 (PS2) £20.998) Halo: Combat Evolved (PC, Xbox) Microsoft - £39.999) Colin McRae Rally 04 (PS2, Xbox) Codemasters - £37.9910) Finding Nemo (PS2, GBA, PC, Xbox) THQ - £34.99
Due in the shops this week is a product that its makers believe could provide the template for the future of video.The SV-AV100 from Panasonic is a tiny camcorder that rewrites the rule book by capturing video, but not storing it on tape or disk. Instead, the high quality moving images are archived on to a removable SD (secure digital) flash memory card.Storing video on memory cards isn't new. Most digital cameras, and some phones, enable users to take and store a few seconds of footage. However, these use compressed low resolution formats such as MPEG4. SV-AV1000 gives the user the option of shooting MPEG2 (the same standard as that used in digital camcorders) quality video.Panasonic's group general manager for marketing, Andrew Denham, sees the SV-AV100 as showing how the low-end of the camcorder market will develop."We see the SV-AV100 as a real breakthrough. The SD card, with its small size and fast transfer rate, is ideal for this kind of product," he said.The company is also positioning the SV-AV100 as a key device in its group of SD-related products. "It is part of a family of SD products including our DVD/hard disk recorder the DMRE100," explained Mr Denham. "Together they work seamlessly to support consumers' digital lifestyle choices."For example the SV-AV100 can play back an MPEG4 video that has been stored on Panasonic's DMRE100 DVD/hard disk video recorder."While the SV-AV100 is clearly an impressive product that works well in capturing footage, it does have one major flaw: its limited storage capacity.When shooting in top quality MPEG2 the device can only store around ten minutes on its accompanying 512Mb SD card. This compares with a figure of around an hour on rival tape and disk based systems. This wouldn't be so huge a problem were the device on sale for £300, but it actually retails for around £1000 with a fair chunk of that money spent on the 512Mb card.Mr Denham acknowledges that for some consumers storage is an issue, but argues "There's a price evolution with SD cards that will drive costs down to realistic levels. Besides, consumers may own several SD cards that they use in a number of devices."Panasonic isn't however the only company who can see the advantage of moving the camcorder market away from tape and removable disk based systems. In January, Samsung is set to debut the IP7 - a camcorder slightly larger than the SV-AV100 that records on to a 1.8 inch, 1.5 Gb hard disk.Unlike the Panasonic product, the IP7 only records video in MPEG4. "It captures video in VGA mode at 30 frames per second. That standard is good enough for most family footage," says Stuart Kemp, the company's product manager for camcorders.Although Samsung has offered traditional DV camcorders, Mr Kemp is convinced that a new product area is emerging. "I believe that for low-end camcorders the main priorities are size and ease of use. With the IP7 we are pioneering a new area. It's a device that users can put in their bags carry with them everywhere."Yet Mr Kemp believes Panasonic may be a little premature with its SD camcorder. "Flash memory cards make perfect sense for camcorders, especially as people now use them in PDAs and phones. Yet at the moment they are too expensive which is why cheaper hard disks make sense," he said.With its championing of its Memory Stick flash storage system Sony would also appear to be a company that might find the concept of capturing quality video on a flash memory card attractive. Yet Shaun Dorrington, product manager for camcorders, is adamant that such a device is still many years away for Sony."We believe people still want media like tape or disk that easily transfers footage to consumer electronics products. Products that ostensibly download video to PCs are still a niche area," he said, adding: "We also have a product that's not much bigger than a pack of cards in the IP1 which uses MicroMV tapes."Launching the SV-AV100 is a brave move by Panasonic. Certainly the device's form factor and ease of use have huge appeal, but Panasonic may have its work cut out convincing any punters to spend £1000.In a couple of years time, as the cost of flash memory continues to fall, Panasonic will be delivering products that rival other camcorder based systems in the amount of video they can hold. When that happens we really could be calling time on cassette and disk based systems.
Police efforts to crack down on computer crime suffered a setback yesterday when a British teenager accused of launching an electronic attack on America's busiest port was cleared.Aaron Caffrey, 19, was charged last year under the 1990 Computer Misuse Act. He was accused of unleashing a flood of data that hampered operations at Houston, Texas, in September 2001 by crippling its web-based systems which contained crucial information on navigation, tides, water depths and weather. London's Southwark crown court was told the Mr Caffrey, from Shaftesbury, Dorset, launched the electronic assault as revenge against a female internet chatroom user who had insulted his American girlfriend, Jessica.The prosecution alleged that in trying to sabotage her PC with a distributed denial of service attack he had crashed Houston's navigational network by bombarding it with thousands of electronic messages.But Mr Caffrey, who has Asperger's syndrome, a mild form of autism, claimed he was a victim of Trojanism - computer language for an outside takeover of his PC.He told the court unknown computer users had hacked into his PC and loaded it with the "attack script" which was then activated once he opened a particular file.During three days in the witness box, he maintained he knew nothing about the attack until police arrested him in January 2002 after tracing the source to his computer. Officers confiscated the PC and arrested him on suspicion of unauthorised modification of computer material. When computer experts who examined his machine could find no trace of the Trojan horse, he was charged.Mr Caffrey told the jury that it would have been impossible for the experts to have tested every file on his PC. He also said the Trojan might have had a facility to self-destruct, leaving no trace of its existence.The teenager, who said he had set up a group called Allied Haxor Elite, admitted he had indulged in hacking forays but only with the owner's consent to test the security of friends' machines.The prosecution's expert witness, Neil Barrett, the technical director of Information Risk Management Plc, described the outcome as a serious setback with "immense implications" for future cases.He said the floodgates were now open for hackers to claim in legal cases that they were not responsible for events arising from their computers."The Trojan defence is that someone else has committed the offence. It has wide implications including the possibility for those caught with paedophilic material to blame somebody else for the presence of it on their computer, therefore making it hard for the prosecution to make its case," he said.Outside court Mr Caffrey's barrister, Iain Ross, said his client was "delighted" he had been cleared but he had been left "very nervous and a little bit shaky". He went on: "He wishes to say that this ordeal has been a dark cloud hanging over him for the last two years. He had always insisted he was not guilty and that he was a victim of a criminal act rather than being a criminal himself."Mr Ross said the teenager offered to help the police and the FBI to catch the culprits but they refused to listen to him. "He now wants to get his life back and wants to gain employment in the computer industry."Mr Caffrey then added that the whole thing had been a "big strain" and said he had felt "very shocked" and "very angry" at the treatment he had received in police hands. Asked what message he had for those attracted by the world of hacking, he replied: "It is fine; just don't do anything illegal."
Microsoft hasn't bundled its innovative OneNote application with Office, but theMercury Newssays there will be a free trial version available athttp://www.microsoft.com/office/onenoteafter the launch. The "killer feature" is, as the Merc says, "the audio recording tool. When you start the audio recording, the computer's microphone not only records the lecture into an audio file but also synchronizes the recording with the notes you're typing." I've already seen several journalists doing it with handwritten notes on Tablet PCs. The horribly frustrating bit is its inability to handle names and addresses. If you have used a Pocket PC, you'll know the handwriting recognition makes it easy to write contact details into Outlook. OneNote makes the same task almost impossible.
A British teenager was today cleared of causing one of the biggest computer systems crashes in US history by overwhelming the network of a busy Texas port.After a two-week trial and three hours of deliberation, a jury at Southwark crown court, in London, decided that 19-year-old Aaron Caffrey had not been responsible for shutting down vital navigation systems at the port of Houston.During the trial, Mr Caffrey claimed that an unknown hacker had used his PC to launch the attack without his knowledge.Prosecutors had alleged that he had launched a potentially catastrophic electronic assault in a revenge bid against a female internet chatroom user who had insulted his girlfriend, Jessica.The crown said that, in trying to sabotage her PC, he unintentionally crashed Houston's navigational network by bombarding it with thousands of electronic messages.However, the jury of five men and six women accepted Mr Caffrey's claim that someone had hacked into his PC and loaded it with the "attack script". This was automatically activated once he opened a particular file.The teenager, who is a member of a band of hackers known as Allied Haxor Elite, admitted that he had indulged in hacking forays in the past, but had only done so with consent in order to test the security of friends' computers.During three days in the witness box, Mr Caffrey protested his innocence, maintaining he had known nothing about the attack until police arrived on his doorstep to arrest him in January 2002.The teenager's ordeal began when officers who had traced the source of the attack to a computer at Mr Caffrey's home in Fairlane, Shaftesbury, Dorset, confiscated his computer and arrested him on suspicion of unauthorised modification of computer material.Computer experts who forensically examined his machine could find no trace of a "Trojan horse" - a programme allowing another user to remotely control a computer.Mr Caffrey told the jury that it would have been impossible for the police computer experts to have tested every file on his PC for evidence of the Trojan horse.He also said that it might have had a built-in facility to self-destruct, leaving no trace of its existence.Mr Caffrey, who has numerous computer qualifications, including the European computer driving licence, smiled at his mother, who was sitting next to him at the back of the court, when the not guilty verdict was returned.Outside the court, his barrister, Iain Ross, said that his client was "delighted" he had been cleared, but he had been left "very nervous and a little bit shaky".He went on: "He wishes to say that this ordeal has been a dark cloud hanging over him for the last two years. He had always insisted he was not guilty and that he was a victim of a criminal act rather than being a criminal himself."Mr Ross said that the teenager had offered to help police and the FBI to catch the real culprits, but they had refused to listen to him."He now wants to get his life back and wants to gain employment in the computer industry," the barrister added.Mr Caffrey added that he had felt "very shocked" and "very angry" at the accusations levelled at him by police and the treatment he had received at their hands.Asked what message he had for those attracted by the world of hacking, he replied: "It is fine - just don't do anything illegal."
The mobile phone industry has lost none of its capacity to surprise. Text messaging, without anyone predicting it, came from nowhere to become the fastest growing service in recent memory. Then Wap - wireless application protocol - bombed as soon as it was released, despite many pundits predicting it would take over the world. But that was then and now is now.Suddenly, texting has run out of growth and Wap has become the in-thing. Wap downloads to mobile phones have trebled in the last year and if present trends continue they could soon hit a billion page impressions in a single month in the UK.Of course no one knows they are using Wap when they download ringtones at up to £3 a throw, sports results and "adult" material - but that's where the growth is coming from. What next? The run-up to Christmas could be the start of the long awaited explosion in the growth of games downloaded to mobile phones.The manufacturers are certainly trying hard. Vodafone live! finished a country-wide promotion with the final of its mobile games championship at the National History Museum last night. Orange and other operators are pushing mobile games hard.Today the Scottish mobile games publisher, Digital Bridges - which claims 25% of the European (paid for) mobile games market - is launching the latest version of the very popular Fifa 2004 football game in mobile form at the same time as the console version is released by Electronic Arts for PlayStation 2, Xbox TM, PC and Nintendo Game Boy It hopes it will become the first paid for mobile game to sell a million.The market conditions are good. Mobiles with Java software installed (essential for these games) have been selling much faster than expected. Games are becoming much easier to download, payments systems are easier and the quality of the games is also improving. Soon the industry's trade body, Elspa, will publish top 10 charts for all formats.Digital Bridges claims that all the essential features of the console version have been packed into 64k of memory. I had a brief demo yesterday and it was impressive.The mobile games industry is hoping to capitalise on the fact that practically everyone has a mobile (unlike console ownership which is still an expensive minority sport) so the scope for selling very large numbers of games - at £5 rather than almost £40 for a console game - is considerable. There are already reckoned to be 50 million mobile phones sets in Europe that can play games.There is always the danger that buyers will prefer the cutdown mobile version rather than forking out for a console and a full-blown console game, but the companies think it will be the other way round. Gamers will trade up from a phone game to the expensive original.The arrival, at long last, of Nokia's dedicated gaming phone, the N-Gage (which the Finnish company claims has been a sell-out in many shops) will also help to bring mobile gaming into the mainstream. Digital Bridges reckons the market will expand from $100m (£60m) this year to $300m next year and $500m by 2005.One thing is sure, this year's Christmas market will tell us whether it is going to be the next big thing or the equivalent of Wap three years ago. The odds are that it will be the former.&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian Online.
Universal Music, the world's largest music group, announced 1,350 job losses yesterday as the industry continues to struggle with the consequences of rampant piracy.Universal said it would reduce its 12,200-strong workforce by 11% in the face of seemingly uncontrollable demand for illicit internet downloads and counterfeit CDs.Doug Morris, chairman of Universal Music, said the cut-backs were "evidence that what people are doing is not a victimless crime". Universal, whose artists include U2, Beck and Eminem, said it had already cut about 550 jobs this year and would axe a further 800 by the start of 2004.Universal's non-US labels, which include Island and Polydor, will be streamlined in a process which is expected to produce savings of $200m (&#163;120m). A spokesperson for the group's London-based international arm said the job losses would be across Universal's operations in 71 countries; there were no plans to shed artists.The need to cut costs is particularly urgent in Universal's case because it does not have the option of merging with a rival record group to bolster its balance sheet. A global market share of 25.9% which produced revenues of &euro;6.27bn last year precludes it from teaming up with the others of the "big five": EMI, Warner Music, BMG and Sony.EMI last year found itself in the position of cutting 1,900 jobs and terminating the contracts of 400 artists as it tried to align a bloated cost base with plummeting revenues. Earlier this year, Sony said that it would reduce staff numbers by 1,000, while Warner and Bertelsmann-owned BMG have trimmed their workforces.Time Warner is considering selling its music business to EMI to create a group controlling 23.9% of the music market, while BMG has admitted holding discussions with the main groups except Universal.The Universal spokesperson said a merger between any of its rivals would create a far stronger competitor but denied the prospect of industry consolidation influenced the cost-cutting move. Universal has not been slow to react in the face of declining global CD sales, which fell 10.9% to $12.7bn in the first half of the year.Last month, the group surprised its rivals by announcing plans to slash the price of new release CDs in the US by nearly a third in an attempt to revive sales.Universal Music slipped into a loss of &euro;42m for the first half of the year, with revenues falling 24.5% to $2.2bn. It blamed the revenue slide on the continued depression in the global record market and a weak release schedule.Universal Music is owned by Vivendi Universal, the French media group which acquired the record business as part of the $34bn merger with Seagram's Universal film, music and theme park businesses three years ago.The unit looks increasingly isolated within the Vivendi portfolio following the merger of group's US entertainment assets - including the Universal studio - with the NBC TV network this month. Jean-Ren&#233; Fourtou, chief executive of Vivendi Universal, has reaffirmed his commitment to the music business, despite the lack of obvious synergies with its remaining pay-TV and telecoms assets.
Over a quick meeting last summer, a combined team from Guardian Unlimited and Guardian Online decided to organise a competition to promote and reward the best of British blogging.Within a few weeks, we launched the Best British Blog Award. Within hours, the blogging community was talking about it - good and bad, but mostly bad. There was outrage that anyone, let alone a newspaper, should sit in judgment on blogs. There were conspiracies that it was just a devious plan to get traffic on Guardian Unlimited (as if we needed it). We thought we were simply launching a competition: at times, it felt more like we were dropping a hand grenade into a hornet's nest.Despite, or perhaps because of, the controversy, the contest still attracted hundreds of entries. And, our first winner was Scary Duck. We were delighted with the results.Over the past year, blogging has grown, in both importance and size. The original hardcore blogging community is still there, and still vociferous. But every month, thousands of others are trying their hand at this unique publishing form.Our fascination with blogging remains. In both print and online we have engaged with the blogging world more than any other UK media owner (and we have a number of bloggers in our midst). And we still feel there should be an annual show case of the best of British blogging.So, we decided earlier this year to do another competition. But we also took on board some of the comments made last year and, as a result, we've made the following changes.&#183;We've decided to have five categories which are (in alphabetical order): Best Design, Best Specialist (which applies to any blog about a single topic), Best Under 18, Best Use of Photography and Best Written. And yes, anyone can enter their blog in as many categories as they like.&#183;We will not be naming an overall winner. Hence the change in name to the Guardian Unlimited British Blog Awards.&#183;Finally, we have dramatically increased the number of judges and included a wide range of expertise. From the world of celebrity bloggers we have Moby, Bruce Sterling and the Baghdad blogger. From blogging's aristocracy we have Mena Trott and Jason Kottke. Melvin Burgess, the author of Junk and Doing it, is among the judges in the under-18 category.We have more than 15 judges this year, and have invited last year's winner, Alistair Coleman, and one of the highly rated under 18s, Ellie Cannell, to be among them.The deadline for entries is November 21. And we will be announcing the winners on December 18. To get an entry form, go toguardian.co.uk/ weblog/awards2003, fill it in,and mail it back to us. The winner of each category will receive a cheque for &#163;500.
"A man so angry with his laptop that he shot it has topped an annual league table of the oddest computer mishaps....."BBC News
Until a couple of years ago, I thought that playing cards came in two distinct styles. The standard pack of cards was made of plastic-coated paper, and sold in corner shops for 99p. These are the cards that everyone has lurking in a cupboard somewhere, grubby and dog-eared from years of faithful service, and usually containing at least one joker that has been pressed into service as a missing spade with the judicious use of a felt-tip pen.And then there were the more "artistic" playing cards that my friend Alan used to bring back from his holidays in France and sell in the playground of my primary school. These are the cards every boy in my class had lurking under a mattress somewhere. And these, too, I suspect, were grubby and dog-eared from years of faithful service.But when I started to play poker at a weekly home game, I found myself in a weird twilight world where good cards cost considerably more than 99p. More, even, than Alan's imported French nudie packs. Top of the range for any serious card player, a pack of KEM poker cards will set you back almost &#163;15, but they'll pay for themselves one way or another.First, they'll last 100 times longer than normal cards because they are made from 100% cellulose acetate plastic, which won't warp, tear, mark, bend or buckle. Unfortunately, this means that they are wipe-clean: lose one and not even your blackest felt tip will be able to rectify the situation.Second, when people see a pack of KEMs in your hand they either suss that you're a dedicated, knowledgeable poker player, or assume you're a fool who is easily parted from his cash. Either way, as long as you play your KEMs right, you ought to be quids in at the end of the night.
Before information technology, there was technology, and writers had a relationship with it. Kipling favoured "well-grounded Indian Ink" and "a camel-hair brush" for deleting text. Getting writer's cramp in the midst of What Maisie Knew, Henry James hired a shorthand typist, and his style changed accordingly. He became so used to the sound of the machine he couldn't work without it. According to Hugh Kenner, author of The Mechanic Muse, some of Ezra Pound's staccato imagist poetry "could only have been composed on a typewriter".And so to today. Information technology can be the friend of writers, but more often it is their worst enemy. Say you are a novelist. You should be thinking of language and technique. That is your calling, or your business, depending on how you look at it. In either case, you should be trying to hang on to the informing impulse that blew life into your idea. That original "inspiration" is how you will add to the stock of human knowledge. It's a gift. Do you receive it graciously? No: you think of fonts and hard drives, software packages and printer cartridges. Or you footle around the internet, calling it research.All this is wrong-headed: obsessing about the technology of literary production is generally displacement activity for production itself. Like the washing-up or ironing - astonishingly satisfying when you are trying to start a book - fiddling about with the computer can be another way of putting off the day when you grapple with the blank page.Nowadays writers are more likely, one might think, to be struggling with the blank screen. But of course, the days when computer screens are blank are long gone. Windows and other graphical user interfaces might offer enlightenment to some, but for one such as myself they are just another distraction: something else between the writer and language.This is why, for many years now, for writing fiction I have used an old pre-Windows PC running a very simple ASCII-based program called Xywrite and nothing else. Xywrite is as "naked" a word-processing package as you can get: the closest thing possible to a blank screen. Its point, for me, is to avoid the drift away from the production of words, something which modern WP packages encourage with their ever-increasing ancillary features. After all, bells and whistles are not appropriate instruments with which to serenade the Muse.All that notwithstanding, there are times when one does want the most up-to-date software as a writer. Using an Apple PowerBook, I runEastgate System'samazing program Tinderbox for research and note-taking. It is effectively a relational database with a graphical user interface: so one is able to display or map all the various levels of one's notes, as well as links to the internet and other material.As a content management system,    Tinderbox is very clever and elegant. The visual "box" of each note is also a file, so it can be saved into as well as moved around the screen. There is also a flow-chart dimension to the program. To get the idea, imagine you had pinned up hundreds of colour-coded index cards, in each of which information was stored at various levels (like Chinese boxes). Imagine too that you could look at these cards simultaneously, drawing arrows be tween them and arranging them into vertical and horizontal hierarchies.In some ways, Tinderbox is a little like the Copydesk/Quark Despatch system used for making up these newspaper pages: each article is both a quasi-analogue visual object on the screen and a digital file in itself. Of course, it is all digital really, but human beings aren't. Which is why this sort of programming is becoming more and more common.Unlike Despatch, Tinderbox can automatically scan your notes, looking for patterns, and these can be marked on the screen. Since pattern-making is essential to novel writing, this is quite useful when building up fictional material. It is also very useful for non-fictional, academic and journalistic researches, enabling one to log references efficiently. If you are the sort of person with hundreds of Word files of which you are losing track, Tinderbox can rescue you from information overload.There are other types of writing in which bespoke software is now almost imperative. For filmscripts, Final Draft, now in its sixth release, is your only man. Many studios will now only accept scripts written with this program, which immediately formats your material into character, dialogue, action, shot, transition and so on. The peculiarities of script layout, with character's name centred over justified centred text, and the action range left, are very laborious to achieve using an ordinary word processing package.Another format which is difficult to achieve with Word or its equivalents is the simultaneous video/audio layout used for many TV documentaries. It works like this: on the left of the page one has a Video column (Open on writer at desk, various shots) and on the right an Audio column (Presenter: Every writer has that moment when they must lay the first elusive worlds on the screen). A sister program to Final Draft, Final Draft AV enables one to set out text like this, or some modulation of it. It will no doubt become the industry standard as Final Draft has in the film business.Both theFinal Draftprograms have many other useful features and tools, but one must be wary of being beguiled by them. In the end, it is still just the writer and the words. Computers and software are cultural artefacts, and while they can sometimes be inspirations in themselves, they should not be allowed to dominate cultural production. On the other hand, the modern writer must engage with information technology. Plain anxiety isn't a useful response. Nor - and it's much more common among literary folk - is sophisticated anxiety. One needn't disdain IT to be wary of it.&#183;Giles Foden's most recent novel, Zanzibar is published by Faber and Faber
Mobile PhonesMusic for mobilesFans of Dizzee Rascal, the Mercury Music Prize winner, will soon be able to download the east London rapper's tracks to their mobile phones. As part of a deal with the Association of Independent Music, Rascal is among the first acts expected to licence their music to O2's new music for mobiles service. Other independent acts announced in the deal include Basement Jaxx, Mr Scruff and the Japanese DJ and artist Susumu Yokota, with major label artists to follow. The service - still to be named or priced - will be launched in the UK in mid-November and will use software similar to MP3. The service will work on GPRS-enabled handsets.New playerThe mobile phone world has a new player: Canadian company Sierra Wireless unveiled its first smartphone last week, with Online getting an exclusive first play with a prototype. The new phone is powered by Microsoft's SmartPhone 2003 software, the same family of software that powers Orange's SPV. But don't let that put you off: a faster (Intel) processor and improvements to the Microsoft system mean the new phone, called the Voq, is a much faster and more usable device.The standout feature of the phone is a qwerty keyboard that unfolds from the bottom half of the phone, meaning you can use both thumbs to tap out emails and text messages. When the keyboard is folded away, all you see is the Voq's large screen and a well-proportioned numeric keypad.   Specifics on battery life, launch date and price are vague. It will be around in the first half of next year, be cheaper than a PDA but at the top end of the smartphone market - which suggests the &#163;200 to &#163;300 range.www.voqwireless.netSuper slimIt has an integrated camera, an impressive 65K colour screen, MMS capability and a Wap 2.0 browser. It might not be the most intricate new mobile on the market, but with a pre-pay price of under &#163;80, it is one of the cheapest. Motorola's E365, which replaces the camera-less C350, is clearly aimed at the youth market as it comes with instant messaging, storage for 40 polyphonic ring tones and five Java games. Better still, at 80cc and weighing a minuscule 93g, it is the lightest camera phone outside Japan. It should be in shops next week.Smarten upOrange has unveiled the third version of the SPV, its Microsoft Windows Mobile-powered smartphone. Like its predecessors, the SPV E200 offers "pocket" versions of Windows applications such as Outlook and Internet Explorer. The key difference is that while Orange has kept the styling of previous SPVs, it has   added an integrated digital still and video camera and Bluetooth. Other facilities include a Windows Media audio and video player and Orange Backup, which allows customers to store personal and business data - such as contacts and appointments - on the Orange network. The SPV E200 goes on sale next month. There's no word on pricing yet.www.orange.co.uk3G for SiemensSiemens has become the latest manufacturer to announce it will launch a 3G handset in the UK. Its new U15 phone is a version of the Motorola A825, which goes on sale via the 3 network next week. Siemens has   kept the core functionality of the A825 - video-calling, Bluetooth, 65K colour screen, MP3 player - but tweaked the handset's user interface. The U15 is expected to be available via the 3 network next month.www.my-siemens.co.ukwww.motorola.com/ukGadgetsTV on the webMicrosoft has unveiled Internet Protocol television (IPTV), a system that will deliver both standard and high definition television to consumers via broadband internet connections. It works using Microsoft's Windows Media Player 9 and requires an internet connection of at least 1Mbps, faster than most British broadband connections, which run at 512kbps.IPTV is expected to deliver savings to cable companies, who often provide consumers with two boxes - a broadband modem and an MPeg2-compatible video unit.At the ITU Telecom World in Geneva on Monday, Microsoft's chairman and chief software architect, Bill Gates, also announced a deal with Vodafone to develop mobile web services. These will use existing standard Extensible Markup Language, or XML, and offer applications built around location, billing, mobile messaging and subscriber authentication.www.microsoft.com/ukInternetBulldog speeds upBulldog Communications has become the first major ISP to offer a 1Mbps broadband connection via ADSL to consumers across the UK. It is, however, only available to residents of the 18m homes within 3.5km of a broadband-enabled BT exchange. Bulldog's All Time 1000 costs &#163;32.89 per month and delivers download speeds twice as fast as the 512kbps connection of current consumer ADSL connections. Bulldog subscribers can upgrade for &#163;49.99 plus VAT. Transferring from other broadband providers entails a connection fee of &#163;99.98 plus VAT (&#163;49.99 plus VAT if you can cope with being without broadband for at least a week between connections). It may also involve buying a new modem from Bulldog for between &#163;20 and &#163;100.www.bulldogdsl.comStat of the week: Wap downloadsYou thought Wap (wireless application protocol) was dead? Think again. Wap downloads have trebled in a year thanks to ringtones, sports content and adult material. They will soon hit a 1bn page impressions month.
Go fasterHow do I configure my PC so I have the minimum programs running in the background at start up?Dave WoodJack Schofield replies:A lot of companies like to preload their programs or stubs of programs to make them instantly available. Unfortunately, these preloads can consume more than half a PC's limited resources before you have even loaded any useful programs. If you are running Windows 98/Me, you can check this by restarting your PC and running the Resource Meter from the Accessories|System Tools menu. If this shows less than about 80% resources, try to remove some background programs.Press Ctrl-Alt-Del to get the Task Manager, and make a note of all programs that have been loaded. You must have Explorer and Systray in Windows 9x, but almost everything else is optional. You can identify the running programs using the guide at Paul Collins'sPacs Portal. Collins also provides a lot of information to help you stop them from loading, and links to further information.Windows NT/2000/XP users should not usually have resource problems, but Task Manager's Performance tab gives some idea of system use. The list of running processes looks confusing butBlack Viper'ssite helps with disabling any Windows services you don't need.  Both sites have been mentioned here before.Many PCs have become infected with software parasites that can slow them down, so it is also a good idea    to run SpybotSearch &amp; Destroy.File checkI've been using the system file checker (sfc) in Windows 98, and it's been very useful. I now have Windows XP and can't find it.Mike LongJS:SFC checks Windows' files and replaces any it thinks are corrupt, using the Windows CD. It should not be necessary in Windows XP, because XP keeps its own copies and can replace them without telling you. However, you can still run it in Windows 2000 and XP by going to Start|Run and typing sfc /scannow in the box.Clean startOver the past 18 months, my PC has had loads of what is now unwanted software added. The performance has deteriorated significantly and takes forever to start and shut down. I want to start all over again.Ian SelingerJS:Starting from scratch would solve the problem, but it does present hazards. You must have a working back-up of your irreplaceable data including email, and notes of log-on names and any passwords that Windows is remembering for you. You must also have CDs for Windows and your programs, including installation keys that may be on CD-Rom cases, plus copies of any special hardware drivers for graphics cards, modems, printers etc. I keep a yellow plastic case about 14 x 10 x 3in, so I know I have everything in one place.But before doing anything drastic, try removing any unnecessary start-up programs (see above), and use the Add/Remove Programs utility to uninstall any software you no longer want. You can also run Spybot and the Windows system file checker (see above). If Windows is still running slowly, you can try re-installing it three times.First, install it over the top of your current system. This should preserve your software and settings, unless it is    a "recovery" CD that reformats the drive and restores the PC to factory condition. Second, try a "semi-clean" install. Rename your current Windows directory by adding a word to the end (Windows-old) to stop it from working, and install Windows again. This will preserve your software and data but you will still have to reinstall most or all of your old applications. The third and most effective approach is to reformat the hard drive and start from scratch. The web site atwww.windowsreinstall.comprovides guides to most re-installations. The following Google search should help you find useful articles in theMicrosoft Knowledge Base.Never reformat the hard drive unless your PC starts correctly either from a boot floppy or start-up disk or a Windows CD. Try it first. I also like to install Windows from the hard drive rather than CD: in Microsoft jargon, this is installing from a flat folder. It's much quicker. Finally, if you spend a lot of time installing software and service packs and tweaking Windows to get it how you want it, take a back-up of the tweaked installation using Centered Systems' Second Copy, PowerQuest's Drive Image, Norton Ghost and you won't have to reinstall Windows again.Backchat&#183;Jan McIntyre wanted to capture BBC Radio 4 programmes and listen to them on her iPod, and one of my suggestions for Mac OS X users was Audio Hijack. There was a flood of warm recommendations for Ambrosia Software's freeWireTap softwarefor Mac OS X 10.2 or later. Steve Yuroff also mentionedStreamers, an "AppleScript studio app that will tie together the browser, RealPlayer, WireTap and iTunes".
Ever been driving down a motorway at 70 mph with one hand while trying to change the CD in your      car stereo with the other? It's a dangerous way to drive, but MP3 music players ought to make      driving like this unnecessary.That's because high capacity MP3 players such as Apple's iPod or Archos' Jukebox can hold      thousands of songs, so you could drive right across Europe to a musical accompaniment without      ever having to take your hands off the wheel.There's only one problem, which all owners of MP3 players will be familiar with: how do you get the      music to play though your car audio system? If you have a tape player, you can use a cassette      adapter, but no one has invented an adapter for a car CD player.Fortunately, there is a solution, and a very elegant one it is, too. Why not send the music from      your MP3 player to your car audio system wirelessly? A handful of companies in the United States      have introduced tiny transmitters - known as FM modulators - that plug in to an MP3 player's      headphone jack and broadcast the music up to a range of about five feet on a choice of FM      frequencies.To listen to the music, you just tune your car radio to the right frequency. It's cheap (the      modulators cost about $30), there are no messy cables and just about every car has a radio. And      no more dangerous driving.The bad news is that although these modulators are very popular in America, they won't be on sale      in Britain. The reason? Absurdly, even with a range shorter than the length of most cars, using one      would technically turn the MP3 player into a pirate radio station!"Such products are not illegal to own, but &#91;using a modulator&#93; constitutes an offence of unlicensed      broadcasting under the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1949," a spokesman for the Department for Trade      and Industry confirms. Listening to music in your car could get you arrested, fined an unlimited      amount and thrown in chokey for up to two years.The argument for licensing - so these devices don't interfere with commercial radio stations - is      patently ridiculous. How can a modulator with a range of a few feet cause problems for a radio      station powerful enough to be picked up for miles around ? If you tuned your modulator to a      frequency used by a commercial station, it's your music - not the radio station's - that would be      drowned out.Even the Performing Right Society - the body responsible for collecting musician's royalties from      radio broadcasts - agrees that modulators shouldn't count as radio stations. "Under current PRS      practice we wouldn't choose to license the individual in this instance_" a spokesperson for the      society said.It's no wonder we trail the States by a couple of years in the adoption of most new technologies.      Over there, hi-tech gadgets are liberating. Over here, they could put you in jail.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please  say so.
"PC shipments are back on track, posting double-digit gains in this year's third quarter as compared to last year on the strength of a marked increase in worldwide notebook shipments, according to research released Wednesday by IDC and Gartner," reportsIDG News."Overall, PC vendors shipped 38.4 million PCs in the third quarter, up 15.7 percent from last year's third quarter, IDC said in a release Wednesday. Gartner put the worldwide third-quarter market at 42.5 million units, an increase of 14.1 percent year over year."
"A Datamonitor survey of 200 large European enterprises has revealed the extent to which Microsoft [MSFT] has already penetrated the enterprise mindset. Though many still disparage Microsoft's pedigree in this space, the traditional heavyweights really should be worried," says UK-based research firmDatamonitor."34% of the enterprises surveyed say that their preferred mobile development environment is the .NET Compact Framework. This was the largest response and shows the extent to which Microsoft has been making progress in this sector. [cut] Although the greatest proportion of respondents (39%) indicated that their strategic development environment for web-enabled application development and web services is J2EE, 26% still opted for Microsoft's .NET."
"In the three-month period that ended Sept. 30, IBM had net earnings of $1.79 billion, or $1.02 per share, a 37 percent gain from the comparable period in 2002, when Big Blue showed profits of $1.31 billion, or 76 cents per share," reportsAP."Revenue jumped about 9 percent to $21.52 billion in the third quarter, from $19.82 billion a year ago, though the gain would have been 4 percent without currency fluctuations. The comparison figure from 2002 excludes discontinued operations such as the disk-drive business IBM sold to Hitachi Ltd."Perhaps the biggest blight on IBM's results has been its semiconductor operation, which makes chips for IBM servers and mainframes and for other companies but has had to cut jobs and pay at several factories recently. This earnings report revealed continued trouble in the technology group: a pretax loss of $96 million and a 30 percent drop in revenue, to $882 million."
Sharers in crimeParliament has passed statutory instruments implementing the EU copyright directive, creating a criminal offence of file-sharing of copyrighted material. This could mean two years in prison for what is currently a civil offence leading only to financial penalties. "I don't think this is intended for people who use KaZaA, but you could interpret it that way," said Struan Robertson, a solicitor for Masons and editor of Out-law.com. The Department for Trade and Industry said the change will only affect those uploading copyrighted material commercially or on a commercial scale. "There will be no effect on private individuals," said a spokesperson. The regulations come into force on October 31.Suite dealNetSuite is launching an online service for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with software localised for the UK market. The company, backed by Oracle's chief executive, Larry Ellison, is an application server provider (ASP), and uses Oracle Small Business Suite and its own NetSuite to provide ERP (enterprise resource planning) and CRM (customer relationship management) software to medium-sized businesses. The software features a customisable, real-time dashboard to match the data displayed to the business role of the user. Zach Nelson, NetSuite's chief executive, believes that broadband roll-out has limited the opportunities for ASPs, but feels the time is right for SME services to take off.www.netsuite.comOuter reachesThe capitals of Orkney, Shetland and the Western Isles will get ADSL broadband service next spring, joining the 80% of the UK with access to affordable broadband. Thirty nine per cent of Orcadians, 33% of Shetlanders and 31% of Western Isles residents will be within range of the services, centred on Kirkwall, Lerwick and Stornoway. The services will cost the same as ADSLs elsewhere in the UK. They will run through BT phone lines and use microwave links from Thus to connect to mainland Scotland. Highlands and Islands Enterprise is supporting the scheme.Open trialsSeveral state-sector organisations, ranging from local councils to government departments, will run trials of open source software with IBM. According to Peter Gershon, chief executive of the office of government commerce (OGC), this "will enable us to identify when and how best to use the technology to the benefit of departments and the taxpayer   alike". The OGC, which is organising the tests with the e-envoy's office, has negotiated discounts for state-sector buyers of IBM software which runs on Linux, the open source operating system.Jobs upe-Skills UK's latest set of statistics on the state of the ICT (information and communications technology) labour market show that things are looking up. "Demand for technical skill sets, particularly Microsoft.Net and C#, is taking off," says e-Skills, and it expects increased spending on "enterprise resource planning, business intelligence, mobile working, security, and supply chain management". However, the "long-term industry trends point to multi-sourcing, offshore outsourcing, business process outsourcing, and security". The bulletin is available as a free download.www.e-skills.com/bulletinGet certifiedThe British Computer Society has introduced a new computing skills qualification "to meet demand for job-related IT competency across the labour market", following an initiative of the Council of European Professional Informatics Societies (Cepis). Eucip (European Certification for Informatics Professionals) is the IT equivalent of the European Computer Driving Licence (ECDL), which is aimed at users. The BCS is now appointing a network of accredited training providers and testing centres for the Eucip syllabus, which includes IT system planning, building and operation. There are no formal entry requirements for candidates.www.bcs.org/eucipGift wrappedNow you can get just the thing for that special person in your life: a free version of the FileMaker Pro 6 database, worth more than &#163;200, gift-wrapped and delivered before Christmas. The All Wrapped Up promotion works on the basis that you buy one copy for Windows or Mac and nominate a friend to get the other copy free.www.filemaker.co.uk/promosPatch worksMicrosoft is changing its security policy to improve protection for its corporate customers. The three-wave strategy begins with a rationalisation of patch publication - issued once a month to enable administrators to schedule security updates. The success of this will rely on cooperation between Microsoft and the many security websites to delay publication of vulnerability details until the patch becomes available. The second wave will come next year in service packs for Windows XP and Server 2003. These will address problems such as port-based attacks, email attacks, malicious web content and buffer overruns. Microsoft will also offer better guidance and tools for security.www.microsoft.com/technet/security/news/security.asp
"For the three months ended September 27, Cupertino-based Apple said it earned $44 million, or 12 cents per share, compared with a net loss of $45 million, or 13 cents per share, in the same period last year. Revenue for the quarter was $1.7 billion, up 19 percent from $1.44 billion a year ago," reportsAP."For the fiscal year, Apple reported income of $69 million on revenues of $6.21 billion, compared to earnings of $65 million on revenues of $5.74 billion in 2002."Product picks"In the quarter, Apple said it shipped 787,000 Macintoshes, up 7 percent from the year-ago quarter, along with 336,000 iPods, a 140 percent increase in unit sales since last year," addsZD Net."Apple said it sold $279 million worth of iMacs, down 7 percent from the prior quarter and 25 percent from a year ago. Sales of the iBook totaled $154 million, down 21 percent from the earlier quarter and 34 percent from a year ago. Power Mac sales, buoyed by the introduction of the Power Mac G5, rose to $419 million, up 79 percent from the prior quarter and 21 percent from a year earlier. PowerBook sales were $348 million, down 4 percent from the third quarter but up 145 percent from a year ago."
Part 1: start hereBuilding your own personal computer can be done, and it's not hard.  I did it in a weekend. PCs are designed to be built as modular units, with standardised components and connections that fit together, assuming the parts are all of the right mix. The result should be a computer where you understand every nut and bolt, taking away the mystery of what's sitting inside that metallic box.Having said that, two words of warning. First, don't assume that building your own computer will be hugely cheaper than buying one off the shelf. Retail hardware prices are more expensive than the bulk discounts that Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) can command. If you want to build a computer to the same specifications as an off-the-shelf OEM package, then you'll end up paying only a little less - maybe £200 or £300 - for the components alone, and may then end up paying the difference in buying software.On the other hand you'll get better quality components, with better warranties. OEM machines usually have a clause voiding the warranty if you so much as open the PC case. Your home-made PC will have manufacturers' warranties on the components themselves, usually for the standard three years, and the retailers may also have their own warranty, so your cover is more robust.What you won't get is all the extras that OEMs often throw in to their packages: speakers, microphones, cameras, printers. Whether you want those is another issue, and they tend to be cheap enough anyway. Anyone who already has a PC will have peripherals such as speakers, keyboards and CD drives already, and if you are building a replacement system you can cannibalise your old one and save money that way (as well as recycling).  The second warning is that building a PC is not the best place to start.If you've never taken the cover off a PC, and haven't done basic PC hardware upgrading such as adding a sound card or new memory, then building a PC from scratch may be biting off too much. Either get help from someone who knows their way around a PC's innards, or start on a more gentle path by upgrading your current PC. Adding extra random-access memory (Ram) is a good place to begin, and probably the best performance boost you can give a PC anyway.Part 2: what do you want?The first decision you'll need to make is what sort of PC you want to build, and that depends on what you want to do with it. If you want to surf the net, send email and do basic word processing then you don't need a high-end machine. In that case you can get away with paying between £300 and £400 for a do-it-yourself PC - that's not including the cost of peripherals such as a monitor or software.If you want to use your new PC for more intensive tasks, for playing serious games or working with digital photography, then you may need to spend at least between £500-£700.Of course, with PC hardware there really is no upper limit on what you can spend, as the bleeding edge hardware is always more expensive, and there's always something new coming out that's even better and costs even more.  As a rule of thumb, there's generally a steep price drop between the cutting edge stuff and the previous generation, which may be six to 12 months older than the latest thing. By stepping back a notch or two in terms of performance, you can save much more in cash than you're giving up in marginal performance gains. The just-off-the-leading-edge kit tends to be more reliable, since any bugs have probably been identified.The beauty of building your own system is that you can always upgrade later to that cutting edge when it inevitably moves into the second row and your bank balance recovers. (There are some caveats to this, in that some new hardware will need capacities that your PC doesn't have.)You'll also have to consider that, unlike those shiny machines bought off the shelf, your DIY PC won't come with any software.But again, if all you want to do is email and surf, then why pay for more? You'd be better off getting cheaper kit and spending the money on a broadband internet connection, since that's what dictates the pace of your web surfing, rather than the size of your processor.Part 3: what do you need?To build your own PC you'll need the following hardware:&#183;Motherboard&#183;Processor (CPU)&#183;Hard drive&#183;Case&#183;Memory, or Ram (random access memory)&#183;CD or DVD driveThere is bewildering variety of all of these available, in terms of size, speed and specification. Many of these differences are marginal in terms of performance. These items are explained in part 4. Good places to get a handle on what is available are in magazines such as PC Pro, but they do tend to be "gee whiz" over the latest hardware. There's also a variety of hardware review websites, such asTom's Hardware,Ars Technica, andAnand Tech.Optional hardware:&#183;Sound card (PCI card)&#183;Graphics card (AGP card)&#183;Floppy disk drive&#183;Network card/modem (PCI card/external)These are explained in part five.You'll also need the following: monitor, keyboard, mouse, operating system software  - for example Microsoft Windows or Linux. You may have these already from a previous PC, in which case they'll all work. At some point you'll want a modem to connect to the net.You'll need a toolkit, or at least a few screwdrivers, including a small Philips screwdriver. A torch is also extremely useful for examining inside the case. Outlets such as PC World or Maplins sell toolkits for around £10-£15 with a variety of appropriate screwdrivers and other bits.You can also cannibalise your old PC, if you have one, for a floppy disk drive, internal CD drive or similar, modem, or even hard drive. Also keep any spare power leads and internal and external cables, they may come in handy. My advice, though, is not to pull apart your old PC until your new one is safely up and running - just in case something goes wrong. Keyboards, monitors and mice can be plugged and unplugged between PCs easily, though.Also highly recommended, although not essential, is a copy of PC Hardware In A Nutshell, by Robert and Barbara Thompson, published by O'Reilly. Get the latest edition (currently the 3rd edition, July 2003), it has more detail on every aspect of modern PC hardware, and useful advice on building a PC, making it well worth the £20 cover price.Part 4: what to buy?MotherboardThe motherboard is the base that all the components plug into, and so dictates what hardware you can and cannot use. The best advice is not to buy a cheap motherboard brand, because it's such an important component, and could limit any future upgrades.Your choice of motherboard determines your choice of processor type. An Intel Pentium 4 processor, for example, can only be used in a motherboard that is compatible with it - one with a Socket 478 (or S478). The choices are generally between motherboards compatible with Intel CPUs and ones compatible with AMD brand CPUs - see processors, below.Also, top-line motherboards can come with good on-board graphic and (more often) sound cards, saving you from having to buy separate cards for these.  Some well regarded motherboard brands are Asus (or Asustek) and Epox, as well as MSI and Shuttle. A good motherboard will cost around £100 (including vat).ProcessorsThis is the bit that does most of the work. For most PC users, the choice is between an AMD chip or an Intel chip, in particular currently between AMD's Athlon XP and Intel's Pentium 4 ranges. The AMD processors plug into motherboards with Socket A (or SoA) fittings, while Intel uses something called Socket 478.The choice between Intel or AMD chips is an open one. In a very general sense, AMD processors tend to be better value for money, while Intel chips are marginally easier to install. Current thinking in the extreme PC user community tends to favour Intel Pentium 4's for performance reasons.  (Both AMD and Intel are now rolling out their latest ranges of high performance 64-bit processors, the Opteron and the Xeon respectively, but they will be significantly more expensive for the time being.)What you choose will be up to you and your wallet, but again, a rule of thumb is that around £60-£100 (including Vat) retail will get you a lively CPU without blowing the bank balance. The important thing is to make sure the CPU is compatible with your choice of motherboard, or vice-versa.When buying a processor, it's probably best to buy what are called retail box sets - meaning that they come with cooling heatsinks and fans. If you buy a cheaper "OEM" model you will have to buy a heatsink and fan separately, as an additional complication. Be careful if buying online to make sure you are getting a retail version, if that's what you want.(This goes for most components and peripherals - retail versions come with instruction manuals, installation CDs, cables and so on, while OEM models typically come in brown cardboard boxes with nothing but the component - which is fine if that's what you want, and in some cases it will be.)CaseDon't overlook the PC case and go for a cheap option - it's a false economy. Working on a cheap case isn't much fun: it tends to be cramped and flimsy. Typically, OEM off-the-shelf cases are rubbish. A good case is more expensive but is better made, easier to install in, and comes with useful extras.  Size is also important. Motherboards come in certain sizes, but most of them now are what's called ATX forms. As long as your case takes ATX, you're fine.There's also the question of what capacity case you want, with the usual choices being desktop, midi-tower and full tower sizes. A full tower is probably not worth it unless you're planning to really load up your PC, while a desktop case isn't much fun to work on and limited in its scope.Make life easier by buying a case with a power supply installed, with at least 350 watts output, or if not then remember to buy a power supply. Power supplies are easy to install but very tricky if something goes wrong, for obvious reasons. Also keep an eye out for cases with cooling fans, which is a good thing, especially for AMD processors, which generally run hotter than Intel ones.A good quality midi-tower case is going to cost between £50 and £120, but it is well worth it - the case, after all, may be useful for much longer than the components inside it. There are some good case brands out there. Lian-Li cases are particularly gorgeous to look at as well as easy to work on, while Antec cases are very highly regarded by PC builders, especially the popular Sonata model, which operates at low noise, for those who want a quiet environment.Hard drivesThis is the big memory storage carrier, the 3.5 inch internal disk drive. Hard drives are now relatively cheap so that 60 gigabyte (GB), 80 GB and 120 GB disks are reasonably priced.Hard drives come in different types and speeds: these days 7200 RPM is the standard disk rotation speed, although 5400 RPM models are available and cheaper. Most hard drives are connected to the motherboard through an interface called (confusingly) ATA (AT Attachment) and IDE (Integrated Drive Electronics), which mean the same thing. Again, what type of motherboard you choose will determine what mode and speed of hard drive can be supported. This can be confusing, since manufacturers use lots of different descriptions and numbers to push their products. The differences, though, are often marginal.There is also a Serial ATA interface (also called SATA) that requires compatible motherboards and different leads; the extra speed may not yet justify the higher price, but one day soon will be the hard drive standard.A good sized drive from a reputable manufacturer should cost between £60 to £90. IBM/Hitachi Deskstar and Seagate Barracuda models are well regarded, Samsung now makes some reasonably-priced quality drives, while Western Digital's special edition drives are also good (although some Western Digital models have a slightly wobbly reputation).Memory (Ram)Random access memory comes in sticks that plug into the motherboard, and allows instant access to running programs and processes. This is one area where it's easy to add extra capacity later if needed. Again, your motherboard choice will determine what type and speed of Ram you can use. Price-wise, the standard starting size is 256 megabytes (MB) for around £30, and 512MB is affordable, at around £70. The memory manufacturer Crucial has an excellent reputation.CD or DVD driveYou'll need a drive of some kind to load an operating system and software onto your newly-built system. The best bet is an internal CD or DVD drive, connected directly to the motherboard, installed at the same time as everything else. It doesn't matter whether it's a CD-Rom or CD-writer. Personally I'd start off with a DVD drive (as more and more software is coming on DVDs, it's now almost standard). Pioneer, Sony, Lite-On, Plextor and many others make all of these, and they are now cheap indeed, going for £25-£50, or less.Part 5: optional extrasSound cardGood quality motherboards these days tend to have very good on-board sound, certainly adequate for playing music, but add a PCI-format card if you want higher quality audio for some reason. This is one component that can be skipped on budget grounds if your motherboard allows it. Otherwise a cheap sound card can cost £15.Graphics (or video) cardAgain, some motherboards have on-board of video of such good quality that only someone wanting something extra will need a separate card, which plugs into the motherboard's AGP advanced graphic slot. If your motherboard doesn't have on-board graphics then you will need a card to use your monitor. ATI Radeon based cards are highly regarded by gamers wanting 3D graphics but can cost £200 or more; the rest of us can make do with much cheaper Geforce4 based cards starting at £30-£40.Floppy disk driveHard to believe that this is optional, but floppies are slowly fading away, killed off primarily by email, but also by CD-writers, USB keyring drives, and the increasing size of files that can't fit onto a standard 1.44mb 3.5 inch floppy. Do you need this? The answer is ... perhaps. Firstly, floppy drives, even good brands like Teac or Sony, are dirt cheap - £15 at PC World, and that's paying through the nose. Secondly, they are still useful for transporting and backing up small files, for occasions when it's not worth burning a CD  and when it can't be emailed. Thirdly, they still have some useful functions in fixing dud operating systems as boot disks. But you can now live without one.Network card/modemThis option is all about what you are connecting to. Quality motherboards will have in-built network capacity and appropriate outlets, but otherwise, if you want an ethernet connection, perhaps to a broadband modem, you'll need to buy a network PCI card or similar, at around £15. If you want dial-up internet access then you'll need either a 56k internal PCI card modem or external modem. There's a million of these on the market, all much the same, although US Robotics or Elsa modems are generally OK. (Those wanting to run Linux operating system should avoid internal PCI modems, because of the difficulty in configuring them.)Part 5: where to buy?The most obvious places are retail chains such as PC World, but they do tend to be more expensive, and their stock is often patchy. Buying retail does have the advantage of seeing what you are buying, and there's no worry about delivery times.The best place, for range and price, is online. For service and ease of use it is hard to beatDabs, the Bolton-based online supplier, but its prices are always slightly flabby compared with its online rival,Simply Computers. For example, this week Dabs was selling an AMD Athlon XP 2400+ retail boxed processor for £71.51 including VAT, while Simply had the same product for £64.61.Simply also has a wider range, but unfortunately has a website that's hard to navigate around and use, and for some reason insists on hiding its motherboards, processors, PC cases and memory under an obscure section named "PC Enhancement". Finding where Simply keeps its hard drives is even more difficult.For memory, the best choice is Crucial Technology, widely regarded as a manufacturer of top quality Ram, and has excellent customer service through itswebsite. The site has a useful memory selector function: just type in the model of motherboard and it will automatically tell you what types of memory it can handle.Those PC buyers lucky enough to live in or around London have access to the Tottenham Court Road suite of small computer shops, which offer competitive prices and the opportunity to haggle for even lower ones.Then there's the weekly computer fair held on Saturdays in the University of London building on Huntley Street, WC1. More like a souk than a fair, it has market stalls selling hardware, with haggling and cash payment discounts all part of the scene. The range of motherboards and graphics cards is wide, but the prices are not necessarily bargain basement. However, the fair is an excellent place to buy cheap peripherals and extras such as cables. New DVD drives can be had for £15 and floppy disk drives for £6.Next week:putting it all together.
Children are becoming the internet experts in families as their parents leave them to it in what could be "a lasting reversal of the generation gap", according to research published today.The report from the London School of Economics claims that warnings about the risks of chat rooms and of meeting strangers and paedophiles have got through to youngsters, but that parents, government departments and internet providers could do more to make the internet safer for children.The UK Children Go Online report is launched today by the LSE to kick off what is believed to be the largest such research exercise into children's use of the internet. The authors, Professor Sonia Livingstone and Magdelena Bober of the LSE's Media and Communications department, talked to 14 focus groups of nine- to 19-year-olds about how they used the internet, and their opinions on its safety and value.They found that even in households with one or more computer-literate adults, children were often the internet experts, although they mainly used the internet to communicate with friends and relatives, and for music and games.The report observes that this form of internet literacy is a boost to the self-esteem of youngsters. "Both girls and boys gain significant, perhaps even unprecedented, social status through the value that adults place on this expertise," it says. "Although parents may be 'catching up', young people's willingness to experiment may make this a lasting reversal of the generation gap."The report finds that although parents do monitor internet use, children object to being checked on, and can find ways to get around the restrictions placed on them.
Line of sight is a curious thing. For 20 years, the clear view of Kabul from its surrounding hills      gave successive factions perfect aim to fire rockets into the city. But now, less than two years      after the Taliban were removed from power, that same line of sight is being used to provide      wireless internet access.For Kabul the future is arriving at last: the city is experiencing an internet boom. Without any      infrastructure to build upon, the Afghans are rushing to install wireless connections across the      city. Internet cafes are appearing in every neighbourhood, mobile phones are the must-have item,      e-government initiatives are transforming the way the country is run, and e-commerce is kicking      off. And even while the official infrastructure struggles to produce electricity for more than a few      hours a day, home-built antennae pointed at the hills are producing an ad hoc broadband network      faster, cheaper, and simpler than anything in the UK.But having access to the internet is one thing: knowing what to do with it quite another. To this      end, the UN Development Programme is training more than 1,800 people in basic computer skills.      The priority is to train the civil service and local government staff, and then move on to academia      and the public."We start with a package of MS Office training," says Mahmood Zahir, information and      communication technology programme assistant for the UNDP, "where we teach our students an      introduction to computers - Windows XP - and then Word, Excel, PowerPoint and an introduction to      the internet. We also teach an introduction to the paperless office."For the country's civil service, Zahir says, the arrival of computers has been a revolution in itself,      never mind getting on to the internet. Going from pen and paper and typewriter to the latest      desktop machines has meant that tasks that would have taken all day are done in 10 minutes. Jobs      such as completing the office's payroll are greatly simplified, and the office workers are keen to      adopt IT when they see how much time it saves them."You have to remember that this country has been through 23 years of war," Zahir says, "and now      all that everyone is interested in is development, and they say that the root of all success is in      computers."Training on one Office program costs $5 (£3), and $45 for a complete four month-long course in      Windows and the entire Office suite. As the UNDP uses private firms to do this training, a small      training industry is developing.The practical differences are obvious. By networking the government, and connecting provincial      capitals to Kabul over the internet, the civil servants are solving a problem that has long hampered      Afghanistan. In the days of typewriters and the postal service, it would take weeks for news of a      regulation or law to make its way to the provinces. With the birth of the Afghan e-government,      nationwide policy can be instigated with a single email.While this might be obvious for the average      developed-world corporate employee, the difference it is making to a country of 22m with little      infrastructure is marked.       It's so successful that the priority for outlying regions is to connect them to the net, for email      and instant messaging especially, before connecting them to the telephone system.It's not just the internet that is booming in Kabul. The other must-have in peacetime Afghanistan is      a mobile phone. There are two GSM networks in the capital, and increasingly in the other major      cities. Because the local infrastructure was built from scratch over the past year, the quality of      the calls is just as good, if not better, than in the west. Cheaper too: clear international calls cost      25p a minute, local callsjust 6p.The inner-city streets are full of shops selling pre-paid handsets and Sim cards. Afghan Wireless,      the owner of the first network to go live, is excited. Earlier this month, it claims, Kabul passed a      key milestone: in any given day, more mobile calls are made in the Afghan capital than in downtown      Manhattan.This may be overstating it somewhat, but in a city of more than 2 million people, the desire for      communication is almost overwhelming. "The thing you will see on every PC is chat", says Zahir.      "MSN, Yahoo, chatrooms. Everyone is interested in chatting with new people, talking to new people,      gaining information. Other than that, the most popular thing is Google."Connecting Afghanistan's networks to the world isn't easy. The nearest landline connections, in      Pakistan, are on the wrong side of a mountain range and some lawless tribal areas. Laying a cable      from Kabul to Peshawar would be neither cheap nor convenient. Instead, the local ISPs,      non-governmental organisations and government rely on satellite connections. This means that      Afghanistan's internet traffic is routed through a handful of bottlenecks, which can cause      problems.Wais, the manager of the Afghan.com cafe, one of the 20 or so such cafes in the city, knows this      only too well. On the day I visited, their connection, which serves 150 customers a day, was      unusably slow - the result of the SoBig.F virus overwhelming a data centre in New York, he said.Like all the internet cafes in Kabul, theAfghan.comcafe has been a success since opening in May.Frequented by staff from the nearby offices of NGOs and embassies, the business is using the      money to open a cheaper branch in a residential area and convert the building opposite into a      showroom: Wais is opening the first official HP Compaq service and distribution centre in      Afghanistan. Dell's is just down the street.The major hardware brands are in for a fight. Unlike Microsoft, which is on a level playing field with      free- of-charge Linux because the pirate versions of their titles are easily obtainable around the      city, companies such as HP and Dell are going to have to fight a hard battle on price.A case in point: the UNDP buys its machines, fully branded Dell boxes from Malaysia, for around      $2,000 each. Similarly specified systems, without the Dell badge, go for a quarter of that in Kabul.Unbranded machines are trucked in from Pakistan and Iran. I was offered a 2GHz Pentium 4 for      $500, complete with CD burner and DVD-Rom.       The availability of cheap PCs, along with the introduction of the internet, and IT training, has had      at least one unforeseen effect: no one is buying televisions. Says Zahir: "On television we only have      one channel - from 6pm until 10pm - and all that shows is the news, which they can get on the      radio. People are saying why shouldn't they spend this money on a PC instead, where they get a CD      and a DVD player and a computer? And then they buy a TV card for the PC."Zahir, like many working in the technical field in Afghanistan, is a returned refugee. He left      Afghanistan with his family 10 years ago, as war approached the capital. Schooled in Pakistan, he      returned to help rebuild his country. His success, and UNDP wages, meant he could bring the rest      of his family home. In turn, the people he trains can find higher paid work and do the same.Indirectly, Zahir believes, the programme has trained more than 10,000 people in basic computer      skills.       This chain of training is precisely what Afghanistan needs, according to Muhammad Aslam, the      technical manager of the .af domain."We have to get people trained, but after the training it won't      do anything if those people do not go on and train others."If anything shows the development of the country, Aslam's job is it. One of the first tasks of the      interim government was to recover the ownership of the .af internet domain. It succeeded - and      Aslam now controls the registration of all .af domain names. "Anyone can register an .af domain,"      he says, "as long as they provide documents that show they are entitled to the name."It costs $20 for Afghans and $100 for foreign companies and, so far, Aslam has registered 95      domains, including CNN.af and BBC.af. Western media companies, especially, are keen to protect      their trademarks. The latest registrant?CartoonNetwork.af.   In Aslam's office, high up in the Ministry of Communications building - by far the tallest in the city      - he shows me the server that shares control of the entire .af domain. It sits by his desk, and      hums hopefully."Of course, this isn't the only server: we have another in New York," he says. "If it was, the power      cuts would shut down the entire domain for half of the day.       "We're all working at it," he says, pointing out of the window. Another wireless link is going up on      the roof below. "We're working at it."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please  say so.
