The2010 Conservative manifestoand the2010 Lib Dem manifestohad a number of aims in common. But we can’t judge their record only on those; the creation of the coalition meant that there was also acoalition document, which rolled some of those together.So how well did the parties that got into power in the UK live up to their manifesto pledges when it comes to technology topics?The Tories pledged:p11: “create a better focus on STEM [science, technology, engineering, mathematics] in schools.”Maths isnow the A-level subject taken by the most people(2014 figures)p24: “authorising ’drugalyser’ technology for use in testing for drug-driving”this was donein December 2014.p24: “will scrap Labour’s phone tax and instead require BT and other infrastructure providers to allow the use of their assets to deliver superfast broadband across the country. If necessary, we will consider using part of the licence fee that is supporting the digital switchover to fund broadband in areas that the market alone will not reach.”The coalition did introduce “top-slicing” of the BBC licence fee to help fund broadband rollout. That has beencriticised by the outgoing vice-chair of the BBC Trustfor eroding the BBC’s independence.p69: “Publish data so the public can hold government to account – we will create a powerful new right to government data; open up Whitehall recruitment by publishing central government job vacancies online, saving costs and increasing transparency; bring in measures to enable the public to scrutinise the government’s accounts.”Non-personal government data was opened up, continuing a process thatwas initiated by Gordon Brown’s government in January 2010. Tim Berners-Lee continued pushing the scheme inside the coalition government, as he had with LabourCentral government job vacancies were published onlineTreasury data on spending was released to the public in June 2010, though its COINS database was so difficult to examine that it required specialist teams to work through it and make sense of the data. By 2012 the Guardian wassayingthat it was “getting harder each year to break down public spending using the government’s accounts” because departments were late – sometimes egregiously so – in publishing their datap79: “Scrap ID cards, national ID register and Contactpoint database. Replace the Human Rights Act with a UK Bill of Rights. Strengthen the powers of the Info Comm to penalise any public body found guilty of mismanaging data … [curtail] the surveillance powers that allow some councils to use anti-terror laws to spy on people making trivial mistakes or minor breaches of the rules; ensuring proper parliamentary scrutiny of any new powers of data sharing; DNA database to be used primarily to store info about those who are guilty rather than those who are innocent”The 15,000 ID cards which had been issued as part of a pilot scheme were scrapped, as was the plan for the national identity register and the information that had been gathered for the database. Contactpoint (intended to create a database of vulnerable children to coordinate social care) was turned off; theTories defended the moveThe Human Rights Act remains in forceThe Information Commissioner was given new powers to levy fines in April 2010, andbegan using them soon afterThe use of RIPA (Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act) by councils to spy on people was forestalled to some extent, but the coalitiontried to introduce an extensive surveillance act in July 2014– leaning on RIPA – that outraged privacy campaigners, especially in the light of the Snowden revelations over surveillance by GCHQ and the NSA of internet communicationsThe DNA ofaround 120,000 children innocent of any crimewas stored on the police DNA database from 2011, campaigners said in 2013 based on Freedom of Information requests. Police did not dispute the figures but said they included children whose DNA was taken from crime scenes or to rule them out, as well as arrests on suspicion of crimesThe Lib Dem manifesto pledged:p17: “better government IT procurement, investigating the potential of different approaches such as cloud computing and open source software”The Government Digital Service (GDS) has pushed down the cost of IT procurement, including a commitment to investigating open source software where possible; central government now has its own “cloud” service on its internal networkp27 “support public investment in the rollout of superfast broadband, targeted first at those areas which are least likely to be provided for by the market.”There has been government investment in the rollout of “superfast” (defined as offering speeds of 30 megabits per second or more) broadband. Most has gone to BT due to a lack of competition in the market. There has been little provision in rural areas, which are least likely to be provided for by the marketp51: “tackle online bullying by backing quick-report buttons on social networking sites, enabling offensive postings to be speedily removed.”Facebook, Twitter and others have moved slowly to deal with abusive behaviour, and there is little sign that UK government demands have been key in any changes; public reaction to abuse against MPs and celebrities seems to have been more effective in forcing change.p93: “introduce a Freedom Bill. We will regulate CCTV, stop councils from spying on people, stop unfair extradition to the US, defend trial by jury, and stop children being fingerprinted at school without their parents’ permission.”CCTV is regulated under theProtection of Freedoms Act 2012– but the surveillance commissioner admitted in hislatest reportthat he has no enforcement powers to make any organisation obey the code created by the home secretary. Councils have had their powers under RIPA restrained. Extradition to the US is still in place. Secret courts without juries still sit on some matters such as terrorism offences. Fingerprinting of children continues, but parents can opt out of having their children take part. The Liberal Democrats say they reintroduced juries for complex fraud trials, repealing Labour legislation.Dp95: “remove innocent people from the police DNA database and stop storing DNA from innocent people and children in the future, too; end plans to store your email and internet records without good cause; scrap the intrusive ContactPoint database which is intended to hold the details of every child in England.”Though campaigners found that police forces had continued to add children’s DNA in 2010 and 2011, the Home Office minister James Brokenshire said in awritten parliamentary statementin October 2013 that 1.76m DNA profiles from “innocent adults and children” had been removed from the DNA database, under the Protection of Freedoms Act. The DRIP (Data Retention and Investigatory Powers) Act wasrushed through parliament in a single daylast summer: it “requires internet and phone companies to store the communications data generated by phone calls, email, texts and internet use for 12 months and make it accessible to police and security services.” (No “cause” is stated.) ContactPoint has been shut down, as noted above. The Liberal Democrats have stated that the DRIP Act “only confirmed pre-existing powers”.The coalition document is broadly similar; there are only two specific technology points that stand out. They are:“ending the storage of internet and email records without good reason”As noted above, the DRIP Act mandates the storage of email and internet use by ISPs and phone companies for 12 months for all users“mandating a national recharging network for electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles”Nissan and Ecotricity havepartnered to create a national recharging networkso that by May 2014 there were chargers in half of all motorway service stations. But this doesn’t seem to have been the result of any mandate from the government; instead, it’s the work of the companies involved• This article was amended on 4 May to clarify that there had been 15,000 ID cards initially issued under a pilot scheme, CCTV is regulated under the Protection of Freedoms Act and that the Liberal Democrats reintroduced juries for complex fraud trials. On 5 May it was amended to clarify the Liberal Democrats’ statement that the DRIP Act clarified pre-existing powers.
Tim Schafer, co-creator of some of the most beloved adventure games in history, is sitting in an office in Guildford, home to cobbled high streets, grassy hills and Peter Molyneux. He’s talking to me about the barges of England – or “houseboats” in American parlance. Guildford has lots of them. A series of canals criss-cross through the city providing a getaway for those seeking to sell up, buy a floating idyl and escape the rat race, with its work pressures, traffic jams and functioning toilets.So what’s the designer of the Monkey Island series, whose hobbies include getting embroiled in some of the greatest dramas of modern consumerism doing staring at a bunch of hippie ships in The River Wey? Tim is dumbfounded by my cynicism. “It’s Fable!” he says.It’s true; Guildford famously inspired the rustic English overtones of Lionhead’s role-playing adventure series. Narrow rivers and gently rolling grasslands surround the city’s center which is home to some of the UK’s leading games studios – Media Molecule, Criterion, Lionhead. It’s the unofficial capital of developers – yet the quaint exterior seems a jarring reminder of what his profession often is not.The job of developer has changed in the years since Schafer first applied his surreal wit to the earliest point-and-click adventures. Fifteen years ago, personalities like Peter Molyneux and Tim Schafer were beyond public reach; today you can simply follow them online and tweet whatever you fancy at them. A bridge has been built, where direct lines of communication can be made between developers and their audiences.I ask Schafer about how becoming a public figure has affected him. “I think twice about putting pictures of my home or my family on Twitter,” he says. “There’s a lot more of ‘What if there’s a really hostile person out there?’”“It’s different to the 1990s,” he says of this career. “I mean in the old days, we didn’t get much feedback [from the public] at all except for some reviews. I’d just occasionally hear second-hand about people on CompuServe getting angry about Full Throttle and I’d be like ‘Oh CompuServe, whatever!’ Now the internet is angry all day, and if you choose to be a part of that dialogue, while it becomes a great way of actually talking to people, you’re also making yourself really vulnerable.”Schafer is no stranger to the public discord that can accompany fame. Just last month he was harassed online after taking the stage at the Game Developer’s Choice awards and mocking the phenomenon of social media commenters linked to the hashtag #notyourshield, a group of women and ethnic minorities aligned with GamerGate values.Prominent personalities associated with the hashtag took to Twitter, Reddit and other networks, calling it an attack on women and minority gamers as a whole. Schafer is evasive about the episode, and won’t be drawn on what it was like to be in the vortex of GamerGate ire. “I’m pretty used to it,” he shrugs.But it was with the 2011 announcement that Double Fine was using Kickstarter to fund one of its latest projects, a hotly anticipated adventure game by the name of Broken Age, that provoked a new kind of dialogue between game-makers and gamers. The studio would give its backers a peek behind the curtain, eventually producing a $100,000 documentary as a measure of transparency to show those who helped raise over $3.3m just how the sausage gets made.“Some people were excited by the Kickstarter and some people thought we were just getting a lot of free money,” he tells me, “which we were.”While some praised the openness of the project, others have criticised Double Fine for going well over budget, having originally sought only $400,000 for the game. Eyebrows continued to be raised when it was announced Broken Age would release in two parts, the second launching over a year after the first.“There’s a downside to [making games in view of the public],” he tells me. “I think the team feels the strain, a lot of people feel the strain. You’re being exposed to people on Twitter, or there’s some really anti-crowdfunding types saying mean things about people on the team who they’ve seen on video or through the documentary. That can really take its toll. I don’t know if every developer would be so gung ho about crowdfunding right now.”He tells me the open culture of Kickstarter can get “very hostile”, but that dialogue has led to a stronger community base. “There are people who are anti-crowdfunding or anti-Kickstarter, but our backers have been with us all along, you know. Backers are inherently on your side, they’re there to help you.”The first generation of Kickstarter-funded games was always going to have a rocky path ahead of it. It would take some time before the crowdfunding site would move into what Schafer calls a “second generation” in which projects are backed by people with a clearer understanding of how the system works, that it’s “voluntary, it’s different than just buying something”.Despite the difficulty of developing games in public, he tells me he would still Kickstart future releases: “Because you don’t just get support, you get emotional support.”Broken Age Act 2 is out now on PC, PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 4
Is there such a thing as a “technology vote”? Are there people who opt for one party or another simply because of their technology policies? Probably not, but it helps to know what the parties’ views of technology are before you cast your vote.We examined the manifestos of each of the main parties on the UK mainland and drew out the manifesto pledges on a variety of technology topics.BroadbandOne thing almost all the parties have in common is backing for superfast broadband, which is defined as services with speeds of 30 megabits per second or more. The exception is UKIP, which doesn’t mention it. In fact “internet” only appears twice in the UKIP manifesto, both times under the heading of “crime”.UK residential broadband connections, by headline speedPhotograph: OfcomAccording to an Ofcom release earlier this month,one in three residential connections was superfast in November 2014, up from a flat 0% in May 2010, and 25% in November 2013. The proportion of accounts with superfast connectivity is rising by about 4% every six months, though that may change as the cheap connections in urban areas are made. Meanwhile rural areas remain poorly served: average ADSL speeds in rural areas was 3.9Mbps, unchanged from the year before, suggesting a growing digital gap compared to urban areas.Conservative Partymanifesto (page 15): “We will secure the delivery of superfast broadband in urban and rural areas to provide coverage to 95% of the UK by the end of 2017, and we will ensure no one is left behind by subsidising the cost of installing superfast capable satellite services in the very hardest to reach areas. We will also release more spectrum from public sector use to allow greater private sector access. And we have set an ambition that ultrafast [100+ Mbps] broadband should be available to nearly all UK premises as soon as practicable.” It adds (p21): “We will provide rural Britain with near universal superfast broadband by the end of the next Parliament.” On p42 it says it will pay for this by continuing to “top-slice” the BBC licence fee.Green Party(p49): “Give BT and other public telecommunications operators an obligation to provide affordable high-speed broadband-capable infrastructure to every small business.” Also p62: “Ensure that all have digital access and give BT and other public telecommunications operators an obligation to provide affordable high-speed broadband-capable infrastructure to every household and small business. This in particular will encourage video-conferencing, helping to reduce both business and family travel.”Labour Party(p20): “Labour will ensure that all parts of the country benefit from affordable high-speed broadband by the end of the Parliament [in 2020].”Liberal Democrats: (p35/6): “We will complete the rollout of high-speed broadband, to reach almost every household (99.9%) in the UK as well as small businesses in both rural and urban areas.”Plaid Cymru(p49): “We want to see an improved broadband connection, getting everybody online so that people can do business from home, with a target that all parts of Wales have access to speeds of at least 30Mbps and ensure that mobile phone operators provide a better service in all parts of Wales.”Scottish National Party(p10): “we will seek additional investment to support a more rapid rollout of superfast broadband and 4G across Scotland and to support wider and affordable access to the internet in our most disadvantaged communities, and for a universal service obligation to be applied to telecoms and broadband providers ensuring everyone is able to access the communications they need.” It adds (p33/4): “Our aim is to deliver a future-proofed infrastructure that will establish world-class digital connectivity across Scotland by 2020, including tackling the digital divide. That is why we are investing in superfast broadband, so that at least 95% of premises across Scotland will be able to access fibre broadband by the end of 2017.”UK Independence Party: no mention.Analysis: The Tories’ and SNP aim is more aggressive than Labour’s, and is a reiteration of the aim stated in George Osborne’s last budget, where £1.7bn was allocated (via top-slicing) for the works. That might not be enough to pay for superfast installation in rural areas – which includes most potential SNP seats –where there are fewer potential subscribers per mile of fibre laid. The SNP pledge could therefore be costly, but isn’t costed. Labour has not given a costing for its target. The Liberal pledge of “high-speed” connections sounds like speeds that don’t reach the “superfast” of 30Mbps, or even get near “ultrafast” (over 100Mbps).TaxationMargaret Hodge MP put the tax-efficient antics of companies such as Google, Amazon and Starbucks under the magnifying lens for a brief frying in the Public Accounts committee. That struck a chord with the public, and political parties are trying to hum a tune to go with it. While none of the manifestos name the big US technology companies that use tax-avoidance tactics – Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Twitter and (soon) Uber – it’s clear that their methods will come under scrutiny.Conservatives(p11): “tackling tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance and tax planning is an important part of our long-term economic plan. We will lead international efforts to ensure global companies pay their fair share in tax”Greens: (p50/51): “Introduce an urgent programme of legislation, starting with a Tax Dodging Bill designed to reduce the tax gap and establish a general anti-avoidance principle. Our plans include obliging banks to provide information about companies automatically to HMRC, and abolishing the rule that allows non-domiciled residents not to pay tax on foreign income.”Labour(p18): “Our first Finance Bill will close the tax loopholes that cost the Exchequer billions of pounds a year … end unfair tax breaks used by hedge funds and others … it is by tackling tax avoidance in this concerted fashion that we can reduce the deficit and protect the family budgets of working people.”Lib Dems(p42): “[We will be] Introducing a general anti-avoidance rule which would outlaw contrived structures designed purely or largely to avoid tax.”Plaid Cymru(p13): “The cost of tax avoidance and evasion is estimated at £120bn per year across the UK, according to the Ta Justice Network. HMRC needs more staff to crack down on corporate tax avoidance and income tax evasion, and close this ‘tax gap’. Plaid Cymru would reverse the 25% cut in staff started by the last Labour UK government.” On p15 it adds: “We will strengthen tax anti-avoidance legislation to make it harder for companies, individuals and other organisations to avoid paying their rightful amount.”SNP: no mention. (The SNP would not be able to determine UK tax policy.)UKIP: (p7): “It is grossly unfair that a few multinational corporations have been able to access all the benefits of our thriving British consumer market without making a proper contribution to the costs of British society. The public has every right to be angry about this. UKIP will not allow large companies to continue getting away with paying zero or negligible corporation tax in Britain. We will bring this unfairness to an end. By restoring British tax sovereignty [by leaving the EU], which we lost when we signed up to the EU, we will end the practice of businesses paying tax in whichever EU or associated country they choose. Our membership of the EU enables companies to avoid paying some UK taxes with impunity and we will close this loophole. We will also set up a Treasury Commission to monitor the effectiveness of the new Diverted Profits Tax and bring in any further measures necessary to prevent large multinational corporations using aggressive tax avoidance schemes.”Analysis: of the six, UKIP’s is the most aggressive – but would have to be put on hold until the UK left the EU, a process that could take years. Whether it would work is a different question. Labour’s pledge to close the tax loopholes straight away is ambitious, and there are always accountants ready to find new ones.None of them, including the Lib Dem proposal, would obviously be able to tackle manoeuvres such asGoogle’s use of Ireland for booking ad revenueor Amazonbooking purchases to a subsidiary in low-tax Luxembourg.Nor do any of them mentionIR35- the tax rules which affect many computer contractors who lessen their tax payments by assigning themselves as the employees of a company they own. The Coalition made noises about reforming it, but didn’t do anything – perhaps because the sums involved are comparatively small, at about £300m annually in tax and National Insurance contributions.Data retentionThe Snowden revelations halfway through the last parliament led to profound discussions about surveillance, privacy and the extent of any necessity to inspect or retain personal data. It is here that some big differences open up between the parties.Conservatives(p63): “We will keep up to date the ability of the police and security services to access communications data – the ‘who, where when and how’ of a communication, but not its content. Our new communications data legislation will strengthen our ability to disrupt terrorist plots, criminal networks and organised child grooming gangs, even as technology develops. We will maintain the ability of the authorities to intercept the content of suspects’ communications, while continuing to strengthen oversight of the use of these powers.”Greens(p61): “[We will] Oppose any case for secret unaccountable mass surveillance of the type exposed by Edward Snowden. We do accept that government law enforcement agencies may occasionally need to intercept communications in specific circumstances. Such specific surveillance should be proportionate, necessary, effective and within the rule of law, with independent judicial approval and genuine parliamentary oversight. We would replace the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, which has failed … [We would] Follow human rights judgments limiting surveillance and data retention in full; [and] support the EU’s proposals to strengthen data protection laws against opposition from large US data-driven companies.”Labour(p54): “We will need to update our investigative laws to keep up with changing technology, strengthening both the powers available, and the safeguards that protect peoples’ privacy. This is why Labour argued for an independent review, currently being undertaken by David Anderson.”Lib Dems(p113): “[We will] oppose the introduction of the so-called Snooper’s Charter. We blocked the draft Communications Data Bill and would do so again. Requiring companies to store a record of everyone’s internet activities for a year or to collect third-party communications data for non-business purposes is disproportionate and unacceptable, as is the blanket surveillance of our paper post. [We would] set stricter limits on surveillance and consider carefully the outcomes of the reviews we initiated on surveillance legislation by the Royal United Services Institute and the Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation David Anderson QC. We are opposed to the blanket collection of UK residents’ personal communications by the police or the intelligence agencies. Access to metadata, live content, or the stored content of personal communications must only take place without consent where there is reasonable suspicion of criminal activity or to prevent threats to life.”Plaid Cymru: no mention.SNP(p21): “We do not support Tory plans for the reintroduction of the so-called ‘snoopers’ charter’, which would see all online activity of every person in the UK stored for a year. Instead, we need a proportionate response to extremism. That is why we will support targeted, and properly overseen, measures to identify suspected extremists and, if necessary, examine their online activity and communications.”UKIP: no mention.Analysis: Labour and the Lib Dems are hedging their bets somewhat, by waiting for a review which will report after the election and whose outcome isn’t known. The Lib Dem position is more strongly against the idea of surveillance than the Tories or Labour. The SNP and Greens are both more explicit in their discussion. Plaid Cymru and UKIP don’t seem to be bothered.Digital government and dataThe free data revolution started by Gordon Brown’s government, and the Coalition’s opening up of government procurement to smaller companies as well as its implementation of “agile” implementations through the Government Digital Service (GDS) has changed the face of government radically since January 2010. Will that carry on – or stall?Conservatives(p49): “We will continue to be the most transparent government in the world”.Greens: p61: “[we will] Oppose the privatisation of data held by the government that should be open to all, such as the Postcode Address File (PAF), or by companies providing public services, such as data on the progress of buses that can be used by smartphone apps to predict waiting times; oppose the sale of personal data, such as health or tax records, for commercial or other ends; use government purchasing power to support open standards in information technology.”Labour(p18): “[And] we will use digital technology to create a more responsive, devolved and less costly system of government”. Labour’s Chi Onwurah told the Guardian that, among other targets, this would involve trying to get local authorities, which presently tend to develop their own custom software, to create common platforms and share code to create efficiencies; the GDS, she says, has shown some of the way to go there.Lib Dems(p36/7): “Maintain and develop the award-winning Government Digital Service, and the principle of Digital by Default in public services, pressing ahead with plans to extend this to local government. Continue to release government data sets that can facilitate economic growth in an open and accessible format, including on standards in public services. Ensure the technology implications of government activity are properly considered by introducing Technology Impact Assessments into the policy design process.”Plaid Cymru: p33: “Increasing reliance upon technology leaves countries open to attack by foreign powers without the need for conventional weapons. We will bolster cyber-security defence capabilities to increase security and prevent cyber-attacks.”SNP: no mention.UKIP: no mention.Analysis:The Green Party’s stance on the PAF is welcome, but too late – the PAF was sold off with the Coalition’s Royal Mail selloff. Both the Lib Dems and Greens take a clear interest in both open data and the progress of the GDS.And the rest...Beyond those four main topics, the parties’ interests in technology split, with some notable suggestions that could attract attention. Among these, the one which has caused the biggest stir is the Greens’ proposal to change copyright terms (made on p61, in its “Information and Digital Rights” section). It says it would “Make copyright shorter in length, fair and flexible, and prevent patents applying to software”.This caused a storm on Twitter during the week when authors and musicians digested its potential effects, along with a previous suggestion of a cut in term to 14 years. Caroline Lucas, the Green candidate in Brighton,arguesthat the proposal is that copyright would expire 14 years after the death of the creator, not 14 years after creation. (The current copyright term is 70 years after the creator’s death.) “What is in the manifesto is a commitment to copyright laws that protect creators.” She added: “Artists and writers have to be able to make a living and fairly benefit from their work. I know that many often live in poverty for years before seeing any financial reward for their work and I would never back any proposal that did not take fair account of that fact.”UKIP is concerned about “pay-as-you-go” road charging (p37): “From October 2015, the EU will require all new cars to be fitted with the ‘eCall’ system. Ostensibly a road safety measure, this system tracks vehicles using GPS and reports back to a central database. This capability would enable introduction of a Europe-wide road pricing system, on a miles travelled basis, which the EU Transport Commissioner is keen to introduce. We will scrap mandatory fitments of eCall and allow owners who already have eCall installed to disable it on their vehicles.” None of the other parties mentions eCall.The SNP frets about “fixed odds betting terminals” – the computer roulette (and similar) games found in betting shops (p20): “the Scottish Government needs legislative powers to control the growth and impact of these machines, and we believe the UK government should devolve these powers in full. The problem of Fixed Odds Betting Terminals is linked to the proliferation of betting shops in some communities and so we will continue to argue for Scotland to have full responsibility for the regulation of gambling”.The SNP also wants to support a Creative Content Fund for the video games industry (p11) “to encourage the formation of new studios and also back the retention of the Video Games tax relief.” Scotland is a key area for video games development, but has been losing out to countries such as Canada. None of the other parties mentions the topic.How secure is your tablet? The Conservatives say (p59) that as part of a “modern crime prevention strategy to address the key drivers of crime” they would “publish … a ranking system for the security of smartphones and tablets, as well as online financial and retail services.” Though the idea sounds enticing, a Tory spokesperson was unable to give any more detail on whether this would relate to how often items were stolen, or how difficult they were to attack through malware or hacking.And that’s essentially it. All the parties except, apparently, UKIP recognise the importance of the digital economy: the Lib Dems note that it is growing at over 10% annually, much faster than the general economy, and employs about 1.5 million people. “We need to support this important sector of the economy,” the Lib Dem manifesto says. The question is, are the parties doing enough here there to capture your vote?You find can find the full manifestos online, in PDF format:ConservativeGreen PartyLabourLiberal DemocratPlaid Cymru (English version)Scottish National PartyUK Independence Party
We label board games as cerebral things; toys for the mind. I agreed, until I played Labyrinth, a title by CIA analyst Volko Ruhnke simulating the war on terror. Playing as the Jihadists, I put down a “Martyrdom Operation” card. My aim was to secure funding for my terrorists by demonstrating their effectiveness. It struck me like an ice wall what that card’s clinical euphemism actually meant: I’d just killed dozens of innocent people. I felt so sick I had to walk away. A physical reaction from a mind game.It’s an illustration of how effective tabletop games are at making political points. The most extreme examples are Brenda Romero’s series of art-games entitled The Mechanic is the Message. Train is the best known of these. It appears at first to be an exercise in getting players to optimise space on public transport. During the game, it’s revealed that it’s actually about transporting Jews to Auschwitz. If there was ever a more direct, personal demonstration of the banality of evil, I’ve yet to see it.Yet this latent power remains untapped. While the indie video game scene hums with political titles like Papers, Please and Democracy 3, few tabletop games even have a political theme. This absence is a puzzle to both Ruhnke and Romero. “Games are nothing more than systems where there is a winner,” said Romero. “Politics are the same.”Indeed, the designers agree that face-to-face play offers more opportunities to convey a message than the impersonal world of digital interaction. “It’s easy for a player to betray another online,” Romero observed. “It’s much more difficult to do so to their face.”For Ruhnke, it’s more about transparency. “Tabletop games put players inside their world by requiring them to learn and operate the game model themselves,” he explained. “That aspect is even more critical for games that are about something controversial. Even players who are skeptical at the outset can evaluate and choose what parts of the model to add to their understanding, and what to leave by the roadside.”Romero gives similar reasons as the motivation for continuing to design her games. “An analog game is something incredibly tactile, beautiful, raw and bare,” she said. “The systems are exposed; they are not hidden under graphics or obfuscated in code. It’s all there to see.”For all their common ground, the work of these designers differs in one fundamental way. Romero seeks to put players in the role of the afflicted. “When I’m working on my games, I am always mindful of both the people who lived the real-life system I’m modeling as well as those who are experiencing it through my game,” she said.Ruhnke’s games, by contrast, are about a high level, strategic view of politics as problem solving. It might seem this runs the risk of trivialising the suffering of those involved. The designer disagrees. “Great books, movies, art and journalism all seek to entertain so as to hold interest, even while contributing insight for serious discussion,” he told me. “Games should be no different.”Ultimately, the dearth of political board games is a matter of economics. Romero’s games are showpieces, never intended for commercial production. “It’s hard enough to sell an analog game,” she observed. “Selling one whose audience is niche by default is even more challenging.”Ruhnke’s publisher, GMT Games, concurred. “Normally we shy away from current event games,” their managing partner Tony Curtis explained. “Perceptions of current political events are often ruled by emotion and lack of information. We published Ruhnke’s games because of his unrivaled store of knowledge on the Middle-East, and knew he’d make his game factually based.”Of course, not everyone agrees on what the “facts” are in any given political scenario. Politics would be simple if they did. And that’s just the point. Working the transparent mechanics of a tabletop game is an incredible opportunity to analyse competing viewpoints.Ruhnke thinks the tide is turning, in spite of the lack of commercial opportunities. “There are limitless, exciting possibilities for gaming topics in recent and current history,” he said. “I receive ideas nearly weekly from gamers about doing this or that new topic. My sense is that the hobby is coming around to realising the possibilities of gaming political life.”Let’s hope so. Reactions to Train have ranged from tears to desperate attempts to cheat. It’s hard to imagine anyone playing it and not learning from the experience. The same is true of Labyrinth and A Distant Plain, Ruhnke’s game on the war in Afghanistan. As politics become increasingly fragmented and extreme, perhaps we’d all benefit from sitting down, face to face, with a game designed to help us understand our opponent’s point of view.
Tuesday already!
Apple’s first attempt at a smartwatch shows promise with notifications, voice calls and fancy pressure-sensitive taps, but is very much an expensive first generation product with bugs, quirks and confusions.Apple is late to the smartwatch game. The first smartwatches were launched by Microsoft in 2004, but were dead within four years. In 2013 Pebble relaunched the smartwatch category after a very successful crowdfunding campaign and went on to sell more than 1m watches by the end of 2014.Samsung had not one but six stabs at the smartwatch between 2013-2014, and Google finally got into the smartwatch game with Android Wear in June 2014.And with the arrival of Apple’s Watch, there has been greater consumer awareness outside of geeks and early adopters, with many asking: do I need really a smartwatch?Smaller than you’d expectApple’s first smartwatch comes in three variations and with either a 38mm case, which is roughly thesize of a slim Casio watchand just twice the thickness, and a larger 42mm case. Neither sizes are as large as most other smartwatches and are tiny compared to large mens’ watches. The 42mm version has a larger battery.The minimum price of entry is £300 for the aluminium Apple Watch Sport, the stainless steel Apple Watch starts at £479, and the gold “Edition” stretches up to£13,500. All three have the same innards.I can’t speak for the Edition, but the rest of the Apple watch range are without doubt, the best made smartwatches currently available.The fit and finish is great, the watch feels thinner than most of its competitors, and even the rubber strap is nicer with a quality heft to it. But given that even the cheapest and smallest of them is at least twice the price of even the previous most expensive Pebble or Android Wear smartwatch, you would hope so too.The OLED screen is relatively sharp, but visibly not quite as crisp as an iPhone. It is also not quite bright enough to read without squinting in direct sunlight.The 42mm Apple Watch Sport on various sizes of male and female wrists.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTap, tap, twistApple has introduced - or reintroduced depending on how you look at it - two ways to interact with a device. The first is the “Force Touch”, which is a hard press on the screen and acts like a right click or options menu button, and second the jog-dial on the side called the “digital crown”, which scrolls through lists or text or can zoom in or out in a map, for instance.Both work as described and are effective, if a bit confusing - more on that later.The Apple Watch also has a new type of haptic feedback that taps on your wrist instead of just vibrating. It works very well and is a lot more distracting than a vibrating wrist, which can be easily missed. I hope this becomes the norm for future wearable devices.What does it do?The primary function of a smartwatch is put notifications from a smartphone onto a wrist; the Apple Watch is no exception. Every email, text, tweet or Facebook message can be pushed to the wrist, meaning the phone can stay in the pocket.The usefulness of such a service depends on how many notifications you receive and how strict you are at checking them. If you aren’t bothered by multiple pings and vibrations of the phone - you’ll get to them when you get to them - then a smartwatch isn’t for you. If, however, you’re a compulsive phone checker, then a smartwatch could be useful.Read your emails on your watch.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLike most smartwatches, the list of apps that can send notifications to the Apple Watch can be tailored via the companion app, which will be important because most will not want every notification to disturb them. In effect, the Apple Watch can be a filter for notification overload like any other smartwatch.Notifications override anything when they come in. An email, even if you don’t care about it, will interrupt whatever you’re doing on the watch. If the notification doesn’t have a dismiss button at the end - some do, some don’t - a swipe to the left reveals it, or you can swipe up from the bottom to hide notifications.Tapping on a single notification takes you into the full app. For an email that means the full email, or at least the text of it. HTML emails needed not apply. Swiping from the top down dismisses it, but if you want to get to options such as mark as read, flag or delete you have to scroll to the bottom, which can be a lot of turns of the crown.At 10.5mm thick the Apple Watch is the same thickness as the Pebble Steel and 1mm thinner than the Motorola Moto 360.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianApp-tasticBeyond notifications you have apps, both built in and third-party. Apple’s apps include mail, messages, music, calendar, weather, photos, maps and Passbook. They work a little like glorified widgets, not quite the full deal as would be on the iPhone.The Apple Maps app is worth noting for its excellent turn-by-turn walking directions that taps your wrist when you need to turn a corner, as is Remote app that allows you to control other Apple devices such as the Apple TV.Asolid selection of third-party appsare already available, which is one of the Apple Watch’s biggest strengths – developers seem to actually care about it, where other competing smartwatches have struggled to attract big-name apps and developers.Twitter’s app, for instance, allows users to browse their full feed, or simply see what’s trending. Notifications also take you to the Twitter app, allowing you to reply, favourite or retweet straight from the watch. By comparison Twitter doesn’t have an Android Wear app at all.Twitter app and three taps to get back to the watch faceMost third-party apps are simplistic, and some developers have expressed their dismay over how little they can actually do on the watch. That is likely to change over time.They are also infuriatingly slow to launch and pull data from the iPhone compared to Apple’s apps, powered not by the watch but by the iPhone. The system is designed to offload tasks to the more powerful phone with a larger battery, but it damages the user experience. I started with as many apps as possible on the watch, but deleted most of them as they weren’t worth the time or effort.Heart rate and activity trackingApple made a big deal about the Apple Watch as a fitness and health device. It comes with two fitness apps – a workout tracker and an activity tracker.The workout app uses the heart rate sensor and the accelerometer to track walks, runs, cycling, rowing, stair stepping and elliptical workouts. It works without the phone, but needs it when outside for the GPS to track route of runs. For most activities you can set a calorie, time or distance goal.Activity goals gamify fitness so that users are encouraged to get out of their chairs and move around, similar to many fitness trackers.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe activity tracker runs all the time in the background counting steps, the number of times you stand up and the amount of “exercise” you do, which is anything from a brisk walk and up.The app nags you with taps on the wrist when you’ve been sat down and idle for an hour, although it can’t differentiate between being sat at a desk or being in a car. Irritating.Overall the Apple Watch works as well as a good £40 fitness tracker such as the Misfit Flash, with added heart rate tracking but not much beyond, connecting to a Activity app that pops up on the iPhone when an Apple Watch is paired.The heart rate monitor seemed to significantly underestimate my readings compared to a dedicated heart monitor, saying that I had a rate of 50 beats per minute or below when just sat on the sofa, where others rank it more in the 60 to 65 bpm range. Anyone serious about using their heart rate for training or monitoring health will need to look elsewhere.Telling the timeThe Apple Watch wants to replace not only fitness devices but watches too. Many people no longer wear one, and those who do are often obsessed by knowing the time, as am I.As a watch, Apple Watch isn’t great. The screen is only on when you press a button or do the wrist lift gesture. It’s not possible to simply glance at the time.The 38mm stainless steel Apple Watch on various sizes of male and female wrists.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe gesture works ok. Most of the time it lights the screen, but forget it in bed or at odd angles, and there are more times than I’d like where it fails to light requiring a second hand to press a button. That normally happens when I’m rushing for a bus or a train, precisely when knowing the time down to half a minute is crucial.I also found the screen would turn off while I was trying to use the watch just because I had shifted my position. It came back on when I moved again, but it kept happening enough to be irritating.Of course smartphones weren’t great phones, but what they lacked in phone features they made up for with now essential functionality.Apple’s watch faces are highly customisable. Each one of the 10 can have the amount of detail adjusted such as minute and hour markers, as well as “complications” added or removed such as the date, another time zone, battery life and other useful bits.Most will find a watch face they like, some will find the designs restrictive especially if they’ve come from a high-end watch.Dick Tracy eat your heart outMaking phone calls right on your wrist.Making calls on your wrist feels space age, but isn’t practical. In a quiet space it works fine, but everyone can hear your conversation, outside I struggled to hear my caller.Like the iPhone, but notThe Apple Watch runs a version of Apple’s iOS, which currently runs on the iPhone and iPad among other devices, but it doesn’t look like the iPhone. The icons are the same, but the home screen is a honeycomb-like mesh of small icons accessed by pressing the digital crown, which acts as a home button.Tapping on the icons is hard when moving about – you need a fairly steady finger to avoid hitting the wrong one. Jumping into and out of an app is smooth, with detailed animations. A double click of the crown swaps between the last used apps, but to get back to the watch face you need to slowly press the crown three times or cover the watch with a palm and then reactivate the screen.The Digital Crown can zoom right into and back out of apps with an impressively smooth transition into the watch face.InconsistenciesThe Apple Watch has a steep learning curve that really needs a quick guide on the Watch’s first boot. You have two buttons, a jog-dial, a light tap, a heavy tap, a two-finger tap, as many swipes as there are sides of the screen, and a palm over the screen to silence it.I found myself not knowing whether to force touch, tap, swipe or hit one of buttons. Invariably I’d actually hit a dead end and that’s as much as the app could do, but it wasn’t obvious. A number of times I forced touched only to see a bouncing “this doesn’t work here” animation, which puts you off experimenting further.The music app allows you to sync a playlist of music up to 2GB in size from an iPhone and play it through Bluetooth headphones without an iPhone. But to play music through the watch not the iPhone you have to force touch the screen and change the source to the watch, which was certainly not obvious.I also had trouble connecting Bluetooth headphones. It took two goes to pair a set of Plantronic Backbeat Go 2s, only for them not to work when I tried to go for a run. Subsequent pairing attempts failed, despite them pairing just fine with an iPhone and other smartphones.The user interface isn’t consistent either. Some notifications come with visible dismiss buttons, while others are hidden behind menus. Tapping on notifications normally takes you to the app, if there is one installed, but when multiple emails come in at the same time the notification is not tappable and you have to go to the mail app manually.Glances are not glanceable as the name might suggest, instead just widgets hidden under a swipe up on the watch face. Some are useful, like the quick settings and music controls, most can be safely ignored or removed. Tapping on them usually loads the associated app, which often does little more than that offered by the glance.Watch to watchMost of the messaging features can be sent to anyone with an iPhone or most just via text message. But some of them, such as sending your heart beat, remotely tapping on someone’s wrist or drawing on the screen with a finger, only work between two Apple Watches and only if both parties have iMessages active.They’re gimmicks and unlikely to be useful to anyone but gadget-obsessed couples. Sending your heart beat to a friend, even your mum, feels a bit of an odd thing to do.SiriHold the crown button down on the watch face to activate Siri, or simply shout, ‘Hey Siri’.Apple’s digital assistant Siri is baked into the Apple Watch not only for searching and performing actions such as setting timers and alarms, but for dictation. There is no keyboard, so replies to texts and emails either rely on Apple’s canned answers such as “Talk to you later” or dictation into the watch. For the most part Siri makes a fair stab at understanding my speech – it struggles with “umbrella” for instance – but you can choose to send the audio recording instead of text if it’s made a hash of your message.A day and no moreThe Apple Watch needs charging every night without fail. But whether it makes it to the end of the day or not depends on what you’re doing. During the weekend, without being bombarded by notifications from work emails, I went to bed with a 25% charge left.The magnetic charger attaches to the back and fully charges the Apple Watch in about two hours.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe working day was much harder on battery life, with frequent notifications, a couple of Siri queries and one phone call it hit 25% by 3pm and was into the time-only power reserve mode by the time I got home from work.I also found that that firing up the heart rate monitor for tracking runs or walks reduced the battery life dramatically to the tune of about 1% every two minutes.App usage didn’t impact the battery life all that much. Using the Twitter app didn’t cause a sudden drain, and of all the battery usage data shared with me by other users, everyone’s watches, whether 38mm or 42mm, faired similarly.The constant connection to the Apple Watch impacts the battery life of the iPhone, but also reduces the need for the screen to flash on and alerts to ring out. For an iPhone 6 or 6 Plus there was little noticeable difference in battery life. The case may be different for the iPhone 5S and iPhone 5, which both have smaller batteries and less power efficient processors.PriceApple Watch Sport, with rubberised sports strap, aluminium case and “Ion-X” screen, costs £300 for 38mm and £339 for 42mmApple Watch, in stainless steel with sapphire screen costs £479 for the 38mm and £519 for 42mmApple Watch Edition with gold case starts at £8,000 and stretches up to £13,500The various straps are available separately or with watches. The sport band is £39 in a variety of colours, the stainless steel milanese loop is £129 and the link bracelet costs £379 – more than the Apple Watch Sport.For comparison, the Pebble Steel costs under £150 and the new Pebble Time Steel will cost approximately £170 in July. Google’s Android Wear watches do not work with the iPhone, but most cost £160 or less.A new UK plug ships with the Apple Watch, which has folding pins for travel and storage.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianVerdictThe Apple Watch is a very expensive smartphone accessory. It is beautifully crafted, is comfortable to wear, and introduces some really great new ways of using a device – I can see Force Touch and Apple’s “Taptic Engine” developing into something very useful.It is also seamlessly integrated into the iPhone experience and boasts solid third-party developer support already, and it’s only just gone on sale.But Apple has tried to do too much with its first attempt. The watch isn’t great as a watch because the screen isn’t always on. It demands a steep learning curve, often being counter intuitive and frustrating at times. The battery life is also not good enough – to be compelling as a smartwatch it needs to last two days at a minimum. Others have proved it is possible. It’s also not waterproof, despite using inductive charging.At £100 or even £150, all these niggles would be forgivable. At a minimum of £300, Apple is asking a lot.For those looking to buy a smartwatch for their iPhone I would recommend looking at the Pebble smartwatches. The Apple Watch is for those looking for a fashion accessory that just happens to be a smartwatch. Everyone else should wait until the second generation.Pros:beautiful fit and finish, comfortable, magnetic charging cable, Taptic engine, Force touch, folding UK plugCons:one-day only battery, apps slow to load, relies entirely on the iPhone, inconsistent user experience, steep learning curveThe back hides the heart rate sensor.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviews•Which was the best smartwatch of 2014?•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by poor battery life•LG G Watch R review: chunky, masculine, and fast•Asus ZenWatch review: a sophisticated-looking Android smartwatch
Google is to admit to making mistakes in working with news organisations as it announces a new digital partnership with eight European publishers.The Digital News Initiative is likely to be seen as an attempt by the company to improve its image after beingaccused ofdistorting internet search results and acting anti-competitively by European regulatorstwo weeks ago.The European Union is investigating whether Google has abused its 90% market share in search to illegally promote its other products and services. News is not directly affected by this investigation. However, publishers have complained for years about the impact of Google’s use of their content.In the new partnership with eight publishers, including the Guardian, Google is to establish a working group to focus on product development as well as providing a €150m (£107m) innovation fund over three years, alongside additional training and research. Publishers are keenest to explore the product development which Google promises will aim to “increase revenue, traffic and audience engagement”.In a speech in London on Tuesday morning, Carlo D’Asaro Biondo, head of Google’s strategic relationships in Europe, is expected to say: “We recognise that technology companies and news organisations are part of the same information ecosystem and we want to play our part in the common fight to find more sustainable models for news.“We firmly believe Google has always aimed to be friend and partner to the news industry, but we also accept we’ve made some mistakes along the way.“We are determined to play our part in ongoing dialogue and business partnership with the aim of building something more sustainable.”Company insiders downplayed the suggestion that the exercise was an attempt at garnering good publicity soon after the announcement of the anti-trust probe. Talks with the publishers – which include the Financial Times, Les Echos in France, NRC Media in the Netherlands, El Pais in Spain and La Stampa in Italy, Faz and Die Zeit in Germany as well as the Guardian – started as long ago as last summer.Google hope other global publishers join the initiative. In a statement D’Asaro Biondo said: “The internet offers huge opportunities for the creation and dissemination of great journalism. But there are also legitimate questions about how high quality journalism can be sustained in the digital age. Through the Digital News Initiative, Google will work hand in hand with news publishers and journalism organisations to help develop more sustainable models for news. This is just the beginning and we invite others to join us.”Some publishers believe that the aim to work on products focusing on ads, video, apps, data and paid-for journalism should be rolled out globally to be most effective. Tony Danker, international director of Guardian news and media, welcomed the initiative which, he said, had real potential, “but that potential depends on whether, having been conceived by Google in Europe, it is now adopted by Google in Mountain View”.“The test of success is whether it leads to meaningful change to ensure journalism flourishes in the digital age.”Jon Slade, B2C managing director at the Financial Times, said: “We believe there is scope for more cooperation around discovery, monetisation and the development of tools and analytics for news organisations.” ­Bob Satchwell, executive director of the Society of Editors in the UK said: “The DNI initiative will provide a welcome boost to support the innovation and imagination of editors and journalists in the UK who have made the digital revolution their own.”The working group comes amid criticism that Google often launches new products such as its recent search optimisation changes on mobile sites without too much consultation. Google chief executive Larry Page in part recognised this last year following the landmark “right to be forgotten” ruling in Europe. “We’re trying now to be more European and think about it maybe more from a European context. A very significant amount of time is going to be spent in Europe talking,” he told theFT.
Monsters under the bed aren’t, generally, much fun for children. Monsters on a nearby tablet or smartphone? That’s more like it. And that’s exactly what kids get with a new app calledMonster Mingle.This iPhone and iPad app is the work of British developer Chris O’Shea, whose previous apps asCowly Owlinclude Makego, Little Digits – Finger Counting and Dinosaur Mix, which are all well worth a download.Monster Mingle follows on neatly from Dinosaur Mix, which saw children building dinosaurs by picking up different body parts as they stomped along. This time, monsters are the focus, and they’re doing a lot more than just stomping.The app starts off with a little jelly-shaped monster, who bounces along when your child holds their finger on the screen. As they go, they’ll find bubbles with different body parts: a pair of lobster claws, a tentacled foot, a beak, wings and so on.When dragged and dropped onto the monster, they’ll be swapped with its current body parts, often giving it new abilities – the wings enable it to take off and flap up to the sky, for example.As children explore, they’ll find food for their monster to munch and scenery with different effects, from musical plants on the sea floor to a cloud that rains on them in the sky.This isn’t a game or a story: it’s pure exploration and experimentation, although that does give children the freedom to invent their own narratives about who their monster is and what it’s doing.Related:Snow White by Nosy Crow app: 'Getting children sparkly-eyed about storytelling'The monsters and scenery are bright and colourful, and the sound effects accompany the action well. There are 40 body parts to find, although as ever with this kind of app, it would be nice to have even more.It would also be good to have a camera button in the app to make it easier for children to take screenshots of their funniest monsters, although parents can do the job by pressing the iOS device’s Home and Power buttons simultaneously.Monster Mingle is a playful app rather than an explicitly educational one, although it may spark conversations with your child about beastly biology: why wings are needed for flying and fins for swimming, for example.There are no in-app purchases or advertisements in Monster Mingle, with Cowly Owl making its money purely from the £2.29 that parents pay for on Apple’s App Store. It’s a small price to pay for this charming, creative app for kids.•Monster Mingle costs £2.29 for iPhone and iPad
Ebay chief executive John Donahoe has spoken out over the EU antitrust investigation into Google, agreeing with the search giant’s claim that his company is a strong competitor for it in the online shopping sector.Donahoe’s comments have been seen as backing for Google overthe antitrust investigation launched against it by the European Commission. “Yes ... We are a strong commerce competitor,” Donahoetold the Financial Times. The interview paraphrases further comments from eBay’s chief executive, noting that the barriers between different areas of e-commerce are breaking down.Part of Google’s argument against the European Commission’s charges that its search engine has given an unfair advantage to its own comparison shopping service, is the claim that eBay and Amazon are strong competitors.“If you look at shopping ... it’s clear that, a) there’s a ton of competition (including from Amazon and eBay, two of the biggest shopping sites in the world) and, b) Google’s shopping results have not harmed the competition,”wrote Google’s senior vice president of search Amit Singhalearlier in April.His blog post included charts showing how much less popular the Google Shopping service was than rivals including eBay and Amazon in Germany and France.Related:Europe is targeting Google under antitrust laws but missing the bigger pictureWhile Donahoe’s comments stop short of explicit backing for Google’s stance, they can be seen as supporting its argument about competition in the online shopping market.However, there remains an argument over whether eBay and Amazon are direct competitors to Google Shopping, given that they are sites for browsing and buying goods, rather than simply comparison services for browsing products then clicking through to other sites to actually buy them.“As Google is well aware, neither Amazon nor eBay are rivals to Google’s shopping comparison service,” Shivaun Raff of comparison service Foundem tells the FT, which notes that the company was the first to file an antitrust complaint against Google in Europe.
Buying an Apple Watch is a strange experience. At least in the opening few months, it’s tricky to even do at all: you can’t simply walk into a shop with £300 and walk out with a watch. Instead, at least in Apple Stores, you book an appointment, arrive for a 15-minute “fitting”, and, at the end of it all, walk over to an iPad to order one online for delivery.The rationale seems to be two-fold: avoiding unsightly queues outside the stores, and managing the inevitable supply constraints. Many would-be purchasers might be tempted to skip the palaver and order online from the comfort of their own home, but the fitting is not all PR fluff. The difference between the two watch sizes, and the multitude of straps on offer, is difficult to fully appreciate until the thing actually sits on your wrist. In my case, I went from mulling the purchase of a 42mm watch (clearly intended to be – if not actually advertised as – the “men’s” watch) to settling on the smaller 38mm, which, it turns out, is around the same size as my dear Casio F-91. But the faff that surrounds the whole thing rather undermines the usefulness.‘Trying on a smartwatch while an Apple employee talks to you about the “feel” is super awkward.’Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIn fact, the whole buying experience is emblematic of the way in which Apple is emphasising the “watch” aspect of “smartwatch”. Try and track down tech-specs for the devices, and you’ll be stymied (it was only once the watches were in the hands of hackers that we learned information as rudimentary as screen resolution), but information such as manufacturing process, materials, and timekeeping accuracy have been trumpeted for months.Apple Watches being presented in the Dover Street Market boutique.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianNowhere is this clearer than the one place in Britain where one can buy a watch in person: Dover Street Market, a luxury boutique in London’s Mayfair. There, Apple has set up a small boutique – a table, really – on the edge of the ground floor, squeezed in between £1,000 blazers and if-you-have-to-ask jewellery. On the day the Guardian turned up, the second day of the boutique’s Apple Watch operation, the clientele looked a bit out of place. As did the Guardian, if we’re honest. It’s a certain type of person who spends an hour redialling to secure an appointment to buy a piece of gadgetry on the launch weekend, and stereotypes be damned: that person does not, by and large, haunt the Mayfair couture houses.Settle into the appointment, though, and it becomes clear why Apple decided to set up shop there. The watches are treated like any other piece of jewellery, albeit one which runs a demo on loop. Buyers can see what the screen looks like, and feel the “Taptic Engine” (one of the few genuinely impressive features of the device), but beyond that, they’re making decisions based on look and feel.Perhaps that’s all the fashion world needs from a buying experience. When Karl Lagerfeld was spotted wearing his gold Apple Watch (replete with an unreleased solid-gold link band), onlookers soon realised he hadn’t actually paired it with his iPhone; not only was it not much of a smartwatch, it couldn’t even display the time. But if that’s not the case, then right now the whole experience feels rather forced.Maybe it’s the shy, reserved geek stereotype; maybe it’s that we were all dreadfully British about the whole thing; or maybe it really is the case that trying on a smartwatch while an Apple employee talks to you about the “feel” is super awkward: by the end of my session, I found myself wishing I’d just got the damn thing posted to my house.
Digital monopolies are growing fast. Investors demand nothing less. But shouldn’t we, as citizens, demand something, too?Shouldn’t we have some recourse if Facebook decides tomanipulate an election, or Googledisappearsa favourite firm from its all-important rankings?Free market fundamentalists have a quick rejoinder at the ready: digital monoliths are simply too complex for regulators to understand. They believe that no one outside of big firms should scrutinise their inner workings, unless the firms have behaved in an obviously illegal way.But suspicious things often happen on social networks and search engines – for example, thedownrankingof a Google competitor, or the sudden favouring of somefriend of Facebook’son its EdgeRank algorithm. Virtually any reshuffling of online life can be rationalised, post hoc, as an “attempt to improve user experience”. But what if we don’t believe it?Looking the other wayIn the United States, competition regulators have largely shrugged. They claim to be monitoring big firms’ behaviour, but they lack the technical expertise to do so. Budget restraints hamstring even the best-intentioned staff at the Federal Trade Commission, which enforces many privacy, antitrust, and consumer protection laws.As journalist Peter Maassnoted, “The agency can take companies to court, but its overworked lawyers don’t really have the time to go the distance against the bottomless legal staff in Silicon Valley.” Maass concluded that the agency was low-tech, toothless – and defensive about work like his.The European Union is starting to contemplate charting another course. A document leaked to the Wall Street Journal from the office of EU Digital Commissioner Günther Oettingercalls for“a central EU-wide body with the power to monitor platforms’ use of data, and to resolve disputes between the operators and the businesses they serve”.This is far-sighted, important planning. The new economy demands anew regulatory body, with the ability to continuallymonitorthe law-like power now assumed by major digital platforms to themselves.Such a regulator is desperately needed, to make sure digital platforms play fair. Presently, thefocusis on how a behemoth likeGooglemight manipulate search results to strangle would-be competitors before they can reach critical mass.A cash-for-profile-raising future?In the future, stealth marketing (secretly taking cash or other consideration in exchange for elevating the profile of sites in algorithmic rankings) might be a big concern. If search engines or social networks remove legal, non-spam entities from their index after they have been included, and fail to give some explanation to the removed entities, that ought to raise alarm bells, too. And European officials have already expressed concerns about monopolistic, US-based marketplaces setting the terms of exchange for their own digital firms.Some wail that vital trade secrets will lose all value if a ham-handed regulator demands their disclosure. But disclosure is not a simple on/off switch: any competent lawyer knows that in a given dispute, or monitoring situation, certain documents may only be seen by a judge, others by a larger swath of regulators, and some may never be seen at all. Transparency can bequalified, to account for commercial interests at stake.Such inquiries do not need to be expensive, relative to the tax-sheltered cash piles accumulating at major Silicon Valley firms. In contexts ranging from privacy rights to false advertising, authorities have recognised the need for fast, flexible “quick looks” at suspect business practices.For example, in US false advertising disputes, 95% of problematic situations are quickly resolved in a self-regulatory fashion. This is not a recipe for the litigation nightmares industry advocates so frequently invoke.Due process, fair play, anti-discriminationGiven how much of the internet behemoths’ revenue is driving the purchase of other, smaller firms, isn’t it time some of that surplus was used to fund efforts to assure the competitive process is itself fair? The alternative is frightening: a few giant firms with a vice-like grip over the very marketplaces where their competitors would need to succeed in order to thrive. Competition and privacy law flirt with irrelevance if regulators disdain the tools necessary to understand a modern information economy.We should expect any company aspiring to order vast amounts of information to try to keep its methods secret, if only to reduce controversy and foil copycat competitors. However wise this secrecy may be as a business strategy, it devastates our ability to truly understand the social world Silicon Valley is creating.Opacity creates ample opportunities to hide anti-competitive, discriminatory, or simply careless conduct behind a veil of technical inscrutability.Small startups and innovators deserve better. Europe can’t expect its digital talent to take on the Googles, Facebooks, Amazons and Apples without some assurance that law will prevent the behemoths from handing them an offer they can’t refuse: be acquired, pay hefty fees for ads or placement, or risk total obscurity.As the EU’s internal policy document stated: “Only a very limited part of the economy will not depend on [large digital platforms] in the near future.” Basic principles of due process, fair play, and anti-discrimination must be brought into the digital age, or abandoned to history.Frank Pasquale is a professor of law at the University of Maryland and author of “The Black Box Society: The Secret Algorithms That Control Money and Information”
Joseph Garrett isn’t famous. He’s a gamer and video producer in his mid twenties, who leads a quiet life well away from the tabloid spotlight.His alter-ego, though, is a superstar. Albeit one more likely to be spotted falling off a physically-impossible tower of beds in Minecraft than papped falling out of a nightclub.Garrett’s alter-ego isStampy, a cat character whose YouTube channel has more than 5.6 million subscribers and nearly 3.4bn video views. In 2014, it was the fourth biggest channel on YouTube,sandwiched between Katy Perry and Shakira.Also, Stampy is a superstar for a specific group of viewers: children. His videos are aimed at young Minecraft (and sometimes The Sims or Skylanders) players, with no swearing and an emphasis on humour and creativity.Related:Minecraft YouTube videos were watched 3.9bn times in MarchNow Garrett is branching out with a second channel calledWonder Quest, and a 12-episode show of the same name that aims to blend education, entertainment and – while still shot within Minecraft – higher production values.“It’s different to my normal videos just playing and talking about Minecraft. It’s a completely scripted show, and the production values are much higher: there’s an original score and lots of sound effects and overlays,” Garrett tells the Guardian.“The process of recording is very different: we’re acting out a show in Minecraft. It was different for me, as I’ve not really done much stuff reading from a script before. It’s still my character Stampy, so it’s weird having someone writing lines for what you should say!”Wonder Quest is actually three new shows at once. The main show will have 12 scripted episodes each ranging from 12-20 minutes in length, and a quest to find a broken-up “Wondergem” with the help of a friendly wizard named Keen.Each episode has an educational angle. “I might be estimating the size of trees or learning about the water cycle. There’s always something Stampy needs to learn in order to get past the challenge,” says Garrett.The first episode of Wonder Quest.There’s also an accompanying I Wonder series of cartoons – traditional animation, not filmed in Minecraft – which will provide three-minute “deep dives” into the educational topic for each Wonder Quest episode.Finally, a companion series called Side Quest will live on the main Stampy channel, and take the form of more familiar Let’s Play videos where Stampy and friends explore the Minecraft maps created for Wonder Quest.It’s fascinating because in 2015, thisischildren’s television: Wonder Quest is as important a launch for its audience as any new show from a traditional children’s broadcaster. It’s just that it has happened entirely outside that world.Related:Little Baby Bum: how UK couple built world's fifth-biggest YouTube channelThe main show is a bold move for a creator like Garrett to take, since it swaps the spontaneity of his main channel’s videos for scripted dialogue. That, plus working in the educational material, could risk losing what made Stampy so popular in the first place.Garrett is aware of the danger. “From the outset we knew it was going to be educational, but entertainment has to come first. There’s no point having an educational show if nobody’s going to watch it,” he says.“The style is similar to my content, including the style of humour and the age group that we’re targeting. But I think the production values are going to surprise people.”Collaboration is also key: Wonder Quest will feature other YouTubers including ShayCarl, iBallisticSquid, CaptainSparklez, AmyLee33 and EvanTubeHD. More creators who may be unfamiliar to the average adult, but who are big draws for Stampy’s audience.“It’s all my friends. People on the street might not know who they are, but if you ask a fan of YouTube or Minecraft, these are superstars!” says Garrett, who says he relishes the fact that this group of creators have managed to become big stars for their viewers while remaining under the radar in the wider media world.“It’s fun being in that position of not being completely mainstream. I can come up with an idea for a video, and I don’t need to pitch it to anyone or get approval. If I’m tweeting or replying to someone, it’s me: there’s no PR company talking about what I should say,” says Garrett. “Mainstream approval is something I’m not interested in.”The first episode of animated spin-off I Wonder.Stampy has 331,000 followers on Twitterand565k likes on Facebook, with Garrett spending a lot of time responding to tweets and messages from fans, as well as comments on his YouTube videos.He’s thus well aware of the pressure of expectation from his fans, especially as they’re often watching on tablets and smartphones rather than televisions: something that Garrett says feels “more real and personal”, but which also means they have strong views on what he should be doing next.Related:YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and the future of children’s media“There’s a good balance between listening to fans and being able to still do your own thing. When creating videos, a lot of people just look at what the fans are suggesting, and in that way you can just end up doing the same thing over and over again. I can do new things, and the fans are generally going to at least give it a chance,” he says.Garrett joined YouTube in 2011, although his earliest videos weren’t aimed at children.The first Stampy video was published in May 2012, although it’s notable that the tone isn’t quite as excitable as later videos.“I never set out to make child-friendly content. I was doing very serious, boring game reviews! It was only when Minecraft came out that I realised children were watching, and reacted to that,” says Garrett.He doesn’t hide behind Stampy now: Garrett tweets photos of himself meeting fans, for example. But the character has enabled him to keep a certain distance between his private and public lives that some YouTube stars – vloggers in particular – don’t have.“In the videos I don’t talk about any real-life things: specific brands or anything that’s going on in my real life. I’ve become a character: when I make a video I’m in the head of Stampy, and the world I’m in at that point is the Minecraft world. It’s more fun! The real world isn’t as fun as Minecraft!” he says.“But it is good to have that distance, and to live a very normal life which I live. My personal life I keep very secret. For lots of YouTubers, part of their appeal is that they are so real: they share literally everything. I could never do that, and would never want to do that. I still consider myself a video producer at heart, not necessarily a YouTube personality.”Joseph Garrett at the launch of Wonder Quest in Los Angeles.Plans for a second, educational Stampy channel wereannounced in April 2014 at the MIPTV television industry conference. Wonder Quest is a partnership with Maker Studios, the online network whose roster of YouTube gamers also includes The Diamond Minecart, PewDiePie, Markiplier and Vegetta.YouTube is the show’s exclusive distributor though, having “acquired” – in Maker’s words, indicating money changing hands – the rights for Wonder Quest’s first series. Expect prominent placement in therecently-launched YouTube Kids appalongside traditional children’s brands like Sesame Street and Thomas and Friends.Related:YouTube Kids ads row: how should we pay for children's entertainment?“They’re definitely understanding that the younger audience is coming into YouTube, and now they have the YouTube Kids app, where Wonder Quest is hopefully going to have a big presence. Google saw potential in the show,” says Garrett.He admits that YouTube’s huge audience of kids –nine of the top 20 YouTube channels in February 2015were specifically aimed at children while others, from Taylor Swift, WWE and PewDiePie, are likely benefitting from a youthful audience – has been a surprising phenomenon.“I don’t think anyone could have really predicted the way it’s gone, and I don’t think anyone can predict even now the way it’s going,” he says. “It’s early days for this type of online content, but every year it gets more understood by the mainstream, with bigger and bigger shows – and more options becoming available to the people in that space.”Garrett has made his own steps into mainstream TV, for examplejudging a recent game-design contest run by British children’s channel CBBC, and appearing on-screen to promote it.“It’s fun, although it’s never been my goal. It’s exciting because if there’s a TV thing, my parents can get excited: it seems like a bigger thing for them! People do get excited if I do a TV interview, but I’m more excited about what I’ve done on YouTube because that was all me: starting from scratch and building an audience,” says Garrett.“Some people look at YouTube as a stepping stone to move over to traditional media, but for me, the more fun and exciting stuff is staying in the online space. I’m not saying I would never consider doing things in traditional media, but this is what I enjoy doing.”CBBC interviewed Garrett about his virtual life as Stampy.Garrett is also keeping a keen eye on how Minecraft develops, with the upcoming Minecon show likely to provide some news on how the game’s new owner Microsoft plans to developthe game it paid $2.5bn for in 2014.As one of its most high-profile players, what’s on Garrett’s wishlist? “I only make videos for the console version of Minecraft, which is already quite behind what the PC version can do,” he says.Related:Minecraft movie will be 'large-budget' but unlikely to arrive before 2017“What I would really like is all the different platforms – console, mobile and PC – to become closer so that you could easily share levels between them and play cross-platform. So rather than having these three pretty-different versions of one game, just to have a base level of Minecraft that is the same on all platforms is something that I’d love.”The final question in the interview came from my eight year-old son, who’s just reaching the age where Stampy is as big an interest as his current obsession with Star Wars. Hence him telling me to ask whether Stampy will be in the next Star Wars movie.It’s actually a smart question, becauseMaker Studios is now owned by Disney, as is Star Wars. While there’s unlikely to be a role for a blocky orange cat in Episode VII – The Force Awakens, it’s quite possible that Garrett could make some videos set on, say, Stampy’s Lovely Death Star andnotget sued for it.In fact, this would be a brilliant spin-off for Star Wars. Which is perhaps why Garrett pauses before answering, and chooses his words carefully.“I guess it’s easier to start those conversations, but it’s not like we suddenly have open access to all of Disney’s properties. It’s not like suddenly Stampy and Mickey Mouse are going to team up in a cartoon episode. I’m looking to make my own brand, and Stampy my own character,” he says.“There is an opportunity for more collaborations with Disney, and it’s nice to be in the Disney family, but as of now the content I’m creating for my channel is still made by me in exactly the same way, even if down the line there are more options for some select content to be made.”Could the cartoon Stampy appear alongside Mickey Mouse? Not for now.The creative control over his own channel is important to Garrett, even as he explores new ideas like Wonder Quest, with its special effects, animated spin-off and professional writers.“My own channel is still just me and my personality. That’s what I’m offering. If I hired a team of writers for that, it would be much easier for me – I could probably make more videos – but I’d lose something in that process,” he says.“But I can go off and do other projects: Wonder Quest or other things, and make something bigger than I could otherwise do. It will completely depend on what the project is, and what talents we need. It’s just doing what needs to be done to make the best videos for the fans.”
Call of Duty is not going “open world” – not yet. But with Black Ops 3, the third title in the covert war spin-off series, it is taking a small step in that direction.Asleaked by Call of Duty (CoD) news site CharlieIntelon Friday, this year’s CoD instalment will feature a four-player co-operative campaign mode, allowing friends to take on the story together.The series is abandoning its highly choreographed “corridor”-style of level design in favour of open environments offering more space and freedom to explore. Players will be able to create and customise their own avatars from the outset, rather than taking control of pre-set characters, while a new XP system allows upgrades to both the soldier and the weapons.Developer Treyarch, one of three studios sharing responsibility for the multimillion dollar annual franchise, has also introduced a new movement system. Black Ops 3 is set 50 years in the future where soldiers use bio-augmentation and external “cyber rigs” to enhance motion capabilities. Players are able to boost jump in any direction, perform power slides and seamlessly mantle over obstacles – all while maintaining the ability to aim and fire a weapon.Unlike last year’s Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which also featured cybernetic enhancements, Black Ops 3 offers players the chance to wall-run along vertical surfaces. Moves can also be chained together so that wall runs can turn into boosted jumps and then power slides. Players can line up moves and change direction on the fly using a system similar to skateboarding games such as Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater.The new specialist characters add a range of special powers and abilities to the multiplayer modePhotograph: ActivisionTreyarch has added a new “specialist” feature for online multiplayer, which allows players to control and customise one of nine elite spec-ops soldiers. Each specialist has their own unique Power Weapons and Power Abilities, which players call on during matches, when the dedicated meter fills up.Donnie Walsh, call sign Ruin, is a brute force infantryman whose special weapon is a pair of gravity spikes which he can plant in the ground causing devastating area-of-effect damage to enemies. His ability is a limited speed boost, designed to allow him to quickly capture objective points.Also announced is Zhen Zhen, call sign Seraph, part of a futuristic militiarised criminal gang named the 54I. She has a one-shot-kill hand cannon capable of taking out several enemies with one bullet, and when her ability, Combat Focus, is triggered she gets a multiplier on kills and achievements, allowing her to reach score streaks faster. Alessandra “Outrider” Castillo is a scout from Brazil who uses a compound bow and explosive arrows, and the ability to scan environments revealing the position of nearby enemies. Finally, players will get to take part as a battle robot named Reaper, whose Scythe weapon transforms its arm into a minigun. He’s also able to flash back in time, apparently by hacking the cybernetic control systems of other players, resetting their internal clocks.There are five other specialist characters yet to be announced, and Treyarch says that players will be able to select them, then upgrade and personalise their character via a new progression system operated during matches. The power meter is charged during each match, and fills faster when players make kills or perform actions beneficial to the team. At the start of each match, participants have to select whether to use the power weapons or the power abilities – the two are mutually exclusive, and the latter charge twice as quickly.Plot-wise, it seems the narrative takes place immediately after the events of Black Ops 2. Groups of competing countries have formed two opposing alliances – The Winslow Accord and the Common Defence Pact – and are now fighting over resources as global climate change eats away at available water and energy reserves. Players become part of a cybernetically enhanced Black Ops squad who must investigate the disappearance of a compatriot team at a CIA black site in Singapore.Treyarch claims to have built a whole new graphics engine for the game, which supports contemporary effects like deferred lighting and particles; the artificial intelligence system has been updated to give enemies the freedom and ability to react to player actions with a variety of tactical options. The studio has also claimed that the PC version is a priority this year, with support for high-end rigs and 4K monitors, as well as scalable options for lower-end machines.More details on the inevitable Zombie mode, score streaks and Create-A-Class options are due at the E3 games event in LA in June, where Black Ops 3 will be playable on the show floor. A public beta of the multiplayer mode is set to be opened soon for those who pre-order the game.A global release date of 6 November has been confirmed for PC, Xbox One and PlayStation 4.Tomorrow:more details on the multiplayer and story modes, and an interview with Treyarch on the real-world cybernetic technologies featured in the game
On 1 September, 1939, the German battleship Schleswig-Holstein opened fire on the Polish military depot at Westerplatte. The attack marked the beginning of Hitler’s invasion of Poland, and with it the second world war.For the small Polish garrison, the odds seemed overwhelming. Just 209 men found themselves besieged by over 3,000 German troops.But the Poles weren’t about to give up without a fight. In the face of artillery bombardments, infantry assaults and terrifying dive-bombing raids, they held their ground for a week and provided a powerful symbol of resistance to millions of their compatriots.This story of heroism, defiance and desperation fascinated Łukasz Woźniak, a 25-year-old board game designer from Poznan in west central Poland. His game Seven Days of Westerplatte – first published in 2013 and now receiving wider international distribution – attempts to capture the struggle, putting players in the shoes of Polish officers working together to repel a seemingly endless stream of Nazi aggressors.“I wouldn’t say history is a great interest of mine,” Woźniak said. “I learned a bit in school and that was it.“But the defence of the Westerplatte peninsula is a great historical event, and a great theme for a board game. The fact that such a small and under-armed force held their own for seven days is amazing to me, and I wanted to make a game that lets players feel some of the tension and stress of the real battle.”Tension under fireStress is something that Seven Days of Westerplatte provides by the bucketload. Players find themselves on one side of a board divided by a narrow canal, guarding their base and its limited stockpile of supplies and ammunition. On the other, the German forces steadily advance. A brick wall is the only thing slowing their approach.With each day that passes, the attack grows more ferocious. German infantry regiments march relentlessly towards the players before tearing apart their defences. Artillery units pound their position from the outskirts of town. Bombing raids strike without warning, reducing the defenders’ walls to rubble and leaving their morale in tatters.Players must fight off advancing German units, rebuild shattered defences and make the best use of their limited supplies - all while ensuring their morale doesn’t collapse under fire.Photograph: Owen Duffy“I’ve tried to balance the game so that it’s difficult on every level,” Woźniak said.“There are five different tracks that the German units can attack from, and it’s very easy to get yourself into a difficult situation where all of those tracks are occupied. There are also more difficult units towards the end of the game, and fewer mortars and mines to help you deal with them.”Woźniak’s design represents the fierce fighting of the battle, but it also includes a strong element of psychology. As the game progresses, soldiers are subjected to ever-greater stress. If the players can keep their spirits high, their defenders will move more quickly around the board and become more effective in combat. Let morale sink, though, and they’ll become exhausted and despondent, moving sluggishly and sacrificing some of their already limited supplies of shells and bullets.As a result, players face a succession of difficult decisions. Should they fire on the enemies drawing close to their walls, or lay a landmine as a trap for units yet to enter the game? Do they need to rebuild their crumbling defences this turn, or is it safe to boost morale instead, leaving the repairs until later?Communication, planning and quick reactions to the unpredictable German attacks are crucial, and even then, players are likely to face more simultaneous crises than they’re comfortably able to deal with.Brutal simplicityFor all Seven Days of Westerplatte’s difficulty, though, its mechanics are incredibly simple. Where many designers of war-themed games get bogged down in opaque rules and confusing statistics, Woźniak strips away all unnecessary complications to leave something akin to the sort of tower defence games you might expect to find on your smartphone or tablet. It’s not so much a detailed simulation of war as a grim, gritty spin onPlants vs Zombies.“Those kinds of games were an inspiration to me,” Woźniak said. “At first I just had this idea in my notebook about a game with cards representing units moving towards a defence line.“I was actually thinking about a zombie-themed game. Maybe zombies would be more appealing to the public. But I consider myself a patriot, and I wanted to show the heroic aspect of the Polish side of world war two.“I think games are a good way to start a conversation and interest people in a topic. My game doesn’t teach you very much, but it shows Polish soldiers fighting against the odds when their country was invaded and left with no help. We need to remember such events to honour them and to learn.”
Hurray for Monday!
A slick lightning bolt from the past,Azure Striker Gunvoltis a 2D side-scrolling platformer in the spirit of classicMega Mangames. It stuns with that addictive retro style of “easy to pick up, difficult to master” gameplay, with a fast “tag-and-fry” combat system and optional challenges. In a cyberpunk future owned by the Sumeragi Group, people with superpowers are called Adepts. You play as Gunvolt, an Adept with the power to control electricity who uses that power to fight against Sumeragi. Gunvolt fights to keep a young girl safe from Sumeragi and its colourful squadron of mini-bosses. An extra game mode,Mighty Gunvoltis a charmingly “mis-translated” 8-bit tribute to the originalMega Man.Don’t get the wrong idea from this downloadable indie title; top-shelf talent went into its development, thanks to designer Keiji Inafune. The game is well structured and communicates everything the player needs to know in the first few moments of play. In each level, Gunvolt’s powers let him interact with the world in a new way – moving magnetic platforms, lighting up darkened areas – and there’s plenty of replay value. A high-voltage rollercoaster that’s one of the best downloadable titles out there.
Mortal Kombathas come a long way. Once the controversial poster child for 90s video game violence, what it lacked in technical execution it made up for with bravado.Mortal Kombat Xretains that flair and reinforces it with polished presentation and an aggressive attempt to push the fighting-game genre forward.Each of the 25 characters has three distinct sets of abilities, addressing the genre issue of countering a bad match-up. The new faces are a mix of established veterans’ offspring and inventive newcomers, and they’re all a joy to explore. The fighting engine is undoubtedly the best NetherRealm Studios has ever produced, with hugely improved animation, varied characters and interactive elements.The online “faction war” mode offers plenty of dynamic challenges, and the story mode is far more focused than the 2011 reboot, packed with theatrical choreography and kitsch martial arts absurdity. It offers an entertaining casual alternative to the demanding brutality of the online world.Xis the bestMortal Kombathas ever been – grotesquely attractive, graphically violent, accessible and technical in equal measure.
Where do doctors turn when even they don’t know what’s wrong with you? Colleagues? Books? The internet? A Canadian startup wants to make the answer an Instagram for doctors.Figure 1is an app that allows iPhone and Android-owning doctors to share images of diseases, injuries and everything in between. Launched in 2013, the app was born from the idea that sharing images of what confounds doctors with other doctors across the world can help point them in the direction of the right answer.It’s something doctors were already doing. Over 10,000 texts, WhatsApps and emails with images of curious and classic cases are being sent in the US each day, according to Dr. Joshua Landy, co-founder of Figure 1, who sought to provide a more secure and useful alternative.“Medicine has always used asynchronous communications such as pagers or phones,” says Landy. “Now we want to help people share images, enabling more eyes on more cases, but with privacy and learning in mind.”Figure 1 looks like Instagram. Pictures are uploaded into feeds, comments are made and images can be starred – “it’s not a ‘like’, more a bookmark for something to go back to,” says Landy.Some use their names, others hide behind usernames so colleagues could be collaborating on a diagnosis using the app while unknowingly standing next to each other.Anyone can join the service and look at the images, but only medical staff – be that doctors, nurses or other medically trained personnel – can become “verified”. In the same way Twitter’s blue tick verifies that a user is who they say they are, Figure 1 will verify someone is a medic by contacting their hospital or a suitable authority database.The company is verifying 1,000s of doctors a week across 40 countries and at some stage Landy expects to be verifying all users who join, but not at present.“We’re not after gore seekers, but in some countries such as India reliable databases of doctors are non-existent, so we don’t want to keep them out,” explained Landy.Doctors post examples of conditions for teaching or to crowdsource answers as a starting point for a diagnosis.Photograph: Figure 1Uploading images isn’t quite as easy as Instagram. The uploader is required to follow strict guidelines on what is and isn’t permitted. The patient’s face, any text or numbers or identifiable marks should not be in view. Built-in image editing tools can be used to delete any pixels necessary before upload, ensuring patient privacy.“Uploaded images often look like a mess of black holes where things have been deleted, but that’s fine – this is not about aesthetics, it’s about sharing and learning,” said Landy.The patient also has to sign a consent form either digitally on screen with their finger or via paper copies. Each consent form is tailored for the country they happen to be patients in and is kept by the doctor, not Figure 1.Once uploaded, images are queued before being manually reviewed. Those that have identifiable marks, aren’t of educational value, or breach the terms of service are rejected. The images are also stripped of all metadata that could be used to identify the patient.The image is also owned by the uploader and can be removed at any time, no questions asked.“Once images are uploaded into the stream, comments and answers start appearing within minutes,” said Landy. “But you can also page people for specific queries.”Verified doctors can be “paged”, which sends them a notification of a query or picture, asking for their expert opinion.While Figure 1 has not found widespread adoption in the UK – only one of 10 doctors contacted by the Guardian had even heard of it – those that have started using the app say that it provides a great platform for learning when combined with other tools.“My main use for Figure 1 is to teach,” said Dr Vikas Shah a consultant radiologist at University Hospitals Leicester. “I upload radiology cases such as x-rays or CT scans with a question or two, and use the commenting feature to teach people about the specific x-ray signs. The reach of the platform means I can teach across timezones, borders, medical specialities and grades.”The app is popular with medical students and forms part of their adoption of social media and the new smartphone and tablet tools that are increasingly being used in hospitals, according to Shah.“It is safe to use and there are strict regulations around privacy and anonymity,” he said.
“Games with female protagonists will not sell.”That was the refrain most often fielded by Oskar Guilbert, CEO of Dontnod Entertainment, when he pitchedLife Is Strangeto major publishers.Of course he suspected the idea wouldn’t be fashionable. Musclebound warriors, red-blooded swashbucklers, strapping rogues: these are the customary heroes of the medium. Life Is Strange, meanwhile, is about a thoughtful, soft-spoken teenage girl who’s interested in folk music and photography, and happens to have the power to rewind time.After shopping the concept around a while, Dontnod at last found the support of Square Enix, the Japanese publisher best known for producing role-playing games like Final Fantasy. “Everyone else just said no, it will never work,” Guilbert says. Dontnod didn’t care, however, and they wouldn’t compromise the integrity of their original vision. “We fought against a lot of preconceptions in this industry.”In another important respect, however, Life Is Strange is quite on-trend: it’s being released episodically, every six weeks, in two- to three-hour instalments. The premiere episode arrived on 30 January; episode two followed at the end of March, and the next is set for May.Life Is Strange: ‘We fought against a lot of preconceptions in this industry.’Photograph: PRDividing a title into chapters and publishing them in succession has become something of a phenomenon in the gaming industry in recent years. It started as a low-risk alternative to the usual blockbuster release strategy – and of late has begun to yield many games that, like Life Is Strange, might never have been green-lit under the traditional system.Simon Parkin, a freelance writer on games for the New Yorker magazine, believes the popularity of the episodic approach has been “facilitated by the rise of digital distribution methods”, which have made it “much easier and cheaper to release any number of titles”. Instead of pressing and shipping costly discs to brick-and-mortar stores, publishers can now upload a title to online marketplaces like Steam and Sony’s Playstation Store, where players can download them instantly.That ease of digital access has all but revolutionized the dissemination of games.The first big episodic hit was The Walking Dead, an acclaimed five-part mystery-adventure title by Telltale Games. Its success proved the viability of the format to even the most skeptical publishers. But it also proved something about artistic possibilities: episodic games, people now apprehended, could be like episodic TV.“The way in which an episodic game is structured,” Parkin observes, “is very similar to prestige, premium TV.”As was the intention. Dave Grossman was the lead writer and designer on The Walking Dead, and a pioneer of the episodic format. He and the Telltale team, he reflects, aspired “to make games episodically and release them digitally when neither of those things were being done”. It seemed an ideal time: “The music business had paved the way for us by persuading people to buy things digitally. Game companies weren’t really doing that yet but we figured we could have a stab at it.”So Grossman and his team looked to TV for strategies – “have a writers’ room, swap off who’s taking the lead on each episode, but have everyone is in the creative meetings”.The Dontnod team was inspired by specific shows like Twin Peaks and Veronica Mars, they say, but also by the approach of a network like HBO. “We are in the golden age of TV,” says Michel Koch, one of the co-directors of Life Is Strange. “We have fewer shows where each episode is different and more where it takes five to 12 episodes to tell one whole story. We saw that it could be really interesting to use this method of story-telling in a game.”The Dontnod team was inspired by shows like Twin Peaks and Veronica Mars in making Life Is Strange.Photograph: PRThe episodic format also afforded Dontnod the freedom to tell a story at their preferred pace: slow.Indeed, one of the most delightful things about Life Is Strange is its indulgence in repose – in the moments of reflection and meditation most games skip over entirely. “Here the player can sit by a fountain and just listen to music and look around,” Koch says. “We knew that the episodic format would let us give something more to the player who wants to take their time.”Dontnod, alas, don’t have the same luxury: one of the problems with the episodic format is that it puts tremendous strain on the developers to release the next instalment of their game quickly. Raoul Barbet, the other co-director of Life Is Strange, concedes that the format brings a lot of difficulties. “It’s like making five different games. We have five voice recording sessions, five motion capture sessions, five submissions to the publisher. Everything is done five times.”What makes the effort worthwhile is the affection shown toward the game by its fans.“After episode one was released,” Barbet remembers, “we saw people beginning to really love this game. They’ve given us the strength to continue.” And as the fans await the next episode, sharing their hope of what’s to come online, Koch says the team is paying attention: “We spend a lot of time reading forums and listening to players. We saw that some characters were loved more than we expected, so we decided in a later episode to give that character a larger role. It’s really cool to be able to react to what your community likes about your game as you’re making it.”“Players,” Guilbert concludes, “are looking for something new. They’re tired of playing the same kind of games all the time. What we want to bring them is something different, something slower, more poetic, more nostalgic – something which isn’t so present on the market.”The gamble is paying off. At a gaming expo recently, Guilbert ran into some of the publishers who passed on Life Is Strange – the publishers who couldn’t abide a game about a girl. “They congratulated us on our success and said they hope it changes the industry.” Perhaps it already has.
Price £25,950MPG 30.3Top speed 115mphWhile We’re Young, the hilarious new film fromNoah Baumbach, is about a pair of 40somethings who develop a couple-crush on two freewheeling 20something hipsters. The youngsters live in a house (well, a converted water tower in Harlem) filled with vinyl, typewriters and old VHS tapes. At one point, a gawpingBen Stillerturns toNaomi Wattsand says in disbelief: “It’s like everything we threw out – except it looks good…”The same could be said of this wonderfully retrothree-wheeler. Morganhas thrown out everything that makes driving a car the digitally mastered, electronically controlled experience it is today and gone right back to basics. There’s no stability control or traction control, no power assisted steering or power braking. Actually, there’s no stereo either, or roof, or doors. A First World War flying ace would feel right at home in the stripped-down cockpit with its bare metal and snappy rocker switches. A white scarf and aviator goggles are almost mandatory.The first thing that strikes you about the three-wheeler is just how small it is. It barely comes above your knee and when you sit in it you can reach out and put your palm flat on the kerb. You step in and out of it as you would a small dinghy. You sit so close to the tarmac that you’re terrified you’re about to be steamrollered by a grunting Chelsea tractor. But, in fact, this car is such a crowd-pleaser that the traffic parts ahead of you. People wave, bikers give you the thumbs up, taxi drivers smile… the Morgan is a happy pill on wheels, for passers-by and for you.Blue-sky thinking: the dramatic front view of the Morgan.Photograph: Blake MarvinThe engine – a throbbing brute of a V twin – is built by S&amp;S which also makes engines for Harley-Davidson. Legally speaking, this three-wheeler is classified as a motorcycle, but you can use it on a driver’s licence and you don’t need a helmet. The polished, multi-vented 1,982cc unit sits out in the open, stuck on the front of the car between its two skinny front tyres. It’s air-cooled and it certainly gets plenty of air out there. It sits on rubber mounts and shakes and shudders alarmingly. The engine powers you through a five-speed gearbox that’s been pinched from Mazda’s MX5. So, part car, part bike, part plane…Morgan has been building three-wheelers like this for more than a century at its family-owned, independent factory at the foot of the Malvern hills. In fact, they didn’t get round to building cars with four wheels until the end of the 1930s. When you enter the factory, the first thing you see are carpenters at work, which seems odd in a car factory. But Morgans have historically been built on ash frames. This means no rust. It also means its very simple to rebuild a wrecked sports car and the workshop is full of 40, 50, 60-year-old barn finds being brought back to life.Power of three: Morgan’s epic free-wheeling three-wheeler is a real headturner.Photograph: Blake MarvinThis wee beastie is based on a similar model that dates from the 1920s. It has a steel frame and on top of that sits an all-aluminium fuselage. Inside the details are wonderfully period. At the centre of the dash is a covered starter button (with a little flap to flip up like a bomb release). The cross-stitched leather seats are deep and comfy while the leather hinges and straps all add to the heritage character.Press that bomb release and the fun really starts. The drive is thrilling and entertaining. The skinny tyres jump about over ruts and bumps and you need two hands on the wheel at all times. The engine snaps, crackles and pops. It’s immersive. You feel everything. You smell the petrol and the heat of the exhaust as you carve your lines. It really is a blast from the past – an analogue auto for the digital driver.For more information, go tolondonmorgan.co.uk(020 7244 7323)Classic motorsport returns to Chateau Impney in JulyStarter’s orders: a preview film of the historic hill climb.A classic motorsport event that hasn’t taken place for almost half a century is poised to return to the UK motorsport calendar. TheChateau Impney Hill Climb, a new weekend-long event taking place on 11 and 12 July, will see 200 competitors in 19 classes tackle a brand new course, in an effort to write their names into a new chapter of the venue’s motorsport history.More than 58 years since the first speed trial was held in the grounds of the landmark hotel, the launch of the 2015 Chateau Impney Hill Climb will commemorate the venue’s motorsport heritage. It will aim to recapture the inclusive spirit of the popular sprint events originally organised by the Hagley &amp; District Light Car Club between 1957 and 1967.The annual meet not only attracted some of the most sought-after cars and hill climb drivers of the era – including Tony Marsh, Phil Scragg and David Good – but also thousands of spectators, who would line the Chateau’s drive to catch a glimpse of the action on the original, twisting 550-yard course.“We are thrilled to be able to bring motorsport back to Chateau Impney,” said Rod Spollon, chairman of the Chateau Impney Hill Climb Club. “In its heyday, the Chateau Impney sprint was one of the most anticipated on the calendar and a favourite with spectators and competitors, but until recently it seems it was destined to become the Midlands’ forgotten motorsport event. Everyone I have spoken to about the appeal of the original event praised the inclusiveness and camaraderie between everyone who attended. This is something we hope to replicate at this year’s Hill Climb and in the future.”Catering for pre-1967 cars, the 2015 event will see competitors put to the test on a longer, more challenging MSA-approved track. Almost double the length of the course used in original sprint events of the 1950s and 1960s, the organisers believe it to be one of the most challenging and unique in the country.“We are delighted to present a course that is very challenging,” said Rod. “While there are some very fast sections, we have the advantage of being able to include a number of very tight bends that are quite often at the end of long straights. Because of that, it’s obviously going to sort the wheat from the chaff in terms of those drivers that have the skill to brake the latest and have the technique to be able to handle their car around the corners.“While local hill climb venues such as Prescott, Shelsley Walsh and Loton Park are all very challenging in their own way, we think the Chateau Impney Hill Climb course will bring something different to the calendar, complementing existing venues, but giving competitors and spectators something different to get excited about, quickly becoming a firm favourite.”In its inaugural year, entry to the Hill Climb will be via invitation only, with cars and drivers selected based on competiveness, historical significance and whether they have any connection to the competitions held at the Chateau in the past.“We are excited to welcome all manner of veteran, Edwardian, vintage and classic cars to take part in the event, as well as many of the most competitive driver/car combinations currently competing on the historic motorsport scene,” stated Rod. “In particular, we are looking forward to welcoming back the numerous cars that competed in period and we hope that this heritage, combined with the Chateau’s wonderful setting, means we’ll be creating a very exciting historic motorsport event.”An exciting and diverse array of competitors and cars are already confirmed for the event, including pre-war Grand Prix Bugatti Type 35s, a historic Monaco-winning Alfa Romeo P3 Tipo B and a number of 1950s sports cars, including C-Type and D-Type Jaguars. And, with over half of the world’s remaining ERAs due to take part, the organisers are expecting a very competitive meet.“The competition level at the event is going to be incredibly fierce,” said Rod. “Although we have incorporated the original start straight, for all intents and purposes it’s a totally new course, which means every competitor will be focused on being the first to set a new course record and having the car to beat.”The current record is held by Tony Griffiths, who completed the old 550-yard course in just 22.07 seconds, driving racing legend Graham Hill’s ex-works 2.5 litre BRM. While his days of competition are behind him, he is excited to see motorsport returning to the grounds of the Chateau.“It’s great to have Chateau Impney back as it competes with Shelsley Walsh and Prescott. It means there are three good hill climbs, all fairly geographically close to Birmingham and in the centre of the country. I think it will encourage people to see more hill climbing and to go to the other events as well.”The reintroduction of the event has already garnered strong support from other leading car clubs and hill climb courses, who are delighted that a new event is to be added to the historic motorsport calendar and have joined together with the Hill Climb to become Associated Clubs, helping to bring historic motorsport to a wider audience. These clubs include the 500 Owners Association, Allard Owners Club, Bentley Owners Club, BRM Association, Bugatti Owners Club, Formula Junior Historic Racing Association, Hagley &amp; District Light Car Club, Veteran Car Club and the Vintage Sports-Car Club.Organisers hope to attract 10,000 spectators across the weekend to the parkland setting. As well as a wealth of motorsport action, there will be a host of other attractions for enthusiasts and families alike, including a comprehensive Concours d’Elegance, a trading zone with over 100 dealer and trade stands and a major classic car auction, hosted by specialist auctioneers, H&amp;H Classics, who are also sponsoring the event alongside leading classic car insurers Footman James and Classic &amp; Sports Car, one of the country’s leading motoring magazines.General admission tickets will allow fans access to all the viewing areas and grandstands around the course, with children under 16 years admitted free when accompanied by an adult. A number of large format video screens will beam the action live throughout the public areas.“The response from people who have heard on the grapevine that the Hill Climb is being launched has been great, and it seems that the motorsport fraternity are already rallying behind the event. We are looking forward to creating a meet that is not only a fantastic event for 2015, but one that will become a mainstay on the motorsport calendar for many years to come,” concluded Rod.Tickets for the Chateau Impney Hill Climb are on sale now. Tickets for each day are available, as well as a weekend pass for the whole event, and any ticket purchases made online before Tuesday 30 June will receive a 10 per cent discount. To find out more, visitchateauimpneyhillclimb.comEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
Ideally we’d sit down together and pick you out a lovely green car, like the passive consumers we’ve been taught to be (car dealership Motorparks has ahandy guide to alternative vehicles). But electric vehicles (EVs) are never that simple.Instead we need to look deep into your soul. Who are you? Why are you too grand for mass transit, where you can share the emission burden? What type of driver are you? Do you drive the short journeys EVs can cope with? After all, “range anxiety” (worrying about running out of juice) is the bête noire of EV drivers.We can’t be too Pollyanna about them. They have flaws. The “zero emission” rating, for example, only applies to the tailpipe emissions. Given that you need to plug your car into the grid, you are still responsible for upstream emissions through power generation, and we are still far from a decarbonised electricity grid.AUnion of Concerned Scientists Reportfrom 2012 found that EVs were a “good choice” even in areas where the power grid was dependent on coal. However, there are so many variables. A recentCarnegie Mellon University studyshows that in extreme weather conditions EVs are less of a good choice. Their range can drop from 75 miles to just 45 due to using battery power to heat or cool the cabin, while petrol cars’ waste heat warms passengers. Do you need a lot of heat?Also, can you develop an interest in battery technology? You need to care. Lithium ion batteries (a catch-all term for at least six types of battery chemistries) are a big part of the EV jigsaw. They’re developing fast, but there are still trade-offs, including how they will be recycled. Nissan’s project4REnergyclaims to give spent batteries from EVs a second life, helping to generate solar power.Private cars are responsible for 12% of the UK’s greenhouse gas emissions; globally, transportation accounts for a fifth of oil usage. We know that we need to, as theGuardiancampaign says,Keep It In The Groundto have a fighting chance of preventing warming above 2C. In fact, we need to leave around 260bn barrels of oil there. To keep on keeping on is insane.With an EV you may feel quite lonely: EVs haven’t taken off, though by 2021 stringent EU regulations on emissions will require big carmakers to meet range average emissions of 95g/km, so expect many more. The key is to agitate to decarbonise the power grid. So prepare to become a campaigner as well as an EV driver. There’s no room for passengers.Green crush: trainers made from rice husksGreen footprint: Footglove Earth trainer made partly from rice husks.Shoes are an eco design challenge. They’re complex constructions made from multiple parts which have to endure stress. For mass production this often means using standard plastic and leather supply chains with all their ethical drawbacks. But Marks &amp; Spencer has ensured that 50% of the materials in its Footglove Earth suede trainer range are now sustainable or recycled. The ‘double rice rubber’ soles are really innovative: 700m pounds of rice are harvested worldwide every year, and this ‘rubber’ is made from those waste husks. The range is proof positive that fashion can be mass produced, sustainable, affordable and look good, too. Other high-street brands need to up their game.Footglove Earth trainer, £55, frommarksandspencer.comGreenspeak: Speedo diplomacy {spi:dodīplomasi} nounWell cool: Lewis Pugh in Antarctica.Photograph: Kelvin Trautman/PATerm coined by endurance swimmer Lewis Pugh, whose heroic swims in Antarctica have captured Russian imaginations and may break political deadlock over Southern Ocean marine reserves.If you have an ethical dilemma, email Lucy atlucy.siegle@observer.co.ukFollow Lucy Siegle on Twitter @lucysiegleFollow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
Elon Musk is a man who likes to make waves. Whether it’s privatizing space exploration or shaking up commuting with theHyperloophigh speed transport system, the billionaire technocrat aims big. Now his electric car company, Tesla, is planning to change the way people power their homes.In a tweet last month, Musk announced that Tesla would be unveiling a new product on 30 April. It is now widely thought to be a large battery capable of powering a house and an even larger “utility” sized power unit.Energy supply is a big business and a key market for Tesla, which has spent a fortune developing batteries for its cars. Home batteries can be powered up overnight, when energy companies typically charge less for electricity, and turned on during the day to power a home. They can also be used to store power generated by green - but intermittent - sources like solar and wind.Related:Power to the people: bring on the superbatteryTesla isn’t expected to spill the beans about its battery system until Thursday, but thanks to investment analyst Trip Chowdhry, we have some details ahead of the big announcement. Built to work in concert with residential solar power setups, the Tesla battery system is basically an uninterruptible power supply (UPS) that is large enough to keep refrigerators, routers, lights and other devices powered up when storms and other unforeseen incidents take grid power out of commission.The system has been made available to about 300 customers ofSolarCity, a company in which Musk, Tesla’s chief executive, is both chairman and a major shareholder.Chowdhry said in an interview that he had happened to meet a couple of these customers at trade shows last year. One of them had had the system installed for more than a year. Chowdhry pressed them for details, and here are the basics, according to what he was able to learn: the system is offered, currently, in 10 and 15 kwh configurations to solar customers who do not own electric vehicles or plug-in hybrids; the battery pack costs about $13,000, and Pacific Gas &amp; Electric offers a 50% rebate for using the system (presumably because it can be used to decrease load on the grid during peak use hours); financing is set up for the customer to make an initial $1,500 payment, followed by $15 monthly payments for 10 years (at the end of which the battery is returned to SolarCity); Tesla has permission from customers to monitor data from the systems; and Tesla packages the battery pack in what Chowdhry described as an attractive cabinet, available in white or a dark color.Tesla Motors declined to comment for this article.“It’s clean, it’s quiet and it looks good in the garage,” Chowdry said, adding that it sounded like a worthwhile expenditure for someone who spends $100 to $150 per month on data services for phones, computers, televisions and other devices. “This is a speculation on our end, based on what we’ve seen on Tesla battery storage, but so far, this makes sense.”Why install a battery system at home? Chowdhry pointed to customers relying upon constant connection with “the digital highway”, noting that it could take up to 45 minutes to re-power devices and re-set digital clocks when the power went out.“If you are a gadget person living a digital life – you have iPhones and computers and you always want to be connected – the storage battery is a dream come true,” he said.Like the batteries that power Tesla’s cars, the residential units are made with lithium ion cells, which the automaker plans someday to manufacture in Nevada at its so-called (and yet-to-be-built) Gigafactory. The home battery packs would, of course, differ in arrangement from the automotive ones, which are laid out horizontally to fit beneath Tesla’s cars.Whatever the case, Tesla’s residential batteries are most likely an improvement overtearing apart a $100,000 car to power your home, as some people have done in search of cheap power.Tesla is not the only, or the first, company to offer UPS. General Electric recently announced it was increasing its investment in electricity storage. But Menahem Anderman, president and founder of Total Battery Consulting, said Musk’s entry into the market comes with certain advantages. “Unique-looking products, attractive customer interface and powerful, untraditional marketing gives them some power over the traditional UPS providers,” he said.There’s also scale. Tesla is at work on a $5bn “Gigafactory” in the Nevada desert that will become the world’s largest producer of lithium-ion batteries when it opens in 2017.Jeff Kagan, an independent technology analyst, said that technology like Tesla’s residential battery system could be a significant business opportunity, but pointed out that battery power, in its current form, has limitations.“Battery technology has improved over the last decade, but its uses have far exceeded any improvement,” he said. “So we are further behind, in many cases, since devices require more power today.”In some cases, there are cheaper alternatives to battery power. The Department of Energy Office of Energy Efficiency &amp; Renewable Energy has done a great deal of research into backup power systems for “key infrastructure elements”, finding that they could “aid emergency response during major storms or other devastating events and prevent loss of productivity, time, and money for other grid incidents.” In a 72-hour test, the agency found that the annualized cost of ownership for a hydrogen fuel cell backup was 1.5 times higher than a diesel-battery setup, but five times lower than a pure battery system.But the agency also noted that battery systems, which work well as backups during power outages that last a day or less, are also good for storing and balancing electric power collected by photovoltaic panels. Fuel cells – or the type that are commercially available now – cannot store energy.The corporate market for Tesla could be huge. Chowdhry said that both Google and Apple had Tesla battery backup systems installed at their corporate campuses in California, but both companies declined to comment when contacted. WalMart is already in talks with Tesla, according toBloomberg.For his part, Chowdhry seems enthusiastic about the future prospects of the technology. “If you feel naked when you leave your iPhone at home, this is a product you can’t live without,” he said.
What is it about models and coding? American supermodel and coding advocate Karlie Kloss has joined a growing list of high-profile female stars urging young women to take up coding, reflecting a determination to shake up the disproportionately male world of coders and tech enthusiasts.Calling on young women to apply forKode with Karlie scholarships, set up by the model in partnership with the Flatiron school in the US – where she spent two weeks last year learning to code – the 22-year old gave a passionate account of her own experience.“Over the last year I started taking coding classes and realised how creative coding truly is. Code is going to continue to play a major role in defining our future. I think it’s crucial that young women learn to code as early as possible to ensure that we as young women have a voice and a stake in what the world looks like.”Kloss joins Victoria’s Secret model Lyndsey Scott,who has also been vocal about her love of coding. The 29-year old, who holds a dual degree in computer science and theatre, continues to combine programming with her modelling work, which has included turns for big fashion names such as Gucci, Prada and Louis Vuitton.In an interview with the BBC, Scott said she is always surprised at people’s shock that she can program. “I think people put too much stock in beauty and there are people [that] maybe do programming and some other things but aren’t getting the attention they deserve because they’re not a Victoria Secret model,” said Scott. “I’ve been programming longer than I’ve been modelling.”Scott is also a mentor atGirls Who Code, an organisation that helps teenage girls to learn programming. British model Lily Cole (who created the social networking siteimpossible.com) and American television star and comedian Mindy Kaling are also faces seen at tech conferences as well as on magazine pages.Encouraging that female “voice” is a priority of Kathryn Parsons, co-founder ofDecoded, which runs Code in a Day workshops. Women are consumers and users of tools and products still overwhelmingly dreamt up and created by men, she says. She believes Kloss’s move to back coding will help to encourage engagement from those who might not have traditionally been drawn to it. “People create all these barriers for themselves before they’ve tried it,” she says, describing the biggest difference between men and women in her fairly equally gender-split classes as confidence rather than ability. “Karlie Kloss might make a lot of women consider that they might give coding a go. Anything that can break up who it is for or should be for is incredibly valuable.”Sarah Watson, group mobile manager at Net-a-Porter, says the diversity of the technology team at the group, which has a strong female presence, has led to better results and creativity. “Having a superstar role model raise the profile of development can only be a good thing,” she says.Along with the celebrity backers, a number of other initiatives have cropped up to entice young people to embrace code.Hour of Code, a global campaign held during the annual Computer Science Education Week, has seen Apple stores worldwide hosting free one-hour coding workshops alongside thousands of other events organised by volunteers and educators, whileCode Club is a UK-wide networkof free, volunteer-led, after-school coding clubs for children aged nine to 11.Women Who Code, a US-based non-profit organisation aimed at inspiring women to succeed in tech careers, boasts a membership of more than 25,000 and a presence in 15 countries.For Parsons, the increased focus on coding and women has been part of a larger shift to address inequalities in work and society. “What Karlie is doing is brave, pioneering and pushing in the right direction to inspire a whole generation to aspire,” she says. “People like Karlie Kloss saying she codes jars people’s minds. She’s a woman? She’s a model?” And for the inevitable cynics, Parsons has the perfect answer: “As her close friend Taylor Swift would say, ‘Haters gonna hate’.”
The first run of Apple Watch smartwatches will be strapped on to early adopters’ wrists today, complete with an app storeshowcasing more than 3,000 apps for the wearable gadget.By definition, Apple Watch buyers will also be iPhone owners, so will already have a number of apps on their smartphone with watch extensions ready to install. But what else is worth investigating to understand the capabilities of the device?I’ve been asking dozens of developers about their smartwatch apps this week in advance of the launch. Here’s a selection of the ones worth trying, with their explanations of what they’re doing and why.Note, I haven’t included the Guardian’s own Moments Apple Watch app in this feature as I didn’t want to nab a slot from another developer. But you canread about it in more detail here.The Citymapper Apple Watch app.CitymapperThis public transport app is a firm favourite already on iPhone for urban travellers, showing journeys, departures and status alerts.“Citymapper is all about navigating cities, and the ability to quickly glance at information based on where you are is great for a transport app like us,” says mobile lead Joe Hughes.“On the Watch, you can unobtrusively dip in and check live bus times, remind yourself which tube to catch, and get notified when it’s time to get off your train, even if you have your hands full.”Related:How to make the most of Moments from the Guardian App on Apple WatchEpicuriousOn iPhone this is an app for recipes and shopping, but its Apple Watch extension is very focused: an “intelligent kitchen timer” that reminds you when to flip or stop cooking various foods.“These aren’t always-on devices. Not with these batteries. So, I think it all comes down to notifications and how we can use those in innovative ways,” says executive director Eric Gillin.“As users embrace wearable, will we have to revise the concept of the recipe to be about a series of simple notifications instead of more complicated steps? How do you take the reading out of recipes?”EvernoteNote-storage service Evernote’s Apple Watch app lets users see recently created, viewed and updated notes, as well as dictating new notes and searches, and creating reminders for your to-do lists.“The app is going to surface your most relevant notes based on calendar entries, location data and your own note access information,” says vice president of mobile products Jamie Hull.“Since I move from meeting to meeting all day long, I can imagine a workflow where I’ll glance over the next agenda on my wrist whilst walking, and then have it immediately open and available for editing on my other devices when I sit down to take notes.”TheTrainLineUK train times and ticketing service TheTrainLine’s app synchronises your last three searches for live train times with the Apple Watch, and then shows you how long until the next departures. You can also tap on a train to see where it is on its route.“Travel apps are the ultimate partner for smart watches. A smartwatch should allow me to quickly and easily find out what I need to know, when I need to know it, and ultimately help me get to my destination,” says product owner Dave Slocombe.“We’ve all experienced carrying a bag in one hand and a ticket and mobile phone in the other, smartwatches let our customers see their ticket information and which platform they need to be on, leaving their phone in their pocket.”The Shazam Apple Watch app.ShazamSong identification app Shazam now works on the Apple Watch as you’d expect: you can fire it up to find what’s playing, read lyrics synchronised with the music, and swipe up to see your past tags, as well as launching the Auto Shazam mode to automatically tag what it hears.“The challenge for folks with the smartphone version is that you have to get the device out of your pocket or purse, unlock it and launch the app before the song ends. So the watch makes sense: it’s so accessible,” says chief product officer Daniel Danker.“When we first designed Auto Shazam for the Apple Watch, I had it popping up a notification every single time a new track was found. It sounded brilliant on paper, but as soon as I tried it on a watch, I realised it was lighting up and shaking your wrist every three and a half minutes! So we’ve pulled it back: it keeps track but you only see the results when you lift your wrist.”Related:How scratch resistant is the Apple Watch Sport's screen?Circa NewsCirca is one of the news apps that gathers breaking stories based on your interests, then makes them available on your smartphone. And now on your wrist too, with glanceable featured stories and updates.“Easily the most exciting thing is using one’s phone less. Each time I pull my phone out of my pocket it’s a pandora’s box. Go to check just one notification and you find yourself digging through your email,” admits chief executive Matt Galligan.“With the watch it will enable the wearer to use their phone less and less – and that’s a very good thing. We see that as a big opportunity – get people the most important news fast, and give them a chance to follow key stories to stay up to date.”From Bond to the Apple Watch: a history of gadgetry on your wristThe EconomistThe Economist’s Apple Watch app is less about reading and more about listening to its audio reports, with basic playback controls and the ability to glance at what’s currently playing.“I’m really excited about being able to control audio so easily. It’s like having the most convenient remote control ever – there whenever you need it,” says VP of product management Robin Raven.“For us specifically the opportunity to have a far more personal relationship with someone - you hold a phone but you wear a watch - is both exciting and perplexing ... We want to keep being a trusted antidote to information overload so getting this right is critical for us.”TuneInTuneIn aggregates the streams of traditional radio stations and podcasts, making them available in its apps. On Apple Watch, that means a remote control for changing stations, playing, pausing and skipping, and seeing what’s playing.“You can easily see what station, program and artist is playing at any moment and then pause, rewind or fast forward. If you feel like you want to listen to something new, you just hit the “jump” button to play something related,” says director of mobile product Boone Spooner.“All without ever having to take your phone out of your pocket. Additionally, the watch makes it fast and simple to access the stations and shows that you love through your following list, right there on the first view of the app.”The Pacemaker Apple Watch app.PacemakerPacemaker started as a DJ app for iPad, but over time has become as much about smart “personal mixes” with its tools for automatically choosing suitable songs and mixing them into one another. Its Apple Watch app promises “one-tap” mixing, linking with its newly-launched iPhone app.“A lot of our users are college kids using Pacemaker for college dorm-room parties. And those people want to participate in the party: if a boy or girl flirts with them, they want to go and say hello rather than being tethered to a DJ system,” says chief executive Jonas Norberg.“With the Apple Watch app, they can tap on the screen to keep serving up tracks and mixing them together, then after they’ve had a chat they can come back and resume their DJing. Being able to be on the dancefloor while still mixing from your watch? I think people will be blown away!”Related:Apple's ‘force touch’ and 'taptic engine' explainedRuntasticFitness apps firm Runtastic actually has four Apple Watch apps available at launch, including this flagship app for tracking runs, walks and other activity. The watch version functions as a control for the main iPhone app.“Users can view their primary activity statistics, without having to slow down or pull out their smartphone,” says head of marketing Johannes Kroll. “Users can also review their weekly Runtastic app activities, such as number of activities, distance covered, number of calories burned and more, in a stylish, easy-to-read notification directly on their wrist.”The company’s separate Runtastic Six Pack app features avatars guiding people through workout routines. “The Glances feature allows users to view the avatar directly on their wrist, making it easy to follow each exercise demonstrationGreen KitchenVegetarian cookery app Green Kitchen has made “smart timers” the focus for its Apple Watch app, with the ability to check timers when cooking a meal, as well as adding extra minutes if necessary through notifications.“Cooking is usually split into different blocks. First you have an active block where you are actively cooking the food, followed by a passive block where you put the food in the oven or let it simmer for a while. Then it’s time to activate again, add the final touches and serve the dish,” says mobile and backend developer Marthin Freij.“We realized that our app works great in the active blocks, but we were lacking support for the passive blocks. That’s why we added smart, context aware timers to Apple Watch. When you cook something and are about to enter a passive block, the iPhone app will allow you to start a timer on your Apple Watch.”WunderlistTo-do list app Wunderlist is an obvious candidate for the smartwatch treatment, with a new “home view” showing your most important tasks, while using the watch’s digital crown to scroll through them.Chief design officer Benedikt Lehnert is enthusiastic about the potential for “discreet and personal” interactions “whether it’s taking a glimpse at a reminder while you’re in a meeting, or checking things off your grocery list while pushing the shopping cart”.He also sees scope for more contextual alerts in the future. “All of us want to be reminded of the groceries when we walk past the supermarket, or see our project to-dos the moment we enter the office. With smart wearables devices such scenarios become a reality.”The Best Fiends Apple Watch app.Best FiendsPeople won’t be playing games on their Apple Watches for lengthy periods at a time, but there is plenty of scope for wrist-sized spin-offs. Puzzle game Best Fiends’ is one of the most interesting example: a mini-game to send one character off battling slugs and looking for treasure to transfer back to the iPhone game.“The games we are building are experiences that can “exist in your peripheral vision”. We saw games go from high-intensity and highly demanding console experiences into much more accessible and ‘always available’ mobile games, and saw games finally break into mainstream,” says chief creative officer Petri Järvilehto.“Now, I believe that next we’ll see a similar delta from mobile games to ultra-casual games that anyone can enjoy in short glances. While a lot of the smartwatch gaming discussion focuses around short sessions, this can go even further and translate into the game being present on some level through your entire day.”Related:Apple's smartwatch can be a games platform – and here's whyBritish AirwaysAirline BA’s Apple Watch app shows details on next flights, departure times and weather at your destination, as well as notifying you about flight gates and any other sudden changes.“We’re really pleased with the ‘glance’ screen in particular. If you’re juggling luggage and negotiating the airport, it’s so easy to take a quick look at the screen and get all the pertinent information about the flight you’re heading to,” says head of marketing, retail and direct Sara Dunham.“When you have a bit more time, a simple swipe of the screen delivers more in-depth useful information like the weather at the destination.”Nick Jr.This is only available in the US for now, but it’s a fun glimpse of how the Apple Watch could become useful for parents. Nickelodeon’s Nick Jr. app’s Apple Watch extension helps parents see what their children are watching in the main app, and set timers for their use of it.“The Watch’s ability to set and manage a viewing timer, adjust volume, and pause/play video without needing to interrupt the child’s viewing experience in the Nick Jr. app is exciting,” says Matthew Evans, SVP of digital at Viacom’s Kids and Family group.“We are excited about the Apple Watch’s glances feature where parents can simply glance at their watch to see what show and episode or video their child is watching.”CNNCNN’s Apple Watch app is all about the breaking news: 12 categories that you can personalise, with the ability to quickly see headlines, and tap on them to read – including transferring back to the iPhone app for live video.“Making CNN personal is at the heart of our digital strategy, so we pay that off with a clean, quick, simple way to select the CNN topics and number of stories that you want to follow,” says chief product officer Alex Wellen.“The conventional wisdom is wearers will dip in to the Apple Watch for six second sessions and our editorial programming strategy is built around offering content built around those ‘watch moments.”The Booking Now app for Apple Watch.Booking NowAccommodation service Booking.com has launched an app that aims to make the process of booking a hotel even faster, promising one-touch bookings from the Apple Watch, although the company is also looking at other features.“Those small points of frustration you often encounter during a trip are a big focus for us; knowing at a glance when you can check-in, or how long you have before you need to check out, and finding your way back to your hotel after a day exploring a new city,” says principal designer Stuart Frisby.“We think these light interactions are perfect for the watch, and we’re really excited to finally have a platform which is appropriate for solving exactly these types of problems for our customers.”Related:Apple’s luxury watch: the fashion viewCupcake DungeonA lot of iPhone games are getting Apple Watch extensions this week, but Cupcake Dungeon is intriguing: a game designed from the start to be played across both devices, from wearable gaming startup WearGa. It involves battling evil cakes and candies, looting and upgrading as you go.“Apple Watch features like fully customisable long-look notifications can be incredibly powerful for games. The difference between a simple text-based notification and a full-screen animated notification, which looks and feels like the game, is huge,” says chief executive Paul Virapen.“We built Cupcake Dungeon with super simple controls, so you tap to attack and then make decisions through the menus. That’s it. We utilise lots of common Apple Watch UI paradigms, so there is intuitive navigation using the digital crown and force touch.”LifesumThis fitness app tracks your eating and activity on iPhone, with its Apple Watch app providing a quick way to log meals, water and exercises, as well as notifying you with reminders and activity suggestions.“One of the best features of the Apple Watch for Lifesum is how notifications can be used to prompt quick interactions throughout the day,” says chief executive Henrik Torstensson.“By being able to provide reminders about personalised details like snacks and water-tracking, we can create an experience that is extremely focused and accessible.”War DragonsWar Dragons is a mobile game from publisher Pocket Gems with a mix of empire-building and dragon-breeding. Where does the Apple Watch come in? A blend of guild battles and in-game economics.“In War Dragons, you can challenge another guild to a 24-hour war. We will use the Apple Watch to let players know actionable updates like when their guild has declared war on an opposing guild so they can join the fray,” says chief technology officer Harlan Crystal.“For games that have ever-changing economies, Apple Watches can also let players see current in-game values of resources and help inform their spending decisions. The way we think about the Apple Watch currently is that it’s a powerful secondary screen for your iPhone. It’s very useful for showing important events and giving a method to react to them.”•As Apple Watch launches, smartwatch app makers explore new interfaces
In the early days of video games, controversy was a nice, easy way of shifting units, a facet of the industry far from lost on spine-ripping, viscera-churning Mortal Kombat, a franchise grown on cartoonish levels of gore. Its 10th outing ratchets up the dismemberment further still, but somehow manages to be more funny than repulsive. Along with new and inventive fatalities, in single-player mode there’s an actual plot, albeit one involving the customary world-destroying supernatural absurdities. It’s beautifully woven into the “kombat”, segueing straight from plot exposition to fights involving fists, weapons and magic. The feel of the fighting has also been improved, with simple fatalities that let novice players get gruesome without weeks of practice, and a catalogue of special moves triggered by button combinations that will be instantly familiar to those who’ve played any of the other Mortal Kombats.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKFar Cry 4: Valley Of The Yetis, PS3/4, Xbox 360/OneThe last piece of downloadable content for the wonderful and deservedly blockbusting Far Cry 4 is Valley Of The Yetis, in which you survive a high-altitude helicopter crash and set out to explore the Himalayas with just a machete for company. Although mountaineers wouldn’t normally need to worry about arming themselves, in Far Cry 4 everything is out to kill you, from long drops to snow leopards, the eponymous abominable snowmen and, of course, ruthless fellow humans, making finding weapons and developing your fighting skills an immediate focus. Set in a new map with none of the guns and abilities you earned in the main game, Valley Of The Yetis is its own discrete story with a fresh set of enemies, who admittedly behave exactly like their lower-altitude counterparts. The ending is weak, but as the last available extra slice of joyously ludicrous Himalayan counter-terrorism, it’s still irresistible.Ubisoft, £11.99Assassin’s Creed Chronicles: China, Xbox One, PS4 &amp; PCAssassin’s Creed Chronicles is a spinoff from Ubisoft’s bestselling stealth-and-stabbing franchise, presented not as a freely explorable open world but as a 2.5D platform game in the style of the original 1990s Prince Of Persia. You traverse the screen from left to right, doing your best to avoid would-be aggressors whilst stalking your prey. Remaining undetected and harming nobody but your officially sanctioned targets earns you the best scores, but you can also slug your way through if all that creeping around starts to grate. The voice acting shies away from the borderline-racist fake oriental accents of 1970s martial arts movies, opting instead for plain old English, with authentic Mandarin reserved for the guards and incidental characters. Its mildly engaging charms will be extended, with episodes in India and Russia due soon.Ubisoft, £7.99
On the second day with the Audi TT, we had an argument about a balloon. With my mother holding it, in the passenger seat, I couldn’t see out of the wing mirror. With either of the miniatures in the back holding it, I couldn’t see out of the rear-view. So I put it in the boot, with the boy shouting, “If you burst that, I will kill you,” and me thinking first, “That is a very real possibility, this boot is more like a magazine rack,” and, second, “Who raised this appalling, rude child?”The Audi TT is not a car for a person with children, a mother, or a balloon. A couple of years ago, a survey found theAudi driver most likely to have an affair; I can only conclude the lovers were very small, with tiny legs.Yet in the car on your own, the back seat holding your handmade luggage (of my imagination), what a drive: the way it clings to the road; the subtle purring; the effortlessness of everything. There are few things more groundlessly rewarding than unleashing it up a steep hill. On the way up, you feel like a fell runner, lean and superhuman; on the way down, like a hang-glider, unbounded by boring friction. I had the manual version; I guess the upside of the automatic is that you can concentrate on your affair.Fuel consumption, at 57mpg (urban), is far better than any car in which I have felt as cool; carbon emissions could be lower, but at 110g/km are practically eco. But I think its real purpose is the message: I am an unencumbered person, going faraway places, fast.Driving position is delightful, low, and invites a slight recline, as if to experience more fully the exhilaration of takeoff. The dash has all the important information lodged in the driver’s binnacle, so you can see with perfect, colour-screen clarity where you’re going, without having to turn your head. You can toggle between screens from a variety of different controls. I got stuck on the satnav screen for a long time: it turned out the speedo was there, too; I just wasn’t looking in the right place.On the matter of spending 30 grand on a car? This either puts it outside any definition of normal for you, or you’re someone who actually cares whether that makes it a bona fide sports car or just an upmarket hothatch. If you want the driving experience but don’t want to look ostentatious, it’s not the car for you. But if the ostentation is part of the point, I can’t pretend you won’t enjoy it.Audi TT: in numbersPriceFrom £29,860 (as tested £34,385)Top speed149mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption64.2mpgCO2emissions110g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating8/10
Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg has explained why the company made the controversial decision to pay for its female employees to freeze their eggs in an interview in which she called on more companies to offer family-friendly perks. “Right now work does not work for parents,” she said.Sandberg said she made the decision togrant employees up to $20,000 to freeze their eggsafter an employee told her she had cancer and didn’t have enough money to pay to have her eggs frozen.“There is a young woman working at Facebook who had got cancer,” Sandbergtold Bloomberg. “I knew her and she came to me and said I’m going to get treatment and that means I wont be able to have children unless I can freeze my eggs and I can’t afford it but our medical care doesn’t cover it.”Sandberg said she went to ask Facebook’s head of human resources and said the company should pay for the employee’s egg freezing. “We stopped and looked at each other and said why would we only cover this for women with cancer why wouldn’t we cover this more broadly and that was where that benefit came from, and we think it’s great.”Both Facebook and Apple, which also began offering the egg freezing perk in January, have were criticised for the policy that some thought encouraged women to put their careers ahead of starting a family.Sandberg said the policy was part of Facebook’s wider benefits package to allow working families more flexibility, including four months paternity and maternity leave whether parents adopt or have children and a lump sum baby gift.She said companies need to more to help both mothers and fathers. “The ‘have it all language’ is only applied to women. Having it all means to have children and have work, we assume men can have both and they do.“The problem is we assume women can’t but women do, and have to – 70% of mothers in the United States are in the workforce because they have to be, so telling women constantly ,you can’t have it all, you can’t have it all’ is not helpful because they have to be parents and work,” she said. “It turns out fathers have to work and be parents too. Right now, work does not work for parents, both men and women get discouraged from leaving [the office]. Men [worry they’re] not going to be seen as serious if they go home to be with a child.”Sir Richard Branson, the Virgin founder, who was interviewed alongside Sandberg, said he couldn’t understand why Facebook was criticised for the egg freezing policy and said he hoped to introduce at Virgin.“How can anybody criticise them for doing that … It’s the woman’s choice. If they want to carry on working, they can carry on working,” Branson said. “If they haven’t managed to find the man of their dreams by 35,36,37, 38 freeze the eggs – it makes sense the earlier you can freeze them the better.“We at Virgin want to steal the idea and give it to our women.”Branson, 64, claimed he had spent as much time with his children growing up as his wife, and that he changed nappies during business meetings. “When my kids were young I moved out of the office, [and] I worked from home. I had the kids crawling around while I was having meetings. I would be changing nappies whilst we were having meetings. Companies should give men that flexibility to work from home to be able to spend time at home.”Last year Bransonsaid his staff could take as much holiday as they like– no questions asked.Branson, who is worth $4.8bn (£3bn) according to Forbes magazine, said the new “non-policy” on holidays for 170 staff in his family offices in the US and UK would increase productivity.
When many people think about smartwatch games, the first thing they imagine are tamagotchi-style virtual pets jabbering away on your wrist looking for your attention all day.Happily, the real potential of these devices for gaming is more interesting, and less annoying. Even if it may not seem like this in the early days.“When smartphones first came out, we saw a lot of companies try and take popular social games from Facebook and other platforms and sloppily port them to smartphones, resulting in some pretty bad games,” says Harlan Crystal, chief technology officer at publisher Pocket Gems, which has just launched an Apple Watch app for itsWar Dragonsgame.“It’s possible that a similar process will happen from smartphones to smartwatches. For a game to be truly great, it has to be built from the ground up for the platform that it’s on. If someone tries to simply shrink a popular smartphone game so people can play it on their wrist, it’s probably not going to be a great experience.”“Games can’t be built in the same way that console, PC or even mobile games have been,” agrees Paul Virapen, chief executive of wearable games startup WearGa, which had a hit on the Pebble smartwatch with its Pixel Miner game, and has just releasedCupcake Dungeonfor the Apple Watch.“Apple Watch features like fully customisable long-look notifications can be incredibly powerful for games. The difference between a simple text-based notification and a full-screen animated notification, which looks and feels like the game, is huge,” he continues.Games in ‘a hundred five-second sessions a day’Developers talk a lot about play patterns on smartwatches, and particularly the fact that people won’t be squinting at their wrists for long gaming sessions. Or even medium-length ones for that matter.Virapen talks about “games for playing in a hundred five-second sessions a day” for example, while Petri Järvilehto, chief creative officer forBest Fiendsdeveloper Seriously, talks about games existing “in your peripheral vision” throughout the day.Related:Apple's smartwatch can be a games platform – and here's why“We saw games go from high-intensity and highly demanding console experiences into much more accessible and ‘always available’ mobile games, and saw games finally break into the mainstream,” he says.“I believe that next we’ll see a similar [change over time] from mobile games to ultra-casual games that anyone can enjoy in short glances. While a lot of the smartwatch gaming discussion focuses around short sessions, this can go even further and translate into the game being present on some level through your entire day.”Bossa Studios, whose smartphone games include Surgeon Simulator, Thomas Was Alone and Twelve a Dozen, has developed a new game for the Apple Watch calledSpy_Watch, which puts people in charge of their own virtual espionage agency.“If we average out play patterns for phone games, you would typically be making a decision to interact with a game every few hours and engaging for a few minutes,” says chief operating officer Vince Farquharson.“When we started to design Spy_Watch, the one thing we knew for definite was that these play patterns would not work on the watch, as this is not how people use them and it’s not how that device has been designed. The watch is a device that you’re typically going to be looking at every 20-30 minutes for a few seconds.”The trailer for Best Fiends’ smartwatch extension.Smarter notifications for players to take actionIn other cases, smartwatches will be used mainly for checking in on progress in existing social games, and perhaps quickly tapping on a notification to take action accordingly.Crystal talks about Pocket Gems’ War Dragons, where players can see when their guild has declared war on another guild, and thus decide whether to join the fray. He adds that games with changeable economies could also update players to ensure they don’t miss a good deal.Related:Will Apple Watch spark a wave of popular smartwatch games? Not so fast“I think the most exciting thing is enabling a limited, but more personal interaction space where you can prompt a player to perform a quick action without intruding as much,” says David Marsh, co-founder of developer NimbleBit, whoseLetterpadword game can be played on Apple Watch.“It’s a lot easier to get a buzz on your wrist and choose an action than to get a notification on your phone, take it out of your pocket, unlock it, and load the app the notification came from.”Notifications are one of the most interesting smartwatch features for games developers, especially when they enable players to take actions rather than simply decide whether to pull out their smartphone.Javier Ferreira, chief operative officer of Scopely, explains that itsYahtzee With Buddiesgame has a chat notification for Apple Watch that players can read and respond to using voice dictation or simply an emoji, before continuing with whatever they were doing.Bossa Studios’ Vince Farquharson adds that smart notifications were a “eureka moment” for Spy_Watch. “This opened up a whole new avenue for the game as it allowed us to really double down on the idea that you were actually communicating with an agent in the field with your Spy_Watch, as we could handle his messages and your interactions in the same way as messages from your friends,” he says.“We always described the experience internally as being like one of your friends you were chatting with was a spy and you’d communicate with him in exactly the same way you would with your real friends.”Notifications overload ‘a design issue, not a platform issue’Is there a danger of notifications overload? It’s already an issue on smartphones, where games seem to be one of the most aggressive kinds of apps in terms of pinging their players at regular intervals – whether it’s an in-game event or a plea to return to an abandoned title.This, surely, could be even more intrusive on a smartwatch than on a smartphone? “If developers just spam players to come and play without any context, it’s going to be intrusive wherever they’re seeing it. That’s a design issue, not a platform issue,” says Crystal.“If someone uses notifications too intrusively, then people will just toggle them off,” says Järvilehto, who expects there to be a learning curve for developers, as they figure out what players will and won’t stand for on their smartwatches.“It’s better to start from creating a compelling experience and letting the player choose instead of trying to push things to the player,” he says.NimbleBit’s Marsh thinks that the glanceable nature of smartwatches will reduce any annoyance for players, compared to smartphones that (if allowed) will buzz in your pocket identically for every new notification.“Just being able to tell at a glance that the notification you got was from a game and deciding to take action on it or not without stopping what you are doing is a pretty big upgrade,” he says. “So I think it will make notifications even less intrusive.”“The watch is all about context. Notification and glances can become a key component of user interaction on the watch as long as they fit into the user context. Make them relevant at the right time and right place and they won’t be intrusive,” adds Itamar Lesuisse, chief executive of brain-training apps firmPeak.The trailer for Spy_Watch.The importance of simplicity (especially for battery life)It’s an obvious thing to note that, as with other devices, the current crop of smartwatch platforms are starting off relatively restricted in terms of how developers can access the native hardware and software, but are likely to open up over time.Even so, games developers are aware of the limitations – particularly with the current Apple Watch software development kit (SDK). “A lot of developers don’t realise how limited the SDK is. You can’t really do much with it, although you can show stuff,” says Adrian Hon, chief executive of fitness games startup Six to Start.“The more exciting stuff is going to come when we have more control of the hardware: I think Apple is going to do a native SDK later this year. I’m amazed it’s happening that quickly to be honest.”Related:20 Apple Watch apps worth trying on launch day – in their developers' wordsHe adds that he understands Apple’s motives. “If you were to run something complex on an Apple Watch, you’re going to kill the battery, and that’s going to be a bad experience.”Many developers relish creative restrictions, of course. “The initial WatchKit SDK is a little limited, particularly when you look at it from a game development point of view. Some things you take for granted when developing games, like moving sprites around the screen, aren’t fully supported yet,” says WearGa’s Virapen.“It’s actually been brilliant for us. These kind of limitations gave some structure to the design process and led to some really exciting decisions.”“I think it’s fine to have such a limited SDK at first, especially before people even have access to the hardware,” says Marsh. “I can’t imagine how many buggy and broken apps there would be if developers were able to dig very deep on the platform without actually having hardware to test on.”Farquharson admits to being “bemused” at criticism of SDK limitations at this stage, suggesting that a richer, native SDK for a device like the Apple Watch might encourage more developers to simply squash down their smartphone games.“You are going to hit your head against a brick wall if you see the watch as a small phone on your wrist, it simply isn’t, and if you try and make a phone game for it then you are going to constantly find you’re swimming against the tide,” he says.The alternative: working within the limitations to make something new and fitting for the platform. “Having gone through that process you end up with something which feels very different to a game designed for a phone and that’s exactly why we find it so exciting.”•As Apple Watch launches, app makers explore new interfaces•20 Apple Watch apps worth trying on launch day
A small patch of terrain in Google Maps just south of the Pakistani city of Rawlpindi has been found to contain a bizarre image of the Android robot urinating on the Apple logo.The image, which apparently was by an end-user helpfully “suggesting” an edit, has now been removed, Google says. “We’ve terminated the Android figure involved in this incident, and he’ll be disappearing from Google Maps shortly.”The image in its original locationUnsurprisingly, the real terrain underneath bears no resemblance to the picture, (loosely) adapted from a famous bootleg of Bill Watterson’s newspaper strip Calvin and Hobbes.The picture is accompanied by another,a few miles to the east, and both were apparently added through Google Map Maker, a feature that lets users contribute to maps by adding useful details such as street names, parks, and places of interest. Information added through Google Map Maker is ostensibly moderated, but in this case, it seems, quite a lot has slipped through the net.The second image gives a hint as to this origin: “Google review policy is crap,” it reads, accompanied by a sad face.The plot thickens…Photograph: Google MapsIf you find any other treats hidden in Google’s maps, let us know in the comments below.
We arrived in Krasnoarmiysk, Ukraine, at 3am. Two soldiers wearing balaclavas and holding Kalashnikov assault rifles came out to meet us, instructing us to suit up in body armour and stay alert during the trip in their truck. We rolled passed checkpoints and sped down deserted, cratered streets. In the distance, we could see the lights of a large city I assumed to be Donetsk, and an hour later they told us we had arrived at a base called Sector B.Dozens of soldiers slept and snored in the barracks. A pile of camo and backpacks stood at the foots of their beds, as did a gun rack, home to a litany of assault rifles and light machine guns. They woke us at 6am, when a few of the soldiers asked us why we were here. We told them that we had heard they were testing weaponised drones. The soldiers burst out laughing. “What crazy people told you that? You guys should’ve just stayed in Kiev”At 3pm, three soldiers in balaclavas came and directed us into a truck. “If you want to see what you think you are here to see, come with us now.”Passing an armoured personnel carrier near the checkpoint, the soldiers started playing the Backstreet Boys’ “I Want It That Way”. I put my head in my hands and thought, “This is how I die.”A David versus Goliath-like fightThe war in Eastern Ukraine recently surpassed the one-year mark, and despite numerous attempts at a true ceasefire, the war is only showing signs of worsening. The fighting between the Ukrainian military forces and the Russian-backed separatists has now cost the lives of over 6,000 people – many of them just innocent civilians who became victims of the hellishly inaccurate artillery fire that is a trademark of Soviet-style warfare.Over one million civilians have fled eastern Ukraine at this point, forever reorganising the country’s landscape. Most hoped that their move would be temporary, but as the war drags on, it’s become clear that there is no home to return to. Cities like Donetsk, which were once stalwarts of Ukraine, are now hopelessly lost to the separatists. Their citizens no longer believe that these cities exist in Ukraine, but rather, in the abstract concept of New Russia, or Novorossiya.While the world watched, Russia snatched away part of a sovereign state, and then did it again. The west’s only response, despite commitments legalised in the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances of 1994, was to slap sanctions on Russia – sanctions that President Putin recently claimed only served to strengthen the Russian Federation.With little real help coming their way, the Ukrainian people have bound together to stand up to the Russian empire, in a David versus Goliath-like fight. Though a poor citizenry, Ukrainians are finding a way to crowdfund for their troops, supplying them with desperately needed body armour, weapons, machinery – and, perhaps most importantly, drones.Crowdfunding a warWe were hoping to be the first to document the presence of weaponised drones in Ukraine.Earlier that week we had been invited to meet with the research and development team atEleks, one of Ukraine’s top IT outsourcing companies. This team, made up of about seven people, was once tasked with writing software for some secretive projects for major Hollywood studios – they won’t say what – but are now writing software for Ukrainian drones.These men are from a group called Aerorozvidka – amateur weaponised drones built for the battle against the Russians – yet these aren’t government-sanctioned drones. They are crowdfunded and developed by the hordes of Ukrainian volunteers who have rushed to fill the desperate needs of their soldiers.As daily fighting continues, the Ukrainian soldiers we spoke with laughed about the idea of a ceasefire. They just wonder where the the next offensive will take place. The seaside city of Mariupol,currently being fortified by Ukrainian troops, seems like the most plausible point of attack.‘Just a practice bomb’After a long drive through many checkpoints, including one on the new border out of Ukraine, we arrived at the remains of a village. The soldiers disappeared into one of the few remaining houses, and when they returned, twenty minutes later, the soldier next to me was hugging a two foot long bomb. I looked at the deeply cratered road ahead of us. At least it’ll be quick, I thought.We pulled away, hearing a firefight to the right of us, and passed armoured vehicles firing towards the separatist forces’ positions until we finally pulled over on a muddy track. Removing a giant box from the roof of the vehicle, the soldiers took out an enormous multirotor drone. Within minutes it was set up and flying thousands of feet above our position. Then they quickly brought it back down – and began to attach the bomb.The drone pilot fiddled with the controls and two soldiers stepped forward to attach the bomb to a holding mechanism that sprung out from underneath the drone. It was quickly in the air again, hovering just a few hundred feet from our position. And then they dropped the bomb.But nothing happened. They just laughed, and turned to us saying: “It’s just a practice bomb.”Then they began to attach another one, one that they wouldn’t show to us. It prompted a few of the other soldiers to take cover behind the truck. We quickly followed.We had heard from credible sources that in previous attempts, some Aerorozvidka men had been killed during this stage. There were two reasons for this. Firstly, these were essentially homemade and potentially faulty bombs. Secondly, the fact that they were launching drones multiple times from the same position quickly exposed their location. From what I’d been told, a mortar or sniper attack was guaranteed at this point.The pilot took the controls again, and while taking cover behind the only obstacle blocking the road, he commended the drone to ascend. It rose to a much higher altitude and rapidly traversed the field before stopping to hover over the treeline across from us. Then they dropped the bomb and we watched as it hit the ground. Nothing happened. No explosion.The soldiers looked dejected but patted each other on the back. They told us that the system wasn’t perfect yet, but they were optimistic that they could have it working without a hitch soon. One knelt down and picked up a piece of shrapnel from a shell and handed it to me. It was the size of my hand. He smiled, and spoke English for the first time in a heavy Ukrainian accent. “A gift from Russia,” he said.As we packed up and pulled away from the war torn village, Hit Me Baby One More Time with Britney Spears played over the radioTransitioning from 1950s USSR mappingWithout any sort of military aid coming from the west, Ukraine’s drone organisations have taken it upon themselves to ramp up their efforts. Many in these organisations have now quit their jobs, and serve as full-time volunteers for the Ukrainian forces.Eleks, which is a private company based in both Ukraine and Nevada, pays healthy salaries. It allows staff to work on software and drone hardware projects that receive no government support or funding during work hours. They are doing this because, as their project manager, Ivan Dmytrasevych, told us, “We know we have to invest in the defence of our country. If our research works, and we can show the people that it works, then we will turn to crowdfunding to realise it.”The projects Dmytrasevych refers to have two purposes. Firstly, they are designed to help Ukrainian drones automatically return home in the very likely case they are jammed by Russian electronic systems. Ivan says that the Russian forces have highly advanced systems to jam and intercept Ukrainian drones, which can easily send them off course and into enemy hands. “They have $7m systems to jam drones that cost thousands of dollars,” he explains. “We just can’t match their resources.” However, if they can slow down these types of losses, they can build up a useful force.Secondly, they are building software to help Ukrainian artillery teams. “Just imagine that you take a map of some territory from Google Maps, and then your drone flies over the territory to take a picture. Artillery teams need exact coordinates from enemy positions shown on those images. Our software will help them get it instantly.”I asked Dmytrasevych how the Ukrainian forces were determining these coordinates now. “They are using paper maps,” he sighs. A soldier we spoke to confirmed this. “These are USSR headquarters maps. They have not been updated since the 1950’s.”While Eleks works on modernising drone software, another crowdfunded volunteer organisation, aptly namedThe People’s Project, is busy building highly advanced drones for the Ukrainian special forces.By virtue of crowdfunding, the People’s Project requires the collaboration of many people, yet its most sophisticated drone program is top secret. It’s so classified that before they began working on the project they registered new social profiles under fake names, using fake pictures.I asked the project leader, who did not want to be named, why the group felt so threatened. “It’s Ukraine. We’re at war and, with what we are doing, we don’t know who might try to come after us. We are more worried about attacks on our families than our own lives.”Seeing their most advanced drone, the PD-1, you wonder how a group of regular citizens could come together and build something like this in just a few months. The PD-1 can fly for nine hours at an altitude above 2km, cruising around 100km/h and generating crystal-clear images that soldiers can instantly use on the battlefield.When I asked them about the prospect of evading Russian electronic systems, although they wouldn’t say exactly why, they claimed they knew the PD-1 would never be captured.While Eleks builds software, and the People’s Project builds drones, Aerorozvidka are in the thick of things at the front. As Ivan from Eleks told us: “Aerorozvidka. Oh, here we are just geeks – those guys are something else.”
The European Union is considering the creation of a new regulator with the explicit remit to oversee internet firms such as Google and Facebook, according to a leaked internal document prepared in February.The plan,seen by the Wall Street Journal, was prepared for EU digital commissioner Günther Oettinger, and warns that some digital businesses “are transforming into super-nodes that can be of systemic importance” for the rest of the economy. “Only a very limited part of the economy will not depend on them in the near future,” it argues.A lack of action, it warns, “may lead to a point of no return”, where the economy becomes irrevocably tied to a few major companies.It gives, as examples, online retailers such as Amazon and Etsy, who retain the power to exclude companies from their listings due to a suspected breach of terms and conditions, without having to provide any evidence of the breach. “Contesting this decision is lengthy and burdensome,” it points out.It also highlights TripAdvisor and Dutch website booking.com as firms who exercise undue power over their market sector. They are the “main entry point” to the travel sector and are “able to charge fees with full discretion”.As a result of the massive reliance on these firms by other sectors of the economy, they could potentially put “the whole European economy at risk” by exploiting their market power unfairly. To prevent this, the paper argues for a new “supervision framework”, which could include things like a ban on “unfair” practices, and a requirement that the internet companies not use their platforms to provide preferential treatment to their own services.Additionally, it suggests that platform holders should have a greater requirement to offer interoperability to users, making it easier to switch between service providers. The rules would be overseen by an “EU-wide body”, according to WSJ.The document also highlights the fact that closed platforms are already hurting EU companies. “While EU app developers account for 42% of the global consumer app revenue, the overall EU trade balance of the app economy is negative (€128m [£92m]), mostly due to the app platform fees that EU developers pay on revenue earned to North American platform owners,” it says.Despite the recent announcement ofan EU antitrust case against Google, which is accused of unfairly using its monopoly in search to boost its online shopping product, the paper says that competition law isn’t the right way to enforce fairness, since the cases are “lengthy and expensive”.
The smartwatch presents a new set of challenges for app designers, many of whom have been exploring the potential of these new devices since the crowd-funded Pebble watch launched in 2013.Android Wear smartwatches came on to the market in 2014, and the Apple Watch, you may have noticed, is on sale from 24 April. Many developers are launching their apps this week to coincide with the launch, often the culmination of at least two years exploratory design work.How have they used experiences of mobile app design to inform smartwatch apps? How are they differentiating watch apps from those on mobile without duplicating functionality? And how does a designer approach planning out an interface on an impossibly small screen?It’s all about the ‘glances’Lots of developers are talking about “glances” right now: the idea of smartwatch apps as things you glance at for a few seconds, with one or two simple interactions, before going back to whatever you were doing.“Quick, quick, quick. I think Apple has it right with glances,” says Eric Gillin, executive director of cookery service Epicurious, which islaunching the app Smart Timerin tandem with the launch of the Apple Watch.“It wouldn’t surprise me if folks eventually began watching videos on the watch — people will watch videos on anything — but at the start, the watch seems like it provides you with quick feedback, small bits of information that you can transact on. Deeper actions will occur on the phone.”Related:Your 30-second guide to the Apple Watch – and its cheaper rivals“It’s important to remember that users are busy, and want to be able to interact quickly and simply with their favourite products,” says Boone Spooner, director of mobile product at radio streaming app TuneIn.“The watch makes this even more true – it’s a simple glance, quick interaction device. This means that you need to get the most important information in front of your users as quickly and often as possible.”The current crop of smartwatches rely on being paired with a nearby smartphone, which is sharpening developers’ awareness of which tasks are better left to the parent device.“Smartwatch users won’t spend a lot of time tapping through loads of menus, the smartphone is brilliant for those kind of tasks,” says Dave Slocombe, mobile apps product owner at travel service TheTrainline.Anything requiring forms or nested menus will fail“Anything that requires multiple taps or precise cursor placement, such as filling out forms, editing documents or navigating nested menus are all likely to work better on a phone, whereas dictating short messages or tapping a simple set of buttons could be better on the watch,” says Jamie Hull, vice president of mobile products at Evernote.Some developers think that the best smartwatch apps will require no user input at all: just a glance when they serve up timely information. “I think it’s going to work best when there’s no user input, so when it’s totally context driven,” says Marc Chesworth, mobile development manager at mxData, which makes transport apps including Tube Map.“The most effective ones will be the input mechanisms where you aren’t interacting directly, so your heart rate reaches a certain beat or you arrive at a certain location or it’s a certain time. They’re inputs, loosely termed.”Google’s Dave Burke showing off an Android Wear interaction.Photograph: Stephen Lam/Getty Images‘Ordering a taxi in one tap’Other developers talk about designing not just for the device, but for the behaviour. “The Apple Watch is all about an exercise in reductive design. What’s the bare minimum set of features and functionality that make for a compelling experience, but doesn’t overdo it?” says Matt Galligan, chief executive of mobile news startup Circa.“Apps that focus on that question will succeed. People won’t hold their wrists up to look at their watch for more than 30 seconds at a time, so apps should focus on experiences that will work under those constraints.”Chesworth agrees. “Anything that requires you to spend too long on it [will fail]. If you’re spending 10 seconds looking at your watch and moving through menus, you’ve failed as a user-experience designer.”Related:Google adds gestures and features to Android Wear in reply to Apple WatchThat’s why even media companies making smartwatch apps aren’t seeing them as devices for long interactions.“I do not believe watch-type wearables will be a reading device in any meaningful sense. It’s too uncomfortable, too intrusive,” says The Economist’s vice president of product management Robin Raven. “Ordering a taxi in one tap I can see. Reading a daily briefing I can’t.”It’s interesting to see some companies talking about the social experience – as in socialising with people in the real world – coming in to their design thinking.“The smartwatch sceptics question the need for the watch when you have a smartphone in your pocket. But it is entirely possible that we are all underestimating the difference between twisting your wrist and reaching into your pocket to check in,” says Alex Wellen, chief product officer for CNN.“Social etiquette in certain circumstances combined with the milliseconds one gains in replacing ‘phone moments’ with ‘watch moments’ could be profound.”“If you’re hanging out in a bar or restaurant with friends, it’s a lot more discreet tapping your watch than taking your smartphone out of your pocket to check something,” says Daniel Danker, chief product officer at Shazam. “It doesn’t feel like it’s taking you out of the conversation.”What about notification overload?One concern I have about smartwatches is notification overload. It’s bad enough on a smartphone, at least until you take control of it and block lots of apps from pinging you at every opportunity. Will that also be necessary with smartwatches?“My gut says it’ll be a bit intrusive. I have a hundred apps on my phone. And over the last couple weeks, I’ll say that half of these seem to have some kind of Apple Watch update,” says Epicurious’s Gillin.“When I get my Apple Watch, are all 50 of those apps going to spring to life and start sending me notifications every twelve seconds?”Related:Apple Watch apps: the lowdownMaybe. “I believe that the watch is going to be overrun with notifications at first - it’s one of the primary methods for alerting users to new information in this format,” says TuneIn’s Spooner.“Therefore many app developers will default to using it to alert their users when needed. Although it is yet to be seen, this will probably end up with over-notifying a user – a sort of ‘cry wolf’ scenario for app updates.”The key here will be developers thinking hard about when their apps should send alerts to smartwatches.“Ideally, apps only send notifications when they have information that will become less valuable if the user doesn’t see it immediately; in other words, when there is something time or location sensitive in what is being communicated,” says Evernote’s Jamie Hull.“Too many notifications is going to get very annoying very quickly. But the ones that get it right will be in for a huge attention uplift,” says The Economist’s Raven.And those who get it wrong? “When used in the right context notifications on the Apple Watch are extremely powerful and useful,” says Jason Tusman, lead product designer for streaming music service Pandora. “The trick is to not bombard the user with frivolous and constant notifications, which could lead to notification blindness.”You can launch apps on an Apple Watch, but notifications will be just as important.Photograph: Bebeto Matthews/AP‘The right notification to the right person’Other developers point out that, for Apple Watch at least, notifications can be more than just annoying alerts.“One interesting thing that Apple Watch brings to the table is the ability to have notifications that update while you’re looking at them,” says Joe Hughes, mobile lead at transport app Citymapper.Related:Samsung Gear S review: can a smartwatch with a phone built-in replace a smartphone?For his app, that means a “get off the bus or train” notification on the watch, with a blue dot showing the user’s live, moving position relative to the last few dots.“That, along with the ability to have buttons that let you quickly respond to notifications, make Watch notifications more like mini interfaces than what we’re used to on our phones,” he says, while admitting that owners will be “more selective about which apps they trust with their wrists”.Other developers stress the importance of context and relevance for smartwatch notifications.“The real benefit of smartwatches lies in intelligent services that send data to your watch in the right moment at the right time,” says Benedikt Lehnert, chief design officer at Wunderlist. “We’ve already seen too many apps that overload the user with the same notifications they would get on their phones.”“The key is delivering the right notification to the right person at the right place at the right time,” adds CNN’s Wellen. “The Apple Watch will be a journey in calibrating the frequency and personalising the content to get the experience just right.”Apple’s developer kit is ‘underwhelming’Apple’s software development kit (SDK) for the Apple Watch is, in its current state, very limited. Or rather it places a lot of restrictions in terms of what developers can do with the device including the APIs and data they can access.“I was personally underwhelmed. It didn’t really add anything to the current offerings,” says mxData’s Chesworth. “Access to some of the key actuators like the heart rate monitor would have been good as well as access to the sensors. It would have opened up to a wider number of applications at launch.”Related:Tim Cook hails Apple Watch health benefits: 'Sitting is the new cancer'Most developers agree they’d like to do more with the Apple Watch that its current SDK doesn’t allow, but also say that they understand why the first generation of smartwatches is relatively locked down in this way.“An open-field for developers could very quickly lead to intrusive applications which really miss the point of the watch as an ambient computing device, something which adds convenience, rather than distraction,” says Stuart Frisby, principal designer at Booking.com.“If Apple or Google were to give developers unfettered access to everything that the hardware could do, it would likely turn into a chaotic and uneven user experience – one that most users would not want to be part of,” agrees Spooner.Other developers say they’re relishing the creative restrictions of smartwatches, not just in terms of their SDKs, but their screen sizes and other limitations.“It’s always fun to have limits. It becomes a little bit of a game in itself, with this tiny screen and the APIs. It reduces what you can do, so you have to innovate in order to understand how to use it to its full extent,” says Jonas Norberg, CEO of DJ app-maker Pacemaker.Apple’s own apps can currently access more of the Apple Watch’s features than third-party developers.‘This matches the early days of iOS’“Creativity is born out of limitations,” says Spooner. “Rules create a smaller space within which you can experiment, and this means that your constituents (in this case, developers) can create and release apps quicker. The quicker that Apple can get their watch to market with a healthy ecosystem of applications, the more competitive they can be in that marketplace. It’s a pretty smart idea.”Related:Will Apple Watch spark a wave of popular smartwatch games? Not so fastAll developers expect the current smartwatch SDKs to evolve, just as the Android and iOS platforms did before them.“It’s clear that they’re not ready to open up the entire platform, most likely for performance and battery life reasons,” says Circa’s Galliganof Apple.“But this very much matches the early days of iOS. It’s taken years for iOS to open up to third-party developers a lot of the features that Apple-built apps have had for some time. It’s a great thing that they’re forcing people to think more simply in these early days as it will shape the direction of the platform from here on out.”Wellen brings it back to users. “It is less about what the watch can do right now and more about what wearers want and need,” he says. Pandora’s Tusman agrees that Apple’s policy “helped us to push our user interface into components that are easily digestible on a very small screen at a glance”.‘We care more about the type of device people use’One last aspect to how developers are approaching smartwatches: how do they deal with the different platforms: Android Wear, Apple Watch and Pebble most obviously? Strategies vary, as they do in the smartphone and tablet apps world.A number of developers stress their multi-platform ambitions. “We’ve put a lot of effort into creating the most comprehensive transport app on Apple Watch. We were also on Wear from day one,” notes Citymapper’s Joe Hughes. “We care more about the type of device people use than who manufactures the devices,” adds Wunderlist’s Benedikt Lehnert.Related:Pebble Time smartwatch raised $20.3m in Kickstarter crowdfundingEvernote’s Hull describes a virtuous cycle whereby the company has brought features that worked well in its Android Wear app to its Apple Watch app, while new features in the latter – a predictive note list and flattened app structure – may transfer back.“While we don’t have a goal of feature parity across these platforms, we definitely took advantage of our experience building for other watches when designing for the Apple Watch,” she says .Other developers are focusing their attention on Apple for now. “We’re a really small team, just one developer and one designer, so we really need to focus our efforts on one platform,” says Marthin Freij, mobile and backend developer at Amazing Applications, which makes cookery app Green Kitchen.Others are developing for Apple Watch first, but with firm plans to use the lessons learned to later port to Android Wear – a pattern familiar from the smartphone and tablet world.“We’re using the Apple Watch as a starting point, but we’ve got a plan to deal with the entire Android ecosystem as we learn more,” says Epicurious’s Gillin. “We’ll very much use the Apple Watch app as an opportunity to learn what we can do on these super-personal devices,” says Frisby of Booking.com.Pebble is building its own ecosystem of apps and developers.‘Our work in Android is probably overdue’“Apple is our biggest audience to cater for and the fact that there has been reportedly a million pre-orders for the Apple Watch, it far out-stretches Android,” says Sam Rowley, software engineer at mxData.“We do have prototypes ready to go for Android. Our work in Android is probably overdue. We should have started sooner. The good thing about Apple is that they give the industry a bit of a push. They didn’t invent mobile apps and they didn’t invent the tablet but they did popularise both.”Related:Click tock: which is the best smartwatch this Christmas?Developers working across multiple platforms are getting a keen awareness of the differences between them – which is an argument for targeting several as early as possible, perhaps.“CNN has built a more minimalist notifications experience on Android Wear versus the immersive consumption inside the Samsung Gear S,” says CNN’s Wellen.“The Apple Watch likely lies somewhere in between, and is a good opportunity for us to nail the ‘glance’ behaviour as well as create a fluid experience between the watch and other devices like your phone or TV.”“Every operating system has it’s own unique traits – Apple Watch has the hardware digital crown, Android Wear has the integration of Google Voice and Now. It’s important that you think about these experiences, and these users, slightly differently,” says Boone Spooner.“You wouldn’t want to build an experience that relies on simple hardware scrolling – the digital crown – and then bring that to Android Wear. Your users would be stuck and not understand how they are supposed to navigate.”What’s encouraging about all this is the thought that’s going in to these early apps for Android Wear, Apple Watch and Pebble, as developers experiment, learn and iterate.These are the people tasked with answering the big question around smartwatches: why would you want or need one? Based on their answers for this feature, there’s no shortage of effort going in to providing a convincing answer.•20 Apple Watch apps worth trying on launch day
Richard Symonds is the volunteer administrator who blocked an account on Wikipedia on suspicion that it was being operated by Grant Shapps or someone “acting on his behalf”. The Tory party chairman denies the allegations.The 29-year-old had beennamed in this morning’s newspapers– with the Daily Mail noting he was a former member of the Liberal Democrats – and agreed to answer questions about how he reached the conclusion to block the account, had his investigation reviewed by Wikipedia’s internal court and was forced to leave his home after the story broke.Channel 4 describes you as one of the UK’smost senior Wikipedia administrators. What’s your role?I’ve been volunteering for Wikipedia since 2005 and someonenominated me to be an administrator in 2007.. I got more involved in doing investigations like this one – maybe a few each week – with most being relatively straightforward. In 2011, I stood for Wikipedia’s arbitration committee, and was elected to that too: that year I played a part in uncovering the edits thatBell Pottinger [a PR firm] had been making to Wikipedia, which was a big investigation that did hit the press.When were you first alerted to suspicious activity on the Grant Shapps Wikipedia article?On 2 April a journalist from the Guardian contacted me and a few other Wikipedians to raise concerns about theContribsx account. He was asking about the edit history of the account, which had been used to remove information critical to Grant Shapps and insert information supporting him. I looked over the edits and there was prima facie evidence that something fishy was going on. It looked like a pretty blatant form of whitewashing, which I see quite often on Wikipedia and am quick to investigate. I decided to look into the edits independently of the Guardian’s own investigation, and I asked them for any evidence they had uncovered themselves and were able to share with me.When I checked 91 contributions by Contribsx, 29 were to Grant Shapps’ pagesRichard SymondsConservative party chairman Grant Shapps.Photograph:  /Bloomberg via Getty ImagesWhy was the Guardian’s evidence worth investigating further?The edits made really were whitewashing. There were some edits where entire paragraphs about Shapps, and a bibliography of the books he wrote under other names, were all removed, without any discussion or rewording. Perfectly valid, sensible, referenced work that people had put in was being removed from the article. When I checked 91 contributions by Contribsx, 29 were to Grant Shapps’ pages, all of which showed the Tory MP in a more positive light. At this stage I wasn’t drawing any conclusions about who might be responsible, but when the Guardian mentioned that Mr Shapps had admitted doing this sort of thing before, under a different username – “Hackneymarsh” – I started looking into a connection between the old account and this relatively new one.What made you believe this was Grant Shapps, or someone working with him?The edits made almost all show Shapps in a positive light, or criticise one of his opponents. If it was simply a random Conservative activist, their edits would be more generally supportive of all of the Conservative party, and more generally negative about all of the opponents of that party. Likewise, if it was a Labour activist “black hatting” – pretending to be Mr Shapps, then the pattern would be different: they’d be more likely to focus criticism on Liberal Democrats, Greens and Ukip, and put flattering light on the Conservatives: but they’d tend to leave Labour alone. In addition, a lot of Contribsx’s edits were focussed towards particular people who had wronged Shapps in some way – for example, critical edits to (Labour MP)Steve McCabe’s page were made a matter of weeksafter Mr McCabereported Shapps to the police.This sort of pattern repeats itself again and again with others... The edits are all there in public history for people to cross-check, and although I should add that there’s no undeniable proof it’s Shapps, it’s clearly someone who has an intimate knowledge of Mr Shapps’ day-to-day battles and who supports him completely. I don’t know anyone who would match that description who isn’t in his inner circle, so I suspect - as would any person who reviews the edits - that it is either him, or someone he knows. Like I said though, there’s no smoking gun, just a wealth of other evidence that really points in his general direction.Related:Election hopeful whose Wikipedia page was edited calls for Shapps inquiryYou have become part of the story and had journalists turn up at your door. How does that feel?Not fun. There’ve been lots of times where I’ve been harassed because of the certain sorts of investigations I do on Wikipedia – people have called my house phone, called my employer and tried to get me sacked. Some have even tried to make out that I am also a sockpuppet [a fake online identity used to deceive others] myself, or that my wife (who is also an editor) is a sockpuppet of me. Most of it is puerile “internet threats”, and there’ve been various threats against my wife too, and against people we’re friends with.You have left your home in east London. Why?My wife has been in and out of hospital recently, and the stress of being in the press was really getting to both of us and was affecting her. After the press and freelance journalists started showing up at the door, we thought it wasn’t a good idea to stay any longer, and that the best thing to do would be to go and stay with friends elsewhere.Grant Shapps’s Wikipedia page edits.Photograph: @grantshapps/PAWhat about your politics: there are claims your motivation to probe this was influenced by your Lib Dem affiliation?My politics doesn’t really come into it. I’ve told people I am a “small-l liberal”. I don’t like some unions, and I don’t like big banks, so I sit somewhere in the middle. I’ve never been a political activist. I have been an armchair member of the Lib Dems for maybe two years of the past five, but I don’t think it’s right to call me an activist – I’ve never actually done anything that involves leaving my chair. I would struggle to name more than two or three Lib Dem MPs, and I’ve voted for all three major parties in the past. Politics is important, of course, but I don’t find it interesting.What did the Checkuser tool (used by Wikipedia to track IP addresses) tell you?I don’t want to say too much about it because we take user privacy very seriously. Nearly all of the logs are deleted automatically after 90 days, so the Checkuser tool can only tell you so much – just the IP address and a short bit of information about the browser used. I didn’t share it with the Guardian and I won’t share it with anyone else – but it was able to prove that the Contribsx account had been editing as an unregistered user beforehand. The IP address had only created an account after the Grant Shapps page had been “semi-protected”, incidentally because of the whitewashing that had been carried out by the IP address. Creating a Contribsx account would allow whoever controlled that account to circumvent that protection.Explain why you think Contribsx is a sockpuppet of Hackneymarsh (an account linked previously to Grant Shapps) when you don’t know the IP addresses are the same?That’s more complicated, but basically it’s down to behavioural evidence. In any case like this, checkuser can only tell you so much and isn’t reliable if a person has one account for home and another for work, or one which he only uses at his local coffee shop. More and more, Wikipedia administrators have to rely on this behavioural evidence – looking at the activities of the two user accounts, the sorts of edits they’ve made, the times they edited articles (during the evening, or during lunch for example). Certain things flag up suspicions. For a start, the sort of content that was changed by both accounts was almost completely identical – in both cases it was almost exclusively whitewashing in order to favour Mr Shapps, mixed with criticism of his opponents.Related:The internet must be free from political meddling | LettersYou have been taken to task by some colleagues over the way your decision was arrived at. They say not enough administrators were consulted and you were too close to the media. What do you say?I stand by the decision I made, but some other volunteers are concerned that I could have been more clear in my reasoning and could have run it past other people first. They may be wrong or right, but that doesn’t change the outcome or the facts of the case – I felt I had to do something to stop Wikipedia from being whitewashed. As for being too close to the Guardian, I was contacted by them, along with several other volunteers. I ran an investigation independently, and I only told the Guardian the outcome of the case once I’d made a decision to block the user and made the decision public.Will your verdict be reversed by the arbitration committee?That’s not for me to say. The arbitration committee are a group of volunteers who are chosen by the community to serve as volunteers on Wikipedia’s “high court”. A community member has asked them to review my handling of this matter given the high-profile nature of the block. I don’t know if they’ll reverse the decision I made, but I would be surprised if Contribsx was allowed to edit again.How long will the process of arbitration committee take?Anywhere from a couple of days to a month, I think. They’re all volunteers, so it depends how many of them are around to answer emails. It might be pretty quick, or it might not.
Most of Twitter’s senior executives did not use the social network before they joined the company and barely use it now, new analysis has found.The typical executive at Twitter has tweeted less than once per day since they joined the social network, and two have sent less than one tweet a month,according to analysis by Si Dawson, a web developer from Wellington, New Zealand.Dawson found the use of Twitter by the company’s own senior staff varies fromKatie Jacobs Stanton, the vice president of global media, who joined the site in December 2009 and has tweeted 19,600 times (an average of 9 tweets per day), down toBrian Schipper, the vice president of human resources, who joined in January 2014 and has tweeted just four times ever.Dawson, who has been on Twitter since 2008 (and himself has sent an average of 24 tweets a day since then), poses the question “How can they understand their business if they never use their product?”.He told the Guardian: “In the software world it’s called ‘eating your own dogfood’. It’s critical.”But not tweeting does not necessarily mean the company’s executive team are not heavy users of their own service. The latest statistics from the company reveal that 40% of active users – defined as people who logged in at least once a month – don’t tweet, instead using the service to read content coming from others.Judging whether someone is getting value out of the service purely by looking at how much they tweet is potentially misleading. And so too is assuming that there’s a “correct” number of tweets per day; Twitter’s advice to celebrities joining the service is to tweet when they have something to say, rather than trying to hit a pre-set figure. Twitter’s executives may just be following their own advice.Twitter declined to comment.How much do they tweet? (averages rounded to integers)Katie Jacobs Stanton, vice president, global media: 9 tweets per dayKevin Weil,vice president of product: 5 tweets per dayDick Costolo, chief executive officer: 3 tweets per dayAdam Bain, president of global revenue &amp; partnerships: 2 tweets per dayAdam Messinger, chief technology officer: 0 tweets per dayGabriel Stricker, chief communications officer: 0 tweets per dayAlex Roetter, senior vice president of engineering: 0 tweets per dayVijaya Gadde, general counsel: 0 tweets per dayAnthony Noto, chief financial officer: 0 tweets per dayGordon Lee, controller &amp; interim chief accounting officer: 0 tweets per dayBrian “Skip” Schipper, vice president of human resources: 0 tweets per day
YouTube stars Ryan Higa and The Young Turks have launched official mobile apps, becoming the first creators to launch with tech startup Victorious, the companyco-founded by YouTube’s former head of creator development Bing Chen.Comedian Higa’s TeeHee app is availablefor Androidandfor iOS, and will showcase his YouTube videos as well as exclusive footage, games, live chats and features for fans to share their own videos and photos.Related:‘Traditional TV viewing for teens and tweens is dead. Not dying. Dead.’News channel The Young Turks’ app is also availablefor Androidandfor iOS, and will offer behind-the-scenes clips, and encourage viewers to give their views on news stories and the content of its upcoming broadcasts.Victorious is working with a host of other digital stars and a few multi-channel networks (MCNs) to launch apps in the coming weeks and months.They include beauty guru Michelle Phan, filmmaker Freddie Wong, Vine star DeStorm Power, boy-band Boyce Avenue and comedian Lilly Singh. The MCNs include Machinima and AwesomenessTV.Victorious had originally planned to launch its first apps in the autumn of 2014. “We’ve been developing the product really hand-in-hand with these digitally-born creators, and we spent some extra time working with them on features that will be exciting for their superfans,” CEO Sam Rogoway told the Guardian.“The apps that we are powering aren’t just disposable playlists of content. They’re not just aggregators of content that’s already out there. Fans are not just consumers: they are creators in their own right, and they want to interact not just with the creators but with other fans.”“We’re focused on being inclusive versus exclusive,” added Chen. “We’re providing a platform that enables superfans to feel this is a safe place for them to consume, but also to do so much more: a rich playground.”As a platform, Victorious represents a way for its clients to build their own communities, rather than simply gathering fans on YouTube, Snapchat, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and other social networks and apps.Chen said that in the case of The Young Turks, which broadcasts news programmes aimed at young people, the interactivity will also be a key feature. “Their fans are immensely passionate, but also so savvy and informed. They’re almost Young Turks themselves,” he said.“A few platforms have tried their hand at citizen journalism, but The Young Turks are going head in. They’ll be asking those fans what videos they should do, and the follow-on conversation will be happening inside the app.”Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’The apps may also represent a new source of income for the creators that Victorious is working with, although Rogoway and Chen declined to say how the balance will fall between advertising and in-app payments or subscriptions by fans.“Every creator is different: they need the flexibility to choose the type of monetisation that best suits them,” said Rogoway. “It’s our job to provide all those types of monetisation and reduce all of the friction.”Victorious is also looking beyond the stars created on YouTube and other digital platforms. “Later this summer, we will be announcing a slate of different TV, film and music partnerships,” said Chen.“But for now, we are really focused on these digitally-born stars. This whole industry has been called ‘new media’ for the last decade, but the reality is we are the new mainstream. These aren’t just ‘YouTubers’ or ‘Viners’. They’re stars in general.”
Amazon is testing an addition to its Prime subscription postal service that will see parcels delivered directly to customer’s cars.The pilot service is a partnership between Amazon, DHL and Audi, and will allow a small group of Prime subscribers in Munich, Germany, to receive deliveries straight to the boots of their cars.Michael Pasch, Amazon’s director of Prime for Europe,explainedthat the pilot scheme is an attempt to give customers another option for receiving goods and reduce the number of failed deliveries.Customers indicate the approximate location of their car when ordering goods. The delivery driver is given temporary keyless access to open the boot of the car only, which is removed when the boot is shut.The delivery driver tracks and locates the car for a set period covering the delivery window. The cars in the pilot scheme will be specially modified to allow tracking and the one-time keyless entry to the boot.The pilot will commence in May. Amazon is also working on a system that will allow customers to return goods via the boots of their cars.The system is similar to Amazon’s lockers, which customers can have parcels delivered to instead of their home or work address and pick up within a week, although potentially more convenient. Audi said that its customer data and privacy were its top priorities, but could not address concerns over potential thefts.Volvo demonstrated a similar technology delivering food to car boots at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona in 2014, although no commercial service has subsequently been rolled out.•Amazon tests delivery drones at secret Canada site after US frustration
Samsung is “investigating” claims from security researchers that hackers can steal copies of fingerprints from the company’s 2014 flagship Galaxy S5 smartphone, as well as other Android devices, by exploiting a weakness in the operating system’s handling of biometric data.According to security firm FireEye, Android fails in its attempts to render fingerprint information inaccessible to most apps by sequestering it in a “secure zone” on the phone. The flaw is simple: rather than trying to break into the secure zone itself, the attackers simply focus on reading the data coming directly from the fingerprint sensor before it reaches the secure zone.With this information, it’s possible to reconstruct the fingerprint, and potentially use it elsewhere,the researchers told Forbes’ Thomas Fox-Brewster.“If the attacker can break the kernel, although he cannot access the fingerprint data stored in the trusted zone, he can directly read the fingerprint sensor at any time. Every time you touch the fingerprint sensor, the attacker can steal your fingerprint,” one of the researchers, Yulong Zhang, told Forbes. “You can get the data, and from the data you can generate the image of your fingerprint. After that you can do whatever you want.”The vulnerability is fixed on the newest version of Android, Lollipop – which runs on newer devices, including the Galaxy S6 – and users who can upgrade should. As well as Samsung, some – but not all – other Android devices running versions earlier than Lollipop are affected, though the Galaxy S5 was the only one named. Samsung says it “takes consumer privacy and data security very seriously” and is investigating FireEye’s claims, which are due to be revealed in more detail at the upcoming RSA security conference.Apple’s TouchID system, present on the iPhone 5s and iPhones 6, uses a similar trusted zone architecture, but no attacker has yet demonstrated the ability to lift fingerprints off the device using a software hack. The fingerprint sensor has, however,been shown to be vulnerable to spoofed fingerprints: a fake fingerprint, printed onto a laminated sheet and stuck to a real finger, can fool the fingerprint sensor.Of course, stealing a fingerprint through a software hack may not be the easiest way to bypass biometric security: in December,a hacker demonstrated the ability to spoof a German minister’s fingerprints from just a photograph of her hand.
I’ve been running Intuit’s Quicken for years: my current version is 2002 Deluxe. It runs fine under Windows 7, but I haven’t tried it under Windows 8, and wonder if it will work under Windows 10 and 10+? If it won’t run under Windows 10, what do I do?Quicken 2002 does everything I want, and I don’t have any need to change to another product. I’m only 72 and hope to run it for many years more.ChrisIf you use the same program for a decade or more, you get to know it well, and you will feel safe and secure. Unfortunately, this feeling may be illusory. You’re playing a very dangerous game. It’s not one I recommend.There are several problems with running old software. The most obvious is the one that concerns you: it could eventually stop working. There is also a risk that unpatched security holes could leave you vulnerable to viruses. Worse, you may be at risk of losing access to your data. If you calculate the number of hours it would take you to re-enter up to 14 years of accounts, I suspect you will find that it would cost far more to replace your data than your PC and software.Fortunately for you, both Windows and Quicken have tens of millions of users, which encourages Microsoft and Intuit to try to maintain compatibility over long periods. I suspect a lot of people are still running Quicken 2002, which was released in 2001. But not every software company cares about backwards compatibility, and many go bust.In general, it’s reasonably safe to skip alternate versions of programs, so you’re never more than two behind. When companies release a new version every year then try not to fall more than four or five years behind. Quicken only supports programs for three years.Will it run?It seems you are in luck. According to theWindows compatibility centreon Microsoft’s website, four people out of five report that Quicken 2002 runs on Windows 8.1. However, the “action recommended” – which I agree with – is to upgrade to a new version.Since Quicken 2002 runs on Windows 8.1, I would expect it to run on Windows 10. However, while Microsoft and millions of Windows 10 testers are no doubt checking that recent versions of Quicken run, I don’t expect any of them care whether compatibility stretches all the way back to 2001.When Windows 10 is launched, you will be able to run a compatibility checker that will check your hardware and software. If you want, you can try running the currentupgrade assistant for Windows 8.1.Updating QuickenYou can’t upgrade directly from a very old version of Quicken to a new version, but you can get there in two or more steps. For example, Intuit lets you upgrade from Quicken 2002 (and older versions) to Quicken 2004 and from there to Quicken 2013 (and, presumably, newer versions).Intuit says: “We provide you with a copy of 2004 and easy instructionshere.”Basically, this involves converting your old files to a new file format, and doing it twice. This is not a great position from the point of view of data security and reliability. As Intuit says: “you may experience some data file issues [and] we will be unable to help you.”A two-step upgrade could easily become a three-step upgrade. If you’re on a really old version, for example, you have to go to Quicken 6 before you can upgrade to Quicken 2004.How to hang onIf you have an old program that won’t run on a new version of your operating system, then there are at least three things that you can do.First, you can hang on to the old PC, and keep it around just to run the old program. Companies often do this, although it’s very expensive in terms of maintenance. If the operating system is no longer supported with security patches – as is the case with Windows XP – then it’s best to disconnect it from the internet. (Rich companies can still pay Microsoft to support XP. It costs $400 per PC this year, $800 per PC next year, and keeps doubling every year. Good luck with that.)Second, you can run the old operating system in a “virtual machine” (VM) on a new PC, though you may you need a gigabyte for each VM. Microsoft provided a free copy of Windows XP to run in Windows 7 Pro so that companies could upgrade while still running some programs under XP. Current Pro versions of Windows 8.1 includeHyper-Vto host alternative operating systems. Otherwise, there are a few free VMs available, such as Oracle’s (formerly Sun’s)VirtualBoxand Microsoft’s oldVirtual PC.Of course, you would need to source a copy of any earlier version of Windows that you wanted to run. You probably don’t have one, because the cheap versions of Windows sold by PC manufacturers are locked to the PC on which they ship.Third, you can export your data and move to a different program or, in some cases, an online service. However, there are not manyalternatives to Quicken, as UK users discovered when Intuit discontinued its UK version a decade ago. But there areAccountzandBankTree, as well asSage One Accounts. There are also hundreds of templates for Microsoft Excel, includingArixcel.It’s always a good idea to export data in a format that you can load into a different program. RememberSchofield’s first law of computing: you should never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
The problem with fighting games is that there are players out there who see them in frames. Not strung-together as fluid animations like the rest of us, but broken up into minute clusters of stills.Many top-level tournament fighters really care that six frames are devoted to a particular character lifting their arm, or that another’s leg swinging back after connecting consumes 12 more. Those fleeting moments are windows of opportunity for the best to turn a match.The esoteric art of frame counting sees serious pugilists go to extreme lengths to secure wins. Their demand for nuance within beat-‘em-ups has pushed the genre into a difficult place, where satisfying the most devoted audience can mean ostracising the masses with absurd demands on skill.It’s a fact the Mortal Kombat series has struggled with over time, and it has sometimes been ungainly in its attempt to please everybody. All of which makes the arrival of Mortal Kombat X especially exciting. This time developer NetherRealm Studios has delivered a fighter that is technical, refined and very much considerate of the competition player, whilst remaining accessible in a way that’s all too uncommon among the genre’s best.That’s not to say that Mortal Kombat X is going to dethrone the tournament scene’s titans. But it is almost certainly the best Mortal Kombat yet.Much of that quality comes from the game’s 24 playable characters, a third of which are entirely new. Across the cast there’s an impressive diversity, and with each available in three distinct variants, it is a game that engenders a bounty of different play styles and combat strategies. It may take time to find the fighter that fits you best, but on the way you’ll taste a broad cross-section of ways to play.As for the fighting itself, it is tighter than most previous Mortal Kombats. The clarity of animation is improved, and even when handling one of the game’s unhurried sluggers, there’s a fluidity and precision, all of which makes evolving your skill a more pleasurable ride.And for those that demand it, there’s all the frame data one could wish for, along with customisation options that cater for the competition player. Some will bemoan the use of a button for blocking in place of the more popular backwards movements, but overall it’s tough to pick more than small holes in the combat.The modes, meanwhile, are many and varied, considering that ultimately Mortal Kombat X conforms absolutely to the template of a 3D arcade fighter played on a 2D plane. Tower mode presents the traditional arcade progression model, and offers several spins on tackling the game’s cast back-to-back. Then there’s the story mode; some five-to-eight hours worth – depending on your aptitude – of fights amidst reams of cut-scenes. Part character-spotters’ fan service, part guided tour of various fighters’ styles, the story mode is brimming with hackneyed dialogue. As such, while it’s no example of the video game form’s narrative potential, it does a marvellous job of evoking a sense of those absurd arcade cut-scenes infamously found in light gun games. And somehow, it’s a style that suits Mortal Kombat X rather well.Elsewhere there are plenty of ways to play NetherRealm’s creation as a fighter should be, shoulder-to-shoulder with a real-world rival, as well as, unsurprisingly, a generous array of online modes, where over time Mortal Kombat X must truly prove itself as a game with longevity. Early signs suggest a robust connected experience, backed up by the Faction Wars mode, which means every fight, online or otherwise, contributes XP to an ongoing battle between the global player-base.Visually, at times the game is superb. The lighting in particular can lend Mortal Kombat X’s characters and environments a striking presence, and often detail and decoration is as lavish as is seen in the most technically advanced modern console games. And yet there are equally moments when blandness dominates, or a weird facial animation drags things deep into the uncanny valley.While it used to be the bloody finishing moves that caused heated controversy, in Mortal Kombat X it is likely to be the presence of microtransaction purchases. Fortunately, there’s never a hard sell, while the impact on the game is minimal, and predominantly aesthetic. Most of what you do in-game earns Koins. That fictional currency is traded for the likes of new costumes and concept art; or you can unlock the lot with real money. Unlockable single-use tokens for simplified fatalities can also be paid for, and while this is initially unsettling, it really only abridges moves carried out after a fight is decided.Mortal Kombat X is many things. It is mechanically refined and stylistically muddled; it has a sometimes unpleasantly violent, sometimes charmingly hammy commitment to the traditional fighting game template. It has thrust the series forwards and succeeds in delivering nuance while offering a welcoming genre gateway for inexperienced players.Early signs even suggest the competition community has embraced the game, though it remains to be seen how long that vitally important affair will last.Warner Bros; PC/PS4 (version texted) Xbox One; £50; Pegi 18+
Facebook videos were being watched more than 1bn times a day at the peak of the ice bucket challenge craze in the summer of 2014. Six months on, that figure has quadrupled to 4bn daily views.The social network’s chief executive Mark Zuckerberg revealed the latest figure in his company’s earnings call with analysts, after announcingFacebook’s latest quarterly financial results.Related:Traders 'unlike' Facebook shares after first-quarter revenues miss expectations“We’re very pleased with our growth here, and this quarter we reached a new milestone of more than 4bn daily videos views,”said Zuckerberg during the call.Chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg provided another statistic, explaining that more than 75% of global video views on Facebook happen on mobile devices, and outlining the company’s eagerness to persuade more brands and media companies to spend money on video ads.“We believe mobile video will become more important to marketers over time,” said Sandberg, citing a campaign by film studio Lionsgate for its Age of Adaline movie that targeted young women on Instagram with video ads, before retargeting them on Facebook.“We expect more marketers to put mobile video at the heart of their campaigns in the future and we’re well-positioned to drive this shift,” said Sandberg.Facebook’s 4bn daily views milestone is likely to be scrutinised carefully by marketers, who are aware that with videos automatically playing within its news feed, this may bump up the figures.However,Facebook defines a “view” as someone watching for three seconds or more, and provides partners with data on the average duration of their views, as well as how many times videos were watched to 95% of their length.Sandberg was bullish on the potential. “Video is exploding on Facebook, as Mark talked about, and that gives us an opportunity to do a lot of work with marketers on video,” she said.“It’s still early days and we’re very focused on quality and it’s worth noting that not all of the revenue from video is incremental, because the video ads take the place of other ads that we would have served into News Feed. That said, we’re really excited about the opportunity.”She added that more than 1bn small and medium-sized businesses have “posted videos and done really small ad buys around them” alongside the larger brands and media companies. “That’s pretty cool because I don’t think there are probably 1 million advertisers who have bought TV ads in that same period of time.”Zuckerberg deflected a question about whether Facebook is planning to get more involved in buying or commissioning professional, original video – TV shows, for example – which could see the company going head to head with Netflix, Amazon, Hulu and other players in that area.“Right now, a lot of what people are sharing are their social videos and content. There are a lot of public figures who have pages, often with millions or tens of millions of followers, producing unique and really high-quality content that they’re pushing out to all their fans on the network today,” he said.Related:Facebook: latest news feed tweak gives more priority to your friends“So, yeah, we’ll continue looking at ways to grow that and it’s – the product experience that we have right now is growing quite well so we feel good about it.”The prospect of Facebook getting into original TV production is being chattered about increasingly loudly within the television industry, though.In anon-stage interview at the MIPTV conferenceearlier this month, production group Zodiak Media’s chief executive, Marc-Antoine d’Halluin, suggested that it is only a matter of time until Facebook (and other internet giants like Google) start to buy production companies.“I can completely picture that happening, and sooner than everybody thinks,” said d’Halluin. “Ultimately these guys will have a fundamental need to not only get the type of videos that are user generated ... but they’ll need some proper scripted and unscripted shows.”
It’s Thursday!
Some encouragement for all the 42-year-olds suddenly getting into Rihanna or Rudimental: at least your midlife crisis is less dangerous than buying an unsuitably-powerful motorbike.Streaming music service Spotify has identified 42 as the age when many of its users rediscover the joys of current pop music, as part of research into how their tastes mature over time.“During the teenage years, we embrace music at the top of the charts more than at any other time in our lives. As we grow older, our taste in music diverges sharply from the mainstream up to age 25, and a bit less sharply after that,”explained the company on its Insights blog.“We’re starting to listen to ‘our’ music, not ‘the’ music. Music taste reaches maturity at age 35. Around age 42, music taste briefly curves back to the popular charts — a musical midlife crisis and attempt to harken back to our youth, perhaps?”The findings come from a study conducted by Ajay Kalia, who oversees Spotify’s “taste profiles” product, which tries to understand people’s tastes based on their listening habits.In hisfull blog post on the research, which was based on American Spotify users, Kalia outlined his main conclusions. On average:“While teens’ music taste is dominated by incredibly popular music, this proportion drops steadily through peoples’ 20s, before their tastes “mature” in their early 30s.Men and women listen similarly in their their teens, but after that, men’s mainstream music listening decreases much faster than it does for women.At any age, people with children (inferred from listening habits) listen to a smaller amounts of currently-popular music than the average listener of that age.”Sorry, fellow parents. We may be word-perfect on dozens of nursery rhymes and pre-school TV themes, but our pop savviness is in question. “Becoming a parent has an equivalent impact on your ‘music relevancy’ as ageing about four years,” wrote Kalia.At least when we’re 42, we can embarrass our (now older) children by regularly belting out Taylor Swift choruses at the breakfast table.(Not that we’ll have memorised those on Spotify, of course.)Spotify’s chart of music relevancy versus age.Kalia stressed that parents and older music fans aren’t necessarily less cool: in fact, they may bemorecool in many instances, because they’re discovering artists and genres that aren’t as mainstream.Related:Spotify has six years of my music data, but does it understand my tastes?“Listeners discover less-familiar music genres that they didn’t hear on FM radio as early teens, from artists with a lower popularity rank,” he wrote, while admitting that they also are likely to return to the music that was popular when they were teenagers.This kind of research is more than a novelty or a marketing wheeze. Spotify and its rivals in the streaming music world – Deezer, Google, Napster, Tidal and soon Apple – are working hard to understand the tastes of their listeners, so they can make better recommendations for them.With the price of a monthly streaming subscription fixed at £9.99 a month, and every service having more or less the same catalogue, one of the key battlegrounds will be understanding what people are listening to already, and crucially, what they might want to listen to next.Even if that means delivering some hard realities about their “music relevancy”.
The Galaxy S6 is the latest flagship Android smartphone from Samsung, a design-focused all-metal and glass powerhouse with one of the best cameras to date.The S6 comes in two varieties: one traditional flat smartphone and one with curved edges to the screen,the S6 Edge.The follow up to theSamsung Galaxy S5, which had cutting edge technology but lacked a premium design and feel, the S6 continues the Korean company’s reinvention of the look and feel of its smartphones and tablets.The S6 takes the simple design and solid feel of Samsung’s Alpha and ditches all plastic, relying solely on aluminium and glass for its outside shell.Smooth metal and glassThe glass back is smooth, curved at the edges and like all glass backs is prone to minute scratching.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWhile not quite as eye-catching as the S6 Edge with its curved screen, the standard S6 marks a line in the ground for Samsung: design should be at least level with technology when driving the direction of new devices.The S6 is Samsung’s first smartphone to ditch the plastic or fake leather back, replaced by glass front and back with a rounded aluminium band running around the side of the device.It is solidly built with absolutely no give or flex anywhere in the body, but loses the waterproofing of last year’s Galaxy S5. The glass back is also prone to light scratching, which is only visible in bright light.The S6 is 6.8mm thick and weighs 138g, which makes it thinner but heavier than Apple’s 6.9mm thick, 132g iPhone 6 and thinner than most other top-end smartphones, including the 7mm thick S6 Edge.The 5.1in quad HD screen is one of the best ever fitted to a smartphone: pin sharp, vibrant and with rich blacks and wide viewing angles. The 5.1in full HD screen of the Galaxy S5 was good, this one is significantly better.Overall, Galaxy S6 could be considered the second best-looking smartphone Samsung has ever produced, only beaten by its curved screen Edge version, and finally matches HTC and Apple on craftsmanship.The metal band is smooth and solid.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:5.1in quad HD AMOLED (577ppi)Processor:octa-core Samsung Exynos 7420RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:32/64/128GB; no SD cardOperating system:Android 5.0.2 “Lollipop” with TouchWizCamera:16MP rear camera with OIS, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, wireless charging, Bluetooth 4.0 and GPSDimensions:143.4 x 70.5 x 6.8mmWeight:138gThe fastest phone goingThe side holds the nano Sim slot, but no microSD card slot is present.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Galaxy S6 line is the first to use Samsung’s own Exynos processor in US, EU and UK versions of the Korean company’s smartphones. Typically the Exynos chips have only been used in countries without 4G coverage, favouring Qualcomm’s Snapdragon chips in the US, EU and UK.The octo-core Exynos 7420 processor has two quad-core processors combined in a Little-Big combination. A lower power 1.5GHz chip (the little part) performs most undemanding tasks and a more powerful, but also more power hungry 2.1GHz chip (the big part) takes over when needed.The new chip and 3GB of RAM make the S6 easily one of the fastest Android smartphones to date. But that speed and high-density screen come at the price of battery life.Like the S6 Edge, if the big 2.1GHz processor fires up the battery takes a hit, but the flat S6 performed better in my testing. Generally it would last a day and a half before needing to be charged, which still isn’t the best – Sony’s Xperia Z3 lasts over two days per charge – but is better than some competitors.Charging is fast, especially using the USB power adapter that comes in the box, while support for multiple wireless charging standards is convenient.Samsung’s excellent power saving modes work well and extend battery life by days, but only by sacrificing usability.Stripped back softwareThe S6 runs the same version of customised Android called “TouchWiz” as the S6 Edge, just without the few edge-screen apps.It is significantly improved over the bloated versions of previous Samsung smartphones, but while most of Samsung’s less-than-great apps are gone, third-party apps take their place.The Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger apps, plus Microsoft’s OneDrive, OneNote and Skype all come pre-installed and can’t be fully removed but can be disabled straight from the launcher.While TouchWiz is still not as clean and attractive as the standard Android interface or efforts from HTC and Sony, it is a vast improvement all round compared to the company’s previous software.CameraThe camera lump sticks out the back.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe S6’s 16-megapixel camera one of the best ever fitted to a smartphone and capable of producing rich, detailed photos with very little skill required from the photographer. The optical image stabilisation smooths out hand shakes well and low light performance is solid.A double press of the home button launches the camera, which makes capturing the here and now much easier.The front-facing 5-megapixel selfie camera is also great, while the heart-beat sensor on the back of the phone can be used to trigger a photo.Smart lock with fingerprint readerThe fingerprint sensor is accurate, fast and easy to use.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSamsung’s touch fingerprint sensor under the home button no longer requires users to swipe their finger over it, and is significantly more accurate and easier to use as a result.When combined with Android Lollipop’s smart lock, which keeps the S6 unlocked if connected to a trusted Bluetooth device, it makes getting into and out of the phone quicker and can be used to authenticate purchases and secure certain apps such as LastPass.PriceThe Samsung Galaxy S6 comes in four colours and three versions one with 32GB of storage costing £600, 64GB costing £660 and a 128GB costing an as yet announced sum.VerdictThe Galaxy S6 is the best smartphone Samsung has ever made and arguably the best Android smartphone available. It finally matches the craftsmanship of high-end rivals and looks and feels great.It lacks a microSD card slot, meaning it will be worth buying the 64GB storage version, and it also doesn’t have a removable battery which will impact longevity.A brilliant camera, fingerprint sensor and wireless charging round out a compelling package. Battery life could be better, but it will last at least a day, possibly longer depending on your usage.After many pretenders, Samsung finally has the iPhone killer it’s been trying to produce.If it’s a choice between the S6 and the S6 Edge, the curved screens of the Edge are more eye-catching but the S6 feels a lot nicer in the hand. The small battery differences aside, which one do you like the look of better?Pros:fast, great screen, attractive design, good fingerprint reader, excellent camera, wireless chargingCons:no removable battery or storage, Facebook and Microsoft apps bundled, back glass easily scratchedOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not function•Samsung Galaxy A5 review: a mid-range smartphone with high-end looks and feel•Samsung Galaxy Note Edge review: curved screen is more than a gimmick•Google Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageable•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Apple iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper
Facebook shares crashed in after-hours trading on Wednesday as the social media company narrowly missed Wall Street’s expectations.Releasing its first quarter results, Facebook said the company had taken in $3.54bn in revenue for the first three months of the year. Analysts had been expecting $3.56bn.The company’s ambitious expansion plans and the cost of integrating acquisitions contributed to a big rise in expenses. Expenses in the first quarter of 2015 were $2.61bn, an increase of 83% from the first quarter of 2014. Research and development spending totalled $1.06bn for the quarter, up from $455m a year ago.Facebook’s share price dropped more than 2% on the news. It was the first quarter that Facebook missed analysts’ expectations since it went public in 2012.“This was a strong start to the year,” said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and CEO. “We continue to focus on serving our community and connecting the world.”The company had 1.44 billion monthly active users (MAUs) in March – a 13% year-over-year rise. Mobile MAUs were 1.25 billion for that month. The company reported 936 million people were daily active users at the end of the quarter, up 17% from last year. The number of mobile daily users of the service rose 31% to 798 million.Mobile advertising revenue, a closely watched figure, represented approximately 73% of advertising revenue for the first quarter of 2015, up from approximately 59% in the first quarter of 2014.
How I finally got to grips with my central heating systemTim DowlingFor several years running, I had to call out a plumber every autumn; the central heating pump would quit shortly after I turned on the system. One year, I had a magnetic filter installed to catch the gunk that kept jamming the pump, but the next year it quit right on schedule. I called the plumber. He cleaned out the magnetic filter, restarted the system, and sent me a bill.The next year, the annual breakdown of the pump coincided with a warm spell, so I did nothing for a week. One day, while I was staring into space, it occurred to me that YouTube might hold the answer to my problem.I watched “How to clean out a Fernox TF1” five times. The production values weren’t high – it was filmed on a phone – but the action took place in a dusty boiler cupboard reassuringly similar to mine. The faceless star of the video dropped several components and had to fish about for them, which was also reassuring. It was fascinating: I had owned a TF1 for two years and I had never even looked at it. Now I knew it to bea thing of wonder, with a 9,000 gauss removable magnet at its core.A video for anyone who’s sick of their boiler breaking down.Most important of all, the video contained vital procedural information. Without the instructions “keep a bucket handy” and “first, isolate the unit off”, my real-life encounter with the TF1 might have ended very differently. As it was I had no problems, and I ended up with a very satisfying quantity of black sludge in my bucket.I put everything back together exactly the way my YouTube mentor did, de-isolated the unit, gave the pump a clout with a hammer and everything started going again. I haven’t enjoyed such a sense of accomplishment since. Only “How to assemble a clarinet” came close.My crash course in squeezing blackheadsLucy ManganEven some spot-squeezing videos are too much for Lucy Mangan.Photograph: Graham Turner for the GuardianYou know that bit at the beginning of Captain Corelli’s Mandolin whereDr Iannis patiently works to extract a peafrom a patient’s ear? I didn’t bother going any further with the book. It was the most satisfying piece of prose I had ever read. I knew nothing could top that. And nothing did, until YouTube came along.YouTube has taught me two things. First, that there are many ways of winkling out blackheads and extracting pus from pimples/boils/other pressurised carbuncles located in obscure crevices of the human body. And, second, that I am an awful person who will search for, watch and find a deep and meaningful peace in the videos of people doing so.My favourite – yes, of course I have favourites; what of it? – is of a giant blackhead developed by a woman over the course of 20 years. I don’t know where on her body it is, but it must be somewhere inaccessible otherwise I cannot fathom how she kept her hands off it for two decades but, by the time the video starts, her niece has persuaded her to go to a semi-professional with a sharp pin and even sharper resolve and the pin has begun its work. After six minutes of exquisite agony – for the viewer, I mean; “exquisite” is probably not the word the blackhead’s hostess would reach for – a long, stiff worm of impacted grot has been winkled out and lies exposed on the winkler’s palm. It’s disgusting. It’s the most beautiful thing I have ever seen.There are hundreds of others out there, but that’s the best. I’m not giving you the link. If you want it, you’ll find it easily enough. And you do. And you will. By your recent search terms shall I know thee.I learned scouse from a Toxteth teen smoking weed in a caravanRhik SamadderRhik Samadder putting his research to use.Photograph: Katherine Anne Rose for the GuardianActing is just pretending with confidence or, if you prefer, lying. For evidence, check out the “other skills” section of anySpotlightprofile. In addition to horse riding and stage combat, actors will tick off any box available – unicycling, camel-whispering, advanced midwifery; there may be an audition in it, so why put yourself out of the game? One reason is that you will occasionally have to make good on these claims. My own profile proclaims me an expert in every accent and dialect imaginable, from those spoken in north Lancaster to Sri Lanka, via Trinidad &amp; Tobago. I claim a smattering of Urdu, Pashto and conversational Bactrian for all I know. It’s all bullshit. The thing is, sometimes an audition comes up that requires one of them, and that’s when I go running to YouTube.“What do Jordanians sound like” I’ll type, or “man from West India just talking”.There are lots of accent tutorials from 15-year-old “experts”, which are invariably useless. (For a solid ROFL, search any “how to speak British” video uploaded by an American.) No, when researching dialect, you need the real deal. I learned scouse from a Toxteth teen smoking weed in a caravan, and Bostonian from a crowd fight in a Burger King. I pore over foreign news clips: villagers holding up a big fish, or denouncing a tyrant, parsing their vowel sounds so I can convincingly play a Yemeni scientist or Afghani diplomat on TV.Without YouTube, actors end up doing impressions of other actors, draining an already shallow linguistic pool. With access to the lives of ordinary people, and an ear for the rhythms of real speech, we can steal from much more authentic sources.It’s also good for watching two-hour compilations of controlled building demolitions, which are very therapeutic when you don’t get the job.A means to reaching the end in all those impossible videogamesStuart HeritageA guide to shortcuts to help you get through Batman Arkham City.Here’s a horrible confession: until relatively recently, I had never completed a videogame. Sure, I would give it my best shot, but eventually I would grow tired of drowning in the same place, or getting crushed by the same pillar, or playing other Sonic the Hedgehog levels that didn’t have the Green Hill Zone theme playing underneath it, and I would give up.Two factors helped me overcome this. First, I realised that if I was going to spend the bulk of my disposable income on what basically amounted to a really expensive CD, I should probably figure out how it ends. Second, people started posting walkthrough videos on YouTube.I first discovered YouTube walkthroughs after spending an entire morning – honestly; four full hours without a break – trying to throw a stick at a switch during one of the Batman Arkham games. That’s all I needed to do. Throw a stick, steer it around something and hit a switch. And I couldn’t. And it was driving me berserk. But, perhaps because I had just been through a breakup and had nothing else whatsoever to do with my life, I vowed that this time I wouldn’t be beaten.Eventually, I broke and Googled something like: “How to hit the switch with the stick Arkham.” The first result wasa video made by a fan who had played the full game, and narrated it, and uploaded it to YouTube, possibly because he had just been through a breakup and had nothing else to do with his life.He showed me how to hit the switch (all this time, I had been doing it wrong), and from that point on he became my companion, telling me how to tackle the next stage before I had even played it.Some might call this cheating. Some might say this is ignoring the exploratory spirit in which these games were made. To these people I say this: “You try hitting the poxy switch with the bloody stick, then we’ll talk.”I discovered that ‘dupe’ makeup is just as good as the high-end productsSara IlyasWhy you don’t need to buy expensive brands to get the look.I used to be snooty about the cult of young YouTube vloggers, with their gratingly enthusiastic tutorials on “How to get ready for a night out” or “How to be a jarring suburban brat”. That was until we had a big family wedding. The makeup artist we had booked cancelled at the last minute and we were forced to book a friend of a friend. Nice as she was, we looked terrible. I resembled Elizabeth I in a sari. With ascouse brow.I’m not ashamed to say that I cried. As our aunt ridiculed us on the drive home for wasting £30 on something we could learn to do ourselves, I found myself agreeing. I do a decent job of basic everyday makeup, but now I was determined to learn more. So one evening I threw myself into YouTube beauty tutorials. First, I tried out a smokey eye – surprisingly straightforward. I quickly mastered more elaborate eye makeup and the art of subtle contouring.Then, my younger sister showed me the world of “dupe” videos. Dupes are cheap makeup products that are as good as products 10 times their price. Dedicated vloggers trawl through cheap high-street products, posting up their best finds. The best concealer is £2 and is from Collection 2000. My favourite blush is £4.49 and from Sleek, a star brand of the dupe scene.There’s a reason why these videos are watched by millions of people: cheap products can disappoint if you’ve not researched them, but most people can’t afford to drop £50 at the Chanel beauty counter either. The most useful dupe I have bought is a W7 eyeshadow palette for £5, the higher-end version of which will set you back £40. You might find 15 shades of brown and gold unnecessary, but with Asian wedding season approaching, I beg to differ.My introduction to zen and the art of jeans washingTim JonzeWashing raw denim jeans – you don’t just bung ’em in the washing machine, you know.I sat there, transfixed, watching the clothes-washing instructions of a fashion designer called Jing, who was head designer at a company that made streetwear out of bamboo thread. Now, I know what you’re all thinking: “Tim, that could be the opening line of a Booker prize-winning novel.” But no, this was real life for me, and it was causing me to re-evaluate who I really was.Jing was teaching me, over 14 minutes and two separate YouTube clips,how to wash a pair of jeans. And not just any old jeans – I’m not a total moron, I do at least know how to wash normal jeans (just bung them in the washing machine, then text your wife to ask what setting it goes on again). No, these were “raw denim” jeans, which I purchased without realising what a total ball-ache they would be to deal with: you can’t use washing machines, you can only wash them once a year, you need special detergent and they have to drip dry.And so I watched Jing as he slowly, but methodically, squeezed a year’s worth of leg-grime out into a bathtub of lukewarm water. As I did so, I noticed a transformation within me, from someone who ridiculed the superficial life choices of a person such as Jing into someone who truly admired his entire aesthetics-bound existence. As he briefed me on the beauty of having your own unique “fade”, I realised that the colour of your jeans didn’t have to be just something that Urban Outfitters decided for you, but rather a gentle brushstroke on to the canvas that was my soul.From that day forward – or at least from whatever future moment my jeans finally dripped dry – I promised myself that, like Jing, I too would be a living monument to design, in which every move I made was in itself a work of art. And with that resolution firmly in my mind, I clicked on another YouTube link and learned how to reset the thermostat on the boiler.I perfected my chatshow couch skillsKayvan NovakPeter Cook on Parkinson in the 1980s: learn from a master.Three years ago, I got a call from my agent to ask if I would like to go on The Jonathan Ross Show to sit on his couch and be interviewed by him. As myself. No hiding behind balaclavasor prosthetics. Just me and him having a chat on his couch, a couch that had provided comfort for many a famous backside. And now it would provide some comfort/discomfort for mine. Comfort should I manage to pull off some sudden Robin Williamsesque mid-interview manic pantomimes, leaving an impression of the wild and crazy guy I had always imagined myself to be or, more likely, discomfort should I find my own personality cylinders misfiring due to neglect through spending too many hours on the telephone pretending to be a mouse. I needed guidance, I needed to learn some chatshow couch skills and fast. I needed YouTube.Until this point I had used YouTube mainly to indulge in TV nostalgia from my childhood. But now it was time to put the world’s greatest visual jukebox to the chatshow archive test: I typed in “Harrison Ford interview” and watched him on Wogan, Letterman and Johnny Carson. He was young, thin, slightly aloof, sarcastic, in his own world, handsome but not funny enough. So I typed in “Peter Cook Parkinson”: he was old, thin, wild-eyed, smoking, hilarious and definitely not me. Of course! Peter Sellers! Damn; he’s playing the ukulele.As I watched each video the little column on the right of my YouTube window kept offering up more and more delights: Muhammad Ali, Sean Connery, Grace Jones, Pete Doherty, Marco Pierre White stock cube recipe (sponsored link) – I inhaled it all. And the more I inhaled, the more inadequate I felt. How could I possibly earn my place amid all this chatshow talent, personality, charisma, wit and charm? By watching the opening credits to Button Moon, Manimal, The A-Team, Knight Rider, Cities of Gold, Dogtanian and the Three Muskehounds and an old episode of Far Flung Floyd. Sheer YouTube bliss.
It was launched at a star-studded event where Daft Punk came in full costume, Alicia Keys quoted Nietzsche and Madonna mounted a table while wearing tight leather trousers.But despite its extravagant beginnings, Tidal, the music-streaming service fronted by Jay Z and with the backing of artists including Kanye West and Rihanna, is showing signs of failure.Less than a month after some of the biggest names in music declared Tidal would be the salvation of the industry, the app has dropped out of the iPhone top 700 downloads chart.Related:Tidal: Jay Z, Madonna and Kanye make waves in the streaming businessThe news will be an embarrassment to the service, which Jay Z and co-owners including Beyoncé, Jack White and Usher pledged would become a challenger to streaming platforms such as Spotify and Pandora.Jay Z acquired Aspiro, the company behind Tidal, in March for $56m (£37m), in a takeover bid that was almost rejected by a group of minority shareholders. Talking about his vision for the service , the multimillionaire rapper said he and his roster of celebrity supporters wanted Tidal to be the first artist-owned music streaming platform that would pay 75% of its revenues back to the music industry (compared with the 50% paid by Spotify and Pandora).Jay Z said: “We didn’t like the direction music was going and thought maybe we could get in and strike an honest blow and if the very least we did was make people wake up and try to improve the free paid system, and promote fair trade, then it would be a win for us anyway.”It was a view echoed by Keys, who told the press conference: “We’re gathered … with one voice in unity in the hopes that today will be another one of those moments in time, a moment that will forever change the course of music history.”But despite the celebrity fanfare, the early signs of failure of Tidal may not come as a surprise to many others within the music community who have been more cynical about the service’s prospects.To begin with, Tidal comes with a higher price tag than its rivals, costing $20 a month, and does not have the free, ad-supported option offered by services such as Spotify. For this higher subscription fee, Tidal users have access to 25m tracks, about the same number as Spotify, but it also offers a lossless high-fidelity sound quality that its competitors don’t have, as well as HD music videos and music playlists curated by musicians such as Jay Z and Beyoncé.But music industry commentators have argued that this is not enough to encourage people to part with more than the £4.99 it currently costs for unlimited, ad-free streaming on Spotify or the £9.99 for full premium access.Indeed, while Tidal has fallen spectacularly down the app charts in the past month, both Spotify and Pandora have soared to take third and fourth places in the charts, the first time two music streaming services have hit the top four in sales simultaneously – even displacing the addictive game Candy Crush.Bob Lefsetz, the leading music critic and industry analyst, said Tidal did not have what it takes to dominate the already crowded streaming market, which is set to get even more congested this year when Apple and YouTube both launch streaming platforms.Related:Will Jay Z's Tidal service be washed away by Spotify?Writing in his weekly newsletter, Lefsetz said: “Why was Spotify successful? Because of the deep pockets of the owners, who were willing to lose on the way to winning. Beats Music did not have these deep pockets, and Tidal certainly does not. Unless the artists are all willing to kick in double-digit millions, out of their fortunes, to turn the tide.”The main issue, he added, was that not even Jay Z’s name and hip-hop credentials were enough to make people pay more money to stream music.“First and foremost you’ve got to pay for Tidal. And therefore it’s dead on arrival. Just like Apple’s new music service. Because people are cheap. They love their money more than their favourite artists, never forget it. Now if Tidal had a free tier … But it doesn’t. It can’t afford to lose that much money. Just because Jay Z is a famous musician he expects all of his fans to pony up 10 bucks a month? Raw insanity.”Tidal’s problems have not been helped by numerous administrative difficulties. Just two weeks after the service’s launch in March, thechief executive, Andy Chen, was replaced by Peter Tonstad, who, according to the company, had a “better understanding of the industry and a clear vision for how the company is looking to change the status quo”.Yet it is not just consumers that Tidal has struggled to convince; the service has also garnered criticism from numerous musicians, who claim it only helps the Madonnas and Jay Zs of this world, and smaller bands and emerging artists will not reap any benefits.Marcus Mumford, the lead singer of Mumford and Sons, told the NME that the band wouldn’t join Tidal even if asked. “Bigger bands have other ways of making money, so I don’t think you can complain,” he said. “When they say it’s artist-owned, it’s owned by those rich, wealthy artists. I don’t want to align myself with Spotify, Beats, Tidal, or whatever.”Ben Gibbard, the lead singer of US indie band Death Cab for Cutie, was equally scornful that musicians such as Jay Z, who is worth $560m, and Madonna, who is worth $800m, were attempting to play on people’s sympathies for struggling artists to get on board with Tidal.“I think they totally blew it by bringing out a bunch of millionaires and billionaires and propping them up onstage and then having them all complain about not being paid,”Gibbard told the Daily Beast.“There was a wonderful opportunity squandered to highlight what this service would mean for artists who are struggling and to make a plea to people’s hearts and pocketbooks to pay a little more for this service that was going to pay these artists a more reasonable streaming rate. And they didn’t do it. That’s why this thing is going to fail miserably.”Lily Allen has also expressed concerns that the high price of Tidal will only encourage people to pirate more music.Writing on Twitter, the singer said: “Tidal is so expensive compared to other perfectly good streaming services. He’s taking the biggest artists, made them exclusive to Tidal … People are going to swarm back to pirate sites in droves. Up and coming (not yet millionaires) artists are going to suffer as a result.”
A newly revealed bug in iOS lets attackers force iPhones and iPads into restart loops, repeatedly crashing and rebooting, using nothing but aWi-Fi network.Once the user has entered what its discoverer,security researchers Skycure, dubs the “no iOS Zone”, there’s no way to fix their phone other than escaping the range of the malicious network; every time it reboots, it crashes almost immediately.The basis of the attack uses a “specially crafted SSL certificate”, typically used to ensure a secure connection, to trigger a bug in the operating system that crashes out any app using SSL.“With our finding, we rushed to create a script that exploits the bug over a network interface,” the researchers wrote. “As SSL is a security best practice and is utilized in almost all apps in the Apple app store, the attack surface is very wide. We knew that any delay in patching the vulnerability could lead to a serious business impact: an organized denial of service (DoS) attack can lead to big losses.”But in addition to crashing individual apps, the bug can be used to crash the underlying operating system as well. “With heavy use of devices exposed to the vulnerability, the operating system crashes as well. Even worse, under certain conditions, we managed to get devices into a repeatable reboot cycle, rendering them useless.“Even if victims understand that the attack comes from a Wi-Fi network, they can’t disable the Wi-Fi interface in the repeated restart state as shown in the video.”When combined with an earlier vulnerability, named “Wi-Figate”, which lets attackers force a device to automatically connect to a given WiFi network, Skycure warns that an attack could be crafted which would deny service to any iOS attack in a given area. “Victims in range cannot do anything about it. Think about the impact of launching such an attack on Wall Street, or maybe at the world’s busiest airports, or at large utility plants. The results would be catastrophic.”The researchers say they have warned Apple of the error, and are refraining from releasing technical details about it until after the company has issued a fix. Apple did not respond to a comment request ahead of publication.
Sorry I’m late guys – I’m in LA and it’s 5am here!
The European anti-trust action against Google uses a silly rubric to get at a serious underlying problem.The nominal issue is that Google preferentially directed comparison shoppers to its own e-commerce sites even when they weren’t the cheapest option. This would be sleazy if true. What’s certainly true is that Google’s shopping site has always sucked, is barely used, and is the least worrisome competition question raised by Google’s online dominance. Busting Google for sleazy e-commerce search results is like taking down Al Capone for tax-evasion.The 21st-century has a competition problem. As we lurch toward thePiketty-complete apocalypse, every industry grows more winner-takes-all, dominated by titans with unthinkable market power, whose transgressions are largely unpunishable, because every one of them ends up being too big to fail.The internet is no exception, though it might be. Other industries have intensive capital needs. Once a firm has globalised and amassed its war-chest of billions, an upstart doesn’t stand a chance. The thing that made the internet such a harbinger of disruption was the relatively small capital demands needed to start a service that competes with those behemoths. When you can start a payment processor, online marketplace or publisher without a fortune in furnished offices, manufacturing apparatus or mass-scale advertising, the fact that the incumbents needed to pay for all these things worked to your advantage. When you could show an ad and take an order from anywhere in the world as cheaply as you could serve a customer next door, the fact that yesterday’s colossuses had gone to the expense of opening offices on five continents give you the superior financial picture.As the internet giants grew, so did states’ interest in their business practices. YouTube was started by three people with a garage, a pile of hard-drives and an unhealthy interest in video. In the years that followed, YouTube has acquiesced to a mounting compliance regime – spending hundreds of millions on its Content ID system for automated copyright enforcement, filling buildings with expensive lawyers and specialists to police obscenity, libel and other potential sources of liability, working out how to comply with the complex legal requirements of different jurisdictions, from theThai royal family’s insistence on the right to remove videos that criticised the monarchyto the UK government’s insistence on the right to police videos advocating anything it unilaterally characterises as violent Islamism.Starting up as a competitor to YouTube today is a daunting prospect. With more than 128 hours of new video every minute, it’s hard to imagine how you’d amass a competing catalogue. But of course, plenty of people chafe at YouTube’s strictures and its business model, and of course, when YouTube kicked off, it was hard to imagine how it could ever compete with cable TV.One thing is certain: three people in a garage with a pile of hard drives could not disrupt YouTube anymore,. Anything hoping to compete with YouTube would have to find the money to replicate all those compliance systems. Today it takes more than a pile of hard drives. It takes a pile of hard drives, a building full of lawyers, and hundreds of millions worth of Content ID.The capital requirements for starting a competitor to the internet giants, from Facebook to Google to Apple, are so intense that they effectively only compete with each other. I dearly love the privacy-oriented search engineDuckDuckGo, but the onlyreally big competitor to Google’s search product is Microsoft’s Bing: not a spunky startup, but a blue-chip company that was until recently the most profitable in the history of the world.It’s not like Facebook, Apple, Google or the other giants conspired to shut out the spunky startups. They didn’t need to. If David Cameron wanted to use Facebook to spy on people, or wanted to dictate how Google presents search results for movies, the parties who would participate in that negotiation are Google, Facebook, the security services and the entertainment industry. The internet companies bargain hard to ensure that the new rules will not destroy their business, and the regulators and spies meet them there – it’s inconceivable that a regulator would tell Google that it must change its search business so fundamentally that it had to go out of business altogether.Not at the table: spunky startups. A startup, after all, is a series of near-fatal disasters followed by failure (usually) or soaring success (very rarely). To be a spunky startup is to be in a state of perpetual emergency. You can’t hire lawyers to mooch around Number 10 all day trying to make sure that your business model (which might change tomorrow anyway) emerges intact from the negotiations.Also not at the table: tomorrow’s spunky startups. Firms that don’t even exist yet can’t participate in these negotiations (by definition).Google and Amazon and Apple don’t actively negotiate to make it impossible to be a spunky startup. They simply don’t negotiate to make it possible. Google wants to make sure that the YouTube of 2015 is viable. They don’t care about the YouTube of 2005. If today’s rules make that YouTube impossible, that’s not their problem any more.There’s no better example of this than the VATMOSS VAT mess. Amazon, Google, Apple and other e-commerce giants claimed to be headquartered in Luxembourg in order to avoid VAT. This made everything they sold 20% cheaper than the products offered by high-street companies and small startups that couldn’t afford a presence in Luxembourg, which is quite a commercial advantage.To solve this, the EU passed a regulation saying that anyone who sold goods in the EU would have to figure out who they were selling to, collecting two pieces of non-contradictory information about each purchas and retaining them for 10 years (meaning that every small and medium-sized enterprise [SME] has suddenly become a long-lived reservoir of indifferently secured Europeans’ sensitive financial information), and charge the local rate of VAT on those goods. There’s no minimum amount: if you sell a single 50p item in Bulgaria and collect 1p in VAT, you have to prepare and file a return so that Bulgaria gets its penny.Amazon, Apple and the other tech giants were at the table when this was negotiated. It’s a pain in the ass for them, but not unbearable. They have whole buildings full of programmers and accountants who will simply update their tax filings to make sense of it.For SMEs and sole traders, it’s been a disaster. I have asmall businessselling my own audiobooks through my website. This first VATMOSS quarter, I collected GBP18.76 in VAT from five EU nations. I spent over GBP700 in custom software, accountancy fees, and a new, specialist e-commerce fulfilment service in order to collect and remit this GBP18.76. Everyone I know who sells ebooks or digital audiobooks is in the same position.Indeed, if you’re trying to sell digital goods in the EU today, there’s really only one cost effective way to do it: use Amazon. Because the rules aimed at weakening Amazon’s unfair market dominance were negotiated with Amazon’s business-case in mind, they can be readily borne by Amazon. Because the rest of us weren’t taken into consideration, we must all now pay rent to Amazon forever, or be bankrupted by the red-tape that it (and only it) can handily dispense with.I’m not making the case against regulation here. I’m making the case against bad regulation. If we want to weaken the grip of these internet incumbents through competition, our regulations must target them to the exclusion of SMEs, not without regard to them.
Minecraft remains the most popular game franchise on YouTube by some distance, with videos of Mojang’s crafting game notching up more than 3.9bn views in March 2015 alone.That’s according to a chart produced by research firms Newzoo and Octoly, which have been tracking views of YouTube game videos.Minecraft was well ahead of second-placed Grand Theft Auto, which spawned videos watched nearly 1.4bn times in March.Related:Rooster Teeth plays the video game: ‘We’re competing with Netflix and HBO’Mobile game Five Nights at Freddy’s took third place with 1.3bn views that month, beating high-profile console franchises Call of Duty (851m views) and FIFA (770m views).Newzoo and Octoly’s chart tracks the 20 biggest games franchises on YouTube, which between them generated 12.3bn video views in March – meaning that Minecraft accounted for 32% of the total views.The companies noted that 97.6% of these views were “fan-created videos” uploaded by people other than the games’ developers and publishers. However, a significant chunk of those views are likely to have come from fans who are also professional YouTubers.Five Nights at Freddy’s, for example, is a firm favourite of online video creators from PewDiePie to The Fine Brothers. The series, which sees animatronic characters running amok in a creepy restaurant, isbeing turned into a horror movie.The Diamond Minecart is one of the most popular Minecraft YouTube channels.Minecraft’s position at the top of the NewZoo / Octoly chart – and the popularity of games on YouTube more generally – should come as no surprise.Anotherchart of the top 100 YouTube channels by views in February, produced by analytics firm OpenSlate for industry site Tubefilter, showed games channels continuing to be among the most popular on YouTube.PewDiePie (299.1m views in February), The Diamond Minecart (249.5m), Popular MMOs (233.7m) and Stampy (222.9m) were all among the top 15 channels on YouTube that month.The same companies’separate rankings for the top 100 most-viewed games channels in Februaryshowed that cumulatively they generated 5.7bn views that month.Mojang has always encouraged fans and pro YouTubers alike to use Minecraft for their videos on YouTube, without filing copyright takedowns or demanding a share of their advertising revenues on the service.“That doesn’t take anything away from us, and I would say it actually adds value to Minecraft, to have people who are extremely talented and creative doing things,”Mojang’s chief operating officer Vu Bui told the Guardianin October 2014.Related:Super Mario 64 and 'mod' culture: meet the man behind the high-def makeover“We’ve essentially outsourced YouTube videos to a community of millions of people, and what they come up with is more creative than anything we could make ourselves... There’s no damage to us from YouTube.”Nintendo is the most prominent company to have taken a different approach, originally using YouTube’s Content ID copyright system to “claim” videos featuring its games and thus the advertising revenues from them.Earlier in 2015, Nintendo launched a “Creators Program” to get YouTubers to register to receive a share of ad revenues – 60% or 70% depending on whether they registered individual videos or entire channels respectively – from videos of its games.PewDiePie was among the creators criticising the initiative at the time.Interestingly, Nintendo’s Super Mario was a new entry in Newzoo and Octoly’s chart of top YouTube game franchises for March, although the companies stressed that this was driven by fan-created videos ofan unlicensed version of Super Mario 64 created to play in web browsers, which has since been taken down.
