&bull; It's still weeks until the game officially hits the shelves - butSims 3has already started appearing on torrent sites, reports Ars Technica. It's one of the biggest pre-release leaks ever - and reminiscent of the recent episode withblockbuster movie Wolverine.&bull; RememberNapster?No, not the original filesharing site, but its later reincarnation as a subscription music service. That proved so popular that the struggling companysold itselfto US retailer Best Buy... which has decided torelaunch it as a music subscription site. Don't worry! As Engadget reports, it's astreamingmusic subscription site, ala Spotify. Problem solved, then.&bull; New Scientist has a challenge for everyone trying to explore the limits of thenewly-launched Wolfram Alpha: attempting to perform a "Wolfram whack" - a "clear, unambiguous questions to which there's a simple numerical answer that eludes Wolfram Alpha". Got one?Then they want to hear from you.
In case you missed this today, Activision has officially announcedTony Hawk: RIDE, a new version of the hit series, complete with a motion-sensing peripheral - which looks exactly like a skateboard with no wheels. From the press release:Using a combination of accelerometers and motion sensors, the intuitive controller allows players to physically control the action by performing various movements and gestures on the board that directly translate into amazing tricks in the game.  Without complex button combinations or analog sticks, gamers of all skill levels can literally step on the board and play!"This is the game I've always wanted to make," said Tony Hawk, sounding suspiciously like one of those aging rock groups that, fearing the icy grip of cultural obsolescence, suddenly calls in William Orbit to produce their latest album, proclaiming, "this is the music we've always wanted to make". Anyway, he continues, "Playing on the board is unlike any other game, and I'm excited for everyone to have the chance to feel what it's really like to experience the true feeling of skateboarding."Unlike any other game, that is, apart from Top Skater, the 1997 arcade title from Sega, that uses a motion-sensitive skateboard (and also includes a character named Keith...).The Xbox 360 and PS3 versions are being developed by Chicago-based newcomer,Robomodo, while Wii duties have been passed toBuzz Monkey, which has worked on various iterations of the Tomb Raider and Syphon Filter series'. All versions of Ride are due out this autumn and it'll no doubt be put through its paces at E3.So, is this going to re-ignite the Hawk brand which has, apart from the odd blip, been delivering diminishing gameplay returns for the past six years? Will it re-capture the initial excitement of the original Tony Hawk's Pro Skater - the feel of being in control of a skateboard in an open world, filled with customisable tricks and possibilities?And finally, Wii Sports, Wii Fit now this: are the flood gates open for similarly physical sporting simulations? What future for those of us wholikebutton combinations?
This week sees the release ofBionic Commando, a modern take on the classic 2D scroller, famed for its swing-through-the-air mechanism. Once again, you're Nathan Spencer an augmented super soldier, sold out by his commanding officers but called back into action when a terrorist weapon takes out Ascension City. Your job is to swing through the obliterated environment with your bionic arm and grappling hook, taking out enemies with a variety of mega-weapons.The game has something of an international flavour - overseen byCapcomJapan, via British producer Benn Judd, it's been developed mostly atGRINthe Sweden-founded developer, which now has offices in Barcelona and Jakarta. So what was it like to oversee such a complex project? We spoke to Ben last week to find out...Can you tell us about how the Bionic Commando title came about? Is it something Capcom has wanted to update for a while?Bionic Commando was one of those unique titles that actually performed better in the West than it did in Japan when it was released in 1988. It was due to this fact that the game was never really given a second thought by a lot of the Japanese producers at Capcom Japan.Recently the company has been trying a variety of new things in order to globalise and to escape traditional Japanese market-centric design approaches. One of these steps was to have a foreign producer (myself) work with Western design teams and internal planners in order to create a mix of both Western and Eastern design schools. Bionic Commando has been the first test case of trying this strategy out.What is it about the Bionic Commando brand that will appeal to gamers who perhaps don't remember the original titles?I have to say that game design is pretty simple when you break it down to its bigger parts. One of these major parts is the movement mechanic, whether that's running, riding in vehicles, climbing up the backs of monsters or swinging from building to building. Bionic Commando basically takes the very fluid and visually-intensive swing mechanic that you saw in Spiderman and then adds a level of skill that requires the player to rely on their own ability rather than just hold down a button and let the game do everything for them.What do you think have been the new title's key additions to the series?Making a game 3D definitely changes the whole dynamic of how you play it. With Bionic Commando we have placed emphasis on the vertical aspect of it rather than just looking from side to side. You'll really need to traverse rooftops in order to pass a nest of snipers but on the other hand, sometimes taking the ground route will prove to be invaluable if you want to survive. The game has some nice RPG elements in that you learn new arm abilities, can power up your weapons, and unlock new in-game challenges which earn you more collectibles. And of course there's multiplayer.What's the reaction been like to the Xbox Live demo?It's been received very well by a lot of multiplayer competitive gamers which suggests that there is a lot to enjoy. I always had a lot of faith in multiplayer from the start but it's nice to be reaffirmed.Mike Patton from Faith No More voices Spencer -  how did that come about?We pretty much went though a lawyer friend of his. He was a huge fan of the original game so he went out of his way to help us. What a fantastic individual. Definitely one of the bright spots of the game.The tone seems much darker than previous incarnations - is this because it's more befitting for the Xbox and PS3 platforms or were you making a conscious break from the more comic book predecessors?I personally am a huge fan of dynamic characters. Watching how a person/character changes when their life has been turned upside down makes for some good literature. Too many video game characters are just 2D cut-outs that are incredibly static so while I loved the '80s action hero-type Spencer in the original game, I wanted to break him as a character and let him rise from the ashes with new beliefs.Spencer was originally a military man who loved his country and had the utmost respect for the higher-ups in the government that gave him his Bionic Arm. However, the events that take place in the web comic 'Chain of Command' on the Bionic Commando website show how the very morals that he has based his entire life on get shattered leaving him with nothing left to believe in.The game is a joint project between Capcom Japan and GRIN. How long did it take and how was it managed?The game has been in development for over two and a half years with a staff that topped out at over 100 people at one time. We would basically take our entourage over to GRIN in Stockholm, exchange ideas and work through some of the design problems about every three months.Can you tell us a little about the development culture at Capcom? How democratic are the teams? We get the impression that it's quite a dictatorship.It's actually quite democratic - albeit a more structured democratic process. It's true the Producer can crack the whip and force some of his decisions on the team but the 'Producer Veto' shouldn't be used lightly. Especially for someone in my shoes who is a fledgling producer. In general, teamwork is the best process with project leads making some of the bigger decisions.Japanese development has somewhat fallen in favour on the global 'scene'  - do you think a renaissance is on the way? If so, what will bring it about?Believe it or not, and this comes from the inside track from a lot of Japanese developers and external Western developers, the Japanese know that they can't continue to survive in the gaming world without getting more Western gaming dollars. They know their designs are starting to wane in popularity as well, so many of them are going through an experimental phase right now. Everything from hiring internal foreign staff members, to using licensed Western engines. I don't know which company will find the right blend first but I can say that Capcom has been on the forefront in this area.You've worked in Japan for a while. What are the key elements of working in Japanese development that are still catching you out?Honestly? I guess that would be the amount of extra work Japanese people do in order to avoid a problem. They probably spend millions of dollars on risk-avoidance for problems that ultimately would not have come up. The one thing it does give them is the best quality around with the least amount of bugs. However, there is a part of me that just wants to save time and go with the flow from time to time.Capcom seems to be enthusiastically revisiting its back catalogue at the moment, with Marvel vs Capcom, Megaman and Street Fighter all back in various forms. Are there other classic titles you have your eye on? If so, what and why?Capcom is all about the classics. Strider, Ghosts N Goblins, Mega Man 2, Trojan, Forgotten Worlds… It just goes on and on. I love them all because they remind me of where gaming came from. A time where games weren't these massive Hollywood-esque productions but rather a nice getaway from the hardships of reality. Where pressing a button just made your character leap over a pit fall… or swing over a pit fall depending on the game…
Last week, wecelebratedthe great British presence in theDevelop 100, an annual publication that ranks the world's game development studios. Although clearly pleased that so many UK studios were included (and with one in the top slot),we weren't convincedthat the criteria for selection were robust.And so, we got in touch with Michael French, Editor-in-Chief of Develop, MCV and Casualgaming.biz, who took a few moments out of his busy editorial balancing act to answer a few probing questions. Keep reading for Michael's views on why the Develop100 is the definitive list and why the UK's entries are even more indicative of a bullish British market.First, does the Develop100 intend to be a definitive top 100 list or is this a light touch list?We definitely believe our list is accurate and authoritative. I'm sure (and know) that there are studios which feel left out or are claiming the list has 'lost relevance', but similarly there are many others that think this list better reflects the changing nature of the development industry, and the games industry as a whole given the rise of new business models, delivery mechanisms and wider audiences. Based on the way we formulated the list this is as good a list like this as you will get.How did you measure "general industry standing, studio reputation, publisher relations and all around brilliance"?Based primarily on calendar year 2008, we formed a long list of studios around the world based on their actual output. We then sorted that list based the end-of-year and monthly sales charts published by the three respected games industry data agencies – GfK-ChartTrack, NPD and Famitsu. Then we compared the list of a report of Metacritic scores given to us by Gamequarry.com, which sorted developer standing not on sales but also their critical success last year.At the same time we had invited the industry, back when we announced the newer criteria in March, to submit ideas and comments on their and other studios, which we took into account. We also augmented and added to those pitches with our own research and questions, including: how many publishing deals has this studio secured? What is its ability to raise funding like? How well can it generate new IP? What new or classic business models has this studio pioneered or taken advantage of? What is its reputation amongst fans like? What is its reputation amongst the industry like? How successful has its DLC been? Did its major releases lived up to their hype/promise? If it's publisher-owned what kind of revenues has it generated for its owner? How well has it developed its business, either via expansion or acquisition? Has it been over-reliant on making games based on its own old IP or properties owned by another publisher? Has it had any cultural impact? In what other biz dev ways has the studio succeeded (e.g. Has it successfully sold its tech to other studios with good results?)?Sure, some of these are arguably subjective – but there are enough variables there to paint a decent picture of every studio in the book, which the team then debated and discussed at great length.Third, where did you get the data for the iPhone/casual/social network content? Was it bespoke research or from another source?This is a mix of sources – and admittedly, details and metrics on this area of the market are hard to find. But we used a mix of publicly released data and information given to us by people at those and other companies. Remember this is a list about studios and their content, not necessarily just their content. So the questions above were asked about them: this explains why someone like Playfish makes it in the list for the first time.What do you think accounts for the strong British presence in this list?In the 2009 edition of the Develop 100 there are 25 UK studios in the list, the same amount as there were when the book was purely based on UK sales as it has been in its previous four iterations. On the flipside, there are a much higher number of Japanese and North American (USA and Canada) studios in the book; there always are.You could even argue that some of those UK companies not in this year's list but present in other years – specifically the work for hire ones – would make the UK contingent even greater had they had a slightly better year in terms of sales and/or reviews, provided fuller data, or had better standing.But in all, I think the answer to the question is simple: the UK remains a vibrant place for developing games. Studios here make some of the most profitable global franchises (Rockstar North and GTAIV, Traveller's Tales and Lego Star Wars/Batman, etc), can generate great new IP (Media Molecule and LittleBigPlanet, Black Rock and Pure), have innovated amongst stiff competition (Jagex and Runescape), continually wow with British-flavoured but world-renowned series (Sports Interactive and Football Manager, London Studio and SingStar, Criterion and Burnout), fulfil on their promise/hype (Lionhead and Fable II), and/or truly surprise by defining and maintaining a new category in games (Relentless and Buzz!, Playfish and its Facebook games).Of course the USA is great too – this country created World of Warcraft, Fallout, Dead Space, Modern Warfare, Gears of War, etc.Finally, how much is the release of the Top 100 tied in with the marketing strategy for the Develop conference?The two aren't related – the only connection is the Develop brand. The 100 has been published for five years now, and pre-dates the conference itself. We are a large part of the Develop Conference in terms of branding, support and ethos - and our executive editor also runs the advisory board for the event – which has helped make it the success it is, but the organisation and marketing strategy is expertly handled by Tandem Events, with the PR from Bastion. The fact we published the list and our press release this week in the same time frame they confirmed the great new speakers at the event is pure coincidence.
Wolfram Alphais no ordinary search engine, but occupies a space somewhere between Google and Wikipedia. Whether it will ever be as successful is open to doubt. However, if you need exactly the sort of answer that Wolfram Alpha is designed to provide, it's already a terrific resource.The site's slogan says it's a "computational knowledge engine" and the search box has an equals sign at the end. It's probably most useful as a "homework engine" - though one that is focused on science, engineering and maths, rather than the arts and humanities.Wolfram Alpha's heritage comes from Stephen Wolfram's Mathematica software, which has been around for more than 20 years. It's a computational tool that enables you to manipulate, analyse and visualise data: its capabilities range from solving equations to creating real-time 3D graphics.At its simplest, Wolfram Alpha is a calculator, but one that understands things like quantum mechanics. To that, Wolfram Research has added data from fields such as geography, medicine, sociology, finance, education, music and sport.For example, do you want to know what size shoe to buy in Japan, to match your British size 11s? Google will find you conversion tables but Wolfram Alpha will do the job. Using the convention that anything inside the square brackets goes in the search box, enter [U.K. men's size 11 shoe in Japanese size].The shoe size conversion is one of the dozens ofexample queries that Wolfram Alpha provides. Studying the examples will save you a lot of time in the long run, because the more precise your question, the more likely you are to get a useful answer. Wolfram Alpha doesn't do sloppy.It's also excellent atcomparing stock pricesand it canconvert some currencies. Give it questions like that and you also get tons of background info and graphs.Wolfram Alpha can answer more general queries, such asWho wrote Stairway to Heaven?,How big is the Gobi desert?, and evenHow many roads must a man walk down before you can call him a man?, but it's extremely short of material in many areas. This is because it doesn't search the web. It only uses data that has been tested and uploaded by its own engineers.Wolframsaysthat when computing started, 50 years ago, people thought they "would be able to ask a computer any factual question, and have it compute the answer. But it didn't work out that way."It's becoming possible now, he says, thanks to the vast amount of data available on the web, andWolfram Research's Mathematica and NKS(A New Kind of Science).Wolfram Alpha shows that it's now possible to answer some questions, just not enough of them to be useful. But this is only the beginning. It will get better as the platform is developed and more data sets are added.Google has come a long way in the past decade. It will be interesting to see where Wolfram Alpha is in 2020.
Wolfram Alphais already coming in for a fair amount of flack because it isn't Google, and in a live test on that well-known forum for testing technology, Radio 4's Today programme, it wasn't able to give comparative figures for the declines of swallows and the North sea haddock live on air.Write it off! Consign it to the dustbin!Well, not quite so fast.Wolfram Alpha is indeed a search engine, but it's not pretending to be Google, and unlike so many of the search engines that I've had pitched to me over the years, it isn't trying to do "search". It's actually doing something more subtle: it's doingsemanticsearch. That thing that Sir Tim Berners-Lee has been banging on about. Whereas Google simply uses tweaked versions of its original "lots of people link to this page" algorithm.So don't write it off just yet. In fact don't write it off at all. The only thing that might hold it back is the cost of running it - but as Wolfram has had huge success with its software packageMathematica(which it used to build Alpha), it may be able to sustain the cost for a while.The potential benefits mean that Wolfram Alpha could become both more reliable than Wikipedia for straight factual questions (though it will never be as in-depth as Wikipedia), and that its usefulness will grow very rapidly as more and more pages on the web get the sort of XML markup that means they can distinguish between Ford, the car, and ford, the method of getting across a river.It's as though the enormous overpromise made all those years ago by Ask Jeeves - that it would understand natural-language queries - is finally starting to come true.And it does have some definite advantages over Google, which is a lot more than I can say for every other search engine "competitor" to Google that I've ever been shown.Compare, for example, the results of asking "Where did Marilyn Monroe die?" Wolfram Alpha goes away and thinks for a bit before answering "Brentwood, California"; Google rapidly offers youlinks 1-10 of about 1.76min which the second contains the answer directly. (Plus, for your benefit, another link with the data and her age.) Then Wolfram Alpha also offers the present population for Brentwood.Ask it though about "MPs expenses" and it'sstumped. "Wolfram Alpha doesn't know what to do with your input", it admits.Still, it has a few ideas. "A few things to try", it suggests. "Enter any date. Enter any town. Enter any two stocks. Enter any calculation. Enter any math formula (eg x^2 sin(x))".Or ask it the volume of the galaxy (it calculates it) or the square root of 13to 10,000 decimal places.To think that that Wolfram Alpha is in any way finished - as in complete - is a serious mistake. Probably the best early potted analysis I've seen is at Hyperorg, whichcommentedthat it's"like a roomful of idiot savants. Each knows a scary amount about a topic. And, unlike a such a roomful, WA also knows how to recombine and compute what each of the savants knows. But if the room doesn't have the savant you're looking for, you get back nothing but a "Huh?"Early days, though. This is one not to write off immediately, but keep watch on. At the very least, its ability to answer factual questions may mean that journalists will use it more often than thesometimes-wrongly-edited Wikipedia- and if journalists use it, you know how they'll blabber about it.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Turns out therecent changes at Craigslistto avoid accusations that it was encouraging prostitution weren't enough to take the heat off the site. South Carolina's attorney general islooking at a possible criminal investigation into its affairs, which Craigslist CEO Jim Buckmaster responded to in uncharacteristically angry fashion: by saying"Seriously?"&bull; MG Siegler at Techcrunch isoutraged-outraged- that the "UK press" has encouraged a centenarian to join Twitter just so they can write a story about it. By "UK press", of course, he actually means The Sun, which delivered ajuicy tabloid storythat was dutifully followed up with nary a question byDigg-baiting Fleet Street hacks. Fortunately, the only mention we gave toIvy Beanwas in our Media Monkey diary.&bull; I've been switched off the online world for the past few days in an attempt to explore the weird and wonderful sights of Arizona - but sifting through the links from the weekend, I couldn't help but notice Jack's pointer toThe worst album covers ever. Part 1: heavy metal. Yes, it's linkbait. But it's good link bait.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
They know about explosions and ­monsters and are among the best minds in the world when it comes to inventing ever more exhilarating digital worlds.But increasing numbers of the UK's best videogame designers are being lured abroad in a costly brain drain which the UK industry says the government has done far too little to stop.The computer games industry ­contributes more than £1bn to the UK's gross domestic product, more than the film industry, which receives support in the form of tax breaks.For about 30 years Britain has had the third most successful videogames industry in the world, behind the United States and Japan, creating a string of worldwide hits including Tomb Raider and the more controversial Grand Theft Auto. But one recent analysis shows that the UK is slipping down the international rankings in the face of stiff competition from Canada and France, where there is substantial government assistance.It is understood that the communications minister, Lord (Stephen) Carter, is considering options for assistance, not least because he missed the sector out in his interim report, Digital Britain, earlier this year.Unlike the music, film and television industries, which are all clamouring for legislation against online piracy, the games industry wants support so that it can invest."We're not asking for a handout, we're not asking for a subsidy to stave off ­collapse, we're asking for an investment to allow the games industry to be even more successful," said Richard Wilson, the chief executive of Tiga, a group that represents independent games developers."There's no principle which the government can cling to and say there shouldn't be a tax break for a specific industry," he says. "Quite apart from the massive bailouts for banks, there have also been smaller schemes that have been effective for other industries."The Canadian government, keen to bolster a young, fast-growing sector, offers not just tax breaks but also the speedy resolution of immigration ­procedures for games workers – and in some cases even subsidises salaries to attract top talent.There are about 30,000 British expats in British Columbia, and many of them work in the games industry – tempted by the lifestyle and the sweeteners.At the offices of Electronic Arts, the world's biggest independent developer, the staff are international and some teams are heavily dependent on employees brought from the UK. The working conditions and status are hard to ignore, say those who have made the switch."Vancouver was more attractive, as there are lots more opportunities here," said Matthew Boulton, 31, a software developer who moved to EA in 2004. "It's not that I have anything particular against Guildford – it's just a bit lacking in the oceans and mountains department."He now works for an online gaming company in the city."Games are a lot more high profile here; it's recognised as an important industry," he said. "Maybe that's true in the UK as well, but you never get that sense. You never hear politicians mention it – but here, it's one of the things that people know is strong and that you need to support."Campaigners say gaming is one of Britain's biggest creative industries, employing about 30,000 people nationally, with sales of videogames in the UK worth almost £2bn in 2008.Carter is understood to be evaluating whether support can be best given through direct government intervention or tax changes, and his final report next month is expected to give gaming a far more pivotal place.However, the Treasury will need a lot of convincing that there is a case for government support for an industry that has seen rapid growth.Ed Vaizey, the shadow minister for culture, has argued that the government's failure to support the industry is causing real damage. Despite its size, there is no UK videogames council, lottery funding or tax breaks, he said last month. "The only time it gets mentioned in parliament is when Keith Vaz [chairman of the home affairs committee] is blaming it for causing some recent outrage. We were the second largest in the world, but we are slipping."Last year senior executives at French publisher Ubisoft said they would not consider opening new development studios in Britain because there were better incentives in other countries. Sony, which has several studios around Britain that produce some of is most successful games, last year closed production on several high-profile titles to cut costs.Meanwhile IGA Worldwide, a hotly tipped British startup that places advertising in online games, is struggling to find investment to keep its business going – and may have to sell itself to stay afloat.Some progress is being made: next month Tiga joins forces with the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (Nesta), to help games companies hire better staff. And although last month's budget proved a damp squib for those who had hoped that the chancellor, Alistair Darling, might find money for the industry, Wilson said that pressure from the ­Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats was starting to make the government listen."I don't think we've ever pushed it as coherently or effectively as we have done over the last 12 months. We're now having meetings with Department for Culture, Media and Sport and Treasury officials where they're not kicking the idea out of court," he told the Guardian. "Although I find the rate of progress extremely frustrating, we still have a good chance to get something."
There are three ways that Hollywood sees the videogames industry: as a competitor, a marketing opportunity - or the inspiration for some of the most risible films in living memory (Super Mario Bros, Street Fighter and Max Payne, anybody?). The most successful director in history, however, believes that games and movies can peacefully co-exist."I'd be a hypocrite if I thought the gaming business was hurting the movie business," says Steven Spielberg over the phone from Los Angeles. "I go out to the movies. I play games. I used to go out to play games, until they came to us [and] all the video-game parlours went the way of the dodo bird."His fascination with games began in the very early days of his career, he says, when he had time to kill on the set of the film that made his career. "Back in the 1970s, when I was making Jaws, I played the first Pong game that was installed at a venue on Martha's Vineyard," he says. "I've been a gamer since the beginning - that's why it's very easy for me to switch back and forth."In practice this means spending time on his burgeoning new career as a computer game designer: these days, when he is not directing or producing, Spielberg keeps himself busy overseeing projects at one of the world's biggest games publishers, Electronic Arts.His most recent brainwave? Boom Blox, a puzzle game for the Nintendo Wii that received rave reviews when it came out a year ago - think of something that combines Jenga-like wobbly bricks with the addictive quality of Tetris and you are part of the way there. The sequel, Boom Blox Bash Party, is out at the end of the month.It is a great little game, but you cannot help the sneaking suspicion that it is either a vanity project or an opportunity to slap Spielberg's name on the box to help shift more copies. On the contrary, the director insists that he meets with the developers regularly and takes a guiding hand in the direction of the game.In many ways, it is no surprise. Many of Spielberg's movies have been soaked with the essence of geek - he was part of the generation of directors who spawned the special-effects blockbuster, films that often feel suspiciously like computer games.Perhaps the biggest difference between the two media these days is that while moving pictures remain passive, plenty of games (including Boom Blox) require us to get active - dragging ourselves from the sofa in order to leap around the living room. "My kids get physical exercise, they jump around," Spielberg says. "They don't know it's good for them, they just know they're having fun doing it."
Bert and Ernie on a boatAnother example of the enduringly brilliant combination that is Sesame Street's finest muppet pair plus burlesqued gangsta rap.Awkward Family PhotosThe long photographic tradition of assuming inappropriate proximity with close family is finally honoured online. Now put your hand on your mum's hip and smile like you mean it.How to Say SynecdocheCannes-goers struggling with Charlie Kaufman's new film title prove not nearly as amusing as the final gentleman's egregious satisfaction at having got it right.TracksMarilyn MansonArma-Goddamn-Motherfuckin-GeddoniTunes, 79pThe antichrist superstar returns with the usual morbid musings and roaring expletives to a backdrop of pounding guitars.Aliens: The Sunlamp Show (Disco Bloodbath Mix)myspace.com/thealiens1, free streamLike a lost cut from Screamadelica, the latest single from the former Beta Band men gets a hazy, loved-up makeover.Marissa NadlerRiver of DirtiTunes, 79pEthereal vocals float over strummed guitars and pedal steel on this beguiling, Mazzy Star-ish single by the dream-folk singer.TortoisePrepare Your Coffin, free streamThe influential post-rock band return with their first new material in five years. Intricate guitar and synth lines intertwine in this taster for their forthcoming album Beacons of AncestorshipVideosMos DefCasa Deyfree streamThe minimalist video for the New York rapper's latest is one for lightning-fast lip-readers, featuring a close up of the MD mouth in full flow.
Alfa Romeo MiTo&pound;13,631Miles per gallon:58.9CO2 per km:126 GramsGood for:Alpha malesBad for:Beta blockersA friend, finding himself in clear water after the turbulence of a messy divorce, is in two minds as to whether to propose to his current girlfriend. "I've drawn up a list," he told me, "pros on one side and nos on the other. Problem is," he said mournfully, "it's 50/50."Buying a new car, like starting a relationship, also defies logic. It often has nothing to do with the brain and much to do with the heart - and no manufacturer has a more Cupid-like aim than Alfa Romeo. From the charms of the beautiful 8C to the classic appeal of the Spider and the voluptuous curves of the Brera, Alfas have been provoking endorphin cascades in car lovers for generations. The latest recruit to the Italian's catwalk is the MiTo. Designed in Alfa's ancestral home of Milano and built in Torino, it's the manufacturer's first supermini. Created in the tyre tracks of the great Alfasud of the 70s, the MiTo is an entry-level vehicle for design-conscious twentysomethings who take style and affordability as a given. Other reviewers have swooned over this "sculpture created by speed" - they've been wowed by its stand-out looks and outstanding performance. I was sure it would be the usual heart shot for me, too. But it wasn't. It certainly deserves plaudits for daring to be different, but I found it curiously ugly. From the side, the absence of the B-pillar does turn the windows into a single sweeping "Egyptian eye", but from the front the MiTo appears to be wearing Hannibal Lecter's restraint mask. The circular headlamps peer myopically over its squashed pug nose. Inside, there's no shortage of luxury - clearly money has been spent. But it was a little spoilt by the annoying armrest which always seemed to be in the way. And the MP3 dock didn't work - a small matter, but it only takes a single piece of grit in your sandal to make you feel uncomfortable. Performance-wise, it was certainly lively - the 1.6JTD diesel was responsive, frugal and clean burning.And so, I'm afraid to say, it wasn't love at first sight. The MiTo left me cold. I found myself weighing up the pros and cons and, as I said to my lovelorn chum, the very fact that you're making a list means that it's a no.
With the filesharing wars heating up again in the wake of convictions in The Pirate Bay case in Sweden, Matt Mason told the audience at the Thinking Digital conference how companies have to learn from pirates to survive in the 21st century.He sees the problem as this:We have 19th century intellectual property laws and 20th century business models in the complexity of the 21st century.He says that for business to deal with the complexity of the 21st century, they need to spend less time fighting pirates and more time and energy developing new business models that can support artists and give consumers what they want.Matt, the author ofThe Pirates Dilemma, said that we're in this period of cognitive dissonance. On the one hand, we have the internet and a wide range of new communication tools. It's no longer a broadcast world, he said.But at the same time, we see a threat: Pirates.And the bad news, he said, is that piracy is likely to get worse as we develop ways tocreate perfect copies of real thingsjust as we now create perfect digital copies of music and movies. 3D printers use starch, resin or ceramic to create objects. Companies have used them to create product prototypes or architectural models, but these quick fabrication devices are now moving to more mainstream production applications. A London-based company can scan your foot and then 'print' you a pair of football boots perfectly fit to your feet. At the moment, you have to be a professional footballer to afford them, but thecost of the technology is decreasing. Someone has even created a 3D printer that created another 3D printer."Intellectual property is the oil of the 21st Century," Mark Getty of Getty pictures said, and Matt interprets that as meaning that not only is intellectual property valuable but that there will also be wars over it.Matt is angry with the major record labels. As they spent the last 10 years fighting the pirates, a generation of artists have lost a decade of revenues as the industry put off developing new business models.He sees the judgement against four men behind The Pirate Bay BitTorrent tracker last month in Sweden as a Pyrrhic victory for the music and movie industry.On one side, you have anarchic teenagers saying the system is broke. Let's blow up copy right, and then the lawyers are on the other side. Neither side is right and no one wins.He believes that everyone in the middle of this debate, theconsumers and content creators lostdue to The Pirate Bay verdict. The Pirate Party, which originally launched The Pirate Bay as part of their effort to move the copyright debate in a new direction, is now thethird largest party in Sweden. They are now even bigger than the Green Party.No one should accept having their work taken without permission, but:If suing your fans is the core of your business model, then you no longer have a business model unless you are a lawyer.If you can't beat them, copy themMatt should know a thing or two about being a pirate. When he was a teenager, he was a pirate DJ withIce FM, spending most of his weekends spinning jungle, house and grime. "It was totally illegal," he said.Although the police were always trying to catch up with them, the station was so popular in south London that the Metropolitan Police and the major recording labels advertised on it.Every country in Europe, apart from Luxembourg, believed that radio was too powerful of a medium to be left to the commercial market so government tightly regulated it. He said:Entrepreneurs look for gaps in the market. Pirates looks for gaps outside of the market.The only un-legislated space for radio in Europe was the English Channel so pirate stations likeRadio LondonandRadio Carolinesprung up. Soon some 45% of the British population was listening to rock and roll from pirate stations. "Governments were petrified. If you took away rock and roll from 45% they would have riots or revolution," Matt said. Different countries came up with different solutions. The BBC poached all of Radio London's best DJs and set up Radio 1.Just as the BBC did with Radio 1, the most obvious way to compete with pirates is to copy them. He pointed to the big pharmaceutical companies. They face still competition from reverse-engineered generic drugs. Many countries with large groups of people living on less than a dollar a day have to turn a blind eye to these pirate generics, and the pharmaceutical companies can't aggressively pursue these cases lest they create a PR disaster.But one company Novartis decided to give away its anti-leukemia drug to patients in Thailand to undercut reverse-engineered generics. It was a public relations coup that led to the company garnering corporate responsibility accolades.In addition to copying pirates, companies should let fans remix their products. This is common in music circles, but remix culture exists in other areas. One of Nike's most popular shoes is the Air Force One. The company took the basic shoe and produce increasingly colourful and outrageous variations, but Japanese DJNigotook the designs much further and added his own logo. He made them in small batches and charged £150 and upwards. Rather than sue him, Nike bought shares in the company and made their own designs more radical and let artists create their own editions of the shoes.Another example of the power of remix culture is the gaming industry. Beginning in the early 1980s when three 11-year-olds discovered a backdoor into the popularCastle Wolfensteingame, gaming has had a powerful remix culture. The trio of tweens, modified the game so that the evil villains were Smurfs, calling itCastle Smurfenstein. John Carmacl ofID softwarewas inspired to leave the code on Doom and Quake unlocked so that users could create custom levels. It gave the games much longer life cycles, and it allowed them to build a qualified pool of coders who knew their software.Another type of remix coming out of gaming is themachinima movementwhere people use the animation engines in games to create their own films.Red versus Blueis a comedy shot in game Halo whileSundownis created in Grand Theft Auto San Andreas.Businesses also need to realise that they sometimes they are selling things other than or in addition to their products. Why do people buy music from the iTunes store when they can download it for free? iTunes is selling trust and convenience. People got fed up downloading half tracks from file-sharing sites, and some people would never consider downloading tracks using BitTorrent.In the US, 42% of bottled water is dirtier than tap water, but you're not selling water, Matt said, "You're selling the Alps."Companies need to build business models with several revenue streams, he said, highlighting the series Heroes which sells merchandise and publishes alternate story lines and plot arcs in a downloadable comic. They licence the content to iTunes and online streaming service Hulu. The tough choice for companies is what to do with things that fall outside this virtuous circle of your own business models. What to do with the pirates operating outside of your market? Matt said:If you have an exceptional thief, maybe the better idea is to copy them.
Wii SportsWhen Nintendo decided that for this generation of consoles it wasn't going to compete with Sony and Microsoft in the games industry's usual processing power-orientated, macho muscle-oiling contest, most people thought it was making a big mistake. When it emerged that it was also throwing away 20 years of steadily evolving joypad technology in favour of waving about what looked like a TV remote, many thought Nintendo had lost its mind. As is well-established, what seemed like madness was a masterstroke, whose crowning glory is that Wii Sports - with sales of 45.7m copies - is now officially the most popular videogame of all time, unseating the mighty Super Mario Brothers. The fact that it arrived bundled with the Wii could perhaps be considered cheating but, that said, even the venerable Tetris only managed 33m and that came free with the original Game Boy.
With a name that sounds as though it might have been translated from its original Japanese but is in fact from the minds of deranged Englishmen, Super Yum Yum 3 is a game about helping reunite a small colourful dinosaur with its children. The premise is simple: use your character's sticky lizard tongue to eat fruit that matches its skin colour in order to work your way around each stage. Many fruits change your dinosaur's colour, meaning they need to be eaten in a specific order to succeed. In the first few levels, working out that sequence is easy; as the game progresses, its puzzles become increasingly testing, requiring not only trial and error but eventually planning to figure out. Cute, brightly coloured and incredibly taxing if you want to collect everything in each level, it's never less than accessible because you're not forced to. A delightful way to waste time with your iPhone.• Airplay, &pound;2.99
This is a collection of one-star Amazon customer reviews for otherwise universally applauded classic movies, literature and music. Everyone's entitled to an opinion, of course, although many dissatisfied customers slightly miss the point. Reviewing Spinal Tap, a dissenting voice remarks, "If you're going to make such an excellent documentary, why make it about about a band that nobody has ever heard of?" Quite. The generation gap is the cause of many a poor review such as the ones for the Beatles' Abbey Road, which is rejected as "more music for druggies", while Moby-Dick is dismissed for being "like work" and someone reviewing Citizen Kane offers a recommendation: "I saw this movie and just about puked in my lap because it was so terrible! Go see the Da Vinci Code instead."
U2 areshitThe Wirepeeps have a new showThe worldis full of pilesIt's official: Mercury is more exciting than MarsThe 30-secondversion of Wolverine is far superior to the full oneA new wayof making fireTelling whodid what crime is toughA goodreason to avoid rollercoastersThe mostalien looking places on Earth
The latest meme to infect the internet features footage of Fatso the keyboard-playing cat. Although Fatso passed away in 1987, he has achieved worldwide fame because his musical skills - which possibly also involve the wizardry of hand puppets - have been appended to countless blooper videos, as if to "play" the hapless fools offstage after their guffaws. Here you will find a collection of videos - breakdancers kicking babies into the air, people falling off escalators, George W Bush being pelted with shoes - all made inexplicably more hilarious by the interruption of the Keyboard Cat.
Nintendo's continuing trawl through its own back catalogue is anything but unwelcome as it throws up classics that turn out to have just as much charm today as they did first time around. Pikmin 2 sees a return of the eponymous tiny sentient plant creatures, hurled at enemies, obstacles and collectibles in Nintendo's typically organic take on real-time strategy. A distinct evolution from Pikmin (rereleased earlier this year), this knocks off all that game's rough edges and adds considerable sparkle, a far mellower and less time-sensitive structure as well as a two-player mode. Discovering the game's "treasures" (which turn out to be discarded items of litter) is made all the more glorious by the names given to them by your miniature ship's computer - a mahjong piece is the "Strife Monolith" and a 7-Up bottle cap the "Quenching Emblem". Returning to Pikmin 2 is an unalloyed joy.• Nintendo, &pound;29.99
Research firmNPDsays US games industry's retail sales fell by 17% year on year to $1.03 billion in April -- the same percentage decline as last month. However, NPD analyst Anita Frazier also pointed out that sales in April 2008 (when both Grand Theft Auto IV and Mario Kart were released) had been almost 50% higher than the same month in 2007. That would have been tough to beat.Sales of videogames fell by 23% to $510.7 million in April, with the top seller being Nintendo's Wii Fit (471,000 units). EA's The Godfather II was the leading non-Nintendo title, shipping 155,000 units for the Xbox 360 and 91,000 for the PlayStation 3.Sales of consoles fell by 8% to $392 million in April, even though the new Nintendo DSi pushed DS sales over a million units.One major problem was that Wii sales more than halved from 714,200 units in April 2008 to 340,000 units in April 2009. The April 2009 table, in units, was:DS: 1.04 millionWii: 340,000Xbox 360: 175,000PS2: 172,000PS3: 127,000PSP: 116,000The Sony PlayStation 2 benefited from a price cut to $99, and comfortably outsold both the PS3 and PSP. Unit sales of the Xbox 360 fell by 7%, while the PlayStation 3 was down by 32%.Finally, sales of gaming accessories tumbled 15% in April, to $129.45 million.A report atBloombergsaid:"We think the market potential of Wii may have peaked out," Satoru Kikuchi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a May 11 report. "We think the market will begin to lower expectations on Nintendo, which is likely to enter a period of profit decline."However, Nintendo's US executive vice president of sales and marketing told Bloomberg that "Wii sales should pick up after the release of games including Punch Out on May 18".According toVG Chartz, the current generation of machines now comes down to a solid win for the Nintendo Wii (49.67m units, 48.6%). The Xbox 360 is in a comfortable second place (30.28m units, 29.6%) with the PS3 tailing in third (22.21m units, 21.7%). The Xbox 360, of course, had a year's start.
Occasionally people try to deny self-evident realities about the world, especially regarding finance and business. (Fill in your own joke about your personal least favourite MP.) But in the wider world where business strategy matters, understanding what really makes money - as in, profit that you can retain - and what doesn't is the difference between success and repeated failure.There's been a lot of self-deception around in web 2.0-land about what you can get people to pay for; it turns out that tearing down the barriers to stuff that people were actually happy to pay for isn't so clever (I'm looking at you, Friends Reunited: you had a great business model - one that generated revenue - and you slaughtered it on a stone table.)Thus I always find it interesting when people try to tell me that what Apple should really do is accept that it's a software company, which makes this fantastic operating system called OS X (the space between the S and X isreally importantto some people), and so it ought to licence Mac OS X and offer it to Dell and HP and anyone else who wants to stick it onto a computer.Well, let's see how much of a software company Apple is. Let's start with the newest stuff, which is some detailcalculated by Jeremy Liew of Lightspeed Venture Partnersabout how much Apple has made from the iPhone App Store.Yes, the App Store, which has seen a billion - a billion! - downloads since it opened in June. Using the calculation of paid v free downloads (which are reckoned to be in the 1/15 to 1/40 range, and the estimated average cost of an app (about $2.65, he reckons, whichfits with Silicon Alley Insider's own analysis, which found that the average paid-for app in the top 100 sellers - which is where pretty much all the action is - sales follow a power law, falling off radically from the top 10 to the next, and from the top 100 to the many others), Liew calculated that Apple has, with its 30% rakeoff, pulled in between $49.7m (at 1:15) and $19.4m in those nine months. Those numbers, of course, don't include the costs of running the store, which will knock at least a few million off - you've got servers to run, and people approving and disapproving apps.Just for comparison, Apple made profits in its last three quarters (that is, nine months) of $3.9billion. Its revenues were $26.2bn. The App Store, impressive as it might sound, is the merest flea on the elephant of revenues.And where does Apple make its money? Hardware, hardware, hardware. The iPod, the Mac line and the iPhone. Look at itsmost recent quarter's results: scroll down and you'll find "deferred revenue" for the iPhone and Apple TV ranking in the billions. There's your reality: Apple makes money from hardware.But this disconnect is quite a common one around Apple. Earlier this month there was abizarre rumour- thank you, Techcrunch - suggesting that Apple was going to buy Twitter. (Techcrunch suggested it had come from "someone who's been hired at a senior level at Apple", which led to one of our followers on Twitter to remark sarcastically "Sure, because Apple hires all the best blabbermouths".)Well, people got a bit excited, so wetried to throw some cold water onto it(in common with all the other reality-based journalists). The Fortune Blog did the best job,pointingto a list of "companies people have excitedly said Apple is going to buy" and contrasting it with a list of companies Apple actuallyhasbought. On one side: Twitter, Universal Music, Sun Microsystems and plenty more. On the other: PA Semi, PowerSchool, Emagic and plenty more. Guess which is the real one?That's the problem with the adoration around Apple: so often, it's not reality-based. I don't know why; people have for years expected it to produce a tablet computer (it hasn't) or a netbook (it won't, certainly not this year). They expected an iPhone for years and years, before Apple hadn't a single staffer specialising in mobile phone software.I'm genuinely puzzled by it, but I don't think it's going to end any time soon. However, if anyone tries to tell you that the iPhone is just a tail being wagged by the App Store dog, and that that's where Apple is really making its money... just quote that $25m to $40m figure to them. Sure, there are startups out there - hello Twitter - that would sell their grandmothers for turnover like that (if they haven't hocked her already to pay the server fees). But it doesn't matter to Apple, which afterSony's dismal results this weekcan legitimately claim to be the most successful consumer electronics company out there. Ten years ago, you'd not have thought that was in its future.
Wondering what to do with your iPhone this weekend? Already listened to the latest Tech podcast? Have no fear - it's time for another mobile gaming round-up, this time almost entirely dedicated to Apple's handset. Now all I have to do is sit back and watch this zoom to the top of the 'Most Viewed' list!EA has released a few new screenshots of its iPhone version of Sims 3, which is due out soon. It's a full-3D incarnation of the 100 million selling series with fully customisable characters, mini-games and, apparently, '10 hours of gameplay filled with hysterical antics and unexpected moments of surprise'. The game is compatible with the new iPhone 3.0 features, so gamers will be able to make microtransactions, paying for new objects and other content. It's also possible to access your iTunes library from within the game world, so if your sim switches on a radio or music player your tracks come on. Here's aninteresting little demo videoof Sims 3 in action.Meanwhile, Popcap has just released the iPhone version of mega-selling puzzler,Peggle. As you surely know, this is a cross between Japanese favourite pachinko and pinball, requiring you to clear differently arranged pegs by firing a limited number of balls at them. As you go, you unlock new special features like exploding balls and pinball-style flippers. It's just beautifully designed and hugely compelling - the Java version was one of my mobile games of the year last year. The iPhone and iPod touch versions boast a host of specifically optimised features - from the press release:"These include a special 'zoom' feature for extra-accurate aiming, new types of style shots, a special aiming wheel for precision control, a new trophy system, and an enhanced UI to take advantage of the Touch and iPhone's intuitive touch interface."A similarly addictive title getting the iPhone treatment is footie sim, Championship Manager. I've not been a huge fan of the latest PC versions of the series but this one has been jointly designed by main Champ developer,Beautiful Game Studios, andDynamo Games, responsible for the mobile tie-ins, which have been uniformly excellent: simple, contained, but just deep enough to give you that 'just one more match' compulsion. I've not had much of a go with it, yet, but admittedly, the reviews haven't been great so far, with complaints that it's too similar to the Java version. It's available now at £3.49, so judge for yourself.Attracting much more favourable response from iPhone gamers is Paramount's Top Gun tie-in. It's a basic flight shooter, with decent 3D visuals and nice responsive controls. You use the accelerometer to control the plane, which seems frisky at first, but become more natural. Onscreen buttons are used to fire the homing missiles and machine guns. The first couple of levels are easy, with basic dogfights against one or two foe. Things quickly heat up, though, with multiple bogeys, all firing missiles at you. These create danger zones on the screen that you have to avoid to ensure you're not damaged. There are ten levels to scorch through, and it's all accompanied by hits from the movie soundtrack!Finally, I've once again asked my chums over atPocket Gamerto suggest their favourite titles of the month. Here's what they've chosen...Pocket Gamer's five best mobile titles of the monthNeed For Speed: Undercover (iPhone)"An excellent iPhone debut for EA's premier street racing series, featuring an instinctive 'flick-to-drift' slide control mechanic and stunning visuals."Go!Go! Rescue Squad (Java)"Use your team of crack fire-fighters to guide imperilled 'Darwins' to safety in this charming action-puzzler. Warning: lateral thought required."Cops &amp; Robbers (iPhone)"This quirky mixture of parkour and racing lets you leap and bound across urban obstacle courses in order to evade the law."Anytime Pool (Java/iPhone)"The raison d'etre of this pool title is its Facebook connectivity, which allows for cross-platform multiplayer gaming across mobile, iPhone and PC."Age of Empires III (N-Gage)"This absorbing real time strategy game places you into the Ottoman siege of Malta, but the real talking point is its online multiplayer mode."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?This will sound corny, but I'll say the cellphone. I've also got a foot massager, which has improved my dating life – the girls love it when they come over. It's been really good for my romantic life.When was the last time you used it, and what for?The phone I use every day; the foot massager I last used yesterday.What additional features would you add if you could?To massage all the way up your leg. They do so many things now, I want mine to cook me breakfast.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, it will just be very much improved in 10 years' time – both the cellphone and the foot massager. They will never be obsolete.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That when you buy something it's obsolete in two weeks. It all changes so quickly.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Keep abreast of the situation – read magazines about it, watch TV about it and learn it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Nerd – no, I take that back, I'm not good on computers. I'm slow, because when I was young, if you took typing class you were consisdered gay. We always took shop – the masculine thing. Back then, no one took typing. Now, everyone has to be a typist.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A car. I've never had expensive cars, but it was a great one – aPlymouth Duster. It was my first car as a young boy at 16.Mac or PC, and why?Macs are better, but I own a PC. In my line of work, we get tested every month. Yet there's no venerial tests for a computer. I want someone to invent a computer condom.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I probably buy DVDs more, of films that I'm in. The last one I bought was a couple of weeks ago, it was called National Lampoon's Stoned Age.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Excellent. I think robot butlers would be OK, but robot dogs? The ones they bring to old-age homes for people to play with? What a stupid idea – why not use a real dog?What piece of technology would you most like to own?A robot dog – just kidding! A robot butler.•Ron Jeremyis one of the few adult film stars to cross the fence into mainstream movies. His latest film, the horror-comedy One-Eyed Monster, is out now on DVD
Game developers do a lot of things right. We like epic fantasy narratives, we like beautifully realised 3D environments... and, oh yes, we like running around with unfeasibly large guns, blasting other people into next week. Those are all in the bag. They're fine. Keep doing all that stuff.But even at this stage in the history of interactive entertainment, with something like forty years behind us, there are still a few things that aren't panning out how we'd hoped. Games do a lot right, but they're not doingeverything.So, today's Friday Question (and we've not had one for a while) - what do we need to see more of in games? What are games missing? What fundamental desires remain unsated by the world's development community? Essentially, how many more times can I ask this question?Below, are three suggestions to get you going. Please just stop whatever else it is you're doing and add some more...Multiple character perspectivesMovies like Crash, Redacted and Vantage Point have played with showing the same event through the eyes of different characters - you know, to show the subjectivity of truth and all that. But it could be an interesting game mechanic, especially in an RPG or survival horror adventure where you may have control over several protagonists; perhaps you'd need to piece together what everyone sees in order to solve a puzzle. The PS2 anti-terrorist shooter, Without Warning tried something like this but was a pretty dismal game.Procedurally generated environmentsWith today's massively complex physics engines, capable of calculating the most detailed of in-game destruction, surely we should be seeing more landscapes generated on-the-fly and different every time we play? This sort of thing was much more common in the eighties when titles like Rescue on Fractalus, Elite and River Raid used varying techniques to create environments in real-time. These days, the argument is that game worlds are so intricately detailed, game artists are required to craft every element. But in this age of PSN, XBLA and iPhone titles, there's room for experimental titles with more stylised visuals in which unique cities or even worlds could be created for each player before every new game...RomanceMass Effect had a go. RPGs attempt the odd shy, stumbling chat-up line. But no-one has - excuse the phrase - nailed it. People are always asking, has gaming had its Citizen Kane moment? Well forget that; gaming hasn't even had its Gone With The Wind yet. And what about sex in games? I mean, now that we have vibrating joypads and motion-sensitive controls, this issue is the elephant in the drawing room, isn't it? Isn't it?
This should keep you going over the weekend.• Supersecret &gt;&gt;feedproxy.google.comWonderland reviews the tweens virtual world "game to buy hair with"• Game About Making Games Takes Nintendo to New Heights &gt;&gt;feeds.wired.comMade in Ore makes it big in Japan)• Cooking Mama Serves Four Million&nbsp; &gt;&gt;edge-online.comUS gamers love to cook• 23 Percent Of UK Households Own A Console &gt;&gt;edge-online.comUK is gaming powerhouse, according to new study• Iwata: Over One Fifth Of Japanese People Own A DS &gt;&gt;edge-online.comhandheld is on course for world domination• Spielberg makes videogames to keep his family happy &gt;&gt;reuters.comBoom Blox Bash Party forthcoming• In Taiwan, City Officials Demand Game Rating Enforcement &gt;&gt;gamepolitics.comIs this the only way to do it?• Study finds software piracy growing &gt;&gt;reuters.comBad news from Reuters• Brits 'highly receptive to in-game ads'&gt;&gt;netimperative.comConsume, proles, consume• The Develop 100: The World's Most Successful Game Studios &gt;&gt;develop100.comUK has strong presence in the top 100• Guitar Games Inspire Kids to Try the Real Thing, Says Instructor &gt;&gt;gamepolitics.comA million real-world rawk bands forthcomingFollow us all week ondelicious.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; We're starting to discover just what happens when folk at Google mistype something. Remember when itdecided the whole of the internet was evilin January? Well, yesterday it decided to see what happens if you route everything via Asia. What happens is: the internet pretty much falls over. In a perfunctory blogpost, the companynoted that"An error in one of our systems caused us to direct some of our web traffic through Asia, which created a traffic jam. As a result, about 14% of our users experienced slow services or even interruptions." See thegraph by Arbor Networks: pretty much all of Google's services were affected. Remind us, is it a monopoly yet?&bull; Steve Jobs can't keep out of the news. According to the Cult of Mac blog, a hacker isclaiming to have broken into Jobs's Amazon account. The hacker claims to have caught Jobs by sending him a phishing email (this one, being to a big name, is called "whaling") that led him to a fake Amazon site - and so gave up his details. A screenshot sent to Cult of Mac suggests that Jobs recently bought a book detailing the history of the atomic bomb. True? False? Neither Apple nor Amazon would confirm or deny it.&bull; that Long Tail? Doesn't apply so much to piracy. Though it's obvious when you think about it (pirates are going to focus on the high-volume, high-profit fields), a study by the PRS (Performing Rights Society) and Big Champagne, which monitors peer-to-peer transfers, found that the popularity of music on P2P systems "closely monitors" that on legitimate download and streaming sites. More atthe BBC.&bull; It's laptop battery recall time again! Yes,this time it's HP's turn. Gizmodo says that "The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has announced a recall of 70,000 lithium-ion batteries used in Hewlett-Packard and Compaq laptops. Apparently, there have been at two reported cases where the batteries caught on fire." The guilty ones were sold between August 2007 and March 2008. Gizmodo has serial number details.
I have a load of books in PDF format. Can you recommend any portable gadget with a USB port that would be suitable for a reader?Joe DoneganMany ebook readers will read Adobe PDF books, according to the grid atmobileread.com. From those, the Sony Reader would seem to be your best bet: it can read PDF files, has a USB port, and is available from Sony UK for £199*. However, PDF is a horrible format for books, and your PDF files may not be formatted for the Sony's 6in screen, or any portable ebook screen. Reading full pages at a percentage of the original size will make the type smaller.Foxit is about to launch its own reader calledeSlick, which is now on pre-order for $259.99 (£170), plus $29 for shipping to the UK. The site says: "View all your PDF files as well as convert any printable document to PDF, which can be viewed on the eSlick. Foxit's eSlick comes with free software: Foxit Reader Pro Pack and Foxit PDF Creator."As an alternative, some portable media players will read PDF files, such as the Archos models, and Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) loaded with Bookr, a free PDF reader. However, these have smaller screens than the Sony Reader, so reading PDFs is likely to be even more inconvenient.If the books are plain text, and not copy protected, try converting them to a more flexible type of file such as Rich Text Format (RTF). Otherwise, the cost of an ebook reader is not much different from the cost of a basic netbook such as the Acer Aspire One or Asus Eee PC, though you could pay more for an Eee PC 1000H or 1000HE, Samsung NC10 etc, with a bigger 10in screen. A netbook would be bigger and heavier, but you'd get a much more powerful and versatile device for the money.If you have found a better solution, please let us know.* Webnote: The Amazon Kindle is not available in the UK.Backchat: Peter Sinclair says: "the iRex ebook reader allows you to maximise PDFs by turning them sideways to expand the width of pages to the height of the screen". However, it's more expensive.Ian Clark says you can use theLib2Gowebsite to convert files to Sony's LRF format, or to the standard EPUB format. Brian Robertson points out that ebooks can't display colours, so he uses a touch-screen satnav with a QVGA colour screen, running Windows CE5. Thanks to all the readers who wrote in.
Most of us have a desktop PC and a ­laptop. Why is it still not possible, without much hassle, to keep two copies of Outlook completely in sync?Wayne MansellThe problem is that Microsoft regards Outlook as a business application, and it expects business users to have their mail on a Microsoft Exchange server. You don't have to run your own: lots of companies offer hosted Exchange services, but they are not free, unlike Gmail.The latest version of Windows Live Hotmail could be a solution, if used with theMicrosoft Office Outlook Connector. I'm told the free version will sync your email and contacts, though you have to pay for Windows Live Hotmail Plus if you want to sync other things. As you already use Gmail, I doubt you'd want to try this, but it may be worth keeping an eye on Microsoft's emergingLive Meshservice.A third party online service is already available:Syncing.net. It will do what you want, but it costs money.Ultimately, the problem for single users with a few PCs boils down to the fact that Outlook stores things in its own huge PST file, which is very hard to handle. There are programs that will keep PST files in sync, such asSynchPst BasicandEasy2Sync for Outlook. However, syncing PST files is generally a batch process, not a real-time service, so you might well be better off sticking with Gmail.
I have got a Viewpoint toolbar installed in my browser. What gave Viewpoint the right to install their toolbar – I don't want it – and how did it happen?Penny DakinViewpoint claimsit can only be installed with your permission. However, its website also says it is "required with installation of AOL, AIM, current versions of the Netscape web browser, certain Adobe products, and some retail computers".Toolbars are generally not worth having, so companies often try to sneak them past you by bundling them with something you want – even Google's toolbar. You might have agreed to install Viewpoint without meaning to, because you didn't notice you had to untick a box to stop it. It should be possible to uninstall it using the Windows Control Panel utility, Add or Remove Programs.It is a good idea to reboot and runSuperAntiSpywarestraight afterwards. If you've installed one thing without realising it, you might have installed something else as well.
Sony unveiled the first X-series Walkman in London yesterday, so I went along to the press conference to try it.The NWZ-X1000 is a new departure for Sony in that it's not just an MP3 player, it's aimed at Apple's iPod Touch. In other words, it has a big touch screen for playing videos, and built-in Wi-Fi for web access. It would be ridiculously overpriced if you just wanted to use it for listening to music.If Sony wants to challenge the iPod Touch then clearly it has to do things better. In this case, it means a superior OLED screen, better sound reproduction with built-in noise-cancelling, and FM radio. Format support is better than you get from Apple, and includes Microsoft's WMA and WMV (but not FLAC). It's also very solidly made and has a black finish that might well appeal to a bloke.OLED screens are faster, sharper and have better viewing angles than LCD versions, and this is extremely noticeable when you have a screen that's 10 inches or bigger. Sadly for Sony, the differences seem less noticeable on a 3 inch screen used by a single person. Maybe the difference is noticeable if you put the two media players side by side, but I don't have an iPod Touch…Sound quality is a different matter, and Sony's more recent models have established a big lead over Apple's products. With the X1000, Sony has gone for further enhancements, with Digital Clear Audio Technologies (whatever they are) and a world first: built-in digital noise cancelling software.*Sadly, this does not mean you get noise-cancelling with any old headphones you happen to own, only with the EX headphones supplied.I spent some time comparing the sound of an X1000 with my Sony NWZ-A818, and I tried both players with two pairs of Sony noise-cancelling headphones -- theirs (MDR-NC500D) and my own.There's not a lot in it. The X1000 sounds marginally better, and has a slightly fuller bass; but it didn't go quite as loud, and (up to a point) louder sounds better. If you already own an NWZ-S639F, it's not worth upgrading.I wasn't able to get a good idea of the noise-cancelling performance -- where it helps to be on a moving train or plane, and where the X1000 has different setting s for airplane, bus/train and office use. I didn't get the impression that the noise-cancelling was better than noise-cancelling headphones, though I could be wrong. On the other hand, noise-cancelling headphones are substantial beasts, whereas the X1000 lets you wear earphones, if that's your preference. (Yes, isolating earbuds seal out noise too.)Sony says the X1000 has a superior hybrid interface, which means it has buttons, the familiar (to Sony users) rocker volume control, and so on, while also having a touch screen interface. I didn't like the touch screen interface at all, but actually, I just don't like touch screen interfaces on PDAs and phones. Buttons are more precise, and when you get to know them, you can do some things without looking at the device.The 16GB X-Series NWZ-X1051 costs £209 and the 32GB model NWZ-X1061, £279, so if you're interested, you must be buying on quality, not on price.Incidentally, Which? has avideo report.* Apparently used peviously in Sony's NWS-700.
As much as fun as I've had with World of Warcraft (and Anarchy Online before it) I've never really bought the idea of Massively Multiplayer online (MMO) games on a console. Ok, Phantasy Star on the Dreamcast worked well but in hindsight that was mainly due to the novelty – it was all dial-up back then. And also Phantasy was hardly what you would call "massively" multiplayer, with only 4 players adventuring together at one time.Currently the consoles are blessed with only one MMO – the dry and dated Final Fantasy XI. That will soon change though. Sony's The Agency is coming out for PS3 while veteran MMO publisher NCSoft is also working on a PS3 game. But what about the big names in the genre like WoW and Lord of the Rings Online? WoW is unlikely to ever come to a console but LOTRO just might.Gamedaily have found an online surveythat seems to suggest Lord of the Rings will be coming to a console near you. The questions on the survey relate to how much a user would potentially pay for this bit the bigger question is more universal – namely, do you want to play MMO games on your console in the first place?What about the controls? How would developers map the often complex keyboard controls of your average MMO to a console pad? And then there are issues like screen resolution – even on a standard 32inch HD screen you'd need to play around with menus etc, never mind a standard def TV – and voice chat.So what do you think – like the idea of MMOs like Lord of the Rings Online on your console? Or is the PC the natural home for this genre?
Mobile phone companies have been under attack from a European Commission keen to reduce excessive roaming charges, and Vodafone UK is now planning to abolish them -- but only for the summer. The idea that Vodafone has dropped or given up on roaming charges altogether is wrong. It hasn't. Also, data users won't even get a roaming holiday.Vodafone says:From 1 June to the end of August, Vodafone Pay as you Go and Pay Monthly customers will be able to call, text and send picture messages to friends and family back home from over 35 countries knowing that it will cost exactly the same as if they were in the UK.To get the deal, users have to sign up for Vodafone Passport by texting the word Passport to 97888 (if they pay monthly) or 2345 (if Pay-as-you-go). Alternatively, they can sign up atvodafone.co.uk/roaming.The "roaming holiday" covers 33 European countries plus Australia and New Zealand. When it ends, Vodafone will charge 75p per call, plus the usual call charges.TheEuropean Commission's caps on roaming fees are set to come into force on 1 July.Starting tomorrow, Vodafone is also is also cutting the cost of making overseas calls to between 5 and 30p a minute, on PAYG, depending on the country. To get this deal, users have to sign up for Vodafone's International call plan by phoning 36888 or texting the word International to 2345. Alternatively, they can sign up atvodafone.co.uk/international.The whole idea of mobile phone users actually using their mobiles abroad seems to have come as a bit of a shock to mobile phone companies. Since networks operate on a national basis, it may be some time before they get their acts together. And as long as they can charge ludicrous prices for international calls, there's not much incentive for them to do that.
A few days ago US magazine Game Informer revealed some new details on Modern Warfare 2. Sergeant John "Soap" MacTavish is back as an NPC leading Task Force 141 through snowy mountain terrain on the tail of a Russian terrorist group looking to build on the international chaos caused by Zakhaev and his naughty nuclear bomb detonation in the first Modern Warfare title.Jason West, president and CTO of Infinity Ward, is quoted as saying, "The gameplay is wide open and has a lot of variety." It was also mentioned that there will be no co-op campaign. West said, "We did a lot of co-op stuff early on that we were interested in [...] it didn't work with the story mode at all." However, areport on CVGsuggests that there will be a Special Forces mode with a series of co-op missions. The CVG piece also suggests that player characters will now be able to scale walls and drive vehicles.And yesterday, the US online gaming hive mind discovered that Treyarch is definitely working on Call of Duty 7 - well as definite as a staff member'sLinkedInupdate can indicate. Yes,according to 1upand others, Treyarch senior animator David Kim shows Call of Duty 7 listed in his experience on the professional social networking site.Of course, it's not much of a surprise, like MPs with a second home, the two developers tend to flip this brand between them, alternating dev duties. Rumour has it, Treyarch is planning a Vietnam-based title for its latest CoD romp. 'Nam?Again? Couldn't it at least have been, say, Korea?So anyway, back to Modern Warfare 2 - an open world? What do you think? The previous title was a great example of linear level design working in tandem with a controlled narrative. The only problem was the infinite re-spawning of enemies, and there are hints that Infinity Ward is looking into this. Can sandbox environments improve the recipe?
Asus is launching theEee PC Seashellslimline netbook on the Tottenham Court Road in London between 10am and 2pm tomorrow, Friday, at Platinum Solutions -- and giving them away to people who follow@asusukon Twitter.Asus says: "We are also running a competition for customers to win a Seashell by inviting friends and family to vote on-line for the best photos taken at the launch."It will, apparently, feature a beach. No word on whether you score extra points for being suitably dressed.After the launch, Asus UK will pick one Twitter follower at random each week for four weeks and give them a free Seashell worth £379. Asus says you can "find out if you've won" by going tohttp://www.asus.co.uk/seashell/It seems Asus is aiming to build up web traffic as well as increasing its Twitter following.The1008HA Seashellis a very thin netbook with a 10 inch LED screen, power-efficient Atom N280 processor, 1GB of memory, 160GB hard drive, multi-touch trackpad, Windows XP Home and Microsoft Works. It weighs 1.1kg, and Asus quotes a battery life of "up to 6 hours". It was, says Asus, "inspired by the sleek shape of the humble seashell".
Sony has just reported its first annual loss in 14 years, having lost 98.9 billion yen (£685m; $1 billion) in the fiscal year that ended in March. It now says it will close three Japanese factories -- "one for cell-phone cameras, another for video recorder parts and another for systems used for smart cards" -- which means it will close eight factories worldwide by March 2010, reportsAP. The story says:Sony also continued to lose money in its game segment, where its PlayStation 3 home console and PlayStation Portable have struggled against rival offerings from Nintendo Co., the Wii and DS, as well as in some markets against the Xbox 360 from Microsoft Corp.The company sold 10.06 million PlayStation 3 machines for the fiscal year through March, up 10% from the previous year. It also sold more PlayStation Portable machines, at 14.11 million during the fiscal year, up slightly from 13.81 million.The company expects to lose another $1.2bn in this financial year, ending March 2010.The Guardian's Justin McCurry, reporting from Tokyo, points out:The losses mark a dramatic turnaround from last year when Sony, which is in the midst of a tough cost-cutting and restructuring regime under its Welsh-born chief executive Sir Howard Stringer, reported a ¥369.4bn profit. It said its forecast reflected expectations that the "deterioration in the business environment brought on by the slowing global economy will continue", adding that the cost of restructuring would add to the losses.The results are not too surprising. Sony was already having a tough time with the PS3 failing to repeat the massive success of the original PlayStation and the PS2, the decline of the CD-based music business, and increasing competition in the consumer electronics markets from Asian companies outside Japan. Sony, like many other companies, was then hit by the global financial meltdown.And the big question remains: What can Sir Howard do to turn things around?Cutbacks can reduce losses but it's hard to see how Sony can turn round its games business (where the PS3 simply costs too much to make) or find new areas to develop.
There are few things in the world more fascinating than seeing website audiences come to life. And so when Michael Arringtoninvitedme down to Palo Alto to Techcrunch's screening ofthe new Star Trek film, there was no way on earth I could refuse. I mean, imagine taking the lunatic freaks who comment on technology news sites, extracting the Star Trek nerds and cramming them all into a dark room for two hours with sugary snacks. It's an anthropologist's dream. Would they start fighting? Or eating their young? Jesus – what if they mate? There's a first time for everything.But, no, as it turned out, the evening passed off without incident and everyone was annoyingly balanced and well behaved. No one felt the need to yell "first!" during the opening credits or to pitch their startup during the quiet bits, and enough of Michael's actual friends showed up to keep the whole thing from turning into Lord of the Flies. The movie itself was pretty good too, which was a bonus – J.J. Abrams, and writers Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci had the wit to dial down the lectures on diplomacy and tolerance that kept me away for earlier installments. (I get enough of that crap during my weekly speed-walk with Aaron Sorkin.)But that's not to say I didn't take any lesson away from the experience: I did. Sitting in that dark room for two hours left me with the stark realisation that while leaps forward in technology have the potential to bring enormous good to the world – disease cured instantly with a single painless injection – they also inevitably scale up the possibility for boundless harm – red goo that can turn a planet into a black hole and wipe out an entire species in less time than it takes to chew a mouthful of popcorn. Oh yes, thanks to technology, the future will be in equal parts inspiring and terrifying.But here's the funny thing: I didn't actually learn that lesson from the movie. Rather, I learned it from the company that sponsored the popcorn.Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce "Trapster" – the mobile service for avoiding speed traps. Picture the scene: you're driving along at 100mph on a country road and suddenly from behind a hedge appears a policeman holding a speed gun. Boom – he's nailed you. But your misfortune could be someone else's warning: so you reach for your phone, navigate over to Trapster and flag the position of the trap for your fellow law-breaking motorists. Now, if they find themselves speeding along the same stretch of road, their phone will notify them, at the critical moment, of the danger ahead. Yes, that's Trapster: the mobile distraction for when driving at high speed isn't fucking dangerous enough.The truly frightening thing, though, is that Trapster's WTF?-furrow is far from a lonely one. In fact, every new day seems to bring along another bizarre technological service designed to bring about the downfall of civilised society. If infanticide is more your bag, why not get some practice in usingBaby Shaker, an iPhone app that  simulates shaking a baby to death? Or how about a spot of adultery?Girlfriend Trackerlets you track the menstrual cycles of all of the various girls you're sleeping with, assigning each a different password so even if one of them demands to see what you're up to, they'll only see their own details. Full disclosure: I've just bought stock in that last one.There's no doubt web 2.0 has done some amazing things: it's brought us closer together through social networking, it's made us better informed through crowd-sourcing and, thanks to video sharing, it's brought the cost of amateur pornography down to an all-time low. But equally, the fact that any chump with a laptop and a computer science degree can launch a company without having to convince anyone else of its worth, means we also end up with society-harming nonsense like Trapster and Baby Shaker and Cheatr – sorry, Girlfriend Tracker. So far the good apps and services have been winning the fight: there were so many societal problems for technology to fix that the positive applications being launched outweighed the negative. But as happened towards the end of web 1.0, we're starting to see the truly useful web 2.0 apps slowing to a trickle – it's all been done – and an increasing amount of desperate bullshit coming to the fore. Hopefully, of course, web 3.0 will come along soon with fresh ideas to redress the balance. But what if it doesn't? In fact, what if – horror of horrors – it's already here? What if Trapster and its ilk actually represent the first generation of web 3.0 services – a counterbalance to the overwhelming good done by web 2.0, to remind us of how technology also has the potential to reduce us to profligate, amoral savages?It's a hideous possibility but, then again, I missed out on the first two booms and I'll be damned if I'm missing out on the third. If web 3.0's motto really is going to be "do be evil" then I want to be right there are ground zero, so to speak. And so it is that I'm proud to announce the launch of my new investment fund – Capital Punishment. Over the coming months I'll be laundering – sorry, investing – money into the coming wave of truly reprehensible start-ups, representing the sour cream of web 3.0. Companies like...QikLimer: Taking the leg work out of burying dead hookers.Elevator pitch: We've all been there. You wake up in the morning after a night on the meth, and what's that lying next to you? Another dead hooker! Nightmare, right? Not any more! Thanks to QikLimer's GPS-enabled mapping tool, you can quickly and easily find your nearest patch of abandoned woodland, self-storage building or lake – with the option to flag your burial spot to avoid doubling-up in future. And of course there's a social element – share your favourite spots with other murderers, swap tips and techniques and, for when things start to get a little too hot, trade alibis to ensure you both get away scot-free. You've got 99 problems, but a ditch ain't one.Narkotix: The community for drug-lovers.Elevator pitch: The web has made it easier than ever to find new experiences, based on things we already enjoy. Music lovers haveLast.fmandPandora, film buffs haveNetflixandLoveFilm, bookworms haveLibraryThingandDelicious Library. But what about recreational drug users? Where's their tool to get recommendations of new highs based on ones they've already enjoyed? Introducing Narkotix: the ultimate social tool for the ultimate anti-social addiction. List the drugs you have, find the drugs you want ("people who enjoyed Ketamine also enjoyed...") and sell the drugs you import. Score, shoot, share. Which leads me neatly to...CellM8: Because terrifying shower-block encounters are just friends you haven't made yet.Elevator pitch: So sharing details of your drug stash online didn't turn out to be such a good idea after all? Turn lemons into lemonade with CellM8 – likeFoursquare, but for prisons. Once you arrive at a new institution, simply "check in" to see who else is nearby and to get tips on surviving the night without becoming statistic. And like Foursquare, there's a game element to keep things interesting: earn points for every week you stay; check in to the same place three times and become the "mayor" or check in once and become the "bitch". There are badges to earn too. (Tip: you don't want to get the soap one.)Holocaust Denyr: Let us handle the truth, so you don't have to.Elevator pitch: It's official, in web 3.0, Holocaust denial is perfectly acceptable. Why else would Facebook beso reluctanttoban anti-semitic groups from its servicethis week? But what if you want to carry on hating the Jews and denying the Holocaust when you visit other sites? How can you avoid accidentally stumbling across, say, actual facts or rational discussion? With the Holcaust Denyr plugin, that's how. Simply install it in your browser and next time you visit a reputable online encyclopedia or news source, any mention of the killing of 6 million people will be automatically replaced with anti-semitic slurs, misspelt rants and ignorance that would be laughable if it wasn't so dangerous. Also includes a version of the first amendment written by a chimp. (Version two will boast a conspiracy theorist add-on for Wikipedia. Unlike Holocaust Denyr it keeps all of the facts intact, but changes all of the references to read "The Man")And those are just the first four. In fact, there are so many hideous ideas coming across my desk that I'm almost spoilt for choice where to invest next. I really like the sound of Genocide Girls (for when just harming yourself isn't enough), but FailWales (notifications for when Wales is closed) and 1-800-Amish.com each has a certain charm. Or perhaps I should throw caution, and any last dregs of good taste, to the wind and bet the entire farm on ChildFriendFinder.com – for when you can't help but think of the children.Oh yes, web 3.0 – and a fresh circle of hell – here I come. Beam me down!• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
We've been mourningthe loss of Duke Nukemon the blogand in the Technology section (yes, we really are upset by the character's passing). In his memory, we thought we'd include the Duke in a photo gallery of great characters who established milestones in the industry's history. But rather than choosing 10 names we like, we thought we'd send this out to you. So, based on your nominations, we'll compile a Top 10 Gaming Greats, which you'll be able to see next week in a full-length picture gallery.So whoareyour all-time favourite game characters? And what makes them so special?For example, I'm a big fan of Morpheus from Matrix Online. Why? Because he was the first cross-media main character to be killed by the developers in an ongoing game that was part of a bigger 'universe'. AlthoughI had hopedhis passing would have an effect on a film release, we have yet to see that kind of cross-over. Still Morpheus gets my vote in the name of convergence.I also likeDarci from Urban Chaos, who landed on the scene when the game was released for the PC in 1999 (showing my age). Darci was the first kick-butt black female game character. She was hyped to depose Lara Croft from her throne, but the enormous assets of the lady archaeologist retained (and still retains) her position at No 1.I'm also fond of American McGee'sAlice, who taps into my aesthetic sensibilities.Of course, these are left-of-centre choices (surely you're not surprised?). There's always the heavy-hitters from the mainstream: Master Chief from Halo, a perennial favourite. Which others? Donkey Kong? Carl "CJ" Johnson from GTA: San Andreas? Max Payne? Any of the faceless characters from Dead or Alive: Beach Volleyball? Go on, give us your top 3.
&bull; Are netbooks going to save the computer industry? Not if figures from DisplaySearch are anything to go by. The Register points to their latest stats, which suggest thatnetbook sales dropped 26% quarter-on-quarter. Meanwhile, CNet reports Intel saying that when netbooks areincorrectly sold as ordinary laptops, return rates can run as high as 30%.&bull; Apple hasconfirmedthat Steve Jobs won't be back at Apple in time to give the keynote at the Worldwide Developers Conference on 8th June. Phil Schiller, who took over on-stage duties in January, is stepping in again.  Meanwhile analysts think wewillsee a new iPhone this summer -but not until the end of next month.&bull; You might be familiar with the fact that a gang of Nasa internsstole shedloads of moon rocks back in 2002. But did you know how?Gizmodo has the full story. (via Andy Baio)You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Once upon a time there used to be all sorts of discussions about different methods of killing us all on a really big scale. There was the A-bomb. Then the H-bomb (much more lethal). Then the pointy heads in the Pentagon put their pointy heads together and thought of the neutron bomb, which when triggered would release a stream of neutrons that would blast through the surrounding area.Its advantages: it would kill your opponents (in fact it would kill anyone in the neutron blast range), but unlike "conventional" atomic bombs, it wouldn't destroy everything in sight, but leave buildings pretty much intact. Quickly dubbed "the capitalist bomb", the neutron bomb was the one we all feared – until the suitcase bomb came along, at least.Well, revealing everything about MPs' expenses turns out to be the neutron bomb of British politics. Barely anyone is left standing, or with any standing: the second homes allowance; the staffing allowance; the travel – once you open it all up the effect is devastating.But while MPs' attempts to excuse themselves plumb new depths ("we're not as corrupt as other countries" from Harriet Harman is my favourite so far), something more important is being ­temporarily ignored, namely, how are we going to police this in future?The answer I'd offer: put it all into an XML feed. Let us watch our MPs at work, and let us police their expenses. It should be quite simple for parliament's fees office – which already seems to have a fully functional CD burner – to join the 21st century and get an internet connection. Then, when an MP's expense claim is approved, it goes into the feed. Leave the rest to us; we'll start to mash it up against mapping systems, against other MPs, against other countries. We'll rapidly find out whose numbers don't seem to be stacking up correctly compared to the other ones.We've already started this at the Guardian with the help of Tony Hirst of the Open University with the first, less-detailed wave ofMPs' expenses, which almost immediately showed those MPs whose travel expenses seemed out of line. Sure, you have to push aside a few of the pushpins (by zooming in) but you'll quickly spot the odd ones out.And then we can ask them why their expenses are so odd, rather than having to rely on newspapers relying in turn on public-­spirited whistleblowers motivated by outrage. It would work like this: no expense claim, no reimbursement. Expense claim and reimbursement? Then output on the XML feed. Simple.This is open source as it could, and perhaps really should, be applied to politics. Forget quibbles about Linux; this is about our elected representatives realising that their insistence that they can keep DNA, approve 21-day detention, and nod through CCTV carries its own element of the panopticon, the Victorian concept of the prison where everything could be seen. If you want to watch us, then we want to be able to see you, and what you're doing.After all, it's not as if you are claiming for the cleaning of your moat, or clearing moles, or flipping home addresses in a manner that would otherwise attract the attention of HM Revenue &amp; Customs over unpaid capital gains tax ... is it?But the neutron bomb will do its work. We can expect to see many "retirements" before the next ­parliamentary election; and lots of incumbents being flayed by rivals over every last cushion and flat-screen TV. The trough has been overturned. But XML will make sure it stays that way.
Launching WindowsI am puzzled to read the claim that the ability to launch programs from the taskbar is a new feature of Windows 7 (Seventh seal of approval, 7 May) as this facility is already available in Vista in the Quick Launch Toolbar.Stephen GellSt AlbansThe writer, Tim Anderson, replies: "In Windows 7, icons on the taskbar itself are used both for showing running applications and, if pinned, for launching applications; this is new. The Quick Launch toolbar in Vista is a separate, optional section that is solely for launching selected applications."• A lot of people (like me) will initially fall for the hype surrounding PC-Within-a-PC or Multiple- Windows- environments on- a- single- PC or built-in support for virtualization. It was very important for MS to provide an "XP-Mode" given that close to 70% of windows users are on XP today. So this virtualization feature is also aimed at luring the If-it-aint-broke-dont-fix-it XP users to upgrade but still be able to cling to their favorite OS.http://manjubhat.wordpress.com• There is nothing in this article that makes me think upgrading from XP to Windows 7 would be a good idea.twitter.com/aaronsTwitter ye notThanks to Seth Finkelstein (Read Me First, 7 May) for stripping bare the reality of Twitter. The only thing I would argue with is that a better response to the question "What are you doing?" may be "None of your damn business".Alan GentCheadle• I have just listened to the podcast on the brain and social networking (Tech Weekly: Facebook's effects on your brain, 28 April). I, for one, am not convinced that things such as Twitter are anything but a bit of fun that have become overused by celebrities, institutions and businesses desperate for followers. For example, my college learning centre (library to you and I) now uses Twitter, but I'm not quite sure what for!David FletcherSunbury-on-Thames• Blogs and online magazines such as the Huffington Post and Slate are well regarded and have played no small part in advancing, if not the death, then certainly the immediate crisis in print media. And it's fair to say that the Guardian has perhaps embraced this new technology and mindset better than most (even if it means they have to publish at least one "I hate Twitter!" article per month, just to maintain journalistic balance).http://twittercism.com• Of course, the sanctity of publication is an attribute that derives from the scarcity of publication, which has been the dominant characteristic of the Gutenberg world (the world of mass media). Within this world the simple act of publication attached status, because it was expensive or risky to publish anything. There were two principal hurdles that a piece of information needed to get over to make it to publication. First, it had to appeal to a mass audience and secondly it had to adhere to a set of protocols (sometimes called standards of journalism), most of which were devised to protect its publisher from any legal redress that inaccuracy might incur.Social media, of course, doesn't have to conform to these strictures because it is defined by the fact that the means of publication are free and readily available to anyone. And this leaves many in the traditional media or published elite either totally confused or just plain hopping mad. Hence the cries of indignation.http://richardstacy.com• Sure there are lots of other devices you can use to stay in touch – but I simply don't. I use Twitter because it's fast, ­simple and straightforward. I don't need useless games included in Facebook or hours of chatting on Skype. Twitter works for me and helps me to stay in touch more often, regardless of what some "stars" post who have thousands of followers. "Serious" discussion about education or eLearning is possible; there are such groups. ButIn my understanding Twitter is a purely private thing which has nothing to do with being (or not being) elite at all.lernado.com• So, remember all 1.2 zillion of you bloggers, tweeters, facebookers and other corporate tools – there's someone who's on to your game, and he won't get fooled again!http://www.themashnote.com• Seth Finkelstein in today's Guardian articulates much more lucidly than I ever could exactly why I hate Twitter.shinyshinyshiny.blogspot.com• Well, gee, here's an idea – if you don't want to engage people, you don't want to reveal anything real about yourself, and you hate everyone else for climbing the social ladder to their own benefit – be anti-social on your own time.rizzn.com/socnets• I have tried Twitter. I didn't quite enjoy it, so I don't foresee becoming a regular user there. It's not clear to me what it was about Twitter that bummed me out; but it's certainly not the sociological issues highlighted by Finkelstein – I really haven't thought much about them until I read his piece.It's quite possible that I don't enjoy Twitter because I don't "get" it. That's okay; the Web does offer many ways of dealing with the online world, and we get to pick the pathologies we are comfortable with.nanopolitan.blogspot.com•  I haven't made my mind up yet.twitter.com/stuharrod• Guess you can't please em all!twitter.com/allenweiss• Don't bash the tool when you make it "what it is".witter.com/michellek107• This Coming from the guy who follows no one. At least he gets 'linkbait'. Sucker.twitter.com/chrispian• Nothing better than critical theory to shake up a consumer's spirit.twitter.com/holychic• This article, which I read in a real-life newspaper, raises some interesting points about this here Twitter lark.twitter.com/roystoncartoons• @SethFinkelstein, god bless him, is stealing my ideas. He needs a haircut, a shave and, I suspect, a bath.twitter.com/ajkeen• He doesn't realise that society is shifting from the neolithic farmers' principle of reciprocity to one of attention.twitter.com/johnkeithhart• After Seth Finklestein's debunking of twitter, am wondering whether to continue attempting to come to grips with it all.twitter.com/katepullinger• Yes but, no but: Seth, you've missed many points...twitter.com/mikejwalsh• I like Seth Finkelstein's analysis of Twitter: "mutual pontification among a tiny elite". What, us? Never!twitter.com/AdrianCorbett• I love when people say that twitter sucks when it's obvious they're just pissed that they don't have any followers.twitter.com/bellabailey• Couldn't Seth Finkelstein at least admit that Twitter makes it much easier to rent-a-quote for puff-piece journalism?twitter.com/fraserspeirs• Another awful article complaining that Twitter is not what he wants, and thinking it is only one thing.twitter.com/iwrotethis• What a load of bollocks ! I don't feel part of an "elite" and I'm not a "high-attention individual". Cheeky sod.twitter.com/jjjen• Irony overload: Finkelstein on Twitter. Darn that 'one to many broadcast medium controlled by the elite', unlike newspapers.twitter.com/Reynolds• As Mr Marx put it: from each according to his ability, to each according to his needs.twitter.com/alaninantwerp• I give this guy one year before he's hooked and writing a formal retraction and apology.twitter.com/aschernathan• A LOT of very good points made here... enough to make me consider scrapping Twitter and go back to Facebook.twitter.com/happinessstabsApple embargoThanks to #BabyShaker, @TrentReznor can't even get an app in the iTunes Store! (Newly asked questions, 7 May).twitter.com/MindOfWardImage isn't everythingThe article (The naked truth: sex doesn't sell games, 7 May) assumes Lara Croft's original success was purely based on the way she looked. Tomb Raider was one of the earliest pioneering 3D platformers. I'm not saying Croft's media image wasn't a big influence on sales, but the fact that the game was good is surely of some importance.Similarly, as the article tries to prove its point that things have moved on, it cites commercial failures to support its wafer-thin premise. Of course Hellgate: London and Tabula Rasa were failures, they were critically panned. Kane &amp; Lynch is infamously poor. These are games that may have featured pretty women in various states of undress, but they were also shite. It proves nothing.The tit-heavy Age of Conan may have eventually conked out last year, but it had a million sales on or near launch – if that's a failure, then the Guardian's sales figures must be an unmitigated disaster.dontshootfood.com• Hmm. If/when I get a PS3, I may end up actually buying a Tomb Raider game if Lara isn't going to look like poseur porn any more.simargl-wings.livejournal.com• I think the key question is not whether or not a game is sexy, but whether or not a game is fun. If the game is not fun, well, all the breasts in the world won't make it fun.politicalcomment.blogspot.comEmotional responseOMG!!! U haf 2 rite lik dis 2 use MySpace!!?!? (Luv is all around MySpace, lol, 7 May)twitter.com/PookeTellsEm• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
Terrorists attacking our food supply is a nightmare scenario that has been given new life during the recent swine flu outbreak. Although it seems easy to do, understanding why it hasn't happened is important. GR Dalziel, at the Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, has written areportchronicling every confirmed case of malicious food contamination in the world since 1950: 365 cases in all, plus 126 additional unconfirmed cases. What he found demonstrates the reality of terrorist food attacks.It turns out 72% of the food poisonings occurred at the end of the food supply chain – at home – typically by a friend, relative, neighbour, or co-worker trying to kill or injure a specific person. A characteristic example is Heather Mook of York, who in 2007 tried to kill her husband by putting rat poison in his spaghetti.Most of these cases resulted in fewer than five casualties – Mook only injured her husband in this incident – although 16% resulted in five or more. Of the 19 cases that claimed 10 or more lives, four involved serial killers operating over several years.Another 23% of cases occurred at the retail or food service level. A 1998 incident in Japan, where someone put arsenic in a curry sold at a summer festival, killing four and hospitalising 63, is a typical example. Only 11% of these incidents resulted in 100 or more casualties, while 44% resulted in none.There are very few incidents of people contaminating the actual food supply. People deliberately contaminated a water supply seven times, resulting in three deaths. There is only one example of someone deliberately contaminating a crop before harvest – in Australia in 2006 – and the crops were recalled before they could be sold. And in the three cases of someone deliberately contaminating food during packaging and distribution, including a 2005 case in the UK where glass and needles were baked into loaves of bread, no one died or was injured.This isn't the stuff of bioterrorism. The closest example occurred in 1984 in the US, where members of a religious group known as the Rajneeshees contaminated several restaurant salad bars with salmonella enterica typhimurium, sickening 751, hospitalising 45, but killing no one. In fact, no one knew this was malicious until a year later, when one of the perpetrators admitted it.Almost all of the food contaminations used conventional poisons such as cyanide, drain cleaner, mercury, or weed killer. There were nine incidents of biological agents, including salmon­ella, ricin, and faecal matter, and eight cases of radiological matter. The 2006 London poisoning of the former KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko with polonium-210 in his tea is an example of the latter.And that assassination illustrates the real risk of malicious food poisonings. What is discussed in terrorist training manuals, and what the CIA is worried about, is the use of contaminated food in targeted assassinations. The quantities involved for mass poisonings are too great, the nature of the food supply too vast and the details of any plot too complicated and unpredictable to be a real threat. That becomes crystal clear as you read the details of the different incidents: it's hard to kill one person, and very hard to kill dozens. Hundreds, thousands: it's just not going to happen any time soon. The fear of bioterror is much greater, and the panic from any bioterror scare will injure more people, than bioterrorism itself.Far more dangerous are accidental contaminations due to negligent industry practices, such as the 2006 spinach E&nbsp;coli and, more recently, peanut salmonella contaminations in the US, the 2008 milk contaminations in China, and the BSE-infected beef from earlier this decade. And the systems we have in place to deal with these accidental contaminations also work to mitigate any intentional ones.In 2004, the then US secretary of health and human services, Tommy Thompson,said on Fox News: "I cannot understand why terrorists have not attacked our food supply. Because it is so easy to do."Guess what? It's not at all easy to do.Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer: schneier.com
Reading PDF ebooksI have a load of books in PDF format. Can you recommend any portable gadget with a USB port that would be suitable for a reader?Joe DoneganJS:Many ebook readers will read Adobe PDF books,according to the grid at mobileread.com. From those, the Sony Reader would seem to be your best bet: it can read PDF files, has a USB port, and is available from Sony UK for £199. However, PDF is a horrible format for books, and your PDF files may not be formatted for the Sony's 6in screen, or any portable ebook screen. Reading full pages at a percentage of the original size will make the type smaller.Foxit is about to launch its own reader called eSlick, which is now on pre-order for $259.99 (£170), plus $29 for shipping to the UK. The site says: "View all your PDF files as well as convert any printable document to PDF, which can be viewed on the eSlick. Foxit's eSlick comes with free software:Foxit Reader Pro Pack and Foxit PDF Creator." As an alternative, some portable media players will read PDF files, such as the Archos models, and Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) loaded with Bookr, a free PDF reader. However, these have smaller screens than the Sony Reader, so reading PDFs is likely to be even more inconvenient.If the books are plain text, and not copy protected, try converting them to a more flexible type of file such as Rich Text Format (RTF). Otherwise, the cost of an ebook reader is not much different from the cost of a basic netbook such as the Acer Aspire One or Asus Eee PC, though you could pay more for an Eee PC 1000H or 1000HE, Samsung NC10 etc, with a bigger 10in screen. A netbook would be bigger and heavier, but you'd get a much more powerful and versatile device for the money. If you have found a better solution, please let us know.Syncing OutlookMost of us have a desktop PC and a ­laptop. Why is it still not possible, without much hassle, to keep two copies of Outlook completely in sync?Wayne MansellJS:The problem is that Microsoft regards Outlook as a business application, and it expects business users to have their mail on a Microsoft Exchange server. You don't have to run your own: lots of companies offer hosted Exchange services, but they are not free, unlike Gmail. The latest version of Windows Live Hotmail could be a solution, if used with the Microsoft Office Outlook Connector. I'm told the free version will sync your email and contacts, though you have to pay for Windows Live Hotmail Plus if you want to sync other things. As you already use Gmail, I doubt you'd want to try this, but it may be worth keeping an eye on Microsoft's emerging Live Mesh service.A third party online service is already available:Syncing.net. It will do what you want, but it costs money. Ultimately, the problem for single users with a few PCs boils down to the fact that Outlook stores things in its own huge PST file, which is very hard to handle. There are programs that will keep PST files in sync, such asSynchPst BasicandEasy2Sync for Outlook. However, syncing PST files is generally a batch process, not a real-time service, so you'd be better off sticking with Gmail.Unwanted viewpointI have got a Viewpoint toolbar installed in my browser. What gave Viewpoint the right to install their toolbar – I don't want it – and how did it happen?Penny DakinJS:Viewpoint claims it canonly be installed with your permission(http://bit.ly/aj0197). However, its website also says it is "required with installation of AOL, AIM, current versions of the Netscape web browser, certain Adobe products, and some retail computers". Toolbars are generally not worth having, so companies often try to sneak them past you by bundling them with something you want – even Google's toolbar. You might have agreed to install Viewpoint without meaning to, because you didn't notice you had to untick a box to stop it. It should be possible to uninstall it using the Windows Control Panel utility, Add or Remove Programs.It is a good idea to reboot and runSuperAntiSpywarestraight afterwards.Backchat• David Short has responded to the query about uninstalling AVG. He says: "AVG wouldn't allow a full install so I phoned the tech helpline of the product I had purchased (Kaspersky). They remarked that this was an ­ongoing ­problem for customers so they had developed a small uninstall tool, which they sent with instructions. It worked perfectly. Maybe other software ­producers do this as well?"• John Roycroft asked about a registry cleaner, RegCure. Alan Gent says: "I used RegCure and was impressed by the way it cleaned up about 700 entries on my old PC – until the following week, when they all appeared to come back. And the following week ..."• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
The games industry lost a great figure last week, a man whose near two decades of service helped to define our modern gaming culture. Duke Nukem, the iconic frontman of the cherished series that bore his name, was laid to rest with the closure of 3D Realms - the development studio that bore him, raised him and pig-headedly refused to let him go.Duke's passing has given me pause to consider all that's happened in the industry since his first game was launched in 1991, in an era before the PlayStation, Dolby surround sound and, heck, even Lara Croft. His was such a strong character, with a charm and elegance particularly suited to that time, that today's 3D characterisations - even the macho ones - seem like ladyboys in comparison. Sure, his charm involved repeating sexist epithets at his highly pixellated, scantily clad prostitute associates, and his elegance had more to do with how he held his gun and the way he shot a sarcastic one-liner, but his two-dimensionality - his utter lack of depth - made him instantly engaging, a hilarious pastiche, a bastard for all.Since Duke blasted on to the scene, games have gone off rails - literally - as demonstrated by sprawling behemoths such as the bloated Tomb Raider III, the overblown GTA: San Andreas and the obscenely large World of Warcraft.Previously, in the golden era, there was so little content that developers used to fence players off from anywhere that appeared remotely interesting, driving them on invisible tracks that sapped the enjoyment out of the experience. Nowadays, you can go anywhere you want to go, do anything you'd like to do. Ah, the paradox of plenty: give kids these days a little and they'll demand the lot. We've lost those utterly uninformative cut scenes that ate into our entertainment, interrupting our flow, portending to be a cheap reward for finishing our tasks. And loading screens? Those irritating pages of blackness with the unmoving white progress bar? Ancient history. But put on a pair of rose-tinted spectacles and they suddenly become charming.On a more serious note, where are the laughs? Modern games have an uncomfortably po-faced pallor, demanding, behind the chips on their shoulders, that they be taken seriously, that they be treated as "art".Duke would have sprayed your sorry Culture Show-watching, Front Row-listening butts with a shower of multicoloured insults and a rainbow of bullets. The glory days of politically incorrect, downright offensive content have been replaced by high-brow "treatments" of serious subjects. Have games had their punk rock period? Are we beyond the Angry Young Man phase?In the two decades of gaming that have passed since we first witnessed Duke's yellow buzz cut, gamers have developed a taste for sophisticated content in perfectly formed packaging. Perhaps it was high time he was retired, but this grumpy old gamer thinks there's still a place in this world for the King.
I know, let's do one with babies!The iPhone's movement-sensitive innards have led to the next brainstorm for the modern Mad Men: ads that only work when you shake the phone. Good for dancing; less so for babies.The recumbent bike hangs outMario Diamantis with his "Skybike", designed this way (it's claimed) for his love of hanging from trees. If he could design this, couldn't he also have made sure he didn't need to pedal backwards?We've got the blue corner officeRetail and office space in London per 500-metre grid square, calculated by UCL PhD student Duncan Smith. Fascinating.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
A rather unlikely shadow hung over Yahoo's eighth Open Hack day in London last weekend, in the gaudy, flashing shape of GeoCities, the cult DIY website network that Yahoo is closing later this year. "They are destroying the cave paintings of the web," cried academic and Hack Day regular Tom Morris.Ingenious hacks included Dan W's mashup of Last.fm and Oyster card data that shows listening habits on the tube, Murray Steele and Ben Griffiths's graffiti tool for Google Street View and the hack by Premasagar Rose and Tom Leitch that makes Freecycle more usable.The Guardian's own Simon Willison described the standard as "almost intimidatingly superb", combining creativity and technical excellence - and with only the occasional GeoCities URL snuck into presentations as a discreet dig. Strangely enough, the site that ranked the chances of your Yahoo-hosted service closing down didn't make the prizes.It wouldn't be fair to call Yahoo's co-founder David Filo reclusive, but he does prioritise hack days for his appearances to the tech public. His well-rehearsed mantra is that openness is the future for Yahoo. "It's great for third parties because it gives them a lot of power," he said, opening Hack Day, London. "It's great for Yahoo because it puts us at the centre of a lot of innovation and, when people develop apps for Mail, for example, it makes the experience better. It lowers the barriers for competition but if people build on Yahoo we're in a better position because we can work with those people to monetise their sites."The tide is highThe technical stars of Hack Day were Yahoo Query Language - the MySQL-like query syntax, the mobile platform Blueprint, and Boss, Yahoo's search API. Rather than building every boat in the harbour, Yahoo can provide the tide, it says. Clearly it hopes that opening as many services as possible will give it a much-needed advantage over Google - not least because Google's search API equivalent is rather limited. The Yahoos are also proud of bigging up the Hack Day formula they popularised. But doesn't Filo get pissed off by the constant comparison with Google?"Competition is good, of course, and we've never had a shortage of competition," he says. "When we first started people were asking, 'How can you possibly compete with Microsoft, AOL or Netscape?' At that point we were a nobody, but that certainly didn't diminish our interest or quest for trying to do something that was good and useful. I think if we're not doing that, that's when we should be pissed."We have hundreds of millions of people that we reach across all these different services, and it's an enormous opportunity. In that sense, this opportunity looks much bigger."The decision to close GeoCities is actually just one small chapter in the recent story of Yahoo's problems. The advertising downturn had piled on top of longer-term shareholder concerns that the company is not doing enough to compete with Google, and Filo's fellow co-founder, Jerry Yang, was replaced as chief executive in January by Carol Bartz, as a result of his resistance to Microsoft's latest takeover offer.As well as GeoCities, Yahoo is closing the video-editing site Jumpcut, the startup incubator Brickhouse and a bucketload of lesser-known services including Yahoo Live, Yahoo Briefcase, Yahoo Pets, My Web and RSS Ads. More than 2,000 job cuts have been announced since October, and high-profile departures include Hack Day evangelist Chad Dickerson, Delicious creator Joshua Schachter, and Flickr co-founders Caterina Fake and Stewart Butterfield. Flickr is arguably Yahoo's most celebrated service - and the world's second most popular API. But Filo dismissed the idea that the Flickr departures have damaged Yahoo's credibility."They've had a very strong team over the years, and they have very good people today. What's been important with Flickr is the community that's been there from the beginning and the serious photographers that are there creating and sharing great content. If we lose that at some point then I think we have potential issues, but so far we've been able to do a really good job of maintaining that."One Flickr trend with commercial potential is the fastidious documentation of camera brands and equipment by photographers. Is this the kind of information that could be explored and exploited by more imaginative advertisers? "There's a disproportionate number of dollars that are offline, relative to where people are spending their time. We just need to create more and more interesting ways to get those messages out to consumers."Creativity is the key to cashIf he was in charge of Twitter, how would he try to make money? "I'd say, 'Let's get the thing running' and ask does this actually have the kind of critical mass to be self-sustaining over time - and then start to worry about making money. You can't just take the old stuff and apply it directly, you have to come up and create new ways to monetise. People are obviously expressing their interests, ideas and opinions, and you can start to look into that data and use that to help target advertising."Filo is not convinced that real-time search will become a major element of the search experience, and likens it more to blog search. Though Yahoo's search teams are thinking about how to "move this paradigm forward" from the 10-link experience, he believes it will remain core to Yahoo, from Mail and Messenger to News and Mobile. "Search as a paradigm will continue to be probably even increasingly important because the information that's out there is only going to grow exponentially - and the only way to sort through all that is by some form of search."And does opening up Yahoo make commercial sense too? The new chief executive, Carol Bartz, has issued a mandate to push the open strategy teams harder. Filo says this is not about being open for the sake of it, but because it makes for "better consumer experiences".Yahoo has already announced it will be introducing a fee system for Boss based on the volume of API requests each day. "We can either have user-advertising platforms and share revenue or charge for direct access," says Filo. "There will be different business models that will work out over time, but being at the centre is a better place to be as those are worked out over time."For developers, paying for services offers some guarantee of longevity and, with the still shaky industry perception of Yahoo, that's clearly in demand. For the consumer world, it seems that, as web markets reach saturation the focus of services will shift from exploratory and free, to reliable and paid-for. With Yahoo's 594 million visitors every month reaching 54% of the world's web population, that could finally mean some very welcome good news.
Some people dream of climbing Mount Everest; Richard Greenhill dreams of a general-purpose robot that can bring you a cup of tea.Greenhill is the archetypal eccentric British hobbyist. For years he spent all his spare time working on ideas behind a blank north London storefront filled with bins of electronic parts salvaged from junkyards. With no degree, no funding, and no university department backing, it was easy to find people who thought he was not only not credible, but actually crazy.Yet today, the Shadow Robot Project has 11 employees working behind the same storefront, now an organised engineering works. It has outlasted all the apparently more credible government-funded and university robot-building projects that Greenhill remembers from the late 80s and early 90s. It has customers including Nasa, Carnegie Mellon University in the US, and Germany's Bielefeld University. And it has built ... a hand."Over the years we'd have people saying, 'There's no way you can do this'," says Rich Walker, the company's technical director. "Five or 10 years later we'd find the department wasn't there any more or weren't doing robotics. And we'd say, 'It's no wonder you can't do big projects because organisations don't live long enough in the UK to do anything long term'." Shadow, he says, survives because it has low overheads and no large production organisation to maintain: 90% of its staff are engineers."We built a hand because hands are the bit robots really need to do stuff in the world," he says.Human natureUntil about 1998, Greenhill focused on trying to build a biped, copying a human design. The key element is the air muscle, made out of woven webbing that can be made to expand and contract with compressed air. Greenhill believes it's logical to copy humans; household robots will have to function in spaces designed for us.But Greenhill does not enjoy anything to do with business, and the project needed a sustainable income. Enter Walker, who was still a teenager living in Derbyshire when he met Greenhill in 1987. As a Cambridge student starting in 1989, he spent grant-funded summers working for Shadow; after graduation he worked as a volunteer "just because I liked doing it". Says Greenhill: "No one ever leaves the Shadow Project."It was Walker who got the company a Smart award from the DTI (now DBERR) in 1998, for Shadow to start building its first real product: the hand."We knew with the muscle technology we had we could copy the design of a human," Walker says. Stuck up on a shelf is the first hand they built, its skeleton carved out of wood. Current versions have a steel bone, with palm and fingers made of acetyl, aluminium, and polycarbonate, among other materials. It weighs about 3.9kg, probably 10 times a human hand. Yet it looks capable of great delicacy; it even has fingernails."It took a couple of years," says Walker. They put the hand up on the project website while they were working on ideas for the next version - and immediately got phone calls from two universities, one of which, Bielefeld, has been a client ever since. "They bought the hand because they wanted a better one than their three-finger hand." Shadow built the next hand to order for Bielefeld, then did a project for the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (Nesta). The project next intends to work on extending the structure of the hand up the arm.Greenhill, however, wants nothing to do with selling things. Instead, he's begun booking himself a series of fortnightly visits to the Lake District. "While I'm walking I realise we're doing something completely wrong and it drops into place. I can't do that in the normal hurly-burly of life," he says.Until his recent "retirement", Greenhill's nominal day job was running the photographic library he and his wife own, and that initially funded the project."Sally," Greenhill says of his wife, "is the unsung hero. She took most of the photographs and ran the library while her husband was malingering and doing robotics and not making a penny."Future visionGreenhill still thinks building the body is the key. Yes, many systems are needed: vision, tactile sensing, proprioception  (the sense of the relative position of neighbouring parts of the body), learning and storage, but "there are tens of thousands of university departments that, once we have provided enough of a vehicle - a body, plus a certain amount of ability to do things - will want to work on it and support us."Think about the people who designed the early computers - what could they have known about the millions of people who have written software?"Still, it's a long road. "I worry about living to see it," he admits. "I wish I could have 72 hours in every day and 20 days in every week. A robot is just a darned big project."
What "LLL", the adopted screen name of a US freelance media worker, really wanted was the latest master collection of Adobe's design and publishing package, Creative Suite 4 (CS4). What he didn't want was to pay the full $2,499 retail price (&pound;2,264 in the UK) for it. But, equally, he also didn't want what was included in the latest pirated version of CS4: malicious software added by pirates that would try to silently take over his computer if he installed it.Having been a "casual" software pirate (for his own use) for almost 30 years, LLL knows that, whichever channel pirated software is distributed through, by the time it reaches the broad base of casual pirates it is often riddled with malware designed to turn the victim's computer into a bot controlled by a remote user. The cracked version of CS4 was no exception.Generation gameAs with much modern software, Adobe's contacts an "activation server" online to check that the licence key isn't already in use, and then activates the software, tying that specific key to that computer (Windows uses a similar system.) To fool the activation system, cracked software often comes with a key generator program - or "keygen" - written by the professional pirates. It generates a new licence key the software will accept, allowing casual software copiers to continue using the application as a fully licensed version.In keeping with many pirated applications, it wasn't the CS4 rip-off that was infected, but the key generator. So LLL avoided the keygen by taking his computer offline and using someone else's existing key, which he says persuaded the software to install as a fully licensed version. The trouble was that, as soon as the software tried to activate itself online, Adobe's servers would tell it that the licence key was already in use. To stop the software from activating, he found a list of the activation servers that CS4 visits, compiled by someone who had watched the software at work on their own computer.By editing his computer's hosts file - a crucial file on a PC or Mac that tells the computer which IP addresses to contact when visiting certain sites - he was able to prevent the software from visiting the activation server. When your computer is trying to connect to a site it first checks the hosts file to see if the IP address is stored there. The edit would send any request for the Adobe activation servers into limbo: typically, to 127.0.0.1, which points back to your own computer."If [the software is] trying to visit this server to activate this product, I can just block that with the host files," LLL says. "The Adobe product is set up so that if it can't get there, it'll keep working and try again later."But some think that this method of piracy isn't effective. Guy Bunker, chief scientist at the online security company Symantec, says the hosts method "is good for the grace period" - the period most online-activated software gives you to register it after installation - but that the software will generally stop working if it hasn't been able to activate after 30 days. Nevertheless, LLL, and multiple commenters in online forums, attest that it works long after the grace period ends.LLL claims he can't afford to buy the software outright. "In my day-to-day business, I'm so diverse in what I do," he argues. He has to perform a plethora of tasks, but none of them very often. He may only use one facet of Apple's professional video-editing package, Final Cut Pro, for example. "Here's something I have to get done, but the downside is that I only use it for five days out of the year. So going and buying a full version of Final Cut Pro for $1,400? I don't think so," he says.The problem for anti-piracy groups is loners such as LLL: a hired gun who uses the software on occasion. John Lovelock, chief executive for the anti-piracy non-profit group FAST IiS, is more focused on the 40,000 or so businesses in the UK with 30 or more PCs."If you go below 30 PCs, there are millions of casual piracy candidates. How do you control that? Very, very difficult," he says."But the consumers are very much the problem, because those consumers will go to work. If you've got 50 people in the office and someone brings in a cracked copy, and it's a struggling business and they can convince the owners to distribute it to those that need it and save money, that's where we get interested."Why are these anti-piracy measures so arcane in the first place? Many tie activation to a particular machine and require deactivitation before that machine is reformatted. Otherwise, the next installation is counted as a new machine, and eventually you run out of lives; then the only recourse is to phone a company helpline.Increasingly bad behaviourMaking customers feel like criminals edges them toward criminal behaviour, warns Victor DeMarines, vice-president of products for the US-based anti-piracy technology company V.I Labs. "As soon as you have to pick up the phone to call someone, you could just as easily have gone to Rapidshare or Usenet or somewhere to download the crack," he points out. "When a vendor creates resistance like that to relicense that software, you'll see the curve of casual piracy increase."But that raises the obvious question: how could software be offered in a way that stops piracy, or at the very least discourages people like LLL? Haven't we reached the point where people like LLL could download a basic foundation application with minimal functions, and pay for more specific functions when required - instead of having to pay for 100% functionality of which he will only ever use 5%? "If I'm just using software to render a file, I don't care - that's free," posits DeMarines, describing a possible model. "As you step into it and use more intellectual property, then you pay for what you use."The other option lies in the cloud. Why not put this software online and rent it on a pay-per-use basis? For example, Nivio.com provides virtual online Windows XP desktops; renting out MS Office for &pound;2.38 a month, after consumers invest in a basic plan for &pound;3.60 a month.While Adobe may be playing with such models, it isn't interested in using them as a tool to stop piracy. "The business rationale for developing and launching these services and offering our traditional desktop products in the cloud are multifold, including market acceptance, purchase methods, and use models," said Suresh Balasubramanian, director of worldwide anti-piracy for Adobe, in a written statement, adding that the company is conducting an online CS4 trial in Australia. "While reducing piracy will certainly be a key side effect of such business models, we typically do not consider it to be the key driver or motivator for developing and launching new business models."It should be noted that LLL isn't your typical non-technical user. His cavalier attitude towards intellectual property is mirrored by an astute technical awareness of what is happening on his machine. He watches how it interacts with his network, and takes a measured approach on the frequent occasions when he finds malware running. Those frequent occasions should give the less experienced pause; but the number of pirated pieces of software circulating online, and the millions of PCs - and more recently the small number of Macs - enlisted without their owner's knowledge into botnets suggest the lure of "cheap" cracked software overcomes caution.LLL shrugs. "If someone wants to open up port 25 and use my machine to hack the Pentagon then I'd be concerned," he says, adding that he has the infrastructure set up to wipe his machine and reinstall everything while keeping all of his data. "But if someone opens up port 25 just to spoof an email, then I don't really give a rat's ass. I'm going to block it if I find it, of course. It all depends on the level of risk."In short, alongside the ethical considerations surrounding casual piracy, there are also very good technical reasons why people wouldn't want to try this at home.
