"Oracle has bought open-source database technology developer Innobase for an undisclosed sum", reportsIDG News Service."Innobase, based in Helsinki, Finland, is the creator of InnoDB, an add-on storage engine for MySQL. InnoDB is distributed under the GNU GPL open source license. The software is bundled with MySQL though a contractual agreement that comes up for renewal next year; Oracle said it expects to negotiate an extension of that contract."Oracle boss Larry Ellison thinks the serious software business is consolidating -- and if not, he's in the process of consolidating it. As the IDG article notes:Oracle has made a dozen acquisitions in the past year, including multi-billion-dollar PeopleSoft and Siebel buys. Other recent purchases include supply-chain logistics software maker Global Logistics, retail optimisation software ProfitLogic, database performance enhancement technology maker TimesTen and a majority stake in Indian banking software vendor i-flex Solutions.
[Off topic] "'Is it April 1st?', a number of readers asked. Chess boxing? Putting players in a boxing ring for chess and boxing? The crowd screaming for blood and piece sacrifices? Our recent report described the setup, now the organisers have sent us a report and pictures to prove that they are really serious about this new discipline," reportsChessBase.
Somewhere in the Mojave desert a six-wheel robot truck called TerraMax has been trundling across the sand for more than 24 hours. Should TerraMax complete the 132-mile course, it will join the four robots to have met part of the Pentagon's challenge: to negotiate, unaided, a man-made obstacle course across the desert.But TerraMax will have failed in the other part of the challenge: to finish in less than 10 hours. The robot vehicles were competing in a Pentagon-sponsored competition funded by the taxpayer with a prize of $2m (&pound;1.3m) for the fastest robot to perform within the timeframe.The prize was expected to go to a team whose Volkswagen, named Stanley, completed the course in less than seven and a half hours on Saturday.While the US military uses some robot vehicles in Afghanistan and Iraq, they have to be remotely controlled by a nearby human. The hope is to develop vehicles capable of delivering supplies and performing other duties without the oversight of a human, with the ultimate aim to comply with a congressional mandate to have a third of all military ground vehicles unmanned by 2015.Last year none of the teams completed the challenge. The course this year was tougher: as well as ravines and a dry lake bed, the vehicles had to go through three tunnels designed to knock out their satellite positioning equipment.
In your leader (October 7) you say "the limiting factor on acquiring knowledge these days is not being rich but whether you have the inclination to search for it or not". The limiting factor you do not explore is the educational and skills background required to make use of the information technologies. You discount the digital divide within developed countries without recognising the link between digital exclusion and social exclusion. Effective searching of the internet requires high-order information literacy skills - skills that are far from universal.While most young people now leave education with at least survival ICT skills, many adults were not taught them. The government is attempting to make ICT skills training available to all, but mostly narrowly linked to job-related skills: far too little to ICT skills for personal development and for being an active e-citizen.These aspects are crucial if people who currently have quiet voices are not to be completely silenced in the digital age.Mike CushmanDepartment of Information Systems, LSEChildren were an early driver of digital television, so it is no surprise that in their teens they have a closer relationship with niche channels (BBC risks losing touch with younger generation of viewers, October 7). It also confirms what those niche channels have been saying to government and to Ofcom over the future of public service broadcasting - that in order to engage the growing group of viewers who don't watch traditional television, they will have to consider new ways to reach them.As we have argued, a public-private partnership with niche channels may be the way forward. Niche channels can offer opportunities for imaginative and efficient ways of distributing public service programming to non-traditional audiences. Their flexibility enables them to reach target groups over time with repeat patterns or through a range of brands with different demographics.Charlotte WrightSatellite and Cable Broadcasters GroupMIT is about to produce a not-for-profit laptop for &pound;56. My computer requirements are simple: word processing and internet access. I suspect I am not alone. Is it not possible for a British company (or university) to produce a similar basic machine at a reasonable price and still make a profit? The sophistication of machines today is far beyond the needs of many and may act as a deterrent to some.Michael SheahanLondon
I have Windows XP with Outlook Express as the default email service. How can I change to Yahoo as my default, ie when I press the 'mail' button on the keyboard and when I pick up an email address from a website that I want to contact? The control panel only gives Hotmail/MSN as possible alternative. Lindsay RoughUsually, you can change the default email service by going to Internet Explorer, selecting Tools, then clicking the tab marked Programs. In my case, the drop-down list marked E-mail offers a range that includes Ameol2, Eudora, Outlook Express, Outlook, and Hotmail ... but not Yahoo.However, Yahoo has a help page that offers a utlity ("a small 147KB file") to change the default. Go tohttp://help.yahoo.com/help/us/mail/ext/ext-11.htmlorhttp://help.yahoo.com/help/uk/mail/ext/ext-11.html. (There are different addresses for USand UK users but I expect the utility is the same.)Note: the continuation page says "The driver has been successfully downloaded" before it has actually started the download.
I've mentioned Brainstorm, a Britsh ideas-processing program, a few times in Web watch (eghere,hereandhere). Now an updated version has been featured somewhere far more prominent: inThe NewYork Times.There, James Fallows says: "BrainStorm is a return to the early days of personal computing, in its resemblance to outstanding DOS-era programs like XyWrite and GrandView" but "behind this simplicity is surprising power, or so I have found since buying it on a friend's recommendation several months ago. The program makes it very quick and easy to add, subtract, rearrange, or reconsider information you are working with."BrainStorm is not for everyone. Fortunately, it offers a 30-day free trial. The normal price is £40, or about $70, but it costs half that much if you go to Brainstormsw.com/welcome.html and enter the "secret" code 2534. (Eccentrically, the company prefers this roundabout discount to just having a sale.)As Brainstorm's blog,Thinkerlog, records, the mention created enough activity to take down Brainstorm's Web server for a few hours.Comment:I've known David Tebbutt, the man behind Brainstorm, for almost 25 years -- since he was editor of Personal Computer World -- and have commissioned him to write articles for the Guardian. Most recently, in May, hereported the Les Blogs conferencefor Online.
Google produced aCheat Sheetto help people use the various operators and commands, such as ~ and site:. This has inspired Nancy Blachman, author of the independentGoogle Guide, to create anAdvanced Operators Cheat Sheet. Useful!
Help Microsoft decide on its RSS icon for IE7 --or at least get a good overview of the issues on theMicrosoft Team RSS Blog.
"The first hackers to crack Sony's must-have gadget, the PSP, have created code that will kill the handheld console and render it unusable," reportsSilicon.com."The Trojan application which exploits a picture file vulnerability is the result of lengthy attempts to break the code of the gadget and modify its operating system."Eric Chien of Symantec told silicon.com the code is not self-replicating and can only affect users who actively elect to download it onto their machine."
"Edgeiois a company that Keith Teare, Vidar Hokstad, Matt Kaufman, Fred Oliveira and I have been working on for most of this year. It willl be launching in the near future. If you'd like to be notified of the launch, please give us your email on the temporary landing page," saysTechCrunch."Edgeio will give you the ability to do new and (we think) really exciting things with your blog. If you have a weblog and you'd like to be part of early testing, there is a field for giving us your blog address as well."Comment:Keith Teareis the Englishman who launched EasyNet and co-founded Cyberia, the world's first chain of cybercafes, in 1994. He then went on to startRealNames, a short-lived but "pioneeringalternative to the domain name system".
At ZD Net,Dan Farberreports:Google co-founder Sergey Brin made a guest appearance at the Web 2.0 conference. During his conversation, hosted by John Battelle, someone from the audience asked Brin about when a 'Google Office,' a web-based productivity suite, would appear. Brin responded: "I don't really think that the thing is to take a previous generation of technology and port them directly, and say can we do the minicomputer on the Web on AJAX makes sense. I'm not saying that's what [Microsoft] Office is, I'm just saying that I think the Web and Web 2.0, if that's what you want to call it, gives you the opportunity to do new and better things than the Office package and more. We don't have any plans [to do an office suite]."Comment:The silly hype about Google offering a hosted OpenOffice -- based on no facts at all, as far as I can see -- hasn't done Google's image any good among people who have a clue, so it's no surprise to find Brin rubbishing the idea. And in response, for example, InfoWorld'sDave Rosenbergblogs: "Finally, it's been said! Google has regained some respect in my eyes".Of course, Brin is not sayng that Google will never offer office-style capabilities online, but that if it did, Google would do it in a way that fitted the Brave New Web, not just try to rejig something based on a failed commercial desktop program from a previous century.Whether Google could pull it off is another matter. Now Google and its founders are enormously rich and powerful, people are less inclined to forgive the failings of its software, as illustrated by Rosenberg's aside on "its amazingly weak RSS reader -- why can't this company do much right beyond Search?"
Jordan Bradley, a teenage member of an international hacking gang dubbed the Thr34t Krew, was still at his terminal when US and British detectives raided his parents' home in Darlington, County Durham. It was just before dawn.Yesterday, the computing enthusiast, who used the online name Phreeze, and his friend Andrew Harvey, known as Doom, were jailed at Newcastle crown court for controlling the TK worm that inflicted an estimated &pound;5.5m of damage across the internet. Bradley, now a 21-year-old electrician, received three months and Harvey, 24, unemployed, of Sherburn, County Durham, was given six months."The reason for all this activity is power and ego to see how much you could do," said Judge Beatrice Bolton. "This worm was capable of doing a lot more than you did with it. Public business and the computing community must have faith in their computers and you demonstrated that two young boys can interfere and for a long time get away with it."Their ingenious program at one stage controlled as many as 50,000 machines, hijacking, among others, sites run by the US defence department. They pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing to conspiracy to cause unauthorised modification of computers.Adrian Waterman, prosecuting, said: "This was an agreement to create, release and control malicious software. They were doing what they were doing because of the control it gave them, not with a view to an end result. This was a highly sophisticated worm."Counsel for the men, Robin Patton, insisted it had caused little damage. "This is not a case where we have a business coming forward saying that they could not operate for three days."Another member of the Thr34t Krew, Raymond Steigerwalt, 21, from Indiana, was jailed for 21 months earlier this year and ordered to pay $12,000 (&pound;6,800) compensation for damage to computers.Once released on to the internet, the TK worm exploited a known weakness in Microsoft programs. The compromised computers formed a "botnet", a hijacked network which could launch streams of emails in "distributed denial of service" attacks on other computers or websites.The investigation began after a computer user in California found a strange file on his machine. Lieutenant Dan Seltenberger, who was then working for the local computer and technology crime hi-tech response unit, said: "The TK worm is self-replicating. It's still out there and will be for years."It had the ability to take down significant portions of the internet; it could have knocked out one of the 13 root servers which operate the internet globally. What the kids did was pretty ingenious. They all had a talent. It's a shame they didn't put it to better use."
Advance Wars: Dual StrikeNintendo DSAs benign addictions go, the Advance Wars series' irresistibly subtle and refined strategic battles are as compelling as it's possible to get without triggering extended visits to The Priory. The trademark land, air and sea battles return, this time with several extra unit-types, all-new game modes and the option of controlling your troops using the touch screen. The most significant change, however, is to your commanding officers' special powers, which can now be upgraded and customised. Even though new character Jake wears headphones and exclaims such things as "rawk!", "word" and "you got dropped like a phat beat", you forgive such mild transgressions of taste as soon as battle re-commences. On its own, this game makes the DS a basic necessity.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Colin McRae Rally 2005 PlusPSPLike Tony Hawk before him, Colin McRae's career as a video game mascot has already massively outshone his performance in the profession that made him a saleable entity in the first place. Colin McRae Rally 2005 Plus is the most recent instalment in a lineage that rarely does anything new, but equally seldom manages to disappoint, with the time-honoured blend of different road surfaces, perceptibly individual car handling and wonderfully elegant front-end menu design. The PSP remix comes with the ability to connect to up to 15 other players wirelessly, which in practice means very little unless your friends share not only your gaming habit but also your fetish for new handheld games consoles: the single-player mode is as gripping as ever.&#183;Codemasters, &pound;30DarkwatchPS2, XBOXThe innate silliness of Darkwatch's vampire cowboys plot is immediately forgotten as relentless waves of the undead hurl themselves at you in the apparent hope of being converted to actual-dead. Showing off the game's Havok physics engine as bodies get tossed about by explosions and bullet-impacts, the frenziedly kinetic feel of each brutal encounter leaves you breathless and firmly in the mood for more. Using a Halo-style recharging shield (that can also be topped up with the blood of freshly diced enemies) the emphasis is on mild caution tempered by a very energetic trigger finger. A simple system of good and bad deeds unlocks appropriate light and dark powers (light ones are better) and does nothing to distract from the utterly mindless destruction.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;40
Apart from spotting secret military installations, there's a lot of fun to be had with the satellite map application Google Earth (http://earth.google.com). Bloggearthblog.comhas links to maps of Lord Of The Rings locations;googleearthhacks.comis the home of mapheads eager to show off their collections of games and city guides;googleearthing.comis a daily quiz asking you to spot the location of an image;seeadlerpost.comis mapping the movements of a great white shark; anddigitalurban.blogspot.comis busy imagining a virtual London.For the less technically savvy, you can have a look at the roofs of some famous peoples' home atwww.celebrity-maps.com- what does Paula Abdul need with six tennis courts in her back garden?
PodOmaticis still in beta, but it reckons it has all you need. "We provide online recording tools so all you need is a microphone. iTunes support is built right in. Your podcast will be in iTunes, Google, Yahoo, and more. Only podOmatic has podMail, a great way to get listener comments."PodOmatic is offering 250MB of free pod space, and lets you send and receive audio Podmail via your music player. It supports Windows Media Player 9 and iTunes 4.If you have a go, come back and post your reactions here! How does it compare withOdeo?
Google has launched a browser-basedfeed reader(or aggregator) at the Web 2.0 conference.Search Engine Watchsays:Google Reader is "the most comprehensive feed finder available," said Jason Shellen, the Google product manager who spearheaded the development of the program. Comprehensive, yes, but Reader also adheres to Google's trademark simple, easy-to-use design philosophy. "We're trying to find an easier find and subscribe model for feeds," said Shellen.The program features a Google search box at the top which allows you to search for feeds or do an entire web search. Like most other feed readers out there, Google reader has two panes. The left side displays your reading list and the feeds you've subscribed to, and a preview pane on the right allows you to read feed content.But at the time of writing, all I'm getting is a 'try again later' message....Update:Inside Google hasa round-up of reactions.
"For those of you who aren't familiar with my background, I was a high-profile Wall Street analyst during the Internet boom in the 1990s. My career followed the trajectory of many early Internet companies (i.e., a parabola). Over the course of eight years, I went from a training program to the top of my field — in 2000, I was the "most read" analyst on Wall Street — and then, ultimately, to humiliation and disgrace," writes Henry Blodget inA Personal Note.Comment:Now it looks even more like we're starting on Web 1999 v2!
MondayPro Evo 5 still scoringSony nabs an EmmyXbox360 in EuropeTuesdayInteractive fiction nominees available for downloadDoomed againX05 - The headlinesX05 - Hi-def hypeX05 - The gamesWednesdayLaw, games and virtual worldsX05 - More gamesThursdayBritain's place in the videogame industryToday's Technology sectionFridayFIFA06 sells more than IcoPES empire expands
Two British computer hackers were today jailed for a total of nine months after their attempts to create their own secure internet chatroom prompted a global cyber crime investigation.In an attempt to make their chatroom more secure, Andrew Harvey and Jordan Bradley created a form of virus, known as a worm, which replicated itself and affected thousands of computers around the world.Bradley, 22, of Sherburn, Co Durham, and 24-year-old Harvey, of nearby Darlington, admitted conspiracy to cause unauthorised modification of computers with intent between December 2001 and February 2003.Newcastle crown court accepted that the duo had not used the TK worm virus, or its capabilities, for "nefarious" purposes.However, Adrian Waterman, prosecuting, told the court that although the number of computers affected could not be exactly quantified, it was known that around 19,000 had been infected. Damage was estimated at around &#163;14,000."The real threat of this TK worm is not the damage caused by it but the fact the worm, by its very nature, provides access to and control of someone else's computer," Mr Waterman said. "Harvey and Bradley, along with others, were doing what they do because of the control it gave them, not with an end purpose in mind."Judge Beatrice Bolton said a custodial sentence had to be imposed to serve as a public warning. Harvey was jailed for six months, while Bradley was sentenced to three.A worm allows hackers to use free space and bandwidth from other computers for their own purposes, and also to access sites.Following an investigation by officers from the UK's national hi-tech crime unit (NHTCU) and the US multi-agency computer and technology crime hi-tech response team, based in southern California, Bradley and Harvey were arrested in February 2003.A 21-year-old US man, Raymond Stegerwalt, was also arrested in 2003. He was sentenced to 21 months in jail and ordered to pay restitution costs of &#163;12,000 to the US defence department, some of whose computers were affected by the worm.Once connected to the internet, the infected computer then connected to a number of computers under the control of hackers, known as the "THr34t Krew", who were able to send commands to the infected hosts.These commands ranged from scanning other computers for vulnerabilities to starting "distributed denial of service" attacks on other computers and websites.Robin Patton, defending Harvey, told the court: "His belief was that they needed this to run their own internet chatroom. If they had had some other intention, we would have seen it. He said neither defendant had shown "the slightest intention to be malicious".Wayne Jackman, representing Bradley, said: "The court should not fall into the trap of seeing this case as more than it actually is. We should keep our collective feet firmly on the ground and not get involved in playing out a science fiction game."Jordan Bradley does not paint the picture of the classic cyber criminal. He was playing online, and this is where he finds himself now."Judge Bolton told the men: "I accept the reason for this worm activity is power and ego to see how far you could get. This worm was capable of doing a lot more than you did with it."It's to your credit that you did not use the worm for the dreadful purposes you could have, but you demonstrated the power it had over a large number of computers."Reacting to the sentence, Detective Superintendent Mick Deats, the deputy head of the NHTCU, said: "Our task is to track down those people who seek to hamper companies by reducing their ability to do business, and I hope that these sentences deliver a tough message."
"Two computer hackers who helped spread a programme similar to a virus around the world were today jailed for six and three months respectively," reportsPress Association."Andrew Harvey and Jordan Bradley were part of a conspiracy to spread a self-replicating computer programme, known as a worm, to computers around the world, Newcastle crown court was told. Harvey, 24, of Sherburn, Co Durham, was jailed for six months, while 22-year-old Bradley, of nearby Darlington, was jailed for three."
My nephew wants to do film editing. He insists he needs a Mac G5 with Apple Final Cut Studio for the job. Complete price is over $5,000. Is there a Windows program that would do the job so I can take advantage of cheaper PC hardware? David NullThe nearest Windows equivalents to Final Cut Studio are Adobe's Premier Pro 1.5 ($700) and Pinnacle's Liquid Edition version 6 ($500). There are, of course, much cheaper and even free programs, including Windows XP: Movie Maker 2.1, which is the equivalent of Apple's iMovie. By the time you've added the required hardware, the result may not be that much cheaper. However, this is one of the times when it's probably better to ask on a more specialised forum, such as theDigital Video Editingsite.
The extent of the personal publishing revolution has been revealed by a Guardian/ICM poll showing that a third of all young people online have launched their own blog or website.Millions of young people who have grown up with the internet and mobile phones are no longer content with the one-way traffic of traditional media and are publishing and aggregating their own content, according to the exclusive survey of those aged between 14 and 21.A generation has grown up using the internet as its primary means of communication, thanks to an early grasp of online communities and messaging services as well as simple technology allowing web users to launch a personal weblog, or blog, without any specialist technical knowledge. On average, people between 14 and 21 spend almost eight hours a week online, but it is far from a solitary activity. There are signs of a significant generation gap, and rather than using the internet as their parents do - as an information source, to shop or to read newspapers online - most young people are using it to communicate with one another.About half of that time is spent chatting to friends in online communities or using messaging services, while another hour is spent emailing. The internet may be a window into their personal realm, but it is not a window on the world for young people: only one in 10 say they use it to keep up with news and current affairs.This trend towards online communication has already manifested itself among music fans, with enthusiastic new communities forming around the latest bands often before they have even released a single or been heard on the radio. According to the survey, those aged between 14 and 21 download an average of 34 tracks a month from the internet and buy an average of two CDs. Of those with internet access at home, almost eight in 10 have a broadband connection. The explosion in cheaper high-speed internet access, which allows quicker access to music and video files and is typically charged at a flat monthly rate, has led to an upsurge in the time web users spend online.The media regulator Ofcom said this year that more than 8m households are now connected to broadband. According to the poll, six in 10 young people have internet access at home, with a quarter of those having their own computer in their bedroom. Many more have access at school, college or university. But among those with a web connection at home, 31% said that they had launched their own personal site or blog. Those aged 16 to 17 have taken most avidly to personal online publishing, with a female bias.Some will have started personal sites with rudimentary personal information or centred around music or sport, while others have become mini publishing magnates before leaving school. Earlier this year, the tracking site Technorati revealed that a new blog was created every second.The results also lay bare the bewildering pace of change in media consumption among young people and outline the challenge faced by traditional publishers and broadcasters to remain relevant.Rupert Murdoch, who recently spent &pound;332.85m on the youth networking siteMySpace.com, issued a "change or die" warning to an audience of US editors earlier this year. Admitting that the media industry had been "remarkably, unaccountably complacent", he described the shift in attitudes as "a revolution in the way young people are accessing news"."They don't want to rely on the morning paper for their up-to-date information. They don't want to rely on a God-like figure from above to tell them what's important. And to carry the religion analogy a bit further, they certainly don't want news presented as gospel," he said.In an attempt to reach new and young audiences, advertising is rapidly migrating online. Jupiter Research has forecast that the online advertising market will reach $18.9bn (&pound;11bn) by 2010, compared with $9.3bn at the end of 2004, at the expense of traditional media. But newspaper publishers and news broadcasters will take some comfort from the Guardian/ICM poll's findings. Six in 10 said they "like to keep up with the news", rising to more than seven in 10 among 20 and 21-year-olds. Contrary to the prevailing wisdom that young people are turning to the internet for news, television and newspapers remain by far the most popular means of accessing information.Only one in 10 said they used the internet to read the news, with most preferring to use it as a means of expression and communication. More than half said they read a newspaper at least once a week, rising to seven in 10 by the age of 21. Their preference, presumably often influenced by their parents' choice of paper, was for the Sun, followed by the Daily Mirror and Daily Mail. The survey showed 96% of those questioned owned a mobile phone, and two-thirds had a games console.They spend an average of &pound;27 a month on their mobile phones, downloading three ringtones during that time, and spend an average of five hours a week playing on their games console.ICM interviewed a tightly controlled quota sample of 580 people aged 14-21 on September 16 and 17. Interviews were conducted face to face in 36 randomly selected constituencies countrywide. ICM is a member of the British Polling Council.
America Online yesterday agreed to acquire a publisher of 85 niche weblogs, a sign of the growing popularity and commercial value of the "blogosphere". AOL, owned by Time Warner, is paying about $25m (&pound;14m) for Santa Monica-based Weblogs Inc.Weblogs's sites include Engadget, a blog covering technology and gadgets, Autoblog, for car enthusiasts, Luxist for luxury lifestyles, and gaming site Joystiq. Other content ranges from travel to food, fashion, medicine and mortgages. The company said its network attracts more than 30m monthly page views.The small, privately owned firm puts together the network of advertising-supported blogs with 100 freelance contributors.Consumers are increasingly using blogs as an alternate news source and, in some cases, blogs have even begun to set the mainstream news agenda. The acquisition by AOL could raise concerns among some users that the blogs' edge might be blunted by corporate ownership. Blogs, with their unfiltered content, are not bound by the same editorial rules as traditional media. But AOL said Weblogs would operate with full editorial control and independence.Internet publishers are increasingly opening up their sites to make them more interactive. Blog links from Weblogs will be embedded and integrated across the AOL service, including the Auto Channel, the Travel Channel and the Games Channel. Content will also be incorporated within AOL properties like Moviefone.Weblogs was founded about two years ago when entrepreneur Jason Calacanis stitched together a network of individual blogs that could be sold to advertisers. "Weblogs has made great strides," he said, "yet, we realised that taking our network to the next level required a partner not only with a significant audience, but the advertising expertise to leverage it."The deal reflects broader thinking at AOL, which is shifting from a subscription to an advertising model. In June, it announced plans to remake the business as a free internet portal, setting itself in direct competition with Yahoo and MSN. Its role as an internet service provider is shrinking rapidly as consumers turn away from dial-up access to broadband.
A London man has been found guilty of trying to hack into the website of the Disasters and Emergency Committee, which was set up to co-ordinate fundraising after the Asian Tsunami (BBC). Daniel Cuthbert was fined a total of £1,000.According toZDNet:Cuthbert, who at the time of his arrest had been employed by ABN Amro to carry out security testing, had pleaded not guilty to the charge. He was fined £400 plus £600 costs.District judge Mr Q. Purdy, who heard the case, told Cuthbert it was "with deep regret that he was finding him guilty" given his record of unblemished good behaviour. But Judge Purdy also said that Cuthbert had changed his defence between being interviewed by police at the beginning of the year and his appearance in court this week.Judge Purdy said that Cuthbert was "deliberately trying to throw the police off the trail", by saying one thing and then another.The problems arose for Cuthbert because originally he had argued that it was merely because he was using a text-only browser, Lynx, which may have simply appeared to be attempting to hack the site because it was an unusual browser. But then he said he had run a series of simple tests to check whether the site was secure, because he was worried that he had fallen victim to phishers.His story might have changed, but was he actually guilty of trying to hack the site?BoingBoinghas some more - including a security consultant (who seems to have an interest in ethical hacking) who says he is "outraged" at the verdict.
As though in response to Greg's FIFA story, Konami has officially announced two offshoots to the Pro Evolution series. First up, there will be a mobile phone version of PES coming to Konami's new 'Konami Net' Wap service (and probably all major networks) in Spring 2006. Here's a snippet from the press release:"Provisionally entitled Pro Evolution Soccer Mobile, the game will feature AI from Pro Evolution Soccer 5 and will be played within a 2D play area. It will be a single-player game, with further gameplay details to be announced in the coming months."The screenshots certainly look to be a step up from current football fare on mobile - but can the programmers get round the lack of eight-way directional control on a majority of handsets?And for those of you who think the PES Master League lacks management depth, Konami has also unveiled Pro Evolution Soccer Management (working title), which apparently boasts compatibility with PES5. Here's the lowdown..."Produced by Akiyoshi Chosokabe, a member of Shingo 'Seabass' Takatsuka's Pro Evolution Soccer development team, Pro Evolution Soccer Management invites users to experience the dizzying highs and dreadful lows of managing a top-flight club. Players can manage any club from six European leagues, and are charged with balancing the day-to-day running of their chosen side, including player selection, training methods, and transfer dealings."Using a simple yet effective menu system, players oversee every aspect of their team's performance. In addition, coaching staff must be chosen to assist in specific areas, while Pro Evolution Soccer 5's exhaustive player database can be scoured for new signings – before entering negotiations to secure their services. Data from Pro Evolution Soccer 5 can be used in Management for the creation of 'Dream Teams', which can then be swapped and used in both games."What next? Dance, Dance Pro Evolution? Metal Gear PES?
We all did lists of the best Web sites, and now we're all doing lists of the best blogs, if only so we know where to go. CNet has just published itsBlog 100, and naturally the list is made up almost wholly of American tech-oriented sites. There are a few stupid inclusions and at least three glaring omissions --JoHo, Dan Gillmor'sBayosphereand theSearch Engine Watch blog-- but that's the nature of the beast: on the whole, it's a pretty good list.Should we do our own Blog 100, and what should it have on it?
Illustration: Emma DoddA survey we did of Britain's youths - that's people between the ages of 14 and 21 - shows that almost a third ofthemthose with internet access have their own weblogs or websites. A third.That's a phenomenal change on a number of fronts: in the way people perceive technology, the way they perceive themselves, and the way they negotiate the still-fresh territory of online identity. Asour articlesays:Millions of young people who have grown up with the internet and mobile phones are no longer content with the one-way traffic of traditional media and are publishing and aggregating their own content, according to the exclusive survey of those aged between 14 and 21.A generation has grown up using the internet as its primary means of communication, thanks to an early grasp of online communities and messaging services as well as simple technology allowing web users to launch a personal weblog, or blog, without any specialist technical knowledge. On average, people between 14 and 21 spend almost eight hours a week online, but it is far from a solitary activity. There are signs of a significant generation gap, and rather than using the internet as their parents do - as an information source, to shop or to read newspapers online - most young people are using it to communicate with one another.
"Twenty-three robotic vehicles including modified SUVs and dune buggies return to the Nevada desert this weekend to try to win a $2 million prize from the Pentagon for crossing 150 miles of hills, valleys, rocks, tumbleweeds and man-made obstacles," reportsReuters."Last year, in the inaugural race sponsored by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, no machine made it beyond sight of the starting line in the challenge designed to promote the development of driverless vehicles that one day could carry supplies for the US military in war zones."
"If there's one sure way to a reduce me to the ten-year-old Nintendo fanboy I once was, that's to offer me a chance to kick it with Shigeru Miyamoto, the man who created Donkey Kong, Super Mario Bros., and Legend of Zelda and in the process (nearly) single-handedly transformed the video game industry forever." Peter Rojasinterviewed the manfor Engadget and Joystiq.
As I was in Amsterdam I missed thenewsthat FIFA 06 has been the fastest selling football game of all time. Not only that, but it is the fifth fastest selling game ever. Gulp. I'm currently playing the game for a future article, but reviews in the specialist press haven't been particularly good. So what does it mean? Do reviews not matter or is FIFA such a mainstream juggernaut that nothing will stop it? I think it's a bit of both. Gamers who read the specialist press are likely to get Pro Evolution Soccer 5, mainly because it has historically been the better game, while the vast mass of gamers simply want to play a footy title with properly licensed players and clubs. My experience of the new FIFA is that is has attempted to emulate Pro Evo's realism (ie 0-0 is fairly common) but has still not nailed it. It'll be interesting to see how PES5 does when released on the 21st. How many of those thousands of FIFA owners will also buy PES?
It may not look like the most exciting piece of technology on the block, but electronics manufacturer Bush is hoping that its new Idaptor DFTA100 can solve a looming problem for millions of Britons. From 2008, it was recently confirmed, the government will begin to switch off its analogue TV transmitters. Unless viewers add a digital box to their system by the time the process is completed in 2012, all they will see is a blank screen. Even though there is a choice of digital TV systems, there will likely be a small percentage for whom the switch-off will mean the end of broadcast TV.There are also implications for the millions who own portable sets or have a TV in a caravan or mobile home. Unless those sets are teamed with a decoder, the screens will also go blank.Bush, which has sensed a market for those who want to upgrade portable sets or don't want the clutter of extra boxes under their main TV set, has responded with the smallest Freeview digital terrestrial TV decoder to date. The &pound;49.99 Idaptor tunes into the free-to-air channels and radio stations and also features a seven-day onscreen programme guide.The difference between the Idaptor and predecessors is size - it is only slightly bigger than a pack of cards - and that it plugs directly into a television's, or VCR's, Scart socket. It is not a plug-and-play solution, however. Because the unit isn't powered by the set, it has to be hooked up to the mains. As it's tucked away behind the set, and out of sight of the remote control, Bush has included a sensor that sits on top of the set and is connected to the Idaptor via a cable.The Idaptor is easy to set up, choose channels and work through the menu system. The "favourite channels" option is a bit fiddly, and the timer is not as intuitive as it could be.Overall, though, it is a cheap, quick and easy solution that delivers good-quality digital terrestrial pictures, and it deserves to do well.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Free software movement and open sourceSean Dodson surely meant well when he described me as the "Martin Luther of the open source movement", (Secrets laid bare, September 8) but the fact is I support open source as much as Martin Luther supported Henry VIII.I started the free software movement in 1983 to stand for software users' freedom to cooperate in a community. We believe the user of any program is entitled to freedom to run the program, freedom to study and change its source code, freedom to redistribute copies to others, and freedom to distribute modified versions. These are the same freedoms that cooks enjoy in using recipes.Our first free software project was a Unix-style operating system called GNU - popular today, but unsung, because most GNU users think the system is "Linux". In 1998, GNU with Linux had millions of users, many of whom did not want ethical ideals to intrude into technical decisions. So they adopted the new term "open source", and gave it a different philosophy. The goal they cite is merely practical: better software through input from users.The free software movement is still here, but when journalism presents us as supporters of open source, our ideals are overlooked. That does not bode well for users' continued freedom. Recent history shows how easy it is for basic freedoms to be taken away, unless people value them and are prepared to defend them.Richard Stallman, MassachusetsDisposable consumerismKieren McCarthy (Technobile, September 29) is right. Many of us continue to use old computers, music equipment and mobiles because we have learned, sometimes through bitter experience, to ignore the latest marketing campaign. A mobile phone is just that: a telephone. If you want to take digital photographs, why do it with a camera that would have been laughed out of the high street two years ago? Why do you need to send picture messages? Are you in one of the few professions that could actually improve productivity by doing so? No, most people are just swallowing the hype and forking over their money for the latest must-have gizmo.Wireless networking? Great for hackers. iPod? Who wants to buy an electronic device with embedded non-replaceable batteries? That's disposable tech to me.Andrew Scaife, Yorki-mode? Ho humWhy all the excitement over O2's launch of i-mode mobile internet services (Innovations, September 29)? What does it offer that I haven't been getting for the past year from my Orange Treo 600? For &pound;3 a month on top of line rental I can download 4MB worth of live internet via GRPS. There's no need for content partners to offer a bespoke service, because I see the same web page I would get on a PC.Andy Roberts, CardiffA major flawAshley Norris (Innovations, September 29) said the absence of an optical viewfinder on the new Panasonic DMC-LX1 camera was an "irritant". As someone who recently purchased a similar model, could I say that it is not just an irritant - it is a major flaw. Like most digital cameras with an LCD monitor, it is impossible to see what is on the screen when taking pictures in sunshine or even broad daylight. The other drawback to large LCD monitors is that they eat batteries. I will certainly not purchase Panasonic again.Terence BoleyBlogBackQuote of the day: Google chief executive officer Eric Schmidt says "the sum of &#91;Google's potential&#93; market, if you include the large and small companies throughout the world, is the world's gross domestic product".I'm starting to get bored with this "Google takes over the world" theme, particularly when it is out there pushing it. I preferred the underdog, humble, pre-flotation version of Google.www.yannicklaclau.com
When families are spread across different countries, how can relatives build a relationship with very young offspring? Researchers have come up with an intriguing solution - a video conferencing cot complete with interactive toys.According to Luke Hughes, the director of research at management consultants Accenture, the premise of their Online Playroom is that if relatives cannot live in the same place, technology can at least let them play with infants over the web."Since the invention of the car, families have become dispersed," he argues. "So the next best thing is to use the web to put people in contact but not necessarily through a PC. Everyday objects are on the verge of becoming connected so we looked at what we thought would be a truly useful household item to have connected, and came up with the crib."The research crib has a flat screen which, via a wireless internet connection, provides video conferencing to a screen in relatives' homes. The relatives also have a rattle and a toy lorry, which, when shaken or pushed, moves the corresponding toy in the crib."We've had to set it up to allow the parents to control incoming calls because obviously grandparents on different time zones could inadvertently call in and wake the baby during the night or when he or she is having a nap."The playroom is only a project in a laboratory, but Hughes believes it could be in the shops within a few years. "We think it could be made available via intelligent picture frames. Grandparents wouldn't need a PC: they'd just press an LCD picture frame and would make contact with the crib."Hughes also believes a version that allows travellers to open their laptop and read a story to children at bedtime will be popular. The technology could also be used to develop a video child monitor for parental peace of mind.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In some ways it is hard to see the point of digital radios for the home. The devices are overpriced and offer only a handful of stations compared to the hundreds delivered by Sky/cable and the thousands available via the web.The place where digital radios make sense, though, is on the move: no more football scores accompanied by medium wave crackle, or FM channels periodically interrupted by local pirates. But because they are fairly pricey to manufacture, personal digital radios have remained a niche product.Nevertheless, it is good to see the arrival of the Morphy Richards - better known for making toasters - new DAB MP3 model, which sports an MP3 player and comes with 256 or 512MB of storage, as well as DAB and FM radio tuners.While there will be plenty of other devices that pair a DAB tuner and MP3 player in the coming months, the DAB MP3 isn't a bad place to start. It is small, fairly cute with its white finish and boasts a clear four-line LED screen - essential for DAB models as they can give you extra information such as programme lists, news and song lyrics.The radio is also simple to use. The earphones double as the aerial, so once they are in place it quickly latches on to the digital networks and delivers the channels. Sound performance, thanks to the excellent signal, is superb. The MP3 player sounds reasonably good, too, and, mercifully, there's no messing around with software: the tracks can be dragged and dropped from a PC.Ultimately, though, there are several flaws. First, you can't record digital radio as MP3s, which you can on some home-based combo systems. This would enable you to pause live radio. Second, there are no rechargeable batteries - you have to buy your own. Lastly, the unit's price (&pound;139.99, or &pound;159.99 for 512MB of storage) is way too expensive for a radio. If Morphy Richards, or its rivals, can address those flaws and get the price down to below &pound;100, they will have a potential hit on their hands.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thanks to the popularity of portable media players, people are getting used to the concept of carrying music collections, photo libraries and other data with them. But what if you could also carry applications? That's the proposition put forward by U3, which recently launched its "smart drive" technology.The concept is easy: you carry a small device that holds data as well as programs, along with your settings and bookmarks. Plugging your smart drive into any computer lets you run utilities, games or other software - without installing anything. And, crucially, no data is left behind when you undock your drive.In theory, the smart drive has serious potential to change the way we use our computers. Computers could turn into smart terminals that act as conduits for information, rather than repositories. In practice, though, it has a long way to go.While the Launchpad interface is well designed and easy to use, it only works with Windows 2000 and Windows XP. More platforms are promised. The biggest limitation is that you can't put software you own on to your smart drive - you need specially tweaked versions. While this means it is hard to pirate software, it limits the number of useful programs you can get right now.There is just a handful of U3-ready software, athough some extremely useful programs, such as internet telephony program Skype and anti-virus software Avast!, are available. Versions of Mozilla's Firefox web browser and Thunderbird email client are in the pipeline, but some commonly used software isn't on the agenda.As for hardware, a number of manufacturers are selling smart drives. The &pound;100 SanDisk U3 Cruzer Micro weighs in at 1GB, but some models are already higher volume, and there is no reason why that cannot go further. Smart drives are a good idea that deserve a closer look, but U3's technology will live or die by the amount of software available. Right now, it is severely limited.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The war between the next generation of videogames consoles has been brewing for some time, but it is about to heat up. December sees the European launch of Microsoft's Xbox 360 console, the sequel to the current Xbox platform. It is a piece of hardware in the process of defining the future of gaming.While Sony's PlayStation 3 and Nintendo's Revolution aren't due in the shops until next year, European observers were treated to a look at the Xbox 360 at Microsoft's X05 event in Amsterdam this week. Its first outing, however, was at last month's Tokyo Game Show, a venue that could prove particularly important. While the Asian market is now smaller than its European and American counterparts, Tokyo is still the spiritual home of videogames, and Japanese developers continue to make titles that sell in huge amounts in all three regions. Impressing these developers - and punters - is incredibly important for Xbox 360.Xbox sells just a few hundred units each week in Japan. Coupled with the daily bile spewed about its design on bulletin boards, it is hardly surprising that many Japanese developers and publishers are reticent in their support. Microsoft hopes to change this.The hardware is more slender than the current Xbox and the controllers are wireless, though wired versions are available. The sleek white case is also easier on the eyes. Tokyo punters commented positively on the console's design, which is a massive step up in reputation for Microsoft. Unfortunately, many still thought the games were lacklustre.The point of the next generation consoles, apart from improved graphical proficiency, is creating gameplay innovations that were previously technically impossible. This proved a point of contention with many when it came to the first-generation Xbox, and the same looks likely with Xbox 360. Admittedly, there were only early demos at the show but the general appraisal is mostly correct: the graphical step-up isn't particularly noticeable, and most of the games were highly derivative. What's worse, they look pretty dull to boot.One of the few impressive titles on display has been Capcom's Dead Rising, which surrounds the player with hundreds of highly detailed zombies, all hungry for a taste of fresh human brain. The game revolves around the player using anything they can get their hands on to dispense with the undead horde.This type of game would have been impossible on current hardware - though some might point to the PlayStation 2 title Ikusa Gami, which can have more than 60,000 enemies on screen at once - but it underlines the point that innovative gameplay remains important.The Xbox 360 has a long way to go before securing a foothold in one of the most influential markets for the games industry. Failure this time could spell serious trouble for Microsoft's great white hope in gaming.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Kris Kristofferson and Lance Henriksen are two of Hollywood's most grizzled actors, screen veterans with more than 150 movies between them. But last week they decided to head for the small screen, lending their voices to Gun, a forthcoming western game. It's just the latest example in a trend that's sweeping videogames: the "all-star" cast.A few days earlier, we heard that Mickey Rourke and Laurence Fishburne had been tempted into True Crime: New York, while Call of Duty 2 will feature what seems like the entire cast of Band of Brothers. What on earth are actors being paid for these virtual roles - and what do the publishers hope to gain?Clearly, buying in Hollywood talent has marketing benefits, and the videogame industry is not alone - witness Radio 2's cooing over the capture of Johnny Depp to voice a James Dean documentary. But all too often videogames end up with hasbeens who have passed through Hollywood's capricious bowels and splashed out the other end. It is 10 years since Stephen Dorff was considered a teen heart throb, but he's still making Far Cry Instincts. Then there's Peter Weller in Codename Panzers, Heather Graham in EverQuest II ... sometimes you get the feeling these actors are choosing between a videogame voiceover or an Estonian TV ad for air freshener.Sometimes, big names can add value. The casting of Ray Liotta, Gary Busey and Dennis Hopper in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City was inspired, and perfectly enhanced the 80s action flick feel of the game. But I don't believe Resident Evil or Metal Gear Solid were any poorer for their lack of well-known vocal talent. Indeed, the makers of Doom III avoided B-movie rejects so that the voices in the game would not be recognisable. I don't even think Resident Evil bothered with actors at all - the performances were so wooden, I'm certain Capcom paid a cleaner &pound;50 to be Jill Valentine.Often, paying for Hollywood names is not about improving the game, or even about publicity: it is about acceptance. Somehow, after decades of making extraordinary amounts of money, games publishers still have an inferiority complex. They treat the music and movie industries with the fawning reverence of an unpopular schoolgirl ogling the fittest lads in the class. And they'll take what they're given.Will the industry ever be free of this sad little crush? Perhaps not until it develops its own sense of glamour, its own homegrown superstars. Until that unlikely event, Hollywood actors will use games as a career barometer: when the publisher of a new GTA clone comes calling, they know it's pretty much over.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When I was given the gift of a pedometer, which measures the number of steps you take, I had an instant foreboding that it might end up like the exercise bike: a well-intentioned present still gathering dust in the corner. In fact, it turned out to be eerily addictive and, unlike most other gadgets, not only fun to use but actually good for you since you invariably end up walking more than you otherwise would have done to keep up your step-cred. It is reckoned that 6,000 steps a day keeps you pretty fit - and after 10,000, you start losing weight and feeling smug.The fitness aspect is probably the reason why pedometers are mainly reviewed on health rather than technology pages. All that could change as they start to offer other functions: pulse checks, clocks, radios, panic alarms, heart-rate monitors and MP3 players. At this rate they'll soon tack on a phone as well.There are two things that distinguish pedometers from other gadgets. First, they can be extremely cheap (under &pound;2 for a very basic model) and so small they clip on to a belt and you forget they are there. Among the ones I tried were the Oregon Scientific with a pulse monitor (guide price &pound;17), which is at the quality end of the market, and a micro pedometer from Gadgetshop, which seems to have disappeared from the website, that barely takes up half the depth of an ordinary belt. The Oregon was more functional and had a screen that opens out on a hinge with numbers big enough to read while walking.Although it only measures steps, rather than distance travelled, it is easy to convert the steps into miles by walking a route, the length of which you already know, then dividing it by the number of steps you took. Mine came out rather conveniently at 1,800 steps to the mile. However, you soon find it easier to think in steps, or peds, rather than miles, not least because if you are walking up stairs you are not gaining distance proportionately.I found this when I walked from Victoria in London to the Monument - chosen because its main architect, though he was overshadowed by Christopher Wren, was the amazing Robert Hooke. According to his latest biographer, Hooke invented the pedometer in January 1674 to help surveyors and mapmakers. Others attribute it to people from Leonardo da Vinci to Thomas Jefferson. Either way, the Monument provides the perfect masochistic experience for pedometer addicts. If you go straight up and down you will have clocked 700 extremely tiring steps without moving forward.Serious country walkers could opt for a GPS device that uses signals from satellites to calculate the distance you are travelling and your speed. I tried the Navman Sport.Tool, which comes in a number of modes, including one for walkers that calculates calories burned (&pound;89) and one designed for runners (&pound;99). They are much bulkier than standard pedometers and are carried on a small belt that fits around the upper arm. They worked well in the country but in town were prone to signal loss. They also have to be worn outside your clothing for proper results.The pedometer itself may be swallowed by other gadgets. Casio is among those to offer a pedometer built into a watch (&pound;26 to &pound;50 from leisureware2you) which is, arguably, its natural place. There are some with radios, while DoCoMo in Japan claims to be the first to offer a pedometer built into a mobile phone.If it is true that pedometers make owners walk more than they otherwise would do (and climb stairs rather than use the lift), then there may be some lessons to be learned. It is interesting how, once you are used to walking longer distances in towns, it becomes normal. Often, it takes only a little longer than taking public transport. If the government really wants to get the country back on its feet, then a promotional campaign for the pedometer might be just the ticket.Vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Bought a new computer recently? Why? Perhaps you're a gamer who needs the latest bleeding-edge hardware to run the latest bloodsoaked games. Or perhaps you're just a mug.Let me clarify that: you're a mug if you bought a Media Center PC. You don't need a new computer, honestly. But Microsoft and computer makers would like you to buy one anyway.However, Microsoft has a problem. A new version of Windows always sparks a comforting surge in computer purchases. Which means lots of money for Microsoft and computer manufacturers. Unfortunately for Bill Gates, Windows Vista - the next version of his operating system - is so overdue that it is unlikely to arrive until the middle of next year.So to create a bit of excitement - and boost sales - Microsoft and its computer-making mates came up with a cunning wheeze: the Windows Media Center.Suddenly we were told we really needed a computer that would control our digital lives. It would sit under the TV in a sleek, living room-friendly case, and on to its hard drive we would record every known episode of EastEnders. You could play games online with it, it would store all your digital pictures, it would house your MP3 collection, it would connect to the internet so you could shop from your sofa. And it would, via your home network, act as a server, distributing all this "content" to stations around your house - your bedroom TV (which would have a Media Center PC ); the kids' computer; the speakers in the kitchen.In principle, this is not an appalling idea. But the way Microsoft and the box-shifters have gone about it is mad.For starters, Media Center is rubbish. The software is not a new, shiny version of Windows. It is an old, gnarled version of Windows XP with a new interface, complete with all the bugs and security flaws we love. And the interface is ugly.The computers cost a fortune. That's because manufacturers know a mug when they see one, so they have taken bog-standard components and stuck them in expensive-looking, living room-friendly cases. Then, because small, pretty cases generate a lot of heat, they've added a bunch of fans. So what you get is a pretty, but pretty average, computer that sounds like Concorde is about to take off from under your TV.Microsoft recently relented and said geeks could buy the latest version of the operating system and build their own Media Center computer. Previously, only the big boys could build them: this was for our own good, apparently, because the operating system was picky about what hardware it would play with.But it is too late. None of my friends has a Media Center PC. We are all still using VCRs to record EastEnders.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You would expect an announcement that would forever change the face of the internet to be a grand affair - a big stage, spotlights, media scrums and a charismatic frontman working the crowd.But unless you knew where he was sitting, all you got was David Hendon's slightly apprehensive voice through a beige plastic earbox. The words were calm, measured and unexciting, but their implications will be felt for generations to come.Hendon is the Department for Trade and Industry's director of business relations and was in Geneva representing the UK government and European Union at the third and final preparatory meeting for next month's World Summit on the Information Society. He had just announced a political coup over the running of the internet.Old allies in world politics, representatives from the UK and US sat just feet away from each other, but all looked straight ahead as Hendon explained the EU had decided to end the US government's unilateral control of the internet and put in place a new body that would now run this revolutionary communications medium.The issue of who should control the net had proved an extremely divisive issue, and for 11 days the world's governments traded blows. For the vast majority of people who use the internet, the only real concern is getting on it. But with the internet now essential to countries' basic infrastructure - Brazil relies on it for 90% of its tax collection - the question of who has control has become critical.And the unwelcome answer for many is that it is the US government. In the early days, an enlightened Department of Commerce (DoC) pushed and funded expansion of the internet. And when it became global, it created a private company, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) to run it.But the DoC retained overall control, and in June stated what many had always feared: that it would retain indefinite control of the internet's foundation - its "root servers", which act as the basic directory for the whole internet.A number of countries represented in Geneva, including Brazil, China, Cuba, Iran and several African states, insisted the US give up control, but it refused. The meeting "was going nowhere", Hendon says, and so the EU took a bold step and proposed two stark changes: a new forum that would decide public policy, and a "cooperation model" comprising governments that would be in overall charge.Much to the distress of the US, the idea proved popular. Its representative hit back, stating that it "can't in any way allow any changes" that went against the "historic role" of the US in controlling the top level of the internet.But the refusal to budge only strengthened opposition, and now the world's governments are expected to agree a deal to award themselves ultimate control. It will be officially raised at a UN summit of world leaders next month and, faced with international consensus, there is little the US government can do but acquiesce.But will this move mean, as the US ambassador David Gross argued, that "even on technical details, the industry will have to follow government-set policies, UN-set policies"?No, according to Nitin Desai, the UN's special adviser on internet governance. "There is clearly an acceptance here that governments are not concerned with the technical and operational management of the internet. Standards are set by the users."Hendon is also adamant: "The really important point is that the EU doesn't want to see this change as bringing new government control over the internet. Governments will only be involved where they need to be and only on issues setting the top-level framework."Human rightsBut expert and author of Ruling the Root, Milton Mueller, is not so sure. An overseeing council "could interfere with standards. What would stop it saying 'when you're making this standard for data transfer you have to include some kind of surveillance for law enforcement'?"Then there is human rights. China has attracted criticism for filtering content from the net within its borders. Tunisia - host of the World Summit - has also come under attack for silencing online voices. Mueller doesn't see a governmental overseeing council having any impact: "What human rights groups want is for someone to be able to bring some kind of enforceable claim to stop them violating people's rights. But how's that going to happen? I can't see that a council is going to be able to improve the human rights situation."And what about business? Will a governmental body running the internet add unnecessary bureaucracy or will it bring clarity and a coherent system? Mueller is unsure: "The idea of the council is so vague. It's not clear to me that governments know what to do about anything at this stage apart from get in the way of things that other people do."There are still dozens of unanswered questions but all the answers are pointing the same way: international governments deciding the internet's future. The internet will never be the same again.
"Now that the dust has settled on Sun Microsystems' 'collaboration' with marquee customer du jour Google, the verdict is in. Investors got all worked up over nothing," reportsForbes."The broad consensus is that the deal announced between Sun and Google will have little or no impact on Sun in the near- or mid-term, and little impact on Microsoft. Further, many Wall Street analysts agree that the long-term financial benefit to Sun from the software collaboration is questionable."Comment:That the hype was "overblown" seems to have been the standard response in the blogosphere, but at least the mainstream press is starting to catch up....
"In the culmination of a four-year legal battle, the High Court rejected Sony's assertion that installation of modification chips, or 'modchips', that bypass anti-copying hardware in PlayStation consoles was a breach of copyright," reportsAFP."Law firm Gaden Lawyers, which opposed Sony, said the decision had major implications as it meant that games which were copied or bought overseas could be legally used in Australia. The firm, which represented modchip installer Eddy Stevens, said Australian gamers currently have to pay premium prices for games which can be bought for a fraction of the price overseas but are unusable in local machines because of regional coding."Comment:And what applies to Sony PlayStation games should also apply to Nintendo and Microsoft games, plus DVDs and other types of media where region coding is used to restrain trade....
Just in case you haven't already bought your copy, today's Guardian has another packed Technolgy section. The front cover uses a nostalgia-inducing still from War Games to illustrate apieceon 'the dark underbelly of cyberspace' - that's hacking by the way. Inside, Rhianna Pratchett quite literally gets her kicksplayingEyetoy Kinetic. A videogame that encourages you to exercise? That sounds dangerous and irresponsible. Under that, Ollie Baderlooks atthe Xbox 360's chances of gaining a foothold in Japan. I won't spoil the ending for you...Oh yes, and then some cheeky monkeylambaststhe videogame industry for its love affair with falling Hollywood 'stars'.
Household products usually promise to help get rid of dirt, but one leading brand has been shamed into cleaning up its own act after an internet marketing campaign backfired spectacularly.Representatives working for the popular Cillit Bang brand apologised last night after being caught using a fictional character to leave a series of thinly veiled advertisements on blogs and other websites.A number of websites were hit last week with messages from Barry Scott, the overenthusiastic spokesman seen on Cillit Bang's cheesy TV commercials. When it emerged that Scott was a fabrication and the messages had been left by members of the brand's marketing team, bloggers tracked down those responsible.Initial bemusement turned to anger. The marketers' first response was to leave another message from "Barry" accusing surfers of cynicism: "Can't a viral advertiser be human?"they wrote. But Cillit Bang representatives backed down and apologised, saying the comments were "unplanned and an error of judgment". A spokesman for Cohn &amp; Wolfe, the public relations agency responsible, said it was a "complete hands-up situation".
There's a laptop in my top back bedroom that's browsing the internet. Up until a fortnight ago, that would have been impossible.What's happened? Well, I've just turned on a new wireless router, one which promises all sorts of features, including much faster access. For me, however, there's one thing that makes it really useful: it reaches the parts of my house that previous wireless boxes never could.Until now, it's just been too many walls and floors away from the broadband connection.   There's one other thing that's surprising, at least in my house. It is a non-standard router. It's not got Wi-Fi branding.For years, I've been a network standards bore - and that means I even bore other technical journalists. Basically, I believe in standards. If equipment meets a common standard - like Scart leads, USB memory, CDs or VHS tapes - you can buy equipment from anywhere, and know it will work.Because your PC is based on standards, it is far easier to make decisions when you come to upgrade it. You can pretty much add any hard disk, and choose the cheapest or best memory. Networks based on standards have taken off in a big way, including Ethernet and Wi-Fi. Your laptop's Ethernet socket will connect first time to an Ethernet switch; its Wi-Fi antenna should talk to the service in Starbucks immediately; and the price of networking equipment are falling steadily.My old  Netgear router had a Wi-Fi certificate, but it didn't reach the top floor of my house. My new one does, but it has no certificate. It uses a technology called Mimo (multiple input, multiple output), which makes Wi-Fi signals travel longer distances and carry more data.Radio signals bounce off walls and people, then interfere with each other, limiting their ability to carry signals. In a nutshell, Mimo turns this into an advantage. It uses several antennas and some clever processing, and uses those echoes to create multiple network paths.  Mimo's ability to turn radio interference into an advantage gives it another great benefit: getting signals to dead spots like my top floor.Mimo is too new for standards. A specification - known as 802.11n - may be complete in 2007. But equipment makers have spotted a feature people will pay for, and at least four companies have rushed out Mimo equipment. The routers sell for £80 or more, which is about twice the price of a more basic router, but the vendors - Netgear, Linksys, D-Link and Belkin - used three different Mimo systems between them.Normally, I'd hesitate to use a box that goes outside standards, but for my upstairs room it's Mimo or nothing. So I either wait a year, or jump in now and buy a box that may not fully work with 802.11n equipment when it arrives. But the existing standards give me a safety net."We are not promising to upgrade existing products to 802.11n," says Vivek Pathela,  product management director at Netgear. "What we are saying is the current RangeMax equipment is compliant to 802.11g and 802.11b, and will always interoperate with them." Since 802.11n will also be backwards compatible, I'm safe.Any Centrino laptop and any Wi-Fi card will work with my access point, and that's good enough for me. My box doesn't have a certificate, because it hadn't passed the official tests when I got it. Products have to be put through their paces at the Wi-Fi Alliance's labs, which takes time. And in a fast-moving consumer market, vendors can't wait to get their products on shelves."We always want to have Wi-Fi Alliance compliance," said Pathela. "But sometimes we have to release the product before we have completed compliance testing." My product has now been certified, he says, and the boxes on shelves in the shops should soon reflect that.
Last week was the tenth anniversary of the Sony PlayStation's first footing in Europe. Back then it heralded the future of videogaming, and now the console is credited with growing an industry now worth $12bn a year. You could say that it was 10 years ago that PlayStation taught the world to play.Sony's most successful product since the Walkman made a hard and sudden impact in the world of digital entertainment.  A decade ago, the console market was dominated by two outwardly invincible leviathans:  Nintendo and Sega controlled nearly 97% of the market. But against most expectations, many from inside its own ranks, Sony overtook its rivals and went on to dominate the market by playing a game by its own rules. Its method: selling the hardware cheap and making money on software defied received videogaming wisdom. But somehow it worked.Almost 200m of the first two PlayStation models have been sold since that first launch, while the company says software sales have a cumulative value of £13.5bn. These days the PlayStation enjoys an enormous 76% market share over Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube. As for former rival Sega, it is already game over: it stopped producing consoles in 2001.PlayStation made video games hip for the first time. According to both rapper Dizzee Rascal and former England cricket captain Nasser Hussain, the young are now the "PlayStation generation". Game characters suddenly took up residence in glossy fashion magazines. It even had its own pin-up, in the sweeping curves of Lara Croft, the first videogame character to grace the cover of the Face. Consoles were even installed in the chill-out rooms in London's Ministry of Sound.Instead of being a bedroom toy, the PlayStation became firmly established in the front room - a set-top box like no other. A post-pub, post-club, social entertainment tool that appealed to adults as much as children. The perfect device so everybody could pile back to the house and put on something you could play half-drunk, half screaming with laughter.There have been failures along the way, of course. The PSX, a hard disk recorder, failed spectacularly in Japan and was never released overseas. And however much talk of the PlayStation extending the reach of games, only 10% of its active demographic are female. But Sony's gaming division now accounts for 61% of the company's profits.Why has it been so successful? Firstly, it identified a set to customers that Nintendo and Sega had ignored. Second, it backed that up with some adroit marketing that cleverly positioned the console at older gamers. On top of that, it had some truly decent hardware that - crucially - enabled it to cope with representations of three-dimensional space. And finally, it dispensed with clunky cartridges that were expensive and time-consuming to produce and opted instead for the two most definitive formats of the last decade: the CD and DVD.These formats would have a double boon for Sony. They turned the PlayStation into something more than a games console: it became a multimedia hub. In the words of PlayStation overseer Ken Kutaragi, it was no less than an "emotion engine."But it was nearly all so different. When Kutaragi first began developing the PlayStation, it was a CD-Rom peripheral for Nintendo's Super NES. When Nintendo backed out of the deal, Kutaragi was told by his bosses that Sony was not about to enter the "toy business". Many agreed: computer games looked like toys, the game market was full of hard-to-please consumers and already littered with the corpses of firms like Atari and Commodore. Sony had no game heritage. Leave well alone.Kutaragi and his nascent Sony Computer Entertainment division refused to listen. The rest is video game history.
This week's Ask Jack, from the printed-paper Technoloogy section, is also availableonline.You can send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but please include full details with your query.Meanwhile I'm still trying to come to terms with the fact that when posting to theTechnologyblog, the sofware default isPublished, whereas on Ask Jack, the same software defaults toUnpublished. Which means posts aren't posted at all. Knot-in-the-hankie time....
The Independent Game Developers Association (TIGA) is running a day-long seminar for its members next week, entitled 'Strategies for the 3rd Generation - How to keep the UK the place to make games in Europe.' I can't help but notice that our ambitions have been scaled down somewhat over the last few years. Once it would have been about how to maintain Britain's position as aworldleader – but a decade of corporate take-overs, foul-ups and meltdowns has seen to that. Now, we are a mere outpost, desolate, endangered, struggling to keep the barbarians from the door.How did this happen? When? It is interesting that the two guest speakers mentioned in TIGA's press release have their own stories to tell about the sickening of the UK games industry. Rod Cousens was CEO of Acclaim a now defunct US company that put its British studios to work on too many conversions and 'me too' genre titles. Ian Livingstone was Creative Director at Eidos once a shining success story, later buried by its heavy reliance on the fading Tomb Raider brand. Cousens' keynote speech is described thus:"What are the challenges for 3rd Gen development? What can we learn from the last transition? How competitive is UK development and publishing and what does it need to do to remain a leading development cluster in the global context? How do we access new consumers and with what content?"Does he have the answers, or just the questions? His new employer, Codemasters, will hope for the former. The company has been through some hard times but the incredible fortune of releasing Brian Lara International Cricket simultaneously with the greatest test series in history has no doubt boosted confidence (and financial clout). It is to be hoped that this bastion of good honest British design finds a niche for itself in this 'third generation' business. It is interesting to note, incidentally, that the company's latest endeavor to enter the MMORPG market is through buying the western publishing rights to a Korean game,RF Online. Codemasters' own in-house ventureDragon Empireswas canned last year. I think when a British publisher builds and launches its own successful title into the massive MMORPG market it will be a sign that Britain is a major force once again.Meanwhile, there are other British developers that lead rather than sheepishly follow: Lionhead, Rockstar North, Criterion, Creative Assembly, Bizarre Creations. Most now answer to American paymasters, but still manage to bring local flavour to their mega-hits. However, is there really anything other developers can be taught about the success of these studios – apart from to be in the right place at the right time with exactly the right brilliant ideas? That can't be taught can it?And in the end, the question of how to remain a vital force in the worldwide development scene can't really be answered by the developers, it's about the publishers. Too many UK studios have become sweatshops for tie-ins and conversions, too many are working to creatively crippling 12-month deadlines. The British industry has lost faith in itself – it is busting its lungs just to keep up with the demands of next gen development. Making games is expensive, it's scary, so publishers adopt a Pokemon approach - got to have an urban racer, got to have a WWII shooter, an anti-terrorist stealth adventure, a gangsta romp, got to get that blockbuster movie license. Gotta catch 'em all. And British development is caught up in the maelstrom.That's not how to become important. That is how to exist. Becoming a vast outsourcing factory, with the odd pocket of innovative resistance, cannot be this country's strategy for the third generation – whatever that might be. There is too much history. There is too much potential.
I have five years worth of Word documents and emails that are important, plus a few photos. I'm running Windows ME. How should I back up effectively? Gwendolen BirksFor home users, there are three attractive options, and it's a good idea to use at least two. The first is the CD-R, which stores about 700MB on a disc. For maximum security, copy all your important files to one CD, and only write to it once. Do not use "packet writing" or "drag to disk" systems that treat the CD as if it were a floppy. (It isn't: the CD was designed to be written as one long spiral.) It's not worth the risk of losing data by saving 20p on a disc.Backing up to CD is simpler if you keep all your important data in one folder (such as My Documents) or in subfolders smaller than 700MB. However, some programs - including email and accounting programs - may store data elsewhere. If you have mail in Outlook Express, search your drive for .dbx files to find where they are, and back up the whole folder.Today, accessory hard drives and memory cards are also attractive for backups. You can buy a cheap external hard drive that plugs into a PC via a USB or (for preference) FireWire port. But bear in mind that all hard drives fail eventually, and it is possible to lose both the PC and the back-up together - through flood, fire, theft or whatever.For extra security, you can store backups online. You can forward important emails, photos, etc to a Yahoo or Gmail email account, store small files in Yahoo Groups and Briefcases, and store photos in online albums. There are lots of online back-conup services for those willing to pay.In any case, you must check that your backups work. With CDs, for example, make sure they can be read in a different PC and that the files are really there.But computer backups are essentially temporary, because you also need a way of reading them. Millions of people have backups on 5.25in floppies and 3in Amstrad PCW disks they can no longer read. Some can get at the files, but no longer have a program that can load them. If it's just the odd email or article, and you want to keep it, you might as well print it out.
I have seen Adobe Premiere Pro 1.5 on eBay for as little as £5. What's the catch? David FaulknerUsually these are pirate versions, or versions that cannot legally be sold. For example, it could be an OEM version intended to be sold with a piece of hardware, such as a video card, an education version, or a program that has been "unbundled" from a suite. It could just be stolen property. Most software suppliers try to identify pirated or mis-sold programs and may refuse to register or support them. Adobe's high prices make it a common target -- Premiere Pro 1.5 costs £616.87 from Adobe's website.
