The organisers of the Science Museum'sGame Onexhibition have announced that they're taking delivery of Wii and PS3 consoles. The two new machines will be installed alongside Xbox 360 on Wednesday, thereby creating an interative next-gen showdown area. No word yet on what games they'll be running, but a Gears of Wars vs Resistance vs Red Steel face-off would be interesting. And if you get bored in the inevitable queue, you could always scamper off to try one of the 120 other machines at the event.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Moishe Lettvin, who moved from Microsoft to Google, was amused by a Joel Spolsky essay onChoices = Headaches, which basically wonderedHow many Microsofties does it take to implement the Off menu?Well, Lettvin worked on that feature in Vista so he knew the answer: 24. He writes: "I spent a full year working on a feature which should've been designed, implemented and tested in a week."Comment: Not only is it a fascinating story, it's well worth reading the comments, too.... including the one that points out Spolsky has got it wrong. There are, for most people, only two options: Off and Lock. It's his choice to pop up the advanced menu options (photo above), though he could argue that Microsoft makes the pop-up menu too easy to find.
Publisher 505 Games has decided against releasing controversial survival horror title, Rule of the Rose, in the UK. After clear-headed games expert Walter Veltroni (mayor of Rome), and objective technology guru Franco Frattini (European justice and security commissioner), called the game obscene.According to Gamesindustry.biz, a 505 Games spokemen said, "following discussions with our retail and publishing partners, 505 Games has taken the decision not to publish Rule of Rose in the UK at this time". The mention of retail partners makes me suspect that our moral guardians - i.e. the big highstreet retailers - were planning not to stock the game; a decision that would no doubt have been announced in a self-righteous series of publicity-baiting press releases filled with sickening 'we're a family company' platitudes.Who cares that Rule of the Rose was given a 16+ rating by PEGI, effectively putting it beyond the reach of the children these politicians and retailers are so desparate to protect? 'Ah but children will find a way to get the game if they want it' point out finger-wagging conservative pundits. Yes, in the same way that children get hold of 18 certificate films and alcohol - shall we take these down from shop shelves, too? Ah, but what use is it to rationalise? Once more the industry has become a sitting duck to moral imperialists who imagine that we still exist in a pre-technological utopia.It's not even a very good game.
If you get a Javascript popup claiming to come from ErrorSafe which tells you that you may have something wrong with your Registry, whatever you do,don't click OK. Doing so will download a piece of malware (asdefined by Symantec) while it falsely claims you have dozens of "system errors". (More likely it creates them while it messes with your Registry.)The fact that it's a scam is clearest tousers of Mac systems, since they don't have a Registry, and it's not really very likely that there will be such errors.Wonderfully, the Javascript saysThis file has been digitally signed and independently certified as 100% free of viruses, adware and spyware.We wonder which independent certifier that was, then, since Symantec's virus definitions go off like lights on its appearance. Possibly the sort of independent certifier who should be doing something less demanding, since Symantec notes that ErrorFree's sole purpose is to get you to buy a "licence".The use of Javascript, though, comments John Gruber, is "utterly despicable". Can one disagree?Jack adds: "WinFixer, WinAntiVirus, ErrorSafe, SystemDoctor and DriveCleaner are identical or similar computer programs," according toWikipedia. Common anti-virus programs should deal with it, but obviously it's best not to install it (and it will try a "drive by" installation if Windows is not updated).Do not click on OKorCancel but use Alt-F4 to close the panel [corrected] -- or, for maximum security, use Windows Task Manager to close all browser windows.
Audi TT Coupe QuattroPrice:&pound;31,6880-62mph:5.7 SecondsSeats:2 (plus 2)Good for:Sore eyesBad for:Poor guysWhen Audi launched the latest incarnation of their TT earlier this year, they employed the services of the nubile Miss Dita Von Teese. The launch took place in a warehouse near London Bridge. Its stripped bricks and studded girders were swathed in black velvet and pinpricked with blue spotlights to make it look less industrial and more decadent - and, if you squinted, like a smoke-filled bar in Thirties Berlin. For those not familiar with Ms Teese's oeuvre, she's a 'burlesque performer' - a stripper, basically, but with more feathers and sequins.As the TT's curves were revealed, so Dita revealed her curves, too, and it was hard not to send up a prayer of thanks to the founders of postmodernism. Don't think for a minute that Audi were doing anything as base as selling a car by draping a semi-clad lovely across its bonnet. This was irony. And Dita wasn't just taking off her kit, she was performing, and what artful tassels she had...But what of the TT, lurking quietly in Dita's shadow? The original, launched in 1999, quickly became an icon here in Britain. Its distinctive jelly-mould shape and minimal interior made it a hit with anyone who applauded good design; a budget Porsche with the looks but not the outrageous handling of its German rival. Until now, that is.While the shape of the TT has altered only slightly it is below the bonnet that the real changes have taken place. Four different models are available, two of which feature the innovative S tronic automatic transmission, but the granddaddy of the bunch is the 3.2 Quattro. This is capable of 155mph and reaches 62mph in less than six seconds - hit the gas and your stomach has an out of body experience. Quattro technology was developed 25 years ago by Audi and, as its name suggests, it's a four-wheel drive system. With all four tyres powering you and Audi's unique 'magnetic Ride' suspension gluing you to the road, the TT clings to corners like a polyester shirt sticks to a sweaty back. The line you can take is so direct even Jeremy Paxman would blanch, and the sensation of limitless power is intoxicating - you push the throttle and can't escape the sense that there's plenty more should you need it.The car comes with sport seats and a three-spoke flat-bottomed steering wheel, which is one of those small details which vastly improves the overall experience. There's also, as you'd expect, plenty of extras, including a self-activating spoiler (it pops up at 74mph). As you might not expect, there's also four seats and a fairly capacious boot.Downsides? All this performance comes at a price - the car's fuel consumption is shameful. Over a busy weekend, with too much city driving I admit, I was averaging less than 18 miles to the gallon (though the bumf tells us the combined cycle is 30mpg). There are plenty of four-wheel drive, three-litre off-roaders with similar consumptions, but most of them are two-tonne hulks, not aluminium sports cars. As Dita would no doubt agree, less can be so much more.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Not many people have seen or used the Sugar interface supplied on the so-called $100 laptop (or One Laptop Per Child) project, but Harry Brignull hasposted a videothat provides a quick tour. His post is entitledWhy the OLPC needs lots of usability work, so you'll understand he's not wild about it.The justifications for Sugar are available inOLPC Human Interface Guidelines. You can read those later!There's alsoa video interview with Nicholas Negroponteon the $100 laptop.Note: watch the video at ivr-usability.com, not the YouTube version. As usual, the YouTube quality is crap, and in this case, it makes a dramatic difference both to the legibility and the overall impression.
The long battle between London and the capital's rival provincial cities is being fought on new territory: the internet.While the Google Earth research tool, introduced internationally a year and a half ago, features up-to-date images of London, complete with sights such as the new Wembley stadium and the tower at 30 St Mary Axe, better known as the Gherkin, Liverpool, Manchester and Birmingham are still pictured without their most recent architectural landmarks.Google Earth uses satellite photography to create 3D maps of places, allowing users to zoom in on pictures of their own back garden or office building. But the website is also now used widely by tourists planning holiday trips and business people checking urban regeneration.Google Earth boasts that its images are updated at least every three years and yet, while the new Arsenal football stadium - completed this year - is clearly visible in north London, in Liverpool the roofing work is shown as still under way on the city's central Lime Street railway station. 'This work took place between 2000 and 2001, which means the images are at least five years old,' said Jenny Douglas, planning director of Liverpool Vision, the city's urban regeneration company.Images in Manchester may also have been taken as long ago as five years. There is no Urbis centre, no stylish One Piccadilly apartment block, no City of Manchester Stadium, which was completed for the 2002 Commonwealth Games.In Birmingham the new Bull Ring is not visible and the city's marketing team is not pleased. 'It would be great if Google Earth could be updated more frequently, so that people can see the fantastic changes,' said Neil Rami, the chief executive of Marketing Birmingham.Liverpool, which marks its 800th anniversary as a city next year, is facing a battle to win over hearts and minds before it takes up its role as Capital of Culture. 'Google Earth is a fantastic search engine I use all the time,' said Douglas. 'That is what makes it really disappointing that it seems so out of date. 'The city has undergone dramatic changes in the past two years, with &pound;3.5bn invested or promised, and there are currently 36 tower cranes on the skyline, indicating the level of building work.'Sites like the waterfront development and the new shopping centre have got so much going on, and the search engine will be getting so many hits, with the birthday coming up, it seems a shame to show how it was in 2001,' added Douglas.Rachel Whetstone, a spokeswoman for Google, said that the site relies on third-party external companies to provide their pictures. 'We can only update things as soon as we have the data,' she said. 'We want to give people the best service we can, and so not doing it for London just because we can't do it for other cities would seem wrong.'
Saatchi's popular internet gallery Your Gallery has taken a step into international student culture. Last week's launch of Stuart (saatchi-gallery.co.uk/stuart) has been seized upon by young student artists. Hits per day have risen to two and half million a day. About 500 art students have taken advantage of the opportunity to show an unlimited amount of work for free. Among these is Sophie Reese, in her second year studying fine art painting at Brighton University.Your Gallery is used by 15,000 artists across the world. Collectors can view thousands of artworks and buy without the cost of using a dealer or gallery.
Google has done some sort of deal with some groups and there is no mention of money changing hands, though presumably it will.Bloomberg reports:The agreement removes two of five groups from a Brussels lawsuit that seeks to prevent Google from linking to Belgian newspaper articles for free. Company spokeswoman Jessica Powell declined to give the terms of the agreements with copyright agencies Sofam, which represents 3,700 photographers, and Scam, which represents journalists.This is separate from the lawsuit brought by Belgian newspaper groups.The report adds: "Shares of Google fell $3.01 to $505 at 1:00 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. They had risen 22 percent this year before today."Comment: Sounds like bad news, and it will be interesting to see if Google can put a "don't be evil" spin on it. I'd much rather Google had just removed all references to Belgium from all Google sites, including maps.However, Google had already sold the pass byagreeing to pay Associated Pressfor content, so every other news supplier might as well get in line for a hand-out.Norway and Denmarkare next.
Do you listen toPandoraorLast.fm? Or has the whole "personal radio" meme passed you by?The topic was debated in the blogosphere back in January, when venture capitalist Fred Wilson postedPandora vs. Last.fm. Steve Krause provided the mostin-depth response, saying: "Algorithmically, Pandora versus Last.fm is something like the nature versus nurture debate."At the time, Pandora seemed to be clearly better, but recommendation services are based on change, and Last.fm may have improved faster. It certainly seems to have picked up a bigger audience. Wilson has returned to the topic withPandora vs Last.fm (continued), and produced a graph (below) based on Comscore numbers. He says:it's clear that last.fm is a big success. I love it and use it all the time. The new flash player is a vast improvement over the client and I like similar artist radio a lot although I still prefer neighbor radio and recommended radio the best.Well, which do you prefer?By the way, there's alsoPandoraFM, which is discussedhere.
For a whole week's blog posts on one page, clickhere. In a week of two US games console launches, highlights include:Games industry pros prefer Wii to PS3Wii disassembly becomes an autopsyVideo teardown of the PlayStation 3Nintendo Wiis all over AmericaPlayStation 3 not as good as Xbox 360, says New York Times reviewWii-mote doesn't work very well, says SlatePlayStation 3 shortagesGoogle shares bubble above 500 bucksWhen will Google overtake Yahoo?
Final Fantasy VII: Dirge Of CerberusPS2Departing completely from the grandeur of its role-playing game roots, Dirge Of Cerberus delivers a strange little side plot to (some would say) the series' best episode with a lean towards hack-and-slash action rather than careful farming of experience points. What emerges is a series of mud-brown corridor runs interspersed with frequent and often lengthy exposition that waffles on about ancient powers and refers to just enough people and places from Final Fantasy VII to justify its name. You'll suffer severe cut-scene envy as you sit and watch main character Vincent execute all manner of gravity-disdaining stunts, pirouetting through the air while dealing out hot leaden and magical justice to all surrounding him - when you regain control you're inevitably stuck in a murky passageway unable to so much as jump above crate height. Capcom's Devil May Cry does all this with almost infinitely more panache.&#183;Square, &pound;30Gears Of WarXbox 360For those largely unexcited by another game featuring barely polysyllabic musclemen so pumped up with steroids that they look deformed, and who take big guns to aliens of equally ludicrous size, Gears Of War may prove surprising. Despite undeniably risible characterisation, its gunfights are incredible, emphasising use of cover and the odd flanking manoeuvre in the game's spectacular, crumbling, domed cityscapes. Along with your wide-ankled squad and taking in an unusually coherent storyline, your repeated task is to clear areas of various members of the invading swarm in search of a final solution to the alien problem. With an exceptionally well realised co-operative mode and the usual cornucopia of multiplayer options, Gears may not match the epic perfection of the Halo franchise, but it's closer than most and, in terms of looks and instant gratification, this is pretty much the state of the art.&#183;Microsoft, &pound;50FearXbox 360As a member of the First Encounter Assault Recon team (a unit you can't help thinking may have been named with its acronym in mind), your job is to investigate paranormal activity and, more particularly, the emergence of a genetically-engineered army of supersoldiers. Taking place in first person, FEAR mixes standard shooting fare with spooky hallucinations and half-seen glimpses of beasts, usually immediately followed by a panic-inducing attack from all directions simultaneously. When it was released last year on PC, the unobtrusively integrated plot and worrying special effects were standout features; following Xbox 360 releases Prey and Gears Of War, it's already looking very slightly old-fashioned, such is the current pace of advance. Still, its slow-motion punctuated play mechanics, disturbingly tactical enemy AI and atmosphere of constant dread remain intact and hugely effective.&#183;Vivendi Universal, &pound;50
MondayWar of the RosesGears of woes?BAF and the state of game developmentTuesdayBoulder Dash crushed on to PSP and DSCall for papers: women in gamesSix DS titles sell a millionPS3 under fireWednesdayWii Play detailsGears of War bundleThursdayHappy Thanksgiving!A bit more from BradfordOnline sportsFridayOver the EdgeWii vs PS3: what does it all mean?Your favourite games and movies - is there an underlying message?The tribulations of rating online games
There was a time when the UK was passionate about investing in startups. While the rest of Europe tripped over red tape when faced with entrepreneurs demanding support, the UK prided itself on its climate of US-style enthusiasm, ready to take a chance and back a future winner.But not any more. Today, while innovation contests abound, entrepreneurs are finding it harder than ever to identify backers ready to take a gamble on their ideas. Where the US, and even China, are loading funds almost carelessly behind anything they think might fly, the UK is becoming more European in its reluctance to take a risk.By its own admission, the business angel community - private investors in small business - pumped just &#163;12.8m into UK business in the first half of 2006, compared with &#163;17.5m over the previous six months. Moreover, the average size of investment fell dramatically (down to &#163;70,000 from &#163;180,000), while the number of angels actively making investments dropped by 18%, despite a colossal rise in those apparently willing to invest, according to fi gures from the British Business Angel Association (BBAA).Has the BBC's Dragons' Den undermined investors' confidence, or is the trend more symptomatic of a broader national problem?"Angel investors are being much more selective about the type of businesses they put money into," says Adam Hildreth, the 21-year-old owner of Crisp Thinking, an anti-bullying internet technology company. Despite his tender years, dotcom veteran Hildreth has been on the investment trail for many years, having been the UK's youngest MD at the age of 14. Today, he is worth &#163;5m."A lot more consideration is now given to the people who are running the startup, rather than investors taking a punt on the idea itself," he observes. "This is making it a lot harder for new entrepreneurs to enter the scene."Certainly, as business angels grow more cautious, they can no longer provide entrepreneurs with the size of support they need to have a market impact. So says Hotbed, a private investor network, which is using the BBAA fi ndings to promote its own activities."Business Angels who invest below &#163;70,000 per company are not making any significant difference in the enterprise economy," claims Hotbed's founder and CEO, Gary Robins. "Entrepreneurs need a minimum of &#163;1m to launch an initiative that will develop into a business of substance capable of delivering a healthy return to investors." (Not coincidentally, Hotbed plugs just this gap, off ering typical investments of &#163;1m - &#163;5m per business.)Big potentialNew research from YouGov/Extrasys suggests that as many as one in three Britons are currently interested in running their own business (with a third planning to actively launch their own company within the next three years), creating the potential for more than three million new businesses by 2009. If current levels of business angel activity are anything to go by, this suggests a serious mismatch between the demand and supply of startup funds."It is beyond difficult to raise startup funds in the UK," says Andrew Millington, a partner at international accounting and advisory firm, Mazars. He blames this on a culture that has become increasingly risk-averse, noting the irony that it is typically much easier to raise funds once a business is already established. "It is easy to raise finance when you no longer really need it and have a proven business model," he says. "But if it's for a startup, forget it."This contrasts with the US, which continues to embrace risk in the hope that the bet will one day pay off big-style. Nowhere is this more true, perhaps, than in the technology field. While the UK struggles to find a way to fund new ideas, because these have not yet been proven, the US relishes the challenge of finding and backing the next big thing."The US attitude to innovation is 'it's new - great, let me try it!'. In the UK, the attitude is 'who else is using it?'," complains Charles Nicholls, CEO and founder of SeeWhy Software, arguing that the Government needs to do more to create a more supportive climate for new companies. "UK startup businesses are chronically under-capitalised compared with their US counterparts, where a business can expect to raise 2-10 times the amount of capital raised by its UK equivalent."Perhaps because of the unforgiving process of sourcing finance, an increasing number of entrepreneurs are becoming more creative in the way they fund their startups. Not wanting to risk the humiliation experienced by Dragons' Den hopefuls, many now prefer to go it alone if they possibly can."Generally, in startup situations, it is the three 'f's who finance business: family, friends and fools," says Mazars' Millington.This was the conclusion reached by Tamara Gillan when she needed help financing the startup of her new business, marketing agency SPF 15, last year. Gillan, who has been shortlisted in the Entrepreneur category of this year's Women of the Future awards, and is currently being filmed for the BBC series Beat the Boss, avoided the investment community, going as far as she could with private help before turning to the banks to support a period of growth."With equity funding, you have to be careful as you will be giving away a sizeable chunk of the business," she warns. "This might be acceptable if you ensure your investor understands your business and will provide experience, advice, contacts and other value, but it may not be such a good idea to go down this route if it's just for the cash."Gillan started SPF 15 with seed funding from her own pot, and from family and friends. The company was a year old before she approached the banking community, having been advised by her father that this was the best route for someone in her position.She was in for a shock. The first six banks turned Gillan down. Most galling of all was that Natwest, which had recognised her company in its top 20 "new UK businesses", did not return her calls. "I rang them 17 times about my account, and no one got back to me. I left the bank soon afterwards."Eventually, she captured the attention of her local Lloyds TSB manager, who stumped up &#163;20,000 last June, followed by a further &#163;50,000 six months later when she had delivered against a set of agreed financial objectives. Eventually, she expects to draw on the full &#163;250,000 now available to her under the Government's Small Firms Loan Guarantee Scheme (where the Government underwrites 75% of bank loans offered to new or young businesses without a track record, enabling a favourable interest rate).Although it took a lot of patience (and paperwork) to come by this funding, Gillan recommends starting with private, known investors, and then approaching the banks, as she has managed to hang on to 80% of the equity in her company, compared with what could have been less than 50% if she had gone down the venture capital route.Key to her success, Gillan believes, is the fact that she had something tangible to show the bank. According to those off ering the fi nance, a lack of preparedness to put in more groundwork is most entrepreneurs' downfall."We see an enormous number of earlystage investment proposals, most of which are unfundable," says David Beer, largest business angel network. "It is a fallacy that there is an inadequate stock of risk capital for smaller, early-stage businesses. If there is a problem, it is that the management team (or, more often, single inexperienced individuals) do not understand their market, have no clear idea who is going to pay for their product or why, have not thought through the forward strategy for their 'business', and have a wholly unrealistic idea of the deal they need to offer an investor."Lost-and-found serviceFrank Hannigan, who appeared on Dragons' Den in 2005 with his idea for an online "lost and found" service (<(YouGetItBack.com), accepts this criticism."If you believe in a concept, you should go as far as you can with your own resources because, for the investment community, a concept on its own is a high risk," he concedes. "Each month that you can manage to get nearer to commercialising the product helps the investor understand the risk a bit more, making them more likely to invest. You'll also get a higher value for your company."Having been turned down by the Dragons, Hannigan has since managed to attract a high-net-worth investor, who believes the business will be worth &#163;150m within seven years."We tried to fund the business ourselves for as long as we could, but without money, things were moving too slowly, which wasn't good for motivation, so late last year we sought funding for a business expansion programme," Hannigan explains.An invitation to a meeting of the Investment Club Network in January was all it needed. "We presented our pitch to a room of 20-60 people at a time, then waited to learn our fate. With farmers and other private individuals offering &#163;5,000 here and there, we soon achieved &#163;510,000. They invested in us rather than the stock market. They gave us twice the amount we asked for on Dragons' Den, and we only had to give up just over 12% of our equity in return."As a result, the business now has one private backer that's prepared to provide substantial input into the company, to secure the success of the venture. "We have one of the most respected business leaders in Great Britain involved, because that's how much he believes in what we're doing," Hannigan says. "Certainly his involvement is driving the value of the business right up." YouGetItBack.com was valued at &#163;4m in January 2006, just 6-7 months after Dragons' Den was filmed, and is worth &#163;7m today.Which all goes to show, the investment community argues, that the funds are out there if you believe strongly enough in what you're doing, have done your research, and pay as much effort into your management capability and market strategy as into your original business idea. It's just a question of how hungry you are.Bright ideas Alternative backingYou've run out of funds, don't want to hand the crown jewels over to a selfimportant investor, you feel the banks' terms are too restrictive, yet your friends and family don't have a bean between them. So who else might you tap for help?&#183;If Dragons' Den didn't put you off seeking funding on TV, Sky One has a new show called The Big Idea, which is searching for the next big invention, product or business idea. With a prize of &#163;100,000, Ruth Badger (from The Apprentice), Craig Johnston (inventor of the Predator boot) and Lord Karan Bilimoria (founder of Cobra Beer) are the judges and mentors.&#183;Regional grants and support schemes are always worth investigating. The South East England Development Agency (SEEDA) operates a series ofEnterprise Hubs, designed to provide impartial advice to help local companies raise funds. Meanwhile, Scottish Enterprise has something called a "proof of concept" fund, designed to support pre-commercialisation of cutting-edge technologies emerging from Scottish universities, research institutes and NHS boards.&#183;Wageroller is a cashfl ow fi nancing organisation that will pay a startup's wages bill up to the tune of &#163;10,000 over two months. The only proviso is that your company has been trading for six months&#183;Don't underestimate the value of networking. Explore your options by checking out the British Venture Capital Association (BVCA), or organisations such aswww.hotbed.co.uk, or London Seed Capital.&#183;Consult local commercial lawyers and corporate finance boutiques, as these can offer good points of referral to businesses (and, within these, high-net-worth individuals with an eye for a great deal!)&#183;Remember that money alone won't provide the key to success. Recognising this, Microsoft is now championing software inventors (especially those willing to add value to the new Windows Vista platform), by sponsoring entrepreneur initiatives such as Running the Gauntlet(www.runningthegauntlet.com), putting its best technical and commercial mentors at developers' disposal.
Mere mention of the phrase 'Christmas shopping' is enough to elicit a sigh of pre-emptive dread from most sensible people. So it's hardly surprising that some 25m of us are expected to spend &pound;7bn online over this year's festive season, thus side-stepping the jostling crowds of wild-eyed, last-minute gift-hunters, the frosty shop assistants and the prospect of lugging heavy carrier bags from one end of the High Street to the other.Our willingness to buy goods over the internet has been matched by a huge increase in the number of online traders. While shoppers seem to be setting aside their fears about online fraud, perhaps reassured by the entrance to the online marketplace of big names such as M&S; and, recently, fashion house Mulberry, new internet retailers have been busy setting out their electronic stalls. Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG) predicts that 20% of UK retail sales will be made online by 2010.This is great news for the armchair shopper, but the ease of buying things on the internet comes with one major caveat: you might not receive your goods on time. Few things raise the blood pressure quite as rapidly as parcels that don't arrive when promised, or even at all. Browse any of the shopping comparison websites that carry customer feedback and you're sure to come across splenetic vows to do business elsewhere and no-star ratings provoked by late deliveries.Taking an order and sending it to a customer sounds easy. But most new online businesses lack the capacity to distribute goods to the farthest corners of the nation themselves and they are unable to set up deals with nationwide couriers as they have yet to file accounts. Where do they go?In a word: Parcelforce. Owned by the Royal Mail, it is the world's leading provider of parcel collection and delivery and dispatches 35m consignments each year. Though it maintains it has an excellent track record, it has in the past come in for criticism. A recent investigation by the BBC consumer programme Watchdog provoked more than 400 complaints from people who felt let down by the company. Parcelforce apologised to the customers featured and refunded them where necessary.What is indisputable is that for thousands of businesses, Parcelforce is a key element of operations. Terry King runs one such company. He started his London-based online pet supplies business, Pets2home.co.uk, in September 2005. With an estimated &pound;2bn market and support from a major wholesale supplier, things looked rosy. After building up a database of 2,000 people who expressed an interest in his service, he began trading, and offered a paid-for, next-day delivery option. Within days he was experiencing the kind of problems that give entrepreneurs nightmares."It was an absolute bloody disaster," he said. "Parcelforce offers a 98% minimum on-time delivery service, but in our first week it was more like 50%. This went on for another week, then we kicked up a fuss."Having already set up a successful logistics business, King knew which buttons to push when complaining - and, crucially, he was able to dispatch some orders himself."Our supplier has a depot in Dartford, so I put the London freight on to our own vehicles. I was using those vehicles, filling them up with Parcelforce freight."King said the company told him the cause of the problem was a technical failure with a mechanical sorting hub. They assigned to his business a customer service officer who tracks orders for him.Improvements"Once we got their attention, the service got a lot better," he said. "We had one other bad week recently where the service level dipped, but generally there has been a vast improvement. But we're between a rock and a hard place. You can make a fuss, but you don't have anywhere else to go. Couriers are too expensive. I shudder to think of the impact of 2,000 customers placing orders of &pound;30 on average who didn't get their items for four or five days. It's not just individual orders you lose, it's the repeat business."Parcelforce admits that there were problems with Pets2home's service in the first week of trading, but says it has worked successfully with the company to rectify those problems.Parcelforce adds: "The vast majority of goods we handle are delivered on time. Parcelforce has one of the best quality-of-service records in the industry.""Broadly speaking they have improved a lot," says King, "but they do seem to have moments when they drop the ball. The result is that we now have to manage customer expectations."King says he has had to build leeway into the business to cope with the possibility that his carrier might let him down."We now offer a one-to-two-day delivery service, which is in effect the Parcelforce next-day delivery service. It is a bit of an indictment that we're not confident enough to offer a next-day delivery service that you pay for."Mark Guymer is the UK manager for the eBay-owned price comparison website Shopping.com, and oversees all operations for that company. He believes online shopping is a victim of its own success: "In recent years, everybody talked about the growth of e-commerce but nobody had really anticipated the explosion we are seeing. Last year there were new businesses offering delivery on orders placed as late as December 23, which is ridiculous and just creates disappointment."We see the feedback from customers of many different retailers and it seems that the sector's growth has put most strain on the biggest players. But we're hearing positive feedback that Parcelforce and other couriers are taking this very seriously, that they are working with the industry and have made good inroads into offering a good service."A huge problem with online deliveries in the past was that people had to be there to sign for every item - you might have to travel 50 miles to a depot, which defeats the purpose of shopping online in the first place. There is now a better understanding of which items don't need to be signed for, which has improved things."A further handicap for small retailers, according to Terry King, is that because they lack clout, they are saddled with uncompetitive collection times from carriers. What this means in practice is that a customer has to place an order very early in the day to ensure next-day, or two-day delivery.Lack of clout might not always be a disadvantage, suggests Guymer. If they're canny, smaller retailers can use their size to their advantage when it comes to competing with their high-street competitors.He says: "Smaller businesses can get very smart very quickly, and we're seeing more companies using bespoke software that takes orders, links with distribution centres and handles deliveries in the most efficient way possible."Despite the improvements he has seen, King is looking ahead to the next few weeks with a similar feeling of trepidation to those who are preparing to go into battle on the tinsel-clad high streets of Britain."Believe it or not, at Christmas massive amounts of people buy gifts for their pets. I'm not confident about it at all, to be honest. I've seen Parcelforce operate under pressure and I just know they're going to fall over at some point."
If floaty kaftans, rebirth rituals and a tirade of Buddhist quotations are your idea of spirituality, then undoubtedly you'd be a bit cuckoo to think it has a place in the commercial world (unless your business is crystal balls and raising the dead, that is). But, as David Hawkins, author of I: Reality and Subjectivity asserts, "Even the world of business will discover that the inclusion of spiritual values is very profitable as reflected by a healthier bottom line."And according to Olivia Stefanino, whose book Be Your own Guru (published by Wylie, &pound;12.99) has just hit the shelves, only by establishing spirituality and emotional intelligence into the corporate arena can higher profits be guaranteed, because by doing this, she says, you can learn to understand that you are a "cause" rather than "effect" in your life.The book tracks a pilot project of Stefanino's Be Your Own Guru (BYOG) personal leadership programme within a high street bank (which cannot be named), with profitable results. BYOG was run alongside a control group undertaking the bank's own sales training. This control group saw a 110% rise in sales at the end of a nine-month period, Stefanino's group increased sales by more than 330%. And no, staff weren't sitting on fibre mats with scissor-crossed legs humming "ohm" while influencing karmic forces to boost sales.Stefanino, a former business journalist, set up Eklektika Business Development Agency 10 years ago after deciding there was "more to life than selling advertising space," then developed BYOG and incorporated a range of esoteric techniques and philosophies into it. However, she says: "The spiritual perspective should not be confused with anything religious. It's more about a shared sense of purpose, which is the foundation for any company. Knowing that purpose is important before embarking upon the process of reaching objectives. Organisations without proper foundations tend to not to stand the test of time."Stefanino's viewpoint is that most training is a waste of money, because: "Until individuals can identify their 'personal reason why', their motivation on the job comes solely from their employer. This is far less powerful than personal motivation." BYOG essentially aims to find those motivations and then align goals to those of the employer - a 'win-win'. Every delegate has a confidential one-to-one session with Stefanino to identify personal drivers and emotional blocks, and the course is then tailored appropriately."As well as using hypnotherapy and my own Personal Enlightenment and Release process, there have been occasions when I've used energy healing and shamanic techniques, even past-life regression. But I'm careful to keep 'new-age' language out of it, but once people have done the one-to-one, they are usually open to the rest of the course. It is likely to make most impact on those with a lot of emotional baggage."As the bank example shows, not all businesses engaging with the programme are the "usual suspects" of creative and new media industries. Ian Hildon, business unit director for Genus ABS, a firm specialising in bovine genetics, participated in BYOG and feels it has made an immeasurable difference to his work, as well as to his colleagues'. "I decided to stay open-minded about the training but, not being a spiritual person, wasn't sure it was for me," says Hildon. "The first session was a real delve into what was blocking me from moving on, and what I've learned has really enhanced my relationship with staff and clients."Though Stefanino's programme is unique, she isn't the first to push "new age" techniques into business. Peter McNab, Neuro-linguisitic Programming (NLP) master trainer and author of Towards an Integral Vision (Trafford Publishing), has been working with high-profile organisations such as TDG, BT, Tesco and the NHS for years, helping managers and directors polish up their communications. NLP, says McNab, is about "helping people think more systemically. It encourages people to consider: 'if this isn't working, what can I do differently?'"McNab's company, Excellence for All, offers courses such as The Power of Influence and Persuasion using tools from NLP and other models to help delegates make thinking and communication more positive. With NLP, the responsibility for change lies with the individual, but Excellence for All also offers courses on "The Enneagram" - a personality typing tool that McNab believes is powerful in enabling us to better understand ourselves and others.Robert Massie, managing director of Sheffield-based IT solutions firm Highlander, is one of McNab's many happy customers: "It has made an unbelievable difference," he says. "I used to be defensive if someone else's viewpoint was different from my own in meetings, and it used to hold me back. But I now seek first to understand, then be understood, rather than the other way round. Both staff and client retention is better than ever and the training our directors, managers and staff have undertaken has been instrumental in this."Some techniques have been around for rather longer than others. One of these, "future-basing" was developed by management consultant Bill Phillips almost twenty years ago and, he says, "was developed for personal and corporate goals. It can help you to focus on performance essentials by allowing you to quickly place yourself in an ideal future and then give you the tools to get there." Basically, it is designed to enable companies to identify their most desired outcome and then develop a step-by-step plan in achieving that goal."One SME I worked with used future-basing to assist them with a management buy-out," says Phillips, who runs coaching training and individual open courses on the process. "The unexpected outcome was that it showed one of the team wanted a different future for himself and his family, so they decided not to go ahead. In this case, future-basing enabled them to test their ideas and commitment and appraise their options."Indeed, sometimes companies discover that goals may not be aligned, agrees Stefanino. What if Mr Bloggs, faithful employee of 10 years, suddenly discovers that working for Acme Corporation for the next 10 years is not his calling? "I do warn businesses that people might leave, and it has happened," says Stefanino. "But these people may not have really been helping the organisation move forwards anyway."Another potential problem, McNab points out, is that unless managers and the organisations are committed to change, the training will be futile. He says: "If somebody comes on a programme and goes back into an environment that is stuck and negative, it can cause dissatisfaction. They may revert to old behaviours or move on and leave."Is your company ready to see the light? All of the 'gurus' insist that these methods can work for anyone who is open to them, although some personality types or organisational structures may be more resistant. Being narrow minded or being too "structure-oriented" are some of the reasons given as to why the methods might not work, and Stefanino feels that process-driven organisations such as manufacturing industries have been difficult to engage. McNab says he hasn't noticed this, but feels it is the people who are not on the courses by choice, there because managers have told them to be, that are the most resistant to the concepts being taught.Can you afford to bring spirituality and emotional intelligence into the workplace? Maybe the question should be: can you afford not to?Stefanino claims that if you don't deal with emotional baggage first, any training you "pour on top" is like pouring tea into an already full cup - it just spills over. "Most training focuses on skills, but it's far more important to change habits. And habits are only changed through personal motivation."And she's so sure of this, she offers a 100% money-back guarantee on the programme.Neuro Linguistic Programming (NLP):NLP allows us to understand people's differences to improve communications. According to this model, people mainly use three communication types; visual, auditory and kinaesthetic (feeling) with a tendency to use one more than the others. NLP is focused on encouraging people to choose how to think and feel rather than "react", and on paying attention to positive thoughts and outcomes, rather than negative ones.The four-day Power of Influence and Persuasion course delivered by Peter McNab is &pound;6,000 per course, usually for a maximum of 24 delegates.See:www.excellenceforall.co.ukor telephone 01706 830055. Also see:www.moretolifethanthis.comBe Your Own Guru:The programme is normally in three stages, involving one-to-one sessions, a two-day training course, then on-going consultancy work. It draws on a number of techniques, such as NLP, hypnotherapy, emotional intelligence theory, counselling, energy-healing and time-line therapy (a technique that taps into unconscious memories that may be holding you back) in order to encourage delegates to develop emotional and spiritual intelligence.Stages one and two cost approximately &pound;645 per person. Follow-up coaching is flexible at an additional cost.See:www.beyourownguru.comor telephone 0845 456 7095Future-basingThis is a method of imagining yourself in the "ideal future", with an ideal outcome, and planning how you will systematically reach that outcome through building and describing it as if it were real, and in terms that your senses would recognise. Delegates then "look back from" this future and identify milestones and turning points along the way as if remembering them for real. These then help form a map or pathway of steps to help move towards that success.Future-basing coaching training costs &pound;4,500 for up to 20 people, three-day individual training is &pound;795 plus VAT.See:www.future-basing.comor telephone 07973 32 66 94
Ten years ago, maybe a little more, computers started to make sounds. Aside from the odd beep which they'd been able to muster for some time, games started getting more involved and the prospect of sound through telephony or educational CD-roms meant speakers became more sophisticated. Podcasts and intranets now mean listening is an important part of computing; headphones add the necessary privacy.The tricky thing about looking at headphones for computers, though, is that they can have so many purposes. All of the products below are excellent and offer good value for money, but they won't suit all purposes. The GN Netcom set, for example, is comfortable and great for use as a wireless telephone headset when you're using internet phones. It will also happily work with a landline at the same time. But if you're one of these self-employed types who'd like something for music, too, forget it - it's a single-ear solution.The wireless Jabra model is Bluetoothed up for mobile and PCs that are Bluetooth-capable (and there's an adaptor for when they're not) - but it's not designed for landlines at all.The star ratings this time around are, then, aimed at reflecting how well the phones perform their given tasks; anyone thinking of buying a set, however, needs to study the specific feature set of each, and find out what they're actually supposed to do.The home worker Jabra BT620sThese are elegant headphones for anyone who wants to listen to music yet still be alerted whenever their IP phone or mobile goes off. The sound quality is excellent for the size of phones and they're comfortable to use - although they're not adjustable. The concealed microphone is a nice touch as long as your needs are relatively simple. Making calls is fine, but for podcasting you'd need to spend more money.Setting the Bluetooth link up to more than one device is simple, although you need to be aware that not all connections are equal; flicking the button to switch between music from my computer and a call on my phone occasionally led to the phone's MP3 player being turned on instead. And, as it's Bluetooth compatible, it's not going to work with the majority of landline phones. For the mobile user who wants the option of automatic call alerts while listening to music, this is an excellent option.Price:&pound;67.95(www.expansys.com)Maker's URL:www.jabra.co.ukPros:Wireless sound with a concealed microphone for callsCons:Not for people who want multiple phonesStar rating:4/5The executive GN Netcom GN 9350A glance at the price tag on this headset might have some people picking themselves up from the floor in shock, but this is a serious business headset. It has security built in. It has a proper base station that transmits a signal within 350 feet. No, there's no Bluetooth, but if you're using internet telephony it will switch between that and the landline quite happily.There is a choice of fittings. There is noise cancellation on the microphone so that if you want to walk through a busy office there's no problem. And it's built on the principle that the grown-ups using it won't go off the idea and upgrade or downgrade within minutes of buying it. It's not cheap, but for the right user it would be a good investment.Price:&pound;184.38 excluding VAT(www.home-phones.co.uk)Maker's URL:www.gnnetcom.comPros:Security and designCons:The price won't suit every budgetStar rating:5/5The budget model Plantronics Audio 550 DSPStartup businesses and anyone on a budget should look not only at the business ranges of headphones but also the games market, in which full stereo sound as well as voice commands have been taken into account during the design. This set from Plantronics is clearly aimed at the price-conscious multimedia user who's using any of the IP telephone services and who wants either gaming, podcasting or other audio capability from his or her computer. Since there's a microphone involved it connects through USB so there's no chance of using it away from your computer - and it's wired rather than wireless, but it sets itself up quite happily and, unlike a lot of the models on test, it's adjustable to the size of your head. OK, it's a little on the bulky side and there's no built-in security, but, for the price, what did you expect? Look also at the Audio 350.Price:&pound;32(www.amazon.co.uk)Maker's URL:www.plantronics.co.ukPros:Does the job in some comfortCons:Not one for fidgets, who'll accidentally terminate calls while fiddling with the buttonStar rating:4/5The part-time gamer Saitek GH50 surround sound headsetAnother one from the games market - although next to the Plantronics offering it looks a bit pricey. Nonetheless a serviceable microphone and headset connect to the computer easily through USB, and there are no fiddly installation disks or downloads to contend with - plug it in and it works. The volume control is easy to locate and you have the option to cut calls out in the middle. Gamers might be interested to know that this one vibrates when the aliens attack - more serious takers of calls won't. The sound quality is good for people who want music while they work.Price:&pound;49.99Maker's URL:www.saitek.comPros:Again, does the job comfortablyCons:Limited and slightly priceyStar rating:3/5The traveller Jabra BT500In case anyone has forgotten, you don't need a big pair of earphones for every call you make. If your need is for calls and you don't want anything else then this will pair with your PC or Mac just as easily as your mobile phone and it will work just as it says in the book. Understandably it's not intended for music (it'll work but the quality will be terrible, as you might expect) but it's comfortable, robust and pleasant to use (callers don't always know you're using a headset). In fact one of the interviews for this issue of Business sense was conducted in the car by a journalist wearing one of these headsets with a voice recorder earphone adapter slipped underneath it - not highly recommended but comfortable enough for 15 minutes!Price:&pound;35.99(www.amazon.co.uk)Maker's URL:www.jabra.co.ukPros:Fits and works easilyCons:Ear gels easy to lose in your pocketStar rating:4/5
There's a long list of reasons why switching to online office applications should make sense. The first is money. You can buy a reasonably specified PC for the price of the full version of the ubiquitous Microsoft Office and the upcoming 2007 edition isn't any cheaper. Some of its web-based competitors are free. That's a hard price to beat.If it was simply a matter of price, however, Open Office - which can be downloaded free fromwww.openoffice.org- would be an easy winner. What Open Office lacks are the potential benefits of web-based office productivity packages. These should, in theory, allow you to work on your files, spreadsheets and documents anywhere you can get online.Operating in the same way as web-based email such as Hotmail, all you need is a browser to access and work on your files. So, if you spend the weekend sweating over a report at home you won't need to email it to the office then try to figure out which is your most up-to-date version. All you need to do is fire up Explorer or Firefox and carry on working where you left off.Working online is also, in some ways, more secure. If your hard disk crashes, your laptop gets stolen or any other disaster strikes, your valuable online work is stored safely on some big server probably on the other side of the Atlantic. That, admittedly, raises other security questions, but I've more faith in Google not losing my data than I do my own infrequently backed-up hard drive.Microsoft can be more of a hindrance than a help for bloggers. Cutting and pasting from Word is seldom straightforward as there are often hidden formatting commands which interfere with the appearance of blog text. All the online packages I've looked at make inserting text and even graphics into a blog far more straightforward.Browser-based software should also make collaboration inherently simpler. Files such as word processor documents or spreadsheets are treated essentially as password protected web pages. Anybody granted permission can apply their alterations to the pages and the changes will automatically be tracked.Does this mean it's time to ditch your Microsoft software? Sadly, the answer at the moment is no. None of the online competitors provide Office's level of functionality. The biggest absentee is a database, let alone one to match Access.But there is at least one competitor that offers enough to start to worry Microsoft. And that contender certainly isn't the best-known.Google Docs & SpreadsheetsEverything that Google does is hyped by the world's media. So when it launched the inspiringly named "Docs & Spreadsheets" it was reported in many quarters as if this was a real threat to the dominance of Microsoft Office. It isn't. In fact, it's far from being even the best of the free online office applications.As with all the offerings, I've tested the word processor most thoroughly because, as a writer, that's the type of program I use most often. The light calculations I've tried on the spreadsheet show it to be more than adequate for my needs, but heavier users would certainly want to stick to Excel.Google Docs does everything I absolutely need in a word processor. It has, for instance, a word counter. This is the most important function for any freelance journalist. We're commissioned and paid by the word. Unfortunately the counter works somewhat slowly compared with PC-based software, as do most of the tools. This is inevitable because commands have to bounce round the internet rather than just between a keyboard, PC and monitor. But it's a minor frustration and not enough to stop most people using the program.But Docs does have some annoying quirks. Most annoying for me is the way Google Docs seems to work better with Microsoft Internet Explorer than my browser of choice, Firefox. For instance, I've become used to cutting and pasting in Word with a mouse. A right click in Google Docs using Firefox brings up a familiar menu. However, any attempt to use the commands in that menu brings up an error message. You can only use keyboard shortcuts or the browser's toolbar.Upgrading to Firefox 2.0 also brings an additional quirk. The new version of the browser has a built-in spellchecker that is only half-disabled by Google Docs. So words that are misspelled according to the browser's American dictionary are underlined as you type, but the suggested alternative spelling isn't shown. To get that you have to spell-check the whole document.The solution should be simply to switch to Internet Explorer, except that has problems, too. I find it has a slight, but perceptible, lag between typing and the letters appearing on screen. It's disconcerting, but not disastrous.It's a pity Google Docs is marred by these minor difficulties, because overall it provides pretty much all I need in a word processor. In some areas it's much easier to use than Word - for instance when publishing to a blog or sharing documents. It may be, however, that the technology allowing users to turn their web browser into an office application is not up to the task.Zoho OfficeAs a suite of applications Zoho is impressive. It includes Zoho Writer, Sheet and Show, the last being a lightweight PowerPoint-style presentation program. It also has a collaboration program called Zoho Virtual Office. On top of these there are web-based business tools, including Zoho CRM and a well-featured online organiser called Planner.The spreadsheet seems more polished than Google's effort. It's certainly easier to produce charts, although that's not something I often do. There are occasions, however, when Sheet doesn't quite behave as expected, highlighting the wrong cells and so on. The software is still shown as being in beta test, but even when these problems are ironed out, it's not going to be a challenger for Excel's crown.Looking at the presentation function, Show, a more general problem with Zoho becomes clear. It's not easy to find any sort of help. So, I've discovered how to import a PowerPoint presentation but I can't find a way of saving a Zoho Show file to my hard drive. If that's the case it represents a major problem if there's no reliable internet connection at the place where a presentation is being made.Maybe I'm missing something, as I was with Zoho Writer. My favourite tool, the word counter, seemed to have been omitted. So I decided to save the file in order to use it in another word processor. Only then did it show the number of words I'd written. There was no way of knowing you had to save to count.Writer also shares a problem with Google Docs in that cut and paste functions misbehave in Firefox. The difference is Google provides an error message and a workaround, whereas Zoho just leaves you guessing.In both cases it's a problem with the hybrid combination of programming languages called "Ajax" they use to display applications in a web browser. Without it, users would have to download a plug-in. Unfortunately an application such as a word processor may be too complex for Ajax to deal with. In addition, Ajax is not a common standard so it's hard to implement across browsers.In fact, I deliberately ignored the AJAX13 suite(www.ajax13.com)despite the fact it includes an online word processor, spreadsheet and drawing package. But it only works in Firefox. That may be my browser of choice, but 80 per cent of the world uses Internet Explorer. Tying users to a particular browser removes one of the main advantages of online office applications, the ability to view and work on files anywhere you can get internet connection.Overall, I prefer Zoho to Google's effort, but I'd only use either of them if it was really difficult to get access to Microsoft or Open Office.ThinkFreeUntil I tried ThinkFree I really thought that any suggestion that an online application could compete with any of the elements in Microsoft Office was a joke. ThinkFree may not be perfect, but in some circumstances, it could be an Office competitor.There will be purists who say it's unfair to compare ThinkFree with the offerings from Google and Zoho because it doesn't run in a naked web browser. Users have to download a little program called a "Java applet" every time they use the full-powered versions of the word processor, spreadsheet or presentation tools: ThinkFree Write, Calc and Show.As a result it takes anything up to a couple of minutes for each to launch. But when a ThinkFree application is up and running it's barely distinguishable from those in Microsoft Office. That's particularly true with Show, another clone of PowerPoint, missing only a few of Microsoft's features and adding one of its own, the ability to save a presentation as a PDF.ThinkFree Calc is a worthy alternative to Excel for spreadsheet lightweights like me. Power users, however, may notice some omissions, such as the absence of pivot tables and macros. Calc, however, can still match most of the functions of Excel.The only Microsoft Word tool I missed when using ThinkFree Write was the list of synonyms displayed when right-clicking a word. It's an occasionally useful source of inspiration. Write has no grammar checker either, but I didn't miss that and its fatuous comments at all.As with all the online packages ThinkFree scores highly on collaboration and integration with blogging software. It's very straightforward to share or work on documents with other people and to post straight into a blog. The fact ThinkFree runs as a Java applet means it should work equally well on a Mac, Linux or Windows PC.Despite everything in ThinkFree's favour, I'm not quite ready to give up Microsoft Office. Partly it's the thought of giving up some of the minor features I've grown used to, but it's more to do with the gut feeling of wanting to keep my words of wisdom on my own hard drive rather than on the server of some company I barely know.WeblinksGoogle Docs & SpreadsheetsZoho OfficeThinkFree
Welcome to the final Business sense of the year.As we head into December, it's always interesting to look back and see how things have changed over the past 12 months. Back in January, for instance, our lead story was on bird flu, which many of us were utterly convinced would sweep the globe within months. It hasn't - fellow hypochondriacs will add the word "yet" - so those businesses who chose to ignore the advice to start making some contingency plans might feel they got away with it.There are, however, some hardy Business Sense perennials, and in January we also talked about the difficulty of starting up a business. Doug Richard, of Dragons' Den fame, warned that too many would-be entrepreneurs simply didn't know how startup finance works.This month, we make no apology for returning to the issue of startup finance, simply because it remains - at least to many people who would like to start and develop their own business - a huge problem. In our cover story, Sue Norris reports on how hard it is for people to get finance. But it's worth reading on; that usual refrain is countered by one expert who points out that many people simply don't know how to build a business plan. Perhaps the problem is less about finding the money, and more about business education.On the technology front, you might have heard about changes in the way Microsoft wants to sell you its suite of office applications - we report on the change in Any Other Business. At the same time, a rash of pretenders to Office's crown have cropped up online, some available for free, which we review in 'Should you move office to the web'. Free, as author Nick Clayton points out, is a hard price to beat, and many businesses will bristle at seeing Microsoft Office move from being an occasional, one-off capital cost to an ongoing expense dripping out month after month. But Nick's review of those sites might persuade you to hang on to that boxed version of Office for a while yet..
On the webPersonnel services: how do you measure up?Have you ever wondered how your HR policies compare with those of other employers but been unable to find out because you don't want to disclose them to the competition? Reed Business Consulting might have the answer with its new website called HR Benchmark. It's timed to coincide with the Companies Bill, which is expected to come into effect over the next month and should allow people to comply with reporting requirements more easily than before.Of equal interest to the smaller business will be the sector-by-sector comparisons: "Most organisations in the UK pay out over 50% of their overall spend on employee costs such as salary, training and benefits. Our HR Benchmark website provides a forum for senior managers to demonstrate more clearly how investments in people deliver tangible returns on the bottom line," says Laura Frith, managing director of Reed Business Consulting.The site lets organisations compare themselves with their peers in terms of workforce composition, retention and motivation, skills and training, reward and fairness, and leadership and succession.Working Time DirectiveIndustry bodies approve EU overtime rulingBoth the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) and the Forum of Private Business (FPB) have given a tentative thumbs-up to the Finnish EU presidency's decision not to push ahead with plans to restrict individuals' rights to opt out of the Working Time Directive. Effectively this means that if a UK employee wants to work longer hours than the maximum for the rest of Europe they will be entitled to do so. The FSB welcomed the idea, commenting that although it won't be great for relations between Britain and the rest of Europe, it should be good for smaller businesses. The FPB, meanwhile, notes that the restrictions collapsed because a number of states felt they were not stringent enough. The FPB says it hopes the issue won't re-emerge with tougher restrictions.BooksBrand aidOn the bookshelf this month is Brand Vision: How To Energise Your Team To Drive Business Growth, by David Taylor (Wiley, &pound;24.99). Aimed at diagnosing how so many branding exercises end in failure, the book takes a rather proscriptive angle and describes how Taylor himself believes brands work. Do you have, for example, a brand CEO or indeed someone at board level specifically responsible for managing your brand and its reputation? If not, you might be in trouble, says Taylor.It also suggests you need to be completely brand-led in all elements of the business, although as early as chapter one, the book stresses there's no use applying excellent brand management if you have a poor product. Your brand managers need to be authoritative and experienced, it says, and they need to buy into the story you'll be writing for your brand.The book goes into a lot more depth than a lot of small businesspeople will ever need, and the space taken up by jargon and diagrams is more than many people will find comfortable to read, but it does contain some useful advice.Giving your brand a personality to make it stand out from the others is sound advice, and the 'story' idea might sound odd but when you consider the success of the Gold Blend Couple or the Oxo family it does seem to work.For the owner or manager of a small business this is a book to read at leisure; it's probably better used as a stimulus to get you thinking in a certain way than an instructional bible, but it's no less valid for that.ITMicrosoft launches Office Live subscription serviceMicrosoft has launched its much-vaunted Office Live offering. The idea is that you log onto a remote server with Office loaded onto it and use it as a service rather than as a piece of software you've bought. The disadvantage to the customer is that you never stop paying for it; the advantage is that you pay only for what you use, so if you need Word for a couple of temps for a fortnight then you'll pay for two extra licenses for a fortnight rather than having to buy two extra pieces of software you'll hardly use.The longer-term impact should be a more viable Microsoft, as its customers slowly convert to the subscription model and become revenue streams rather than one-off purchasers who increasingly see upgrades as an optional extra. It should be possible to upgrade to the latest version of Office without the usual pain of upgrades by asking Microsoft to do it remotely once the service is running completely.The scheme follows previous attempts at software-as-a-service such as the ASP model, which came in before broadband was available and therefore was impractical, and other hosted offerings from companies such as Extrasys, which has offered managed Microsoft Office licenses for more than a year.BACSSMEs owed &pound;16bnThis supplement has covered the issues of late payments before, but even we were surprised to read that small to medium enterprises in the UK are owed some &pound;16 billion in cash that should already be in their coffers.The data comes from BACS, the organisation that facilitates automatic cash transfers between bank accounts. It says 59% of small businesses have suffered from larger suppliers holding on to cash: up from just over a third at the time of the last survey in 2004, when the total figure outstanding was &pound;11 billion.The research also says 69% of smaller businesses and 91% of financial directors in their larger counterparts say they would be happy to receive electronic payments if it would speed up the process - though the payment mechanism is not usually to blame for the delays.Oddly, in the light of this preference, a remarkably large amount of companies fail to put bank details on their invoices in the first place. Fifty-nine per cent of small to medium sized businesses put no bank details on their invoices, hampering the payer's chances of clearing the debt in this way.It's worth mentioning, however, that very few accounting software packages put a space for these details into their standard invoice templates. Now, if a few heads were to get together on that one...
Apart from this week's letters, published in fullhere, we also got lots and lots of reaction to our articles on spam (Why spam is out of control;Six steps to stopping spam; plus, most recently,What else can we do to stop the spammers?.Here are your letters responding to the first two, plus some explanations why the suggestions might (or might not) work.Your generalised solution to Spam was short and sweet... "Delete them all. Unread". I have tried this since the volume of spam emails I received went up roughly tenfold in the past six months, but to no apparent effect. I have Norton AV with Anti-Spam, and so I have very recently started to select the spam emails and click on the "This is spam" button in my Outlook tool bar. This does the job of moving the offending emails to my Spam folder. However when I view the folder the emails are shown as having been opened. What is the better solution, delete (daily) fifty odd emails unopened, or have Norton open them but filter future receipts from the relevant addresses away from my inbox? James Craigen, St. Albans[I'd suggest just deleting them. The From: address won't be the same twice - Technology Ed.]Something that isn't mentioned in this piece (although hinted at at the end with "Other mail services [...] use other ports") is that message submission (i.e. from a sender's computer to a remote mail server) ideally shouldn't be going over port 25 anyway. Since 1998 an alternative to port 25 for submission, port 587, has been proposed. The primary difference between this and SMTP transmission over port 25 is that authentication is required rather than optional. Authenticated SMTP, contrary to the impression given in the article, is for authenticating that mail can be submitted by a user, rather than authenticating a sender at the receiver's end. For the example given in the article [Six steps to stopping spam], a user who cannot access a remote mailserver due to port 25 blocking should be requesting the remote mailserver allow submission on port 587 (GMail, for example, allows this) rather than complaining about their ISP. Most modern software should allow port numbers to be specified in their configuration (an exception, sadly, is Outlook/Outlook Express which has problems with authenticated SMTP - sometimes an alternative, port 465 is made available for them). As more networks chose to block port 25 there should hopefully be an increase in adoption of port 587 submission and, by extension, authenticated SMTP. The problem, admittedly, with submission on port 587 is that it's not well known enough for users affected by the blocking scenarios to request it from their mail server administrators.http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2476.txt(proposed standard 1998)http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4409.txt(updated draft standard April 2006) Lee Maguire (no post town given)[Yes - port 587 and authenticated SMTP is looking increasingly attractive. See this week's article.]Read your article and noted that there was objections to blocking port 25. Here in the States it is very common. My DSL provider does it but I need to send e-mail from my domain so my web hosting company has port 2525 open for this exact purpose. It requires a username and password to use but once set it is remembered by my e-mail client and I don't have to think about it. The other issue mentioned is opening an email validating the address. Yes, that is possible if you accept HTML e-mail and you use Look, er, Outlook, but if you use one of the more secure clients like Thunderbird and you have a good firewall in place on your machine then this is much less of an issue than having your address on a web site, a blog, or on an email list. Harvesting addresses off the net with a spider is ongoing and the biggest source of addresses to spam. Email lists like Yahoo and Google groups are a close second. Allen Schaaf, San FranciscoCertainly the more visible your email is online, the more likely you are to get spam. But viruses these days will harvest any email on a machine. Plus, many spam emails contain links to images - even 1x1 pixels - whose URL contains your email, so opening it will validate the address via the web; nothing a firewall can do to prevent that. Don't open them, at all. Or if you must, do it offline.]I did enjoy the suggestion to use X.400 - it is indeed used by several industries and the military for critical messaging, but it's also impractical to use for the internet's ad-hoc email infrastructure. X.400 MTAs require every other MTA they'll use to be configured explicitly, whereas the internet doesn't work that way. But Lindsay Marshall seems rather out of date with what port 25 is for, so let's review the answers in the light of the past decade's worth of improvements to ESMTP and the rest of the internet's email infrastructure. 1) Use "authenticated SMTP" email. It'd be relatively trivial for ISPs to move toward authenticated ESMTP. There's three key areas here, so it's worthwhile distinguishing them carefully. First off, ISPs could obtain TLS certificates and use these between themselves. Initially, of course, there'd be some with, some without, but that's just a case of different trust rankings - email coming from unauthenticated sources would be treated more suspiciously, and would be spam filtered more aggressively. This isn't usernames and passwords, of course, this is certificates. Secondly, and this runs in parallel, ISPs need to require authentication on submission, of which more in the next section. Thirdly, technologies like DKIM (in the final throes of standardization) allow for end to end assertions by mail systems that the sender's identity has been verified. It's be possible for mail service providers and end users to use these techniques in combination to manage filtering - for instance, John Loveridge's email would be asserted as legitimate by DKIM when he authenticated with his submission server to send it, and each mail server along the chain would be able to verify the identity of the sending mail server, and verify the assertion. If it passes all those checks, it's reasonable to assume it's not spam - if it doesn't, it's reasonable to be highly aggressive in filtering. 2) ISPs block other port 25 mail Absolutely! There's no real reason for the vast majority of users on the internet to use port 25 at all. The problems of the readers "suffering" from port 25 being blocked are actually a symptom of using older email client software, which uses port 25 - which is for MTA to MTA (or server to server) communications. They need to be connecting using port 587, which is rarely if ever blocked. Port 587 is used by Submission - which looks a lot like ESMTP, but it requires authentication, and mandates server support for TLS. Plus, it's the variant of ESMTP that has all the nifty Lemonade mobile support added, so there's actual cost advantages for those of us using email on mobile connections and devices. Almost any email client will happily connect to port 587 instead of port 25 - older ones need a small dose of configuration, but it's a one-off change. Newer clients, most especially those capable of using Lemonade for mobile (and satellite, etc) email, will use port 587 by default. 3) Adopt IPv6 Actually, this isn't quite right. It's not IPv6 that we care about (although having globally unique addressing everywhere does make things a bit easier to track down culprits), so much as IPsec, which is another encryption and authentication layer. So this is a redirect to point 1. IPsec can be deployed with IPv4, too, but it's a standard part of IPv6. Of course, none of these (especially not challenge response systems) will solve spam, but they can both allow for more aggressive filtering, as well as providing a considerably more stable email infrastructure. Dave Cridland (no post town given)[Port 25 is showing up as the unlocked back door in this problem, certainly.]Of course spam will always be with us, rather like the common cold. However, as people become more tech-savvy, the number who click through onto the stupid adverts will decrease. I use Mac OS X, and my mail program has a handy-dandy "junk" mail button which not only deletes the email but adds the address to my list of "spam" addresses so that the all email from the same address goes immediately to junk in the future. This pretty quickly builds a list of bot addresses that I don't see any more. A low-cost way to make this even better would be a spam-filter sharing system, where I could pass my spam list onto colleagues; I would obviously only email the spam list people I trusted and vice versa. Upon receipt, it could be (auto)installed and so our collective filters would grow to the point that the amount of spam getting through was really rather small. It doesn't bother me that I get 50-100 junk mail messages a day; they all go to junk and I spend less time sorting them than I did sorting junk snail mail in America in the 1990s. Adrian Goldman, Helsinki[I remember 10 years ago people thinking that as spam volumes - then tiny - rose, it would be obvious to the increasingly educated users of the Net that you shouldn't open them, nor buy things from them. Neither hope proved correct. As to sharing spam details, that's the purpose of services likePostiniand theSpamhausRBL and XBL services]Why is no-one suggesting charging to send email. If it cost .1p to send a mail then this would impact minimally on legitimate users and probably undermine fatally the business model of mass-mailers. James Fulford, Eunomia Research &amp; Consulting, BristolThis is so trivial : PAID E-MAIL PROTOCOL , in the traditional mail we have to pay something like 0,20C per mail to sent it for the destiny , of course that the spammers will not pay 0,20C x 1 billion to send it to everyone ! In this model I dont care to pay 0,20 to send a personal e-mail (or another optimal price...). Spread the word ! (if this idea works share with me the royalties :) J.Ladeira[But what mechanism do you use to charge? Do people in different countries "pay" different amounts? Then you'd start to log in to machines in, say, India to send email to your friends in the UK. Also, would you have to pay for the emails sent by your bot-infected machine? And where would the "payment" be enacted - at the SMTP server on your ISP? In that case, botnets ignore it because they act as their own SMTP (main-sending) servers; they route around your ISP's SMTP. If it were at the receiving mail server, then how do you tell it about people who you don't want to charge? What happens when you change ISP - are all your "payments" repaid? Given how messed up some ISPs already are, you'd not want to let them have access to your credit card over mail, would you?]My biggest spam headaches follow frequent Outlook Express glitches putting me incommunicado for some time; and when the pull-through is pulled-through, I find myself with 100 messages, of which only one or two were for me alone. What the universal validity of my anti-spam combat is, I couldn't say - but I constrain by manually sorting. I keep my inbox empty, except for the unread; and have opened a PENDING sub-folder within In-box, into which I paste unread all apparently genuine contacts and the unsolicited I may wish to see. I highlight the remainder, delete the entirety unread and then empty the DELETE folder. Then I work through the pending. Should a vital personal message have got lost, there's a fair chance its sender will spot it as unopened and re-submit - or ring me up. Ralph Gee, Nottingham[It's certainly a pragmatic approach.]The solution is quite easy to manage from a user's perspective. If spam decreases due to the fact that it doesn't work as an advertising tool, as all other options of control seem not to be realistic, filters and varied email accounts with filters really work for the normal user. A dirty mail - no filter, say, Hotmail, used for online news or any other service that advertisesyour email. Its not so bad if you read the senders name instead of the title. A contacts mail - filtered to receive contacts only. Here you have to inform the sender. This you can do after they have sent one to the dirty mail. It works. Filtered mail - say with Gmail, where inbound mails must contain a certain filter ( word ) ask for people to reply specifically and you have a totally clean inbox. Spam is filtered out and automatically deleted, you never have to see it. This is obvious but in practical terms it would work for the normal user who has no idea about how to filter email clients like Hotmail and Google. Michael Hunt, Windemere[Sounds great - until there's a bot/virus outbreak which means your Gmail address gets passed on to the spammers. Then you have to start all over again. Plus it's pretty complex, surely, to remember who's reached what stage of "trust". Gmail's spam protection is actually pretty strong, in my experience.]In response to your articles on spam on 9 Nov 2006, I just wanted to pass on another reference. The RIPE Anti-Spam Working Group might provide useful info for future reference.http://www.ripe.net/ripe/wg/anti-spam/index.htmlRob Allen, RIPE [RIPE coordinates European internet numbering and assignations]I read the "Six steps to stopping spam" article, and thought I'd mention tar pitting, which is a pretty effective way to reduce spam. Anyway, if you're interested, here's a good article on how it works:http://www.iks-jena.de/mitarb/lutz/usenet/teergrube.en.htmlRobbie Bow, High Wycombe[It's certainly an interesting possibility, for those with some spare machine cycles.]I imagine most readers would have moused to the 'close' button at the X.400 - I hope I'm wrong. My thoughts - these apply to the typical office drone:You missed something very important. Well you gave a hint in the final paragraph. Use a mail client that won't run Javascript or pull remote images. To be safe, that means Thunderbird. At the very least it means ditching old versions of Outlook Express and Outlook and installing service packs - specifically SP2.Another biggie: *be professional* - don't use your work email address for anything other than work. Better still, don't check your personal email at work. Your work place might mandate which software you use to read your email (it's often Outlook isn't it) so your options re 1) are limited but the computer you use at work represents such a rich resource for harvesters and if you're clicking between work and and personal when under pressure you're going to get confused, make a mistake and click the wrong thing.UseSpamcop. Most of the spammers will remove your address when they realise you're an active Spamcop user. But the real benefit is more altruistic - you're being a good netizen.Just use email less. Get on the phone when you've got something to sort out. A chain of emails with replies indented seven deep, cc list as long as your arm and with contacts in three different companies ... it will go astray and be harvested by spammers.Drop the attachments. If you can paste it then do so. Our emails don't need no extra scriptable, executable, virus-laden baggage.Jon Wright, Saigon, Vietnam[Again, a pragmatic approach. Certainly many of the techniques spammers use target various aspects of Outlook's interface - particularly the problem of "deleting without opening" for an individual message (hint: gather a number of to-be-deleted messages, highlight them, delete).]Allow loopholes in the laws for hackers that write viruses that kill your computer's email functions. Penalties only for spam viruses. Situation now: you're unpatched and *I* get spam from your computer. Situation after the laws changed: you're unpatched and *your* computer's broke. It'd never happen, but I do like the idea of viruses being the cure (even if it's a deadly cure) Chad Helton[Except.. how could you be sure that your email has been killed because the PC had a bad virus? How would you prove it?]Lindsay Marshall's comments on authenticated SMTP (Six steps to stopping spam, Nov 16) are confusing and inaccurate. It doesn't prevent one ISP's mail server from exchanging emails with another ISP's mail server, and it's nothing like challenge-response. My ISP uses authenticated SMTP, and I have no problems either sending or receiving email. Complete strangers can (and do) send email to me without needing to provide a password. I'm the one who must supply a password to my ISP's mail server, to prove that I am entitled to send my outgoing email through it. This prevents the mail server from being used by spambots to relay spam, since the spambots cannot provide the correct password. If more ISPs adopted authenticated SMTP, there would be fewer vulnerable mail servers for spambots to misuse. Nor does authenticated SMTP cause me any extra hassle. My mail client (Thunderbird) asks me for my authenticated SMTP password just once. Then it remembers the password for future use, just as it remembers my POP3 password for fetching incoming email. Dr David Harper, Cambridge[As noted above, some email clients - such as Outlook - can't handle sending email on port 587, required for SMTP-AUTH (as it's called). The problem is though that bots send across networks to receiving mail servers; the problem is to stop the messages getting out, or else to refuse (or mark as potential spam) messages arriving from networks which don't enforce SMTP-AUTH.]It occurs to me that if we all replied to all the spam that we get (no words just a reply) than the people who send the spam would have 10 million messages to plough through to find the few mugs who were interested in mining shares or whatever and they'd get as fed up as we are. What are the problems with that - except for the effort and the further blocking up of the web? Mike Williams (no post town given)Just an idea off the top of my head: suppose that "the industry" was able to change e-mail programs in such a way that a copy of every e-mail sent was returned to the sender. If you send 10 e-mails, you get 10 extra e-mails in your in box, if you send 100 e-mails you get 100 e-mails in your in box and if you send 10,000 e-mails you get 10,000 e-mails in your inbox. So anybody who sends 10,000 e-mails will have his in-box clogged up and will have to spend time having to clear it  which is exactly what annoys most people. Just to prevent the spammer writing an automatic programme to clear his inbox, the copy of each spam he sends should have a random new title added. I must say I like the idea of a spammer being spammed by his own spam Jan frank / Alcalal/ Spain[Won't work. Spam does not originate from the address it appears to; the From: and Reply-To: addresses are frequently fictional, and if they're not, then the "sender" is almost always innocent.]You forgot step 7 : find the physical locations of known spammers, then blow up their houses. A few grizzly deaths should discourage them. Chris Parkins, Watford[Even less legal than spam, I'm afraid.]&gt;&gt; One of the most important cautions I give to clients is not to open email attachments (a non-action that, in itself, would go a long way to countering the propagation of mass mailing worms) even if the email apparently comes from someone that is known to them. The exception to this would be if the client were expecting the attachment e.g. someone rang and said they were going to send an attachment.http://news.enterprise-ireland.com/read/messages?id=9485#9485[Good advice to finish with. Thanks for all your letters and responses on this subject.]
At the newly opened Orchard Garden Hotel, the lights automatically turn off when a guest removes their keycard and leaves the room. The housekeepers' carts have recycling bins. The maple furniture comes from sustainable forests. The carpet releases fewer volatile organic compounds than is the norm, and is cleaned with citrus-based liquids.Where is this eco-paragon? Predictably, it's in San Francisco. Purists will note that despite its downtown location, the Orchard Garden still offers valet parking and free lifts to the Financial District - but this is, after all, America, where the car is king.Nonetheless, the Orchard Garden is on to something. While eco-lodges have sprung up everywhere from the Caribbean to the Scottish highlands, very few urban hotels make their environmental credentials a selling point. Yet for business travellers who are making an effort to recycle and reduce their energy consumption at home, the wastefulness of many establishments is starting to grate. The TV is on when you walk into your room. The newspaper you didn't ask for has to go in the bin. The minibar is crammed with food and drink that didn't need chilling - and you could have ordered it from room service, anyway. The room is overheated and the window doesn't open, so you have to turn on noisy air conditioning. Despite all this, someone has propped a card by the sink asking you to reuse the towels because the hotel is trying to cut its laundry bill - sorry, "cares for the environment".Of course, saving energy and cutting bills frequently do go hand in hand, which is one of the reasons why parts of the hotel industry have embraced "green" programmes with enthusiasm. These can be anything from the lightest touch, good-intentions approach, where a hotel does little more than promise to overhaul its boiler, to schemes based on stringent criteria. One of the more rigorous environmental benchmarking schemes is Green Globe, which has just approved a group of UK hotels for the first time. Among them are 17 Marriott establishments in London.One of the difficulties facing hoteliers is that guests now demand perks - power showers, rose showerheads, widescreen TVs - that guzzle energy. Marriott's vice-president of engineering, Gary Hurst, points out that in the 1960s individually controlled air-conditioning was a rarity in London hotels. Now guests expect it.Nonetheless, says Claire Baker, the editor of Green Hotelier, enormous progress is being made. "There is a tremendous amount that hotels can and are doing over and above towel and linen programmes, which are really just the tip of the iceberg and often the only indication to guests that any environmental initiatives are in place," she says. Energy efficient lightbulbs, water-saving equipment and grey water, for example, are largely invisible to guests.In fact, as the industry's energy efficiency body Hospitable Climates points out, guests account for a relatively small proportion of a hotel's energy bill. Heating the whole hotel and running the kitchens and laundry room consume far more energy. So enabling visitors to recycle and turn down the heating makes relatively little difference. What's more important is how the hotel generates its energy and how well it insulates the building. Rezidor, for example - which owns the Radisson SAS and Park Inn brands - takes this seriously: it cut energy consumption by 6% between 2004 and 2005 and now gets nearly a fifth of its electricity from renewable sources.Hurst says power-saving keycards such as the ones used at the Orchard Garden are not necessarily cost-effective for older hotels. "We can install energy efficient lamps, and we can install devices to control water flows. By doing this we savea lot more energy than by turning off lamps or laptops in guest rooms when they are vacant."There can also be drawbacks to key-operated systems - as this sets back the temperature in the room - so rather than staying at a constant, it warms or cools and then uses more power to get back to the right temperature when the room is occupied again."Some of the chains that insiders consider to have made the most effort to reduce their carbon footprint fail to advertise the fact on their websites. Scandic has one of the best records in the industry. Eleven years ago, it introduced a bin with three compartments for recycling waste. In 2002, it refurbished 9,000 rooms using the minimum of metal and plastic, so that 97% of their material is recyclable. Five years ago, the chain stopped using individual jam and butter cartons and began offering organic food at breakfast; all the coffee it serves is now Fairtrade. Scandic's owner, Hilton, "has done a pretty good job, on the environmental side particularly," says Justin Francis of Responsibletravel.com. But both bury their credentials deep inside the websites.One chain that has won plaudits for its efforts is Fairmont, where businesses can book a "green" conference with appropriate transport and meals cooked with local produce. The Fairmont Miramar in Santa Monica, California meanwhile, recently announced that guests with hybrid cars could park for free.Francis says we can expect a slew of similar initiatives as businesses begin applying tougher corporate social responsibility (CSR) policies to their hotel bookings. "As soon as big companies start asking for it, hotels will start doing it," he says.He has a checklist of three questions that smaller companies booking a hotel should ask. "Could I see your policy for responsible business? [If they don't have one], that's the first sign that they're not taking it seriously. What can you tell me about the way you recruit and train local people? The waiters are usually local, the manager [often] won't be. You should expect to see some information about how they've reduced waste. And the third question to ask is 'How do you measure your performance?'"When I look at the menu," he adds, "that's going to give me a big clue as well. Does it look like a standard menu?" Responsible hotels will always try to use local produce.Francis predicts that the way hotels treat their staff and how involved they become with the local community will be the next benchmark by which they are judged. "A big hotel can have a bigger impact on the local community than an ecolodge," he says. But only by applying pressure and demanding answers will they change.
We get far more letters and blog feedback than we can put in print; so here is the full list of those we chose from for print. Apart from those on spam, which will appear in a separate post.POSTCODE MADNESS&gt;&gt; What next? If I give my house a name instead of a number can I charge other bodies for using that name. Surely it is fairly fundamental data which should be available free of charge and something should be done to make this data freely in the public domain.http://ballotsballsandbikes.blogspot.com/2006/11/postcode-lottery.htm&gt;&gt; At the rate the Royal Mail, OS and IDeA are going, the postcodes will be freed before the stalemate and subsequent legal fallout subsides. I wonder how interested some local authorities would be in the opportunity to georeference against and build on a free of copyright spatial/address data set at this point?http://mappinghacks.com/2006/11/18/addressing-the-mess-of-addressing/&gt;&gt; On this occasion I am in full agreement with the Free Our Data guys at the Guardian. I think the key difference between this and their campaign on freeing up OS data is that the PAF is a by product of RM's core activity (delivering mail in case anyone has forgotten) whilst map data is the core and only activity of OS.http://giscussions.blogspot.com/2006/11/lunatics-and-asylums.htmlAGAINST MICROSOFT...I am a parent wishing to take part in my son's schools new method of electronic communication, which is replacing traditional letters home. But I am shut out from this and am therefore at the sharp end of the world Jack Schofield dismisses so flippantly in his article of the above title in Today's Technology Guardian. I choose to use Free Software at home, for a number of reasons including elegance and ease of use (I am certainly not technical). Unfortunately for me, the online communication system for parents chosen by my son's school, was originated by Jack's favourite software company. The one that he seems to think should be freed from the tiresome issue of compliance with European competition law requirements. "Out of the box" or, within the skill set of a school's ICT technician, this system does not permit access from Linux based computers. This is the reality. Christina Smyth, LondonThe Guardian is achieving new lows in journalistic standards in this new missive from your poster boy for a convicted monopolist. By all means eulogise companies you find attractive - it's your choice, but once you permit snide asides by journalists on due process you lose all claims to legitimacy. Undermining the rule of law isn't big and it isn't clever. Gerry Gavigan, LondonTALKING MICROSOFTAndrew Herbert says in the interview on page 5, "Search is obviously a big part of Vista, of Office, of Windows Live, so there we essentially transferred a pile of Greek letters three inches long." What on earth does this mean? Is it a missing part of the cartoon on page 4? Is the printing of gibberish now supposed to be informative as well as funny? Andy Jack, BeestonDAB QUALITYI've been very interested in the debate about DAB quality in recent weeks. We have no "hifi" sound in our house any more. We play CD's via our DVD player through our TV, which has built-in speakers and no fancy sound system. We use a Freeview box for TV &amp; radio through the TV. Sound quality is acceptable for someone in their mid-50's whose hearing suffered a little from listening to too much rock music as a youth! We use a Genus radio CD player with DAB in the kitchen which is good enough for Radio 4, Classic FM and the odd CD while cooking. I also have a cheap DAB personal radio which has OK quality, mainly used for BBC Radio 5 Live sports listening. So DAB has good enough quality for our needs, as I would suspect for the majority of punters who have bought DAB radios as they have become cheaper. I sympathise with people who can hear the difference between the different standards but I'm not one of them. I don't really care what the standard is so long as someone decides and I'll always wait until the prices have come down to commodity levels. I have the same view on the new high definition DVD formats - when they decide and the hardware is cheap enough, then I'll get one. Les Hewitt, WarringtonWell done on that, first bit of real sense I've seen writ on the subject for as long as I can remember and all of it is true. The BBC, British Bullshit Corporation, have been taken over by a bunch of deaf corporate bull merchants and are a disgrace. I can receive several station's here on Satellite and excellent the ones from Germany and France they are too:) Course over there engineering is considered a profession, over here their just a nuisance to accountants!.. Tony Sayer, CambridgeJack Schofield is correct in his assertion that the quality of the audio received via DAB Radio Stations is substandard. The term "Broadcast Quality" used to be used as the benchmark against which the performance of pre-recorded media such as CD/VHS/DVD would be judged. As compression technology has advanced broadcasters have chosen to go down the route of quantity over quality. But as more people opt for high end flat screen TVs coupled with home sound systems and start to enjoy HD pictures coupled with Dolby Digital sound I believe the broadcasters will have to come clean. They must either admit the substandard nature of their product or allow the public to enjoy the benefits of improved technology instead of just banking all the benefits for themselves. Paul Holland (no post town given)It is hardly surprising that we aren't keen on digital radio in this country, where I live (mid Wales) there is no digital service at all and even the FM radio has always been very poor. So it seems unlikely that it will ever be a reliable option. Doug Dickinson, BreconWhile I agree with everything Jack Schofield says (a first for me) about the inferior quality of DAB and the need to switch to AAC+, there is a very good reason that the BBC should not promote listening to radio via a Freeview box or computer - the environmental impact. To quote the Guardian's environmental correspondent, David Adam, in Mondays' paper, 'the millions of Britons who listen to the radio through their power-hungry digital televisions and computers together release an extra 190,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide a year.' While I would question some of the figures Adam used in his column - for example he states that LCD and plasma screens are rated at 'up to 390W', without saying how large a screen that figure refers to or what the figure is for, say a 26in or 32in TV, and then makes an assumption about CRT TVs without backing it up - there is no doubt that listening to radio on, say a PC, is less environmentally friendly than a DAB radio. For that reason, Schofield's original proposal, that AAC+ be used for future DAB broadcasts, is preferable. Kenny Hemphill, SuttonBest bit of sense I've seen written on the subject for a very long. Mike Terry, BournemouthIt would seem to me to be very annoying that we might have to buy new digital radios in the not too distant future. Surely to get a better quality standard of digital radio it would be simpler to devise a receiver which would allow us to hear the radio stations only from the free view platform. This would allow us to keep the portability of digital radio. I do not want to be tied to my television set to hear good quality radio, so how do you feel about this idea. Martyn Wilson, London.There are those of us in the TV industry who have written vitriolic letters, verging on being libellous to the Chairman of the board of BBC governors and the DCMS for the last 3 years pointing out that both Terrestrial TV and DAB were not only inadequate, they are obsolete. For the government and the BBC to have conned the public into buying into a system that is technically garbage and at vast cost is frankly criminal. The BBC should be brought to book for deception and openly lying to those that were advised by BBC information that DAB was better 'because it was digital'. The DAB system is garbage and I am more than professionally qualified to know, I have 2 craft awards for Glyndebourne Opera. As to Freeview, on a big screen it is abysmal, large chunks of pixels just float about with no reference to actual picture data due to bit rates that are out done by VHS! Do the DCMS and the BBC seriously think they are going to compete in an HD world that is here now with this junk? This is the last charter for the BBC, it will be untenable when everyone is HD via the net. I regard, as do most of my broadcast colleagues, the BBC as the technical pits. If an organisation that transmits an interview with the PM on a train and uses cutaways that not only 'cross the line' but reverse the direction of the train too there is no hope. It would not be so bad but when I asked for an explanation they attempted to justify it for artistic reasons. This is Newsnight, I might add, that clearly had a crew, including the journalists involved who do not understand the basics of TV reporting. I started in TV news at the BBC and I would have been dismissed for an error like that, but it would never have got to air anyway. The truth is that the technical parts of the BBC have no teeth and cannot refuse material unfit for transmission, without being overruled by production types who have to fill transmission holes on inadequate budgets. Concatenation errors from lousy DV material, a non broadcast format, is rife on Freeview. Discovery channel will allow only 5% of non 4:2:2 material, I doubt that any non technical senior BBC manager has a clue what that means and that is the problem. The BBC is infested with technical ignoramuses at all levels, dumbed down in the name of accessibility, it makes you weep. The grossest crime is that I am forced to pay for all this when I am more than happy with my HD from Sky and films, made properly, from HD DVD. Try making the public pay a licence fee when we are broadband; unless the BBC can somehow institute a gatekeeper for those who have not paid a licence fee overseas, why should those who do not want the service pay for free accessibility? This is the petard on which the BBC is already impaled, the political hoisting is about to start. Chris Harnett, Southampton'So why doesn't the BBC deliver really high-quality radio via Freeview/satellite instead of flogging the dead horse that is DAB?' asks Jack Schofield. And why, come to that, does the BBC persist with the clunky, invasive lash-up that is RealPlayer for internet streaming? Never mind iTunes, you only have to listen to the many Flash-based players around (allofmp3.com or naxos.com are good examples) to see how things might be better, and you don't have to download a program that changes the icons of all your audio files without so much as a by your leave. The FAQ answer on the BBC website to the question about using a higher bitrate is: 'Since the Radio Player is very popular we are unable to stream music programmes in a higher quality.' Excuse me? It's only 'popular' because there is no alternative. Imagine how much more popular a decent system would be! Mike Petty, BodminTECHNOBILEAs a West End musician, I was surprised to read that my industry is being "deskilled" and replaced by the "virtual orchestra" (Technobile, November 16). There is currently only one musical in the West End using a Sinfonia, which supplements the other live musicians employed in the orchestra. The Sinfonia was introduced for that musical in 2004 and has noticeably not been used in any new shows in 2005 or in any of the ten or so major musicals which have opened so far this year in the West End. Computers may be replacing humans in some areas of life but audiences can be reassured that when they come to the theatre they still hear a live band and that the musicians are not "retained only to give the audience the illusion that humans are in charge". James McKeon, Musical Director, EvitaI read your article with interest. Certainly, computer labour-saving devices have been increasing productivity, many times at the cost of lower order activity. However, if you follow this line of reasoning, the implementation of technology has always increased so-called "laziness". The introduction of writing also meant that the need for a vast memory of oral tradition was no longer necessary to bring the cultural collective knowledge forward. People no longer needed to memorise vast quantities of oral tradition. Thus writing added to mental laziness. The printing press resulted in the loss of many jobs for monks, but also the vast expansion of knowledge to a much larger range of people. Perhaps we should dispense with all technology, so that our minds (and bodies) can be more "fit". Of course, then we have to be willing to give up all the resultant benefits that come with the technology. In the arts, it is true that new technologies have made it much easier to create music and manipulate sounds. However, as you rightly point out, most of this is mediocre at best. Yet this has always been the case: we are not listening to the vast majority of music created in the 18th century, for example. It still takes human knowledge, experience, and aesthetic sensitivity to generate music that is effective and sophisticated. The great music will be weeded out, as it always has, by historical forces. Overall, the history of technology has been to move humans from lower to higher level control of their environment. At each advance, there has been harsh criticism and controversy. This is obviously still true. David B Smith (no post town given)Putt knot yore trussed inn spell chequers. Dew two the precious of work eye no many people yews artificial aides too help with they're writing witch can caws problems. Four eggs sample, my computer says they're know miss steaks inn this peace of text cause eye used special soft wear witch cheques you're spelling. Its moor or lass a weigh to verify weather words are awl right. However is can knot correct arrows inn punctuation ore usage: gnaw will it fined words witch are miss used butt spelled rite. Fore in stance; a paragraph could have mini floors but wood steel bee past bye the spell chequer. And it wont ketch the bitt of sentence which ewe. Their fore, the massage is that proof-reading is knot eliminated by the spell checker, but very much reek wired. Robin O'Connor, HarrogateYOUTUBE'S GALAXYOne comment on Charles Arthur's article; fortunately URL space is more extensible than (say) IP space. There is no reason why you can't add extra characters to an identifier encoded in a URL, as long as they are still unique. Tinyurl could go to 7, 8 and so on characters, and there are really only two constraints on this. One is whether the 6 characters they are using reflect something about how they are storing the data internally in their database (unlikely) and the other is a theoretical limit of 255 characters on the URL itself, which leaves a fair bit of room for manoeuvre! Ave Wrigley, LondonFINGERPRINTING PAPER&gt;&gt; There is mention in the article of using it for passports, and that is worrisome. Because of that system, you then rely on the database information being correct - and if the government has done anything, keeping good records in databases is not their strong suit.http://stenz.livejournal.com/241695.htmlNINTENDOI just read the article: "Will Nintendo's Wii whip Sony's PlayStation 3?", and would like to comment on one fact that was reported in it. The article stated that: Nintendo is "presently a distant third in the console race". I would like to know what criteria the author uses to judge this. Nintendo was an extremely profitable company during the last console generation, earning money while Microsoft's XBox division was losing billions. The Nintendo Gamecube has sold 21.2 million units globally [1], while the Xbox sold 24 million units before it was discontinued earlier this year [2]. The Gamecube's global market share was only marginally smaller than that of the XBox, and Nintendo made a profit on units while Microsoft was selling at a loss. I don't think that you could say that Nintendo is "presently a distant third in the console race" based on these figures. The Gamecube performed much better than the XBox from a financial perspective, and almost matched it on units sold. [1]http://www.nintendo.co.jp/n10/news/060724e.pdf[2]http://www.xbox.com/zh-SG/community/news/2006/20060510.htmAaron (no post town given)I realise you chaps across the pond are a bit slower on the pick-up of new things, but I felt compelled to respond to this article for a couple reasons. "It certainly looks that way, based on the reactions of non-gamers who have been trying it out." I hate to say it, but GAMERS buy consoles, not "non-gamers." And I must also point out that whatever the Nintendo Wii does in terms of total sales, Sony will best that by far. Come on Mr. Arthur, surely even you realise the significance of bleeding edge graphics and HD gaming in today's action-packed testosterone-driven gaming markets...Then again, the way you have presented the Wii as well as the XBOX 360 and PS3 leaves us Americans scratching our heads and wondering if you do. No one is going to disagree that the Wii is the new party console...your conclusions that said console will win over the family are laughable and deserve someone younger who understands current demands. I wish you the best of luck in your endeavours, but try to pass up the gaming articles from now on. You will save countless readers the time of responding to poor journalism. American Gamers [Troy Sipes]You are forgetting about the ability of the Ps3 to multitask. Why would someone want to buy a $250 Wii AND a $1000 Blu-ray player when they can simply get the now bargain PS3 for $600. A comparable Xbox 360 plus the HD-DVD add-on also costs $600. You have to look at all elements of the equation before you can make judgements on the device. Sony also connects to an existing home system remarkably well. It reads pictures and MP3 and video off of thumb drives, connects to media stored on a computer, and a plethora of other things. It also allows the hardcore gamers to install an operating system OTHER than the one that Sony made. While the Wii may be more fun as a gaming system, the PS3 will be a VERY attractive piece of hardware for the home theatre. Arley Drew (no post town given)ANYTHING NICE TO SAY ABOUT ZUNE?I downloaded the Zune software and found out that not all of the music I purchased from MSN would play on the Zune media player. Last week I purchased "I Just Wanna Celebrate!" from MSN right before it was announced that MSN would no longer sell music downloads. When I downloaded Zune I found that song would not play along with several others. So I uninstalled Zune and went back to Windows Media Player 11. Besides, Zune looks too boxy in appearance! It sounds the same and I don't see much difference in the quality other than it has a few more bells and whistles! Big deal!!!! Ken Woodard, WichitaLoved your take on the Zune - insightful, funny as hell, and wonderfully written (killer closing line!) Astlan (no post town given)I had the displeasure of reading many reviews of the Zune yesterday, whereby 80% had no real information, but presented what can only be described as very biased anti-Zune opinion. No wonder though, with 75% of the MP3 player market searching for any way to verify their iPod purchase against the (so far non-existent) threat of an "iPod killer", to the extent of acting as if they built the device themselves, and have personal reputation riding on its success. Nit-picking aside, some articles did actually get to the crux of the pro's and con's of the Zune, whether compared to the iPod or not. Yours was not one of them. Your article was as depressing as any. Not only do you not express any relevant or new information, you re-hash other articles, and poorly at that. Firstly, theEngadget articledid present problems with the Zune installation process. When you reported on this article, however, you failed to mention that this problem is specific to Media Centre installations (minority of people) and is non-existent with proper 'recommended' patching of the OS before installation. You also implied in your report that it was strange or at least noteworthy that the Zune in the Engadget article registered as a 'guest'. The Zune that engadget were using IS A GUEST. It is not store-bought but had been through many hands as a strictly guest item. They even mention that in the Engadget article. As for your statement: "...and the jukebox had enough bugs to make it look like Microsoft is a newcomer to this software malarkey" - blatant misreporting. The very few bugs that Engadget did encounter were either part of the whole 'guest' status of the Zune, or at least explainable. On a side note, Apple is not without their fair share of bugs. There are many reports of installation stuff-ups, particularly with the latest (and greatest) version of iTunes 7. Secondly, where do you get your information that on an iPod, a song is considered 'played' when it has reached the end of the song, whereas on the Zune it is counted as soon as you start the song? Did you just make that up out of thin air? On an iPod, as soon as a song is started it is counted as played for any purposes with which the iPod counts plays (for instance, tally for the 'most played' playlist). As for the limited amount of sharing: 3 limited plays of sharing offered by Zune is better than the ZERO offered by iPod. Sure you can share earbuds, but wait - the Zune also has that illustrious 'sharable earbuds' feature. Thirdly, your comments about the Microsoft/Universal deal: "The carrot: Universal might offer exclusive content to Zune buyers" makes no sense. Why would Microsoft paying Universal to include its catalogue of songs be controversial? Sure enough Apple paid a lot of money for the music available on iTunes. And why would a 'carrot' then be that Zune buyers get exclusive Universal content? Microsoft never advertise the Universal catalogue of songs being a 'carrot' or reward for purchasing the Zune. They are simply trying to have the most music available for Zune buyers, as Apple are for iTunes. And at any rate, the extra dollar per Zune cost is not passed on to the consumer so where is the 'reek' associated with this deal? Fourthly, what sort of comment is: "Goodbye, Arctic Monkeys-style buzz around local unsigned bands."??. The release of the Zune doesn't stop anything that is currently happening from continuing to happen. Before the Zune there was NO MP3 player to player sharing amongst the popular MP3 players, so to imply that the (in your opinion) 'poor' filesharing of the Zune will spell the end to current practice is in fact ridiculous. I would like to know how exactly you think the Arctic Monkeys became famous? In my following of the Arctic Monkeys, it has been clear to me that it was through online file distribution (whether legal recordings or illegal) and word-of-mouth reputation that they became famous. Zune will not, and is not designed to, hinder online file distribution or word-of-mouth reputation, so your comment is entirely base-less. In addition, intuition would lead any music enthusiast to believe that the Zune will only HELP indie bands such as Arctic Monkeys. For instance, now not only can I whisper to you about a certain band in class, but I can send you their song right now for you to listen at lunch. Once the three plays are up, if I liked the song I will go about acquiring it - I mean its only 99 cents, right? Fifthly, your explanation of the Microsoft points was laughable. Believe it or not, once you buy your 400 points for $5 (pretty easy so far) and you spend 79 points on your song (following me?) you will have.... 321 points left (not the " 319.989898" points that you indicated). And because you are obviously fond of decimals: at $5 for 400 points, 79 points will be 98.75 cents, not 99 cents. A quarter of a cent cheaper than iTunes. And just because you may not have heard of Microsoft points before doing your 'research' of the Zune, doesn't mean that (the majority of) your audience hasn't. Particularly those who are within the Zune demographic. The Xbox live system does have a LOT of subscribers, and with the Zune - Xbox functionality (unmentioned in your article and a big selling point), wouldn't it make sense to use the same account for all online transactions with Microsoft. Sixthly, I assure you, as will the sales of the product and the hype it created, "Windows 1.0 was pretty rubbish too" is probably your most uneducated statement. Compared to products available today it may be held in low regard, but at the time it was revolutionary. And what of iTunes 1.0? iPods and iTunes were clunky and slow (to say the least) when they were first released, particularly for those people not accustomed to the controlling and restrictive nature of Apple products. I personally own numerous iPods, including the latest 80GB Video model. I like iPod. But (like with any product) when a better product comes along I will embrace it. A company like Apple (or Microsoft or any similar) does not deserve the dedication to it's products that is evident today. If you didn't get paid by Apple to write your article I think maybe you should change 'news' companies to best benefit from such propaganda. 'Carney' Dunn, Brisbane, Australia P.S. If the Zune is the Office paperclip in this situation, what is the iPod? I don't get it.&gt;&gt; Maybe I'll wander down to [the Guardian's offices in ] Clerkenwell next week and show them my new brown unit. Nice that they provided some anti-Microsoft links at the end of the post too. Can't we all just play nice? I guess that doesn't make good copy though? Here's the deal - I'll loan them my personal Zune unit for a week and challenge them to not say something nice. If they don't that's okay, I'd just like to see something a little more balanced from a paper I read great articles from quite regularly.http://blogs.msdn.com/stevecla01/archive/2006/11/20/can-you-say-anything-nice-about-zune.aspx&gt;&gt; Microsoft seems to have gone forth and thought, how can we make something that will kill take market share aware from Apple and finally kill the IPod. They then extended the thought that networking was the key. It's obvious that they didn't really think about how people would use that networking. It's obvious that they didn't think about how networking would improve the experience of listening to music. They thought about their own business and how the Zune might help their business, not how the Zune would help people.http://sterno74.livejournal.com/176703.htmlSHARING THE SEARCH BOUNTY(November 9) I found Victor Keegan's article ( an extremely interesting read. The idea of giving consumers a cut of the search treasure trove is certainly an attractive proposition. But cash-for-clicks has not materialised in mainstream search, and arguably will not for a while for several reasons. Firstly, click fraud. If there is a monetary incentive to click on search result listings, fraudsters will find ways to falsify clicks to make money. There are some very advanced ways of doing this and the industry does not yet have all the tools it needs to completely eliminate this threat. Secondly, search engines rely on advertisers. Their confidence in search must be maintained if the industry is to continue to succeed and grow. Associating payment with clicks invites poor quality searches and risks eroding that confidence. Advertisers will not want to pay for clicks that are not genuine and the search bounty will disappear altogether. Finally, this approach could plunge the industry into a price war. Paying users could completely destabilise the search economy as search engines pit against each other to attract users. None of the major players are going to create a market where they squeeze each other, and themselves, out of revenue. But it is time to share the bounty with consumers as user loyalty is essential to the success of search and essential to attract and retain advertisers. Investment in additional features, such as MSN news or Google's toolbar, or providing consumers with something other than money that is of value to them, like a charity donation, is an easy way to build loyalty. In a speech last December, Bill Gates adhered to this strategy by suggesting that MSN could give users free software in exchange for their loyalty to its search engine. Whilst the idea of Microsoft becoming a modern day Robin Hood may still be some way off, it is a more certain bet than Google or Yahoo issuing their users with pay slips. Andreas Pouros, Managing Director, SEO Division, Greenlight.co.ukROBOT WARFARE(October 26) With the development of robotic technology, we might be able to level the playing field in modern warfare. With al-Qaida and the situation in Iraq, the rules of engagement will need changing as well. All of this may well be temporaay as China and Iran are doing very well in developing robotics (UAWs, etc.) Just ask our (US) top Navy officials. Just in the last month the US Navy had two major breaches in security involving drones. To me, this is terrifying as well as depressing as I realise the the West's superiority in things military is eroding. And fast! Philip Taylor (no post town given)
Kathryn's pointed me to an article onNMKin which BBFC Examiner Jim Cliff explains some of the issues associated with rating an online game. From the post:Lawyers disagree but many argue that online games are not currently covered by the law that requires some games to be classified by the BBFC. This means that if a company chooses to send their game to the BBFC and receives, say, a PG rating, there is no compulsion to have the game reclassified when the game is patched, even if the patch would potentially introduce stronger elements into the game.A very good point indeed. Conversations I've had in the past with deep thinkers on these subjects often centre on what would happen if the more conservative elements discover some of the more risqu aspects of what goes on behind the scenes in many of these games.While the post doesn't offer any specific solutions, it outlines some of the grey areas which may emerge in public debates about online products. It certainly cites areas where they could be vilified.
Microsoft is having a bit of a war against phishing. So far, 50 criminal complaints have been filed in Turkey, 28 in Germany and 11 in France. The UK leads the way in civil cases, with 18 out of 32.Reuters reports:One court case in Turkey has already led to a 2.5-year prison sentence for a so-called "phisher" in Turkey, and another four cases against teenagers have been settled out of court, Microsoft said on Wednesday, eight months after it announced the launch of a Global Phishing Enforcement Initiative in March."Sometimes we initiate our own legal action, but more importantly we work with law enforcement agencies," said Nancy Anderson, deputy general counsel at the software company.Comment: Are we heading for a situation where Microsoft is, in effect, the world's only global policeman? If you think you can get your local PC Plod interested in phishing, denial of service attacks or spam, good luck.....
It's easy to get the feeling that every emigrant from Britain is heading for nature's wide open spaces. Has there ever been one of those interminable fly-on-the-wall television documentaries that has featured a family, couple or singleton moving to a big, dirty city?In every programme I've seen, and I've seen too many, the escapees have headed for a foreign holiday coast or some rural idyll filled with crumbling property, picturesque peasants and unspoilt scenery. (You can switch those adjectives around into any order to get the picture. Peter Mayle has a lot to answer for.)But there are urbanites who prefer to swap one city for another, and not just because they've been posted there by their company. Felicity Vaughan, for instance, left Edinburgh for Italy about a year ago, but instead of following the usual middle-class dream route to Tuscany's rolling hills, she took her now eight-year-old daughter Rebecca to Rome."I wouldn't want anybody to think I was trying to escape from anything. I did want Rebecca to experience the joy of travelling, but it wasn't because I felt any need to get away from Edinburgh. I still love the city and I've had some great times there," she told me.It was while in Scotland's capital city that she and two partners set up EcoYoga(www.ecoyoga.co.uk)a company I at first thought was an Ab Fab spoof. I mean, how much more hippy-capitalist can you get than making and selling the world's only fully biodegradable yoga mats? The others, apparently, are made mainly from PVC, which will lie around in landfill sites for millennia.At first EcoYoga sold mainly direct, meaning Felicity spent much of her time packing the jute and latex "ecomats", then humping them down to the local post office. Then the partners took the decision to drop the retail side and focus entirely on wholesale. They now have a network of distributors around the globe.Although it wasn't the reason for the change, the effect was to turn the partnership into a virtual business. The postal address might be Edinburgh, but the manufacturing's carried out in Wales, Felicity's in Italy, one partner's on the rural west coast of Scotland and the other's in India for much of the time."I spend my working time in Rome in very much the same way as I did in Edinburgh," says Felicity. "I'm on the phone or using email to place orders, chase new business and make sure our existing customers are happy. It's very much a case of 'have laptop, will travel'."As with many of the new breed of virtual commuters, her choice of new home was not exactly carefully planned. "I went to Rome for five days and just felt 'this is a place I want to live'. I was a bit concerned about Rebecca, but on the flight back I happened to sit next to a primary school teacher and I told her what I was thinking of doing. She said: 'Just do it.' We parted company at Prestwick baggage handling and I never saw her again. It would be nice to tell her we have done it."On her return Felicity immediately set to work searching online for an apartment to rent and an international school for Rebecca. "We got the last remaining place in the school. I took that as another sign that this was what we should be doing," says Felicity.So, what we have is a single mother taking her young child on a whim to a country where she knows nobody and she doesn't speak the language. If this was television there'd be a nice crisis at this point. Near disaster always strikes in escape-to-the-sun documentaries, generally just before a commercial break or the closing credits. Other peoples' discomfort is so much more fun to watch than their pleasure.But there are no such television moments for Felicity and Rebecca, who have comfortably survived a year of the Eternal City. I get the feeling, however, that this might not be the final stop on their travels. The technology that allows telecommuters to work from anywhere with a dial tone also removes the need for a final destination.Nick Clayton is a writer and web content consultant. He lives in Ibiza. Emailnick@adeskinthesun.com
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Carrying on from what I was saying below, I got into a conversation at the Bradford Animation Festival about if, and how, our tastes in games are related to our tastes in movies. With the two media spoken of increasingly in the same ways, and moving inexorably closer together, what do our choices in one tell us about our preferences in the other? Are there any correlations or do they appeal to separate parts of our personalities?So, here we go - the Friday question. As quickly as possible, and without thinking too much about it, list your three favourite movies, then your three favourite games. You can either perform your own pscyhological conclusions on the result or let other commentators do it for you. Let's see if there are any similarities. I'll go first:MoviesJaws Rear Window OldboyGamesParadroid Battlefield 1942 Pro Evolution SoccerConclusionPreoccupation with violence and voyeurism. With some football thrown in.
The Washington Post has become the latest newspaper to attempt alighthearted Wii vs PS3 playoff. The format is becoming tiresomely familiar: technology columnist gathers selection of gaming and non-gaming friends and presents them with the two machines. Hey presto, everyone makes a beeline for the cute Nintendo box encouraging said tech journo to roll-out a few solemn epitaphs about how, in the end, it's the fun that matters.Here's the thing: what people enjoy in a social environment is often... no almostalwaysdifferent to what they get up to in private. The dynamics and expectations are totally different. And as Wii's launch titles are entirely centered around capturing and exploiting the group dynamic it's hardly a fair test. It's like putting the Ford Galaxy up against the Porsche 911 GT3 and claiming the former is better because it fits more people in. It's a hopelessly skewed basis for comparison.Because, alone, in front of a decent-sized screen with no one around to judge or to comment or to laugh, it is easy and pleasurable to wander into gaming's darker territory. The myth that casual players only want to see cartoon critters play nicely with each other is quietly disintegrating. Alone, most of us appreciate the kinetic thrill of synthesised violence. As games technology fuses with the acceptable facets of living room consumer electronics - the DVD player, the music system, the online shop - more consumers will be given the opportunity to experience gaming beyond those acceptable social experiences.Wii's bright sunny all-friends-together world is valid of course, but PS3 and Xbox 360 will massively expand on the work done by the likes of Resident Evil and Grand Theft Auto to bring full, adult, lone gaming experiences to a wider audience. The need to justify expensive HD TV purchases and the availability of downloadable demos will point the curious toward dark, graphically stunning adventures like Mass Effect, Lost Odyssey and Bioshock.Next-gen consoles will reveal what we know of ourselves and what we're prepared to call entertainment when the party is over and everyone else has gone home. They are Trojan horses of terror.
Like a lot of gamers I gave up reading games mags long ago. Sadly the latest issue of Edge - one of the few worth bothering with as an adult - confirmed why. It came with a PS3 supplement that was so embarrassingly biased it might have been written by Sony's PR team over a boozy lunch.There were far too many classic moments to include here but the article mocked the Xbox 360 for, amongst other things, having gaudy menus, while skimming over the slightly more important fact that the PS3 online gaming service doesn't compare to Live.Obviously an advertorial then? Well you'd think so but there was no mention of it and the supplement was passed off as an official Edge guide - i.e. supposedly fair and balanced. Heck I know times are hard but you'd expect a magazine with Edge's reputation for balance to do better than this.Microsoft suffered a further hit in the mag itself, with the 360 damned with faint praise - the pinnacle of the last generation - while the PS3 was heralded as the "future". Quite what Microsoft have done to deserve this is up for debate. Cut their ad spend? Pissed off the editor? Or do hardcore gamers really think the 360 is old hat?
Over at Slate, Paul Collins makes the reasonable point thatlots of examples of plagiarismmay well come to light as more old works are digitised for Google Book Search. I should hope so! What he doesn't point out is that previous generations of artists have not had the ludicrously restrictive views of copyright and originality that the giant mercenary copyright holders are forcing on us today.All our most creative people have always picked up stuff from everywhere -- including giants such as Shakespeare, Herman Melville, Ezra Pound and James Joyce -- and made it their own. As Pablo Picasso said: "Bad artists copy. Great artists steal."If creative people had, for the past 2000 years, been obliged to work under the sort of insane conditions that are increasingly being applied today, we wouldn't have very much culture at all.I doubt if this is news to anyone, but if it is, try Free Culture: How Big Media Uses Technology and the Law to Lock Down Culture and Control Creativity (2004) by Stanford law professorLawrence Lessig. You can download it free fromhttp://www.free-culture.cc/freecontent/
Bill Tancer has a graph (which excludes YouTube)on the Hitwise blog:Currently, when we look at our US sample, visits to the top twenty Yahoo! properties are more than double the top twenty Google properties (I've excluded YouTube from this analysis). Over the last year (November 19, 2005 to November 18, 2006), Yahoo's market share declined 10% while Google gained 18.6%. If we apply those growth rates, and assume no material changes in those rates over the next three years (a big assumption), Google would not surpass Yahoo! in market share of visits until mid-2009.Somewhat more interesting are the tables showing which properties have the most visitors. It seems that a third of Yahoo's traffic is to its email service, and search shows up quite well. With Google, almost 79% of the traffic is to the Google search page and 9% to Image Search. So 15 of Google's top 20 properties get less than 1% each, with Base attracting only 0.04%.It's hard to compete with Google, even if you are Google....
Until now, mobile cards for laptop PCs have been designed to fit into a PCMCIA card slot. But there is a growing number of notebooks that don't have this slot. So Vodafone has made available an HSDPA - high speed downlink packet access, basically a faster version of 3G - adaptor that connects to a PC via USB. It is also compatible with the many Macs, too. The other big leap is that the card is plug and play. Vodafone has also simplified the card's dashboard with no reference to the web or media. You simply load the adaptor and then open the web application you want to use. The adaptor worked well in north London. I downloaded a track from iTunes and at its peak it reached speeds of 1.3Mbps, with a mean of around half that. The adaptor is a real step forward and I can see advantages to a USB-based system. The only niggle is that it uses an external USB cable. Next time, can we have an integrated USB connector please?
Samsung has produced what might be its most impressive ultra-slim mobile yet in the D830. The handset is less than 1cm thick, which makes it even slimmer than the latest Motorola RAZRs - and, at the time of writing at least, the thinnest in the world. Samsung has got a lot right with the D830. It has 80MB of storage, which can be supplemented by a microSD card. Unusually for a phone in this class it has Picsel Viewer, which means users can read Word documents and PDFs. The screen is as bright and colourful as Samsung normally deliver and the 2 megapixel camera is better than many of its more specified rivals. There's also an onboard MP3 player and video facilities. Where the D830 comes horribly unstuck is its flat keypad. It is difficult to do anything quickly and very easy to press the wrong key. After a day's use I really didn't want to see it ever again. Not surprisingly given its size, the phone's battery is pretty small and you'll probably be recharging it every day. So, another interesting handset from Samsung, but not one I will be rushing out to buy.
Last week a discussion took place in London concerning the future of war. It wasn't organised by some shadowy government agency or by a big news media outlet. It was organised by EA Games. Why? Simple. The company publishes the successful Battlefield series of first-person combat games, which take place in modern and imagined forthcoming conflicts. Of course, game designers can try to guess what combat will be like, but as civilians they're unlikely to get close. It's much more sensible to talk to people who actually know.The discussion featured Dr Malcolm Davies, an expert on weaponry and defence systems, who talked about the emerging phenomenon of "cyber-warfare". As an organiser explained: "Basically, from detailed research and trends in America and China it seems war is heading to a new front of strategic attacks on infrastructure with geeks in uniforms trying to break down societies, for example, bringing transport systems, electronic grid systems, etc, to a halt."This insight into military trends is gold dust to game designers. At the same time, it is interesting (or disturbing, depending on your viewpoint) to see military philosophy moving closer to the format of videogames. America is already ensconced in the era of virtual war - we saw its graphic introduction with the intense allied bombing of Iraq; we see it in the computerised hi-tech bodysuits being designed for ground troops. It is no coincidence that the country's army is actively recruiting from the gaming population - see the hugely successful America's Army games. If you can operate an Xbox 360 controller, the chances are that you can deploy a guided missile.The makers of shooters are entering into the same kind of relationships with arms and military vehicle manufacturers as racing-game designers foster with carmakers. Accuracy and detail are key, and that means getting the brand names right whether you're talking about the Subaru Impreza or the Armalite M16 assault rifle.The only difference between the two relationships is that there's no reciprocal marketing benefit for the military suppliers. Car companies quickly realised that Gran Turismo was doing wonders for sales and ramped up their support. It's doubtful that Boeing reckons it'll sell more AH-64D Apache helicopters if they appear in a videogame.If military and gaming are moving together, there is one shared maxim - marketing is king. What they're selling is truth, or at least the appearance of it.One day it may be almost impossible to differentiate between them. What will that tell us about entertainment? Or war?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Renewed reports that Apple is to launch its long awaited iPhone in the first half of next year may prompt a lot of people to delay the purchase of their next phone or music player until then, if only because there is no point in buying two devices when one will do. Whether the latest report - that Apple has ordered 12m units from Foxconn of Taiwan, complete with 2-megapixel camera, - is true, is beside the point. The interesting thing is that Apple's entry could give mobile phone operators the big kick they badly need.Apple's biggest disadvantage - its lack of experience with phones - is its strongest card. Why? Because it isn't locked into the mindset of the operators. Operators still think in terms of voice as the killer app, while Apple thinks non-voice because all of its experience is with music and other data. Operators proudly point out that 90% of their income comes from voice and texting. However, this is not success but failure: 10 years into the digital revolution and six years after they bid &pound;22.5bn for 3G spectrum, they still can't induce customers to use these other services. Why? Because download charges are exorbitant and the user experience often awful.True, things are changing. T-Mobile offers "all you can eat" tariffs for a fixed (premium) price and last week the innovative 3 launched a fixed-price service claimed to have broadband speeds plus free internet calls. But these are exceptional and yet to be tested in practice. At a seminar last week hosted by Symbian, the world leader in smartphone operating systems, I was surprised by the number of participants agreeing that nothing will happen until "content" (music, games etc) represents substantially more than 10% of the operators' revenues.Enter Apple, a company built around user-friendly content . It is the first big company in the west (Korea and Japan are another story) to approach phones from the point of view of users and content rather than preserving the milch cow of voice revenues. It has to because the increasing sophistication of music phones, some with a capacity for 5,000 tracks, are threatening the iPod's position as the music player of choice. The iPod is a great product and selling well, but its share of music downloads overall - as opposed to MP3 player downloads - is plummeting as the vast un-iPodded generation take to one device - the mobile phone - for their music.This is not a question of taste, but of arithmetic. There are more than 2bn mobile phones in the world - and still counting (at 1,000 per minute) - but fewer than 50m iPods.The mobile phone will become the dominant player of music. The only question is whether the phone will swallow the iPod or vice versa. Om Malik, the US blogger, points out that if the iPhone is sold "unlocked" (ie, you can put any SIM card into it and not be tied to an operator) then it could trigger a shift in power from operators to manufacturers and could lead to phones being sold for the full price and not subsidised by operators. As to which operating system it will use, the most likely is its own as Apple likes to control all aspects of its devices, but when one asks Symbian executives if it will be Symbian they come up with a standard: "We talk to all phone manufacturers," rather than an outright denial.Apple isn't guaranteed success. Some of its products have bombed in the past, though usually (as with the Newton personal organiser and the Apple digital camera) because they were not good enough and launched too far ahead of their time. Whatever happens, it will only be a small ripple in a big pool when it is launched. But if Apple can repeat its startling success of recent years, it could not only produce a product that satisfies the iPodistas but lights the blue touchpaper under the operators. And that has got to be a good thing.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I love my small, multi-talented laptop. Yet while our laptops continue to shrink and streamline, the humble desktop keyboard is getting increasingly overweight and overcomplicated.I now find it a bit sad to sit down at a desktop PC and dislocate my hands across a gargantuan slab of keys and buttons and switches. Above the standard Qwerty and numberpad arrangement, this packaged-with-the-desktop Packard Bell number has more than 12 buttons that will supposedly help me with my computing activities.I'll admit that a few buttons deserve to be there: mute and standby shortcuts are always handy. Yet the rest are pretty rubbish and some of them downright pointless. This is because most of them won't actually work. They are allocated to work only with Packard Bell's proprietary programs, most of which I uninstalled immediately. One button links to the Packard Bell website. Right, well that's certainly above YouTube on my bookmark list, oh yes.Above the row of function keys is a bizarre set of clipart-grade pictures. These range from a question mark (a link to a search engine?) to piggy banks, airplanes, shopping trolleys and one that looks like a silver-service waiter. I have no idea what that last one's for. It probably linked to some long defunct website that was snatched up for millions by a pack of venture capitalists.All of these can only be accessed via a function key awkwardly placed on the outside of the control key. Any half-decent typist will end up tapping this instead of the control keys, which can really irritate if you're cutting and pasting text from one document to another.Fortunately, with most of these keyboards, you can reassign those extra buttons to launch websites and applications you regularly use - but only if you've either have the software that came with the keyboard or can navigate your way to a set of drivers. (Why's there no shortcut key to that, eh? Steering wheel icon, anyone?) Mice are following a similar trend for pimped-out excess, with many riddled with specific buttons for launching programs, skipping music tracks and the like. Does it really take that long to drag your mouse across the screen?It may save time if you lovingly mapped each button to certain tools in, say, Adobe Photoshop or Microsoft Word, but why not learn the shortcut combinations already in the application?These extra buttons just increase the odds that I'm going to cock it up and force my computer regularly to spit out a wave of unwanted programs and websites.Can I unpimp my keyboard? Is there a key for that?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Browser safetyShould I install IE7, or should I stick with Firefox and Thunderbird, which I am led to believe are pretty safe?Mike MitchellJack Schofield replies:You should install Internet Explorer 7, because parts of the IE code are used by other programs, even if you don't use it for browsing. It is more secure than IE6 and offers big improvements in many other areas, such as tabbed browsing, bookmarks, printing and the handling of CSS (web style sheets) and RSS (web feeds). Do not give up on Firefox, but IE7 is a more competitive offering and better in some areas. And don't give up on the Thunderbird email program: IE7 does not include a new version of Outlook Express. From other queries, the main problem with IE7 seems to be the missing menu bar with File, Edit, View etc. You can restore this by going to the Tools icon on the far right, clicking the drop-down arrow and ticking Menu Bar. Another key feature is the ability to load a number of sites at once. You can do this by loading a selection of sites, then clicking the new Star Plus icon on the left and selecting Add Tab Group to Favorites from the drop-down menu.A drawback is that IE7's user interface elements have not been implemented as command bars, so you can't just grab their handles and move them about, as you can in IE6 and other programs such as Microsoft Office. Microsoft is delivering IE7 via Windows Update, so anyone running XP SP2 should already have installed it, or will have it soon. But itdoes not workon earlier versions of Windows. If you have tried to upgrade to SP2 and failed, I recommend installing Maxthon (www.maxthon.com) as well as Firefox. If you are one of the small minority still running Windows 95/98/Me or Windows 2000, consider yourself abandoned.Deleting spamIn last week's issue, Charles Arthur recommended deleting spam mail unread. How can you delete an item without first clicking on it, ie "reading" it?Brian Nicol, Tom Fletcher and othersJS:There shouldn't be a problem with "reading" email even with Outlook Express, if it's a current patched version, though I'd generally recommend Thunderbird, The Bat or another email program. However, the simple answer is to turn off the Preview Pane (under View|Layout|Preview Pane). After that, you can scroll down and select any number of messages and delete them at once. Some people keep their inboxes empty by moving the emails they want to keep to separate folders called Home, Work or whatever. If you do this, you can select all the remaining messages (Ctrl-A) and delete them. Even better, use free Mailwasher (www.mailwasher.net) software to delete the spam on the server. However, I recommend against using the option to "bounce" spam already received.Megapixel mattersWhat is a megapixel?Adam MursJS:A pixel is a "picture element" or, crudely, a dot on a screen, and a megapixel is a million dots. A typical screen display is 1,280 pixels across by 1,024 pixels down, which gives 1,310,720 pixels or 1.3 megapixels. This would be an SXGA (Super Extended Graphics Array) screen. More commonly, megapixels are used to refer to the maximum resolution that can be captured by a digital camera. For example, a 5 megapixel camera can typically take a photo that is 2,560 pixels wide and 1,920 pixels high, recording 4,915,200 pixels. This provides more resolution than a 1.3 megapixel camera, and enables you to make a larger colour print while retaining the same sharpness.FreeloadersI am the victim of a new breed of websites making money off free software -www.freedownloadhq.com. They sent me an email confirming my payment, but I have not received any software and I would like to get a refund.Zuzana BallayovaJS:Assuming you paid by credit card, your best bet is to reclaim the money via a chargeback. The more general point is always to search for information about a company before you make a purchase, rather than after the purchase has gone wrong.BackWeb invasionSpyBot has turned up a load of BackWeb Lite entries. Could this be in connection with using Kodak EasyShare? If so, what should I remove?John MorganJS:BackWeb is a legitimate program used to update software over the net, and Kodak's EasyShare has probably installed it. Logitech and Hewlett- Packard have also used BackWeb, though some users consider it spyware. It should be possible to remove BackWeb using Windows' Add or Remove Programs utility, and this is preferable to using a spyware remover.Number layoutsWhy are calculator and phone number-pads different?Gavin EvansJS:I don't think anyone knows for sure. However, adding machine and calculator keyboards have had 789 across the top for as long as I can remember, which predates electronic calculators. Phone companies started with 1 at the top of the dial, and their push-button phones started with 123 at the top. I suspect it's just different industries with different traditions. For more information, seewww.vcalc.net/Keyboard.htm.Backchat&middot;I have previously suggested Xdrive as a way of storing up to 5GB of data online for free. Diino UK (www.diino.co.uk) says that it is now offering 2GB free. Its new version 4.0 client software "adds mobile phone access, personal blogging, secure email, and automatic backup to its powerful feature set," says the company.
Addressing spamI note that there are objections to blocking port 25 (Six steps to stopping spam, November 16). Here in the US it is very common: my DSL provider does it. The other issue is opening an email validating the address. This is much less of an issue than having your address on a website, a blog or on an email list. Harvesting addresses off the net is the biggest source of addresses to spam.Allen SchaafSan Francisco&middot;I use Mac OS X and my mail program has a handy-dandy button which not only deletes the email but adds the originator to my list of spam addresses so that all email from the same address goes immediately to junk in the future. A low-cost way to make this even better would be a spam-filter sharing system.Adrian GoldmanHelsinkiDAB sounds OK to meWe have no hi-fi in our house any more. We play CDs via our DVD player through our TV, which has built-in speakers and no fancy sound system. We use Freeview for TV &amp; radio through the TV. Sound quality is acceptable for someone in their mid 50s whose hearing suffered a little from listening to too much rock music as a youth. We use a Genus radio CD player with DAB in the kitchen which is good enough for Radio 4, Classic FM and the odd CD while cooking. I also have a cheap DAB personal radio which has OK quality for BBC Radio 5 Live.So DAB is good enough for our needs, as I would suspect for the majority of punters who have bought DAB radios. I sympathise with people who can hear the difference, but I'm not one of them. I don't really care what the standard is.Les HewittWarrington&middot;While I agree with everything Jack Schofield says (a first for me) about the inferior quality of DAB and the need to switch to AAC+, there is a very good reason that the BBC should not promote listening to radio via a Freeview box or a computer: the environment. To quote your environment correspondent David Adam (November 13): "The millions who listen to the radio through power- hungry digital televisions and computers together release an extra 190,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide a year."Kenny HemphillSuttonMusic to their earsI was surprised to read that my industry is being "deskilled" and replaced by the "virtual orchestra" (Technobile, November 16). There is only one musical in the West End using a Sinfonia, which supplements live musicians.Audiences can be reassured that they still hear a live band and that the musicians are not "retained only to give the audience the illusion that humans are in charge".James McKeonMusical director, EvitaOut of tune on the ZuneMaybe I'll wander down to [the Guardian's offices in] Clerkenwell (Can you say anything nice about Zune? November 16). Here's the deal - I'll loan them my Zune for a week and challenge them to not say something nice. If they don't that's okay, I'd just like to see something a little more balanced from a paper I read great articles from regularly.&lt;brhttp://blogs.msdn.com/stevecla01/It'll cost youIf I give my house a name instead of a number can I charge other bodies for using that name (One-way street to postcode madness, November 16)? Surely it is fairly fundamental data that should be freely available?http://ballotsballsandbikes.blogspot.com/One small problemThere is mention (Security that is small and imperfectly formed, November 16) of using nanotechnology fingerprints for passports, and that is worrisome. You then rely on the database being correct - and keeping good databases is not the government's strong suit.http://stenz.livejournal.com/&middot;Read all this week's letters in full at blogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Not that long ago Canon hinted it was dropping out of the race to squeeze as many pixels as possible on to its cameras. So it is surprising to see the arrival of the 900Ti, a robust titanium-finished compact snapper that is capable of talking 10 megapixel images. In my opinion 10 megapixels is excessive for all but a tiny minority of compact camera users, but there's no denying that the 900Ti is a superb camera. There some very neat touches such as the optical viewfinder in addition to the good-quality 2.5in LCD monitor. Start-up time is impressive too, with the camera ready for taking pictures in less then a second. There's also a great anti-shake system, and, unusually for a compact, the option of shooting in widescreen. Video quality is the best I have ever seen from a compact camera, with impressive levels of detail and accurate yet rich colour rendition.It is hard really to criticise the 900Ti, except to say that unless you have a specific reason for shooting large images, you don't need a 10 megapixel compact camera. So also check out the Canon IXUS 800IS; or if quality is paramount, look at budget digital SLRs such as the Canon EOS 350D or the just-announced Nikon D40.
What would happen to business and society if you could easily make a copy of anything - not just MP3s and DVDs, but clothes, chairs and even houses? That may not be a problem most of us will have to confront for a while yet, but the 1.5m residents of the virtual world Second Life are already grappling with this issue.A new program called CopyBot allows Second Life users to duplicate repeatedly certain elements of any object in the vicinity - and sometimes all of it. That's awkward in a world where such virtual goods can be sold for real money. When CopyBot first appeared, some retailers in Second Life shut up shop, convinced that their virtual goods were about to be endlessly copied and rendered worthless. Others protested, and suggested that in the absence of scarcity, Second Life's economy would collapse.So will it? To understand why the appearance of CopyBot was inevitable, what can be done about it - and what can't - a little history is necessary.Philip Rosedale, Second Life's creator, has been fascinated by immersive environments since his childhood. At the University of California at San Diego, where he studied physics while running his own computer company, he had already begun to think in the late 1980s about creating a world with bits instead of atoms.Dreams of a virtual worldThroughout the 1990s, Rosedale was gaining experience against the day computers would be powerful enough to realise his dream. First, he worked on video streaming over the internet. His FreeVue program caught the attention of RealNetwork's Rob Glaser, who bought Rosedale's company in 1996. He agreed to join RealNetworks, "to get a great engineering management experience" - something he knew he'd need to run a huge virtual world.Finally, Rosedale explains: "In mid 1999 networking got fast enough, and Nvidia released the big 3D [graphics] card, the GeForce2, and I said, 'Man, I'm out of here, I've got to start this, it can be done'." The first nine months of work at the new Linden Lab was spent constructing a "haptic rig" - a kind of 3D mouse that let its user interact with a virtual world in an immersive way. "You can literally walk into a virtual world and hold your hand up in front of your face and look at it," Rosedale recalls.But there was something missing: "I said, 'Where are we going to go with this thing?'" Rosedale shifted his emphasis from hardware to software and to creating a virtual place. "The hardest problem from a technology perspective and also probably the best business," he notes.It was hard because of the huge amount of data involved in generating an interactive virtual world, and Rosedale came up with a neat solution. Instead of sending a flow of pictures of the virtual world to the user as a series of pixels - something that would be impractical to calculate - the information would be transmitted as a list of basic shapes that were re-created on the user's PC. For example, a virtual house might be a cuboid with rectangles representing windows and doors, cylinders for the chimney stacks etc.This meant the local world could be sent in great detail very compactly, but also that the software on the user's machine had all the information for making a copy of any nearby object. It's like the web: in order to display a page, the browser receives not an image of the page, but all the underlying HTML code to generate that page, which also means that the HTML of any web page can be copied perfectly. Thus CopyBot - written by a group called libsecondlife as part of an open-source project to create Second Life applications - or something like it was bound to appear one day.People don't get steamed up over the fact that web pages can be copied because on their own they aren't worth anything. But another early decision by Rosedale meant virtual objects in Second Life can be valuable, and their owners can convert that value into real-world money.Before taking this major step of allowing users to own the rights to the content they created, Rosedale convened in 2003 what he calls a "Star Chamber" of people who had been thinking deeply about related issues. Among those present were the cyberlaw scholar Larry Lessig, the economist Ted Castronova, the virtual world expert Julian Dibbell and Lotus founder Mitch Kapor, an investor in Second Life. "We all sat down and looked at what was going on and those guys were like, 'Yeah, you've got your thinking exactly the right way: you've got to let the economy be free-running and real'," Rosedale recalls.Liberating the economy has led to a boom in creativity, just as Rosedale hoped. It is in constant expansion as people buy virtual land, and every day more than $500,000 (&pound;263,000) is spent buying virtual objects. But the downside is that unwanted copying is potentially a threat to the substantial businesses selling virtual goods that have been built up, and a concern for the real-life companies such as IBM, Adidas and Nissan which are beginning to enter Second Life.Just as it is probably not feasible to stop "grey goo"- the Second Life equivalent of spam, which takes the form of self- replicating objects malicious "griefers" use to gum up the main servers - so it is probably technically impossible to stop copying. Fortunately, not all aspects of an object can be duplicated. To create complex items - such as a virtual car that can be driven - you use a special programming language to code their realistic behaviour. CopyBot cannot duplicate these programs because they are never passed to the user, but run on the Linden Lab's computers.As for the elements that you can copy, such as shape and texture, Rosedale explains: "What we're going to do is add a lot of attribution. You'll be able to easily see when an object or texture was first created," - and hence if something is a later copy. This should be ready "within a couple of months". Libsecondlife's Jonathan Freedman says the project will "support any new standards" that are introduced to maintain "the sanctity of intellectual property".Immutable linkMoreover, as Rosedale points out: "We can do this better than the web, since we know the identity of people and when they uploaded [an object]." A copy of a web page (or MP3 file) is anonymous, but copies of virtual objects in Second Life will be linked to the copier, and that link will be "immutable". This is perhaps the biggest difference between Second Life and real life. In the real world, even the most efficient totalitarian regime has only an imperfect knowledge of its population's activities. But the world of Second Life exists entirely within its computers. Linden Lab knows everything about everyone in its "world" - including who created copies. This makes policing abuse far easier in Second Life than in real life.It also makes it simpler to punish. The company has stated that "anyone detected using Copybot maliciously to target individual Resident[s] or damage the community as a whole will be expelled from Second Life". For "expel" read "delete".Virtual retailers can help to address this problem, Rosedale suggests, through the establishment of trade groups committed to certain standards - such as never selling copies. This idea of self-governance is an important thread in Rosedale's thinking about Second Life, particularly its future. "The overriding principle is that it should run itself," he points out.The real solution to the problems raised by CopyBot does not lie in thunderbolts from on high - "It was never my fantasy to be the Dungeon Master of Second Life," Rosedale insists - but needs to come from within the virtual world, as an evolution of the society there. If creativity and uniqueness are highly prized, copies lose their value and social rather than legal norms can ensure that the copiers do not thrive. And in exploring and working through these issues, maybe Rosedale's great Second Life experiment will have something to teach us in First Life, too.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
At a United Nations meeting last month, a bespectacled Swede made a small, barely noticed announcement that nevertheless represented a pivotal moment in the history of the internet."Regarding the technical implementation for the world wide web, we are done," Patrik F&auml;ltstr&ouml;m told the Internet Governance Forum. By "we are done", he meant that following a decade of hard work by a global consortium of engineers and linguists, they had finally decided on a document that will enable all the world's languages to be fully represented on the internet. People will be able to type in addresses in their own language, search in their own language and move around the internet in their own language.The challenge was every bit as immense as it sounds. The internet was designed to work with the English alphabet - a to z, and the numbers 1 through 9. Useful symbols rapidly made their way into the system - plus, minus, dash, and so on - each represented with a particular code (or, as internet engineers insist on calling it, an "identifier"). Agreeing on identifiers was easy at first, but as internet use spread across the globe, people started asking for more to be added to fit other languages, whether an accent on a letter, or an entirely different alphabet.Global balancing actAs languages have spread and developed, some elements have changed and some stayed the same. Some have grown to have different meanings. Some look identical and are anything but.One thing is for certain: everyone is unshakeable in their belief that their language is as valid as any other. No matter how wonderful the internet is, it does not override culture and history. The result has been a very careful balance. "No script and no person will be happy with the definition of identifiers," explained F&auml;ltstr&ouml;m. "Everyone will be unhappy. We just have to find a standard that makes people the least unhappy as possible."It can be difficult for an English speaker to grasp the problem. For example, the small dots over the "a" and "o" in F&auml;ltstr&ouml;m's surname carry significance and meaning. Because it is a western language, we are able to view it as an "a" and an "o" with some dots. Not so with different alphabets. Fortunately, there is a real-world example that makes this global balancing act more understandable.Richard Haigh is a web designer from the exotic climes of Nottingham and the proud owner of "&pound;.com". He has decided he wants to use the site to cover the debate over Britain's possible future adoption of the euro. "When it does kick off, I want to provide somewhere where people can voice their concerns," he explains. Despite having "no personal belief either way", he thinks that he's on to something unique with his pound-symbol domain name.But Haigh doesn't actually own "&pound;.com". He owns "xn--9a.com" - the identifier used to represent the pound symbol. In fact, &pound;.com doesn't (strictly speaking) exist. Why? Ask John Klensin, who is, along with F&auml;ltstr&ouml;m, the person most responsible for unusual additions to the internet's domain name system. He is blunt about Haigh's web address: "The &pound;.com domain shouldn't exist - it has been prohibited all along," he explains. When told it clearly does exist, he is unremitting: "If [the web address] resolves, it is probably another bug. Somehow it has been sneaked through."Haphazard natureIn fact, when you type &pound;.com into your browser you are in fact entering the &pound; sign's identifier, xn--9a. Your browser translates the &pound; sign as its identifier, goes to xn--9a.com and is then redirected to the more palatable poundsymbol.com.How? Because "&pound;" is just another identifier. For computers, &pound; is dealt with in exactly the same way as &ouml;. But since &pound; isn't a part of a language, it is one of the identifiers that has not made it through the process. There is a good reason why, Klemsin explains: "For some, 'pound' means the hash symbol [#], for others it is the pound sterling symbol [&pound;], and others refer to the hash/pound symbol as the 'number sign'. It is a communications nightmare."But &pound;.com does exist, thanks to the haphazard way the internet was created. If something takes off, it rapidly becomes part of the system; if it doesn't, it is left to wither on the vine. But no one is discourteous enough to remove the failed experiments on the way.There is a long and often complex procedure that arrives at a set of standards, recognised officially, that ensures something will be accessible right across the internet. After a very long, often difficult process, that standard for including the world's languages has now been put forward to the one organisation that can formally enter it into the internet - the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), based in California.Icann has put out a formal request for comments as a final precaution. And once that process is finished, then everyone has to figure out how to actually make the standards work with the existing internet infrastructure - another daunting task already under way. The truly global internet is on its way.&#183; What's in a name?English-speaking web users have traditionally been very blase about the non-English internet. That changed last year when researchers set up a fake Paypal website using a Cyrillic &#1040; to replace the first a of www.paypal.com. To the average user, the URL looked the same, except the second site said simply "Meeow". It didn't take a genius to realise the criminal possibilities and suddenly a previously unnoticed area of internet development was given some much-needed attention.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Online retail boomsUK internet shopping reached a new all-time high of &pound;2.73bn in October, claims IMRG, the e-tailing industry body. The previous record was for December 2005 - though how much isn't stated.www.imrg.orgBoring days at KasperskyMoscow-based antivirus company Kaspersky Lab reckons the malware community has run out of ideas. "There's nothing really new taking place. It's the same unending stream of Trojans, viruses, and worms - the only difference is that the numbers have significantly increased," says senior virus analyst Alex Gostev.www.viruslist.com/en/analysis?pubid=204791907Small wonderLenovo has announced its long-awaited IBM ThinkPad X60 convertible Tablet PC, with an Intel Core Duo processor and 12.1 inch screen. Prices start at &pound;1,660.www.pc.ibm.com/us/notebooks/thinkpad/x-series/tablet/sitelet.htmlOverdose on HollyoaksNext month, Channel 4 is launching its own video-on-demand service, 4oD, with programmes available at between 99p and &pound;1.99.www.channel4.com/4od/tvvodMore shares in MicrosoftMicrosoft has launched Windows SharePoint Services 3.0 server software, which includes support for RSS feeds, blogs and wikis as well as Windows Workflow Foundation.www.microsoft.com/sharepointWorm eats Second LifeSpinning gold rings like something out of Sonic the Hedgehog brought Second Life to a halt on Sunday. When touched, the rings replicated, eventually threatening to overburden the system.blog.secondlife.com/2006/11/19/grey-goo-on-grid/Dixons sells LinksDixons Stores Group (DSG International) has sold its Link shops to O2.
Not so much as some people might want you to think. According to a study carried out for the US Department of Justice, about 1.1% of the sites indexed by Google and Microsoft are "sexually explicit". Though interestingly, about 6% of searches yield at least one "explicit" site, and the most popular searches yield at least one explicit site in almost 40% of cases, says the study by Philip Stark, a professor of statistics at the University of California at Berkeley.Of course, if 1% (or 1.1%) of the web is porn - and we're only counting the "visible" web here, since we must assume there's a lot more which the search engines couldn't access or index - then that does still amount to millions and millions of sites.The study itself is fascinating; for instance, it seems that "Jenna Jameson" is the 20th most popular search, according to Wordtracker, which tracks such things. There's also Stark's mild surprise: "Sexually explicit websites seem to be disproportionately popular," he observes. "[US] domestic sexually explicit websites seem especially popular." Perhaps that's because they know who Jenna Jameson actually is.The statistics emerged from the DoJ's latest attempts to breathe life into the unattractive-looking corpse of the Child Online Protection Act, which aimed to impose penalties on American websites that publish explicit porn. Enacted in 1998, it was challenged on legal grounds at once, and in effect killed off in 2004 by the US Supreme Court because it would infringe free speech for adults. Stark's analysis won't help either: it showed that about half of the porn sites (though not those which are most popular with US surfers) are hosted outside the US, so they would ignore any American-based legislation.That hasn't left the DoJ with many legs to stand on, and so it has resorted (as Seth Finkelstein, who has followed the process over the years, points out on his blog atsethf.com/infothought/blog/) to arguing that software filters, which block sites based on what is thought to be their content (often based on keywords), are not accurate enough. "Filters are hindering minors from learning about the world around them. That's a huge problem," Joel McElvain, a DoJ lawyer, told the press this week. "There may be reasons the teenagers have problems speaking to their parents about these [issues]."By contrast the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), which has opposed the act from the start, says filters let adults determine what their children can look at, based on their age and personal values: "If you're a parent who doesn't want sexually explicit material slipping through, then set it [the filter] strictly," Chris Hansen, a lawyer for the ACLU, told a district judge on Monday.The best filtering in the study was AOL's Mature Teen (is it just us, or does that sound like a porn site in its own right?) which blocked 91% of explicit sites. Even less restrictive filters managed to block 40% of the sites.This latest attempts by the DoJ to stop kids seeing porn might have failed, but this probably won't stop it continuing to try to enact a law conceived when the net was in its infancy. Maybe its lawyers should heed the words of Dr Perry Cox (the actor John McGinley), in the TV series Scrubs: "I'm fairly sure that if they took all the porn off the internet, there'd only be one website left. And it would be called 'Bring Back The Porn'."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The other day, while administering the Free Our Data blog (freeourdata.org.uk/blogif you haven't stopped by yet), I came across an unusual piece of comment spam - a remark left on one of the blog posts. It was advertising a site offering share tips. No surprise there: "pump and dump" spam, as we've pointed out, has become a principal form of email spam, and spammers seem to have found that people are searching for share advice online (a worrying enough thought on its own).The surprise was that despite the automated defences to prevent such junk being posted by a machine, it had got through. The junk filter stops hundreds of such attempted spams daily without a murmur; so far it's stopped 10,000 spams while allowing 377 human comments. So why had this got through? The electronic trail explained: the "captcha" (Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart) had been filled in.The captcha is the junk filter's last resort. Because it's easy and cheap to program machines to post any sort of junk on blogs, a captcha (which puts numbers or letters in an image, which a machine in theory can't read) shows whether you've got a real live person giving their thoughts, or just a dumb machine trying to up some spammer's search-engine ranking.If the captcha was filled in, it must have been done by a person; if it had been done by a machine, the spammers would have cracked the problem of solving captchas and would be busily spamming every blog they could find.So who had done this? The junk filter had recorded their IP (internet) address. It resolved to somewhere in India. Which rang a bell: earlier this year, I spoke with someone who does blog spamming for a living - a very comfortable living, he claimed. But he said that the one thing that did give him pause was the possibility that rival blog spammers might start paying people in developing countries to fill in captchas: they could always use a bit of western cash, would have the spare time and, increasingly, cheap internet connections to be able to do such tedious (but paid) work.A few days later I read a stunning report by George Packer in the New Yorker magazine - regrettably, it's not online - about the sprawling mega- city of Lagos in Nigeria. It's the world's sixth largest city, and growing fast; the concept of urban planning has collapsed and life is eked out from the margins of existence. Corruption isn't an occasional hazard; it underpins a near-feudal society. While there, Packer was approached by one of his guides, who offered him the promise of riches looted from a despot; the classic Nigerian scam.Packer declined politely, attaching no blame to his would-be scammer: "He would have been regarded locally as a fool if he hadn't tried to exploit [me]," he noted without rancour. Elsewhere this week, deliveries began of the hand-powered laptop, Nicholas Negroponte's computing gift to the developing world.I've no doubt it will radically alter the life of many in the developing world for the better. I also expect that once a few have got into the hands of people aching to make a dollar, with time on their hands and an internet connection provided one way or another, we'll see a significant rise in captcha-solved spam. But, as my spammer contact pointed out, it's nothing personal. You have to understand: it's just business.&middot;In January I suggested that"spam has passed its peak". Oh well. I guess I'll have to sit in the corner with Bill Gates, who declared in January 2004 that "spam will be solved in two years". After you with the pointy-D hat, Bill.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In the spam-fighting community there's the notion of the FUSSP - that's the Final Ultimate Solution to the Spam Problem. It's so-called because periodically people pop up proclaiming that spam is now a solved problem, if only everybody would adopt their scheme. (There's a taxonomoy of these atwww.rhyolite.com/anti-spam/you-might-be.html.) So let's look at the suggestion that have been made by readers to "solve" spam, following the past fortnight's articles.Password systemsIn these, you won't accept an email from an unknown source unless it has your password. But how does someone who doesn't know your password get in touch? Unless you use a challenge-response system for unknown senders. However ...Challenge-response systemsThese are a phenomenally bad idea. Primarily this is because on almost all spam, the From: and Reply-To: address is nonexistent or forged. So you receive a spam and end up sending a challenge into the ether, or to the wrong person. In effect, you are spamming them with your challenges.Even if spam didn't forge addresses, by using a challenge-response system you are essentially outsourcing your anti-spam operation to a myriad of third parties. Do you trust all those third parties reliably to accept the challenge? A number of people will automatically junk any challenges they receive - and, similarly, a number of people will automatically reply to any challenge they receive, regardless of whether or not they sent the original message. (That lets spam through to the challenger.)There's also the issue of deadlock. Suppose you and I both run a challenge-response system. I send you a message, and don't whitelist you. You send me a challenge. I send you a challenge in response to your challenge ... and neither one is ever responded to.Pay-per-emailWhen you think about it, challenge-response is the same as pay-per-email, except you pay with your time, not a token. Demanding that others pay to send you email is fraught with problems: who gets the money? What if you charge more than they can afford? It's not as if having to pay for stamps has stopped physical junk mail, either. At least with challenge-response, each side decides if they're willing to "pay".ISPs blocks on port 25 emailThis is very appropriate action. However, it needs to be carried out in conjunction with a second step - accepting mail submission on port 587, which is designed to require authentication: you have to give a username and password. So the big ISP-to-ISP type communication can continue on port 25, and individuals (such as Philip Parker last week) would configure their mail program to send mail to their university using port 587, authenticating with his university's mail servers.This has still to catch on in a big way, although some of the larger ISPs are moving to support it (in the same way that port 25 blocking is still in relative infancy).Limiting emails sent per dayNo single limit will be appropriate for everybody. However, two modifications make this more acceptable. First, provide a mechanism for customers to change their limit, possibly subject to review. Start them off with a low limit per day; then let them increase it to some capped value if necessary. Second, change the granularity, so that instead of messages per day it becomes messages per hour, or similar.Something that wasn't covered is better detection of abuse by ISPs, with more help for cleaning customers who have become infected. Botnet traffic patterns are relatively obvious - such as a customer who has gone from sending 20 emails a day to 20,000. When this is detected, the majority of the customer's internet access should be shut down. Attempts by them to browse any website should redirect them to a site at the ISP that explains why their access has been curtailed and allows them to download tools that can help them clean their PC.Can spam be solved? The tools are all there, but they are being used haphazardly; lack of user education about how to treat spam doesn't help. You're still best off getting good filters and ignoring it.&#183;Nik Clayton runs anti-spam engineering for a "very large" financial organisation
If there's one thing that OSX users have breathed a sigh of relief not to have had to deal with, it's viruses. And adware. OK, two things. Not forgetting spyware. All right, three things.Anyhow, F-Secure says it has seen (and tried) a proof-of-conceptsample of an adware program for OSXwhich can install itself in the OSX System Library using "a feature not a bug" and just copying.In theory, this program could be silently installed to your User account and hooked to each application you use; and it doesn't require Administrator rights to do so. We won't disclose the exact technique used here... An Admin could install this globally to all users.The result: This particular sample successfully launched the Mac's Web browser when we used any of a number of applications.This is easier to do than with Windows. After all, it's a Mac.Here's hoping that the feature gets rapidly revoked... No Thanksgiving for Apple's security researchers, we suspect.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Codemasters have brightened thisdark dayfor English cricket with news that the nextBrian Laragame will "offer extensive online play". It's unlikely to challenge Gears of War in the Live ranking tables, and you have to wonder how bad the lag will be when you re-enact the Ashes with an Aussie based mate, but I can see this carving a decent niche on Xbox Live. In other online sporting news Konami have released a patch for the messy 360 version of PES6. The update will supposedly fix some of the issues that bedevil the online experience, including the connection problems when trying to find an opponent. Personally I haven't suffered to badly with this issue, mainly because I've been hosting games. Let's hope the next patch fixes the real online problems such as lack of leagues and co-op.
