The initial tracklisting for EA/Harmonix's Rock Band - the game that ships early next year with drums, guitars and mic - has been released. And actually, it's better than I hoped for. Pixies, Bowie, and an early Police track are some of the highlights of a list that isn't the metal snoozefest I expected. Take a look at the list. Pleasantly surprised or crushingly disappointed?1960s Rolling Stones "Gimme Shelter"1970s Aerosmith "Train Kept a Rollin'"* The Who "Won't Get Fooled Again" Boston "Foreplay/Long Time" Mountain "Mississippi Queen"* The Police "Next to You" David Bowie "Suffragette City" Black Sabbath "Paranoid"* Blue Oyster Cult "Don't Fear the Reaper" The Ramones "Blitzkrieg Bop" Deep Purple "Highway Star" KISS "Detroit Rock City" Molly Hatchet "Flirtin' With Disaster" The Outlaws "Green Grass &amp; High Tides"* Sweet "Ballroom Blitz"*#1980s Rush "Tom Sawyer"* Bon Jovi "Wanted Dead or Alive" The Clash "Should I Stay or Should I Go" Faith No More "Epic" R.E.M. "Orange Crush" Pixies "Wave of Mutilation" Iron Maiden "Run to the Hills"*1990s Foo Fighters "Learn to Fly" Metallica "Enter Sandman" Nirvana "In Bloom" Stone Temple Pilots "Vasoline" Weezer "Say It Ain't So" Smashing Pumpkins "Cherub Rock" Radiohead "Creep" Beastie Boys "Sabotage" Hole "Celebrity Skin" Garbage "I Think I'm Paranoid" Soundgarden "Black Hole Sun"2000s The Hives "Main Offender" Queens of the Stone Age "Go With the Flow" The Strokes "Reptilia" Jet "Are You Gonna Be My Girl" OK Go "Here It Goes Again" Nine Inch Nails "The Hand That Feeds" Yeah Yeah Yeahs "Maps" Red Hot Chili Peppers "Dani California" Coheed &amp; Cambria "Welcome Home" Fallout Boy "Dead on Arrival" The Killers "When You Were Young" New Pornographers "Electric Version"*Covers
Vodafone will today announce its second UK network deal in a week with the launch of Lebara Mobile, a new Sim-only phone service targeting the country's burgeoning immigrant population.The deal to let Lebara Mobile use its network comes after Vodafone last week announced it will support Carphone Warehouse's new Talkmobile service.While the government may be unclear as to how many immigrant workers have entered the country in the past 10 years, the 2001 census reported there were 4.6 million ethnic minority consumers in the UK. Vodafone reckons the market for supplying communications services to the growing number of immigrants could be worth as much as &pound;500m a year.Launched six years ago, Lebara started selling international telephone calling cards, helping immigrants keep in touch with family with cheap call rates. Having built a large distribution network to support the cards operation, Lebara has been moving into the mobile phone business, supplying cheap mobile calls to its core market.Lebara Mobile in the UK, to be unveiled today, will offer just a Sim card, meaning that customers have to supply their own phones. The pre-pay only service will offer cheap international calls, with customer support in several languages.Lebara, with annual revenues of more than &euro;160m (&pound;111m), has built relationships and network access across the world, enabling it to provide cheap calls to Africa, south-east Asia, the Indian subcontinent, South America and eastern Europe.Vodafone is already supporting the mobile service in Spain. It is also operating in Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland and Sweden.The deal with Lebara Mobile is part of Vodafone's drive to increase the revenues it makes from wholesale deals that allow other companies to use its network to run services. As well as Talkmobile, Vodafone has signed up with Asda to support its mobile service as well as providing the network for BT's mobile services.Mobile phone companies are increasingly looking to raise revenues through wholesale deals. In the UK, T-Mobile started the trend when, as One2One, it allowed Virgin Mobile access to its network to run its service.
Nintendo, the Japanese computer games company, is preparing to launch Face Training - a game which offers to guide players through what it calls "facial yoga". Using a camera attached to the company's hand-held DS console, players follow exercises aimed at stretching the skin and warming up muscles. The routines  can improve facial muscle tone, according to a company spokesman.Face Training follows a wave of titles aimed at changing the traditional image of gamers as couch potatoes, including a number of interactive sports games which are being credited with encouraging some children to keep fit. But Face Training is closer in style to the "brain training" titles, featuring  interactive logic puzzles and tests of mental agility. Although the effectiveness of such games is questionable, their popularity has helped Nintendo to sell more than 4m DS consoles in the UK since it launched in 2005.Face Training is part of the company's attempt to appeal to women, who have proved a crucial audience as the video game industry tries to broaden its appeal beyond traditional boundaries. Research indicates that women constitute two-thirds of Nintendo DS owners in the UK, and a significant proportion of older users.  To capitalise on this trend, the company is launching a series of advertisements starring female celebrities such as Julie Walters and Zoe Ball.
Social news website Digg.com is considering opening itself up further to allow other websites to copy its model, its co-founder has said.In an interview with the Guardian, Digg chief executive Jay Adelson said the company was not looking to expand into more niche markets, but would prefer to "empower someone else" to do so.Digg, which allows members to recommend news stories to the site's 21 million users, has become an online phenomenon since launching in 2004. Primarily known for technology news, it also helped launch spin-off video podcast Diggnation, which is watched by more than 300,000 people each week.Adelson - who founded the website with former TV presenter Kevin Rose - told the Guardian that although Digg would expand in areas  such as images, videos and business news, it was not interested in other areas such as politics or sport."There's value in vertical focus," he said. "But there may be a vertical which we choose not to go into: I would rather empower someone else to go down that route rather than do it myself."Adelson said that Digg would not consider licensing its technology to other websites in order to let them create their own versions of the site, but that would make such systems "freely available"."Sell the technology? No. We believe that if you love something, set it free," he said. "As far as enabling other third parties to do this sort of stuff, that's always been our intent. A very important point is that when we create tools to help people with that, there is no question that they will be freely available to the public."He refused to comment further when pressed for more information, citing "confidential strategy".Digg is seen as the poster child for a new generation of online news aggregators, which have drawn large audiences and admiring looks from traditional publishers. Several of the website's competitors have been bought in the past year, including Reddit.com - which was acquired by magazine and internet publisher Conde Nast - and Newsvine, a social news outlet recently purchased by MSNBC.com.But Adelson - who recently signed a three-year deal which will see Microsoft provide exclusive advertising to the site - said that he was not interested in selling the company, which he believed deserved a valuation in excess of $100m."Digg, in and of itself, is an incredible opportunity alone," he said. "It should be driven as far as it can go that way. I've always said this… but if somebody can get us faster to where Kevin and I want to go, then rock n roll.""But I have yet to meet someone who can do that."
The Web is Agreementbypsd,Some Rights ReservedGoogle announced its OpenSocial, which the Guardian's Jemima Kiss described as their"new social net project". In terms of social networks, Facebook started opening ever so slightly with its apps platform, withMySpace recentlyfollowing suit. But both Facebook and MySpace still are building relatively closed APIs, although MySpace as been a bit guarded about just how open their platform will be, irony noted.As for Google and OpenSocial, ZDNet called Google's strategy "combine and conquer". David Card at Jupiter Research said that the agreement includes "everybody but those that matter". (Thanks to Jacqui Chang atArsTechnica for that link.)But as a developer or a user, would the openness or lack thereof, make you more likely or less likely to use a social network? Or if you don't like that question and wish that all social networks would go the way of Microsoft Bob, take Mashable's poll asking: Which social network do you hopedies a slow and painful death?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:API,Facebook,Google,social networkingtechnorati tags end
Big Cylon-Star filter byOskay,Some Rights ReservedBefore you accuse me of importing an American holiday, I'm an imported American so I think that it's fair. I love Halloween, not because I grew up egging people's houses but because I like the general spookiness of the holiday. Years ago, when I lived in Kansas, I used to trek across the state to Kansas City where they havehuge 'haunted houses'in the old warehouse district. They were several floors of frightful fun with some pretty elaborate effects. Five story slides? What's not to like?Most of my geeking out over Halloween these days is restricted to pumpkin carving. CyberNet News has a few jack 'o lanterns that really let theirinner geek shine. If you want to make your own Cylon jack o' lantern, there are details here at theEvil Mad Scientist Laboratories.Apart from pumpkin carving, some folks really get into their costumes. Wayne Ma, writing for Popular Mechanics has collected the nerdiest DIY costumes. By the way, that's Wayne sporting his very ownWiFi finding T-shirt. But my favourite was this enterprising Australian who created his own Digg T-shirt:Or if DIY is too much, Halo fans can buy theirown armour here.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Beware. On this liminal day, when the spirits of the departed are able to roam the physical world and magic is at its strongest, videogame blogs the world over are preparing 'Resident Evil vs Silent Hill' and 'what was the scariest game EVER?' posts in their hundreds.Frankly, we're no better. So here are five quick horror-themed questions for you all to answer so that we can finally exhume, like torch-bearing villagers at the cursed grave of a murdered witch, thescariest game which has yet to be made...1. Which book do you think would make a great horror game? 2. And which movie? 3. Where should Resident Evil 6 be set? 4. What secret should the next stranger to arrive in Silent Hill be hiding? 5. If you were to produce the next blockbuster horror franchise, who would be your a) game designer, b) script writer, c) lead voice actors?My answers are below... Mwahahaha, etc.1. Super Cannes - JG Ballard. A sort of yuppie Silent Hill. 2. The Haunting. The 1963 version obviously. 3. An upmarket housing estate in Surrey. 4. Quite fancies those faceless nurse monsters. 5. a) Yu Suzuki, b) Shane Meadows, c) Mickey Rourke, Dame Maggie Smith
Tell you what, you gamesblog people really outdid yourselves last week. Thewikigamewent hopping withall manner of descriptionsfrom the clever and creative amongst you. As such, DennisChow - who's already integrated your contributions into the code of thedemo- has made another marvellous suggestion:while messing around with the graveyard code it struck me that it was a bit of a waste to have all those graves and only be able to dig up one, so I've added a section to the Miscellaneous page called Coffins and Graves. This is where any of the gamesbloggers can create their own custom grave with coffin, containing whatever they want. The graves are meant to be Easter Eggy, so the blogfolk needn't worry about affecting the plot.You officially have free reign.Here's a nice example, again from Dennis:Name : DennisChowEpitaph : "Beneath this stone lies DennisChow. He was sat upon by a big brown cow." (You can write these yourself or you can leave them blank for me to fill in. )Coffin Short Name : "a bizarre coffin"Coffin Description : "The coffin is fashioned from broken pencils, lego, papier-mache and some recycled duct tape."Coffin Contents Description: "Inside is a large collection of DVD's, and a solitary Gameboy cartridge."Contents Descriptions : DVDs - "Lots of DVD's, including : The Hylda Baker Collection - Has She Been?, Kikujiro - The Lovable Jerk , The Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers Boxset - Follow the Feet, Pitfall - The Ghost of Harry, La Strada - Featuring Sam and Max, The African Queen - SCUMMVM Edition, The Man Who Could Work Miracles - Starring Kenta Cho, Rikyu - Would Anybody Like A Cup of Tea?"Cartridge - "It is an incredibly worn cartridge, but it seems to glimmer and exude a heavenly radiance. It's River City Ransom EX!"Gohereto add your rotting tuppence. Just in time for Halloween!In other news, KerryT has been pressing forward with the complex and confusing Pub, MichaelBruntonSpall has been ensuring the integrity of the thing and the selfless PhilWal continues to clean the wiki of the flood of weekly spam. Woot!
I was playingThrillville: Off the Railslast night. As rollecoaster/theme park sims go this is a good 'un and certainly brings some much needed variety to the 360's guns n' cars lineup. It suffers from the Viva Pinata syndrome though, by being overly fiddly for something aimed at a family audience. Developed by David "Elite" Braben's Frontier Developments, Thrillville is still worth a pop. But make sure you don't buy it second hand. Braben recentlystrode into the pre-owned debate."Clearly from the developer and publisher point of view, the second-hand market is a real problem. The shops are essentially defrauding the rest of the industry by this practice, whether they intend to or not."Anyone who buys their games from specialist retailers like Game and Gamestatstion will be familiar with the jumble sale like atmosphere. But do you care if it means you can get a copy of, say, Halo 3 for a fiver simply by trading in some old finished stuff?While I've got a stack of sympathy for Braben and developers in general I think he is forgetting the main issue. Namely that games ARE too expensive. Cut RRP's to nearer £20 and trade-ins will lessen. But they will never go away. Rightly or wrongly games are seen as inherently disposable - I still have all the CD's I bought in 1991 but the Mega Drive games went years ago - with relatively little replay value. Ok, obviously multiplayer games are an expectation but generally when you've finished a game you're done. Now if that finished product is still worth over half the price you paid for it can you blame anyone for trading in to get money off the next biggie? No, me neither. Pre-owned then - essential for punters or simply retail "defrauding" the games industry.
The social networking trend has scythed its way through offices and schools around the country - but now a new website is hoping to appeal to older internet users.Saga Zone, created by the insurance and holiday company, launches today with the aim of becoming the social website of choice for the over-50s. Users of Saga Zone must be over 50 - but once they have joined members can create their own profile pages, contact friends or join in online discussions.The site, which has been running in trial mode for four months, has more than 13,000 users so far - and the company hopes this will increase dramatically now it is officially open. "Older people aren't shy of using the internet - they have a verve for life that applies online as well as offline," said Paul Green, a Saga spokesman. "Thirteen thousand is just a drop in the ocean - in theory the membership is practically limitless. Social networking isn't going to be for everyone, but the feedback so far has knocked our socks off."A survey this year by media regulator Ofcom found that older surfers make up a significant proportion of the internet population, and are much more likely to spend money online. Surfers over 50 account for nearly a third of all time spent online by British web users. "It's a myth that older people are put off by technology," said Nick Parker, deputy editor of the Oldie magazine. "Our experience is that older people are very effective users of the internet."Sites such as Friends Reunited have proved popular among older surfers. Although there are no age limits on networks such as Facebook or MySpace, the sites are heavily populated by younger users. So far the oldest user of Saga Zone is 87.Saga Zone is not the first attempt to cash in on the social networking craze among affluent older surfers. American website Eons launched last year with a focus on the baby boom generation. But despite raising &pound;16m from investors Eons has struggled in the popularity stakes and was forced to lay off a third of its 72 staff last month.Big namesMySpaceThe world's largest social networking site, which has more than 200 million usersFacebookOriginally used by Harvard students, now has more than 50 million usersBeboTwenty-five million people signed up in the past year - mostly teenagers
PES has stormed to the top of theUK chartsthis week, knocking FIFA from its perch. With Football Manager 2008 just below those two, it's an all footie top three. Zelda and Ratatouille follow with Orange Box, Metroid Prime 3 and Halo 3 surprisingly lurking near the foot of the top ten. High School Musical: Makin' the Cut and Cooking Mama claim the last two spots.It's comforting to see the old PES/FIFA rivalry surviving into the 'next-gen' era, despite the fact that neither game has reviewed as strongly as previous iterations. Meanwhile, Football Manager retains its grasp on the public consciousness, even without a console conversion (the still not quite there PSP version doesn't count). I'd love to see Sports Interactive attempting a Wii translation, perhaps with players using the motion controller to produce extravagant gestures from the technical area.
Every boom has itspercentage of nay-sayersto predict the inevitable bust, while the practitioners carry on making hay while the sun shines. NowSteve Rubelfrom Edelman PR has just called time with a blog post that says: "This is a sad time for the web. It's as almost somber as the time just before the last bubble burst in 2000."Let's face it, we're skunk drunk and it's because of money. It's almost like we all need to enter Betty Ford Clinic 2.0 together. This time, it's not stock market money but private equity, M&amp;A, VCs and to some degree the reckless abandonment of logic by some advertisers who are perpetuating what is sure to end badly when the economy turns. Hubris is back my friends.In New York Magazine, John Heilemann has also written aboutWeb Bubble 2.0, an idea that's alreadywidespread. At least he quotes Netscape co-founder Marc Andreesson, who points out that this is pretty much business as usual:"In the technology industry,"blogs Netscape founder Marc Andreessen, who now runs a company called Ning, "lots of start-ups being funded with some succeeding and many failing does not equal a bubble. It equals status quo. The whole structure of how the technology industry gets funded -- by venture capitalists, angel investors, and Wall Street -- is predicated on the baseball model. Out of ten swings at the bat, you get maybe seven strikeouts, two base hits, and, if you are lucky, one home run. The base hits and the home runs pay for all the strikeouts. If you're going to call a bubble on the basis of lots of bad start-ups getting funded and failing, then you have to conclude that the industry is in a perpetual bubble, and has been for 40 years. Which may be fun, but isn't very useful."Back in March,Henry Blodgetwrote: "For what it's worth, I am calling for a real recession, in which the economy shrinks and the stock market tanks, regardless of what the Fed does." However, in defence of Heilemann's "tough love",Blodget arguesthat "Awareness that economies are cyclical is helpful. Yelling about how outrageous and idiotic this is is pointless".So what does it all mean? (1) We're all in Bubble 2.0 waiting for the bust. (2) Silicon Valley is in a bubble, waiting for the bust. (3) Bubbles are very rare. This is business as usual, please shut up.Take your pick.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It looks as though Google's four-year-old Gmail will be replaced by Gmail 2 without ever getting out of its perpetual beta. According to theGoogle Operating Systemblog, the new features include message prefetch, and a new contact manager. Otherwise it looks the same. GOS hasscreenshotsandInside Googlehas some videos.Some people already have the new version. If that includes you, then you should see a link that says you can go back to the old version. (It doesn't include me.)The new contacts manager and better integration with other Google apps will both be welcome. Frankly, it's hard to see how the contacts manager could be any worse, and Google's current level of application integration struggles to achieve mediocrity. It would be nice to think that Google will one day provide Outlook synchronisation but at best it's running almost a decade behind Yahoo.It would also be nice if Google gave Gmail users the option to have folders. Sadly, the company appears to have a religious conviction against the idea, so things like practicality and user preference count for nothing. Again, this is something Yahoo does much better.Whether message prefetch will help is an open question. The aim is to try to disguise the fact that you are running mail remotely and therefore the performance isn't as snappy as a desktop client such as Outlook. It should certainly help people who get lots of short emails. If you have bandwidth to spare, it won't do any harm.However, I'm not complaining if Gmail's look and feel stays the same. It looks great as it is, and I still think it looks better than either Yahoo or Windows Live Mail. Gmail also performs better than either of those, and it does better spam blocking. Those three alone are probably enough to keep Gmail in the top spot for Web-based email, for most people, so any improvements that come with Gmail 2 are really just a bonus.
A social networking website styled as "The X Factor meets YouTube" launches today, offering users a $1m prize (£485,000) for the best clip.The website, Clipstar.com, describes itself as a "democratic global talent contest" that mixes social networking and talent scouting from music and entertainment companies.Running with the strapline "Clipstar - be somebody", the site allows users to upload video clips of performances in any of its nine content categories: singing, band or group, dance, music, comedy, acting, director or film, animation and "any other".Users themselves vote for free for their favourite clips and every three months a winner from each category is chosen and wins $10,000.The winner of each category is automatically entered into a "grand final" to be held at the end of the year, competing for an annual $1m prize."Clipstar.com was created to ensure that undiscovered talent was found, recognised and shared with the world," said the site's managing director, Paul Barnes."The site offers a totally unique social networking experience designed to encourage users to forge relationships and share clips while competing for the $1m prize."The website, described as a "financially competitive clip community", was founded by Mr Barnes and Nigel Latham, both of whom have previously worked in the advertising industry.The company's sales director, Eren Ozagir, is a former youth branding executive with Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, while Tony JeJe, the commercial director, worked on e-commerce for Orange.In a nod to the safety issues that have surrounded social networking websites lately, Clipstar.com is running a moderated community and a piece of technology called AGE.AGE,  or "anti-grooming engine", has been developed by Adam Hildreth - the Confederation of British Industry's young entrepreneur of the year 2006 - and analyses the content of online chat to identify potentially dangerous grooming conversations.The site will hope to attract performers wanting to emulate the success of artists such as Sandi Thom, who rose to fame thanks in part to her MySpace page.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Just in case you haven't been following this rare and unseemly spat, Matt Selman, a senior producer on EA's Simpsons game has criticised Rockstar for apparently insisting that a satirical reference to GTA be removed from the game. On an episode ofGame Head(relevant section viewablehere), he says:The game begins with Bart wanting to play a game called Grand Theft Scratchy. Of course this is a parody of Grand Theft Auto. And Marge immediately takes it away from him. She tries to clean up the town and stop the game from being distributed in Springfield because Marge is against video game violence. She uses horrific violence to stop video game violence... in a video game... That's called irony. The people who make Grand Theft Auto - they spazzed out like little babies.Fromearlier commentsby Simpsons lead designer Greg Rizzer, it would seem that a Rockstar lawyer saw the Grand Theft Scratchy level at Leipzig and demanded that it be removed. Senior producer Matt Warburton hasadded, "They're supposed to be rock stars; that's not a big rockstar move - to be afraid of The Simpsons making fun of their game."There's an implication that Rockstar were worried consumers may be confused into thinking that Grand Theft Scratchy was, in fact, the next official title in the Grand Theft Auto series. Selman responds by characterising Rockstar's alleged concerns:We couldn't get our game out in time, so we're afraid that the gamers -- who are not morons -- are going to get confused by an Itchy and Scratchy poster of 'Grand Theft Scratchy' - they're going to think that's the same thing as Grand Theft Auto... EA lawyers are afraid to use the name 'Grand Theft Scratchy' in promoting the game... [Rockstar's] games are full of satire, lame attempts at parody... basically putting the words sixty-nine in wherever they can find it...Miaow.It seems the GTA section will now be re-named Mob Rules.According to 1up, a trailer of the level, complete with new name, is available at EA's site and the content - clearly still reminiscent of the gangsta adventure series - remains unchanged. I couldn't access the site, though - it's perhaps being inundated by Rockstar lawyers.
One of the things technology boffins often get accused of is an inability to understand new things in a historical context - always wildly hailing the latest development as the best thing since sliced bread.I like to think of this as "NME syndrome", in reference to the august music magazine and its penchant for making cover stars of unknown bands and promising that they are going to be the next Beatles (or Radiohead, Oasis, Blur etc)- before promptly knocking them down as over-promoted twits just a few months later.So I thought we'd start a regular new feature on these pages that help us put a little bit of context on the world of technology - a look back at what was happening this week back in the midsts of time.We're starting off with a classic example that shows how the calendar may change, but everything else stays pretty much the same. It's a story reported in the Guardian on November 2, 1987 - when we discovered that (shock horror)the government had been spending more and more on IT.Here's an excerpt from the original story, "Costs soar for computer staff in Civil Service", by David Hencke and Aileen Ballantyne:The Government has increased five-fold the money spent on employing outside contractors and consultants in the past three years to speed up its huge computerisation programme, according to internal figures obtained by the Guardian.Spending has risen from pounds 20 million in 1984 to more than pounds 100 million this year to meet a serious shortage of trained staff. The private companies can therefore pay more than pounds 33,000 a year to staff who work alongside civil servants doing the same job for about pounds 11,000 a year.Sound familiar?The only thing that seems to have changed is the size of the bill. Back in 1987 eyes rolled at £100m being spent on a government-wide computerisation programme; today we're talking upwards of £12bn just for the NHS.
The mobile phone company 3 unveiled its latest attempt to get customers to join the UK's newest network yesterday as it launched the Skypephone, which allows users to make almost 70 hours of free calls each month by using the internet.About 2.5 million people across the UK regularly use Skype, owned by eBay, but they have to use their computer or a relatively upmarket smartphone to make free calls to other Skype users.3 has been working with Skype for well over a year and already offers the service on its niche X-Series platform, which has several hundred thousand users. The new phone, made by the Chinese handset manufacturer Amoi, is designed to appeal to a much wider audience. Owned by the Hong Kong-based conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, 3 has about 3 million active UK customers but has shown little growth over the past year. It hopes the Skypephone will lure new customers and help it retain existing users.The Skypephone, available from Friday, will be free for contract customers spending at least &pound;12 a month on normal calls, texts and internet access. It will cost &pound;49.99 for pre-pay users, who can use Skype as long as they spend at least &pound;10 a month on traditional services.Alongside up to 4,000 minutes of internet telephony - or VoIP - calls a month, customers can send up to 10,000 monthly Skype chat messages.Skype will receive a royalty for every customer signed up by 3.
It's all the rage these days: crackpot proposals to automatically police the internet for copyright violations, stopping them even before they occur.From YouTube's promise to find and stamp out copyright infringing uploads to the counterproposal from the motion picture studios and Microsoft to find and stamp out infringing uploads, everyone is getting in on the act.The problem is, it's all lies, wishful thinking and irresponsible promises.Look at it this way: for this system to work, you'd have to write a piece of software that had a thorough understanding of "all the copyrighted works" (keep in mind that every creative work is copyrighted from the instant it's created), and it would have to be able to spot every transformation, re-encoding, downsampling, and re-edit of those works in order to stem the tide.It would have to perform with near-perfection: even if it turns out that it catches every single infringement except for video that is re-cut to 16:9 with letterboxing at 31fps, then all the pirates will just encode it that way and evade the filter, meaning that the system would generate an unacceptable level of false negatives.In other words, all the money spent on the system would be for naught because it would fail to catch a significant proportion of pirates.It would also have to be nearly perfect in regards to false positives - every time it misidentified a home movie of your kids' first steps or your gran's 85th birthday as Police Academy 29 or Star Wars: Episode 0, Jedi Teen Academy, your own right to use the Internet to communicate with your friends and family would be compromised - likewise unacceptable.Even worse: what happens when your video of a corrupt politician rigging an election is flagged as an infringement, and by the time the mess is sorted out, the election is already over?And no matter what, it would be an incredible invasion of privacy.Internet video, audio and text isn't just used for entertainment, it's used for conversation - for discussing our lives and our society.To prevent infringement from taking place on YouTube, Viacom has proposed a ban on all "private" videos that are invisible to its copyright enforcement hunter-killer bots.Broadly speaking, they're right: if it's possible to use a "privacy" flag to avoid copyright takedowns, then pirates will use privacy flags - so for this system to work, privacy must be eliminated.Is any of this plausible? The best technologies for automatically identifying, say, a song from an arbitrary hunk of music (likeMusicBrainz) are far from perfect, and they're working in "non-adversarial" circumstances, where the person using the music wants it to be identified.Once the person producing the music (or video, which is thousands of times more complex) takes active steps to impede automated identification, you're talking about the kind of computer science problem that hasn't even shown promising research approaches yet -- let alone actual, field-ready, tested technology.Remaking the internet to invade privacy and silence our conversations is a crummy idea, but even worse is the fact that it won't actually stop or even slow infringement. But for so long as there are technology companies with magic beans to sell - and desperate, ageing entertainment execs willing to buy them - we'll have to keep fighting.&middot;Cory Doctorow is a digital activist, science fiction author and co-editor of the popular blogBoing Boing.
No, not the Milton Bradley board game (although I have promised more board game-related postings). This game of Life includes the little ways virtual worlds makers intend to situate their game-like playthings into your normal activities.This topic was all the rage at theVirtual Worlds Forumlast week. Businesses in particular are unsurprisingly interested in keeping players interacting with their intellectual properties. You can think of it as merchandising, but it's actually doing so with a twist. Just like the perennially innovative console the Sega Dreamcast had the potential to allow Phantasy Star Online gamers portable grinding opportunities via its integrated games machine/memory card, the new products are keeping thumbs and eyeballs on their IPs via a whole raft of touchpoints.It's not just my journalistic pipe dream. Others, likeWired's Rex Sorgatz has noticed it too:the gaming mindset has now become pervasive. We use game models to motivate ourselves, to answer questions, to find creative solutions. For many, life itself has turned into a game. Our online lives are just twists on the videogame leaderboards, where we jockey to get our blog a higher rank on Technorati and compete to acquire more friend-adds on MySpace than the next guy.Prescient, asMySpace has just announcedadedicated gaming channel. Anyway, three forthcoming integrations include:*Moshi Monsters'MoPods, part of the kids' MMO brought to you by Perplex City makers Mind Candy. My little fella, Luvli pictured above, arrived in the post today:Clip your moshi monster to your bag or jacket, then relax and do whatever you want to do! When your mobile rings your MoPod magically springs to life!From the release:Moshi Monsters is a brand new multiplayer online game where you adopt your very own pet monster. Each has a unique personality that develops the more you play. Nurture them by solving their daily puzzle games and earn tokens to buy weird and wodnerful things in the virtual shop. Feed them to keep them healthy. Ticklet them to make them happy. Accessorize their outfits and homes, then show all your friends via MonsterMail!As far as I can tell, there doesn't seem to be any practical reason why I the MoPod exists other than to promote the brand (and to remind you to engage with the MMO every time your phone rings). But ooh! A thing! As an aside, one of the debates that raged throughout the week at the virtual worlds forum was just how the messages of capitalism of most virtual worlds will affect the kids who play them.*Rumoured mobile phone applicationsfor theMMO Wii versionof the Nintendo hit Animal Crossing:Katsuya Eguchi, head of development for the project, has made relatively non-committal noises thus far, but hinted that connection to mobile phones and PCs (for basic functions such as messages) would be included(viaNext-gen.biz)That'll be mobile phone integration Number 2. Perhaps this'll inspire the tipping point which analysts have predicted in this area for several years? (Mobiles are also getting a boost from Red Octane, who are bringingGuitar Hero to US cell phones. But that's not online, so never mind.)* Michael Smith from Mind Candy mentioned a new game featured at a recent toy show which has all the hallmarks of a MMO-life integration. Not greatly unlikeMark Eyles' Ambient Gamingproduct we mentioned earlier this year, kids log into a web-based MMO and advance by completing physical tasks, like walking a mile or doing 30 jumping jacks. Their progress is tracked via pedometer. You can so see this being picked up by schools and the concerned parent brigade.By making the everyday feel more game like, developers are bound to access a whole new audience - those people who continue to think the pastime is a waste of time. But if play can be integrated into life, the grind doesn't have to feel like a job. It can make offline just as much fun. I look forward to seeing new innovations in this vein in the future.
It's a what?The latest thing in picture sharing.Trudging down to Boots to pick up your holiday snaps, then?Where have you been for the past 10 years? Nobody under 50 uses film any more. Get with the times.OK, so what do I do?Now that virtually every mobile - early Crackberries aside - has a trillion-pixel camera as standard, all you have to do is press the button and shoot. The only downside of this is walking around with a mass of pictures that no one ever sees.What's wrong with sites such as Flickr and Picasa?Absolutely nothing, unless you take so many pictures that you bust the storage limits on your free account.So what does this do?We've all seen LCD picture frames which hold and display your precious snaps,  but most require that you load via your laptop or Bluetooth at best. This one holds a Sim card with a dedicated number, meaning you can update the second that you've finished shooting.Why would I want to do that?You might be going on a round-the-world trip and want to keep your mates instantly updated on your latest find. Or, you may want to get revenge on your ex but are just a little too shy to put that homemade video on the web. What better way than to buy one for her parents and text those pictures instead?OK, so what else do I get?Smart TFT LCD screen, the ability to store 500 snaps and some neat software that automatically resizes your pics to fit. It doesn't stop there either, as the frame automatically scans the amount of light in the room and adjusts to compensate, switches itself off at night and lets you programme different slideshows.When can I get one?End of the year. No word on pricing yet.
The Hulu video site backed by NBC Universal and Fox starts its private beta test today, with more participants than expected. The roster includes Sony Pictures Television and MGM, plus around 15 cable networks including Bravo, E! Entertainment and the Sci Fi channel. The TV shows on offer include The Simpsons, 24, Battlestar Galactica, The Office and Scrubs, with more to come. However, firms such as ABC, CBS, Viacom and Disney have not joined in.Hulu provides TV programmes and movies supported by advertising, and they will also be available via partners including MySpace, AOL, Comcast (Fancast.com), Yahoo and MSN. Viewers will be able to take clips from shows, email them to friends and put them on their blogs.So far Hulu has been a major target for vitriol from bloggers who've never seen it, but some reporters who have seen demos are sounding more optimistic. The Wall Street Journal's Kara Swisher says:I Eat My Words: Hulu Will Shake Up the Online Video Market.From a demo (here are somescreen shotsof pages) I was given Friday by Hulu CEO Jason Kilar, the boyish former Amazon exec who seems to have learned to swim well with the Hollywood sharks, I am impressed thus far. I will, of course, reserve judgment until I get to test-drive it for a while, but in concept and tone and aims -- that is, more open than I ever expected the service to be -- it is off to a good start.Whether Hulu sinks or swims depends not just on whether it's any good, of course, but on whether there's really a market for ad-supported video shown in a browser instead of downloaded. But then, Hulu is just one of many options, including downloads from NBC (etc) and Amazon. As Zucker toldThe New York Times:"At a minimum it's another way for us to offer our content to users and get paid for it," Mr Zucker said. "If the site itself does well, that will be gravy on top of it."What might have upset some of Apple's fanboys is that one of Hulu's backers, NBC, is in dispute with Apple over its online iTunes Store. Today, Variety has a story headlinedZucker says Apple deal rottenthat says:NBC U[niversal] topper Jeff Zucker warned that new digital business models were turning media revenues "from dollars into pennies" and revealed NBC U booked just $15 million in revenue during the last year of its deal with Apple's iTunes."Apple sold millions of dollars worth of hardware off the back of our content and made a lot of money," Zucker said. "They did not want to share in what they were making off the hardware or allow us to adjust pricing."Quite why he thinks millions of people bought iPods for NBC content if they only spent $15 million on it remains a mystery. Either way, NBC wanted to try varying the prices for which its programmes were sold on iTunes, and -- even more overoptimistically -- a cut of Apple's hardware sales. It's amazing that any company can commit such outrageous thought-crimes and not be instantly reduced to cinders, frankly.Update: Om Malik at GigaOM has recanted, withHulu Hands-On Review in One Word: Brilliant. He says:Before I go any further, a mea culpa: I mocked the service, and its backers, all through the summer. From the moment I learned about the new company, I was skeptical. And now, after spending three hours or so on the service, I am ready to eat crow. And not just any crow, but rotten, six-month-old crow: I have never been more wrong.The point he now gets is: "Hulu doesn't seem like a YouTube (GOOG) competitor. (This is yet another thing I was wrong about.) What it really is trying to do is time shift -- and place shift -- television on a massive scale."
The BBC News website reckons it's 10 years old tomorrow, and has published a graph showing its impressive growth.The story says:Once, well within living memory, it would be normal for many to find out the news from a weekly newspaper or from a cinema newsreel. Now even waiting for the morning papers would be considered quaint, especially since even they have started publishing stories online before making it to newsprint. The landscape has changed. The internet is, for a still-growing part of society, the primary way to find things out. The bank balance. The point above the Atlantic where a particular 747 is. What all your old friends are doing -- at precisely this minute.
At many points in your life, you must have wondered how snowmakers work, how aerosol cans work, or how tornadoes works. Depending on age and inclination, you might also have wondered how spud guns work, how the Death Star works and how popcorn works.The answers to these questions and more can all be found atHow Stuff Works.The site was started in 1998 by the appropriately named Marshall Brain, a former computer science teacher at North Carolina State University. It rapidly became popular and started to win awards, so the next year, Brain founded a company to develop the site.Unlike Wikipedia, which has overshadowed HSW over the past couple of years, the articles are professionally written and illustrated, and generally fun to read. They have to be to reach the core audience, which tends to be American teenagers doing homework projects.As you might expect, making money turned out to be hard, particularly during the dotcom bust. Brain tried banner advertising, an online toy store, and repackaging content into books, among other things.In 2002 he sold HSW to the Convex Group, which was started by the founder of the WebMD health site. Earlier this month, the Atlanta-based company - which now has 160 employees - was bought for $250m (£122m) by theDiscovery Channel. This would seem to be its ideal home.The Discovery Channel is in much the same business in explaining how stuff works, with a particular focus on sharks, volcanoes, tornadoes and other exciting things.The cable company also operates several other TV channels including Animal Planet, Discovery Health, the Science Channel and the Military Channel.In other words, Discovery has vast archives of expensive video material, which is exactly what HSW lacks - and which is why HSW approached Discovery in the first place.Starting next summer, the Discovery Channel will also run a daily half-hour TV show called How Stuff Works, which should boost the website.HSW is already divided into 12 "channels", from Auto to Travel. Obviously there's a strong science bias, but there are channels for Entertainment, Food, Home &amp; Garden, and People.You might not immediately think of looking up how Cthulhu works, or how SpongeBob SquarePants works, but they are in there. The site also includes an encyclopedia and an atlas, consumer product guides, and links to shops.HSW does have a number of areas where it needs improvement. The most obvious are the page and site design, where the Discovery Channel appears to have more expertise.HSW is also weak on search, so you tend to end up browsing at random from topic to topic, following internal links. Finally, some of HSW's content has dated and the archives could do with a bit of a spring clean.When the merger was announced, WebMD founder Jeff Arnold said: "Our goal [at How Stuff Works] is to build the largest reference site in the world."Exclude Wikipedia by inserting the word "commercial" and it might well make it.&#183;This article was amended on Monday October 29 2007. We said in the article above that the WebMD health website was owned by the Convex Group. This is not the case and the reference has been corrected.
Sony Computer Entertainment Americaannouncedon Friday that, in the seven years since the US launch on October 26 2000, PS2 has shifted 120 million units and over a billion pieces of software. The company is expecting to ship a further 12 million machines worldwide by the end of March and reckons it has 160 titles on the way, adding to the 1,400 already available.I've been looking at a few 'best PS2 games ever'-type lists (IGN,Gamespy,About.com, etc) and as you'd expect (although current PS3 detractors might need reminding) very few titles come from the first year. Thelaunch line-upwasn't great with only Tekken Tag Tournament regularly popping up amid nostalgic recollections. Interestingly, things hot up pretty quickly with 2001 providing the likes of GTA III, Final Fantasy X and Ico. Next year PS3 has Metal Gear Solid 4, Gran Turismo 5 and Final Fantasy XIII...You may recall that PS2 was initially criticised as a tough platform to develop for (here'sKeiji Inafune politely making this point). Tech heads also loved to point out the machine'santi-aliasing problems, which led to ugly 'jaggies'. These days everyone's similarly complaining of PS3's fill rate 'issues' and/or its controversial use of a non-unified shader architecture.The difference with PS2, of course, was that it didn't have effective competition. If Sega had thought of giving Dreamcast a motion controller, things might have been different - although in the company's defence itdidthink of including a built in modem and of developing a capable online gaming infrastructure (which was later bought by Nokia to form the basis of N-Gage Arena).Wii is still far from developing an insurmountable lead. Xbox 360 probably never will. There are a hell of a lot of PlayStation veterans still to commit in this generation.Perhaps Hegel was right - perhaps we're incapable of learning from history.
The Earth as seen from the surface of the moon. Photograph: CorbisThis week's instalment of our regular science and technology podcast,Science Weekly, has a couple of treats in store for you.First up we speak toChris RileyandDuncan Copp, producers of the new documentaryIn The Shadow Of The Moon- an amazing and engaging film that explores the Apollo missions and talks to the astronauts.You can listen to our in-depth interviewScience Extraor take a stroll through thepicture gallery.Secondly I spoke toWill Wright. He tells us why the bad reaction to games is just part of the waypeople deal with new ideasand tells us more about his motivations for games like SimCity, the Sims and Spore (read thefull Q&amp;A here).Listen to the show nowor visit theScience blogfor more details on how to subscribe.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
This one isall overthe blogosphere. Jason Booth, previously of Harmonix and now part of a fresh start-up, Conduit Labs, has blogged about thelimitations of the PS3 hardware. He attacks what he sees as the myths surrounding the system - that it's more graphically advanced than the 360, that Blu-ray provides advantages and that developers will draw more performance out of the architecture once they master it. He claims, instead, that intrinsic hardware issues mean that developers are always playing catch up to the Xbox capabilities:...getting equivalent performance out of the PS3 requires a lot of work unique to the platform, and in many cases, even with all these tricks, you still won't see equivalent performance. Thus, many ps3 games have simplified shaders and run at lower native resolutions than the 360 versions. On top of this, there is shrinking incentive to do this work; the PS3 isn't selling.His conclusion?Sony let their hardware be designed by a comity of business interests rather than a well thought out design that would serve the game development community. They are going to loose hard this round because of it, and I hope that in the next round they take lessons from this round and produce a more balanced and usable machine.It's an interesting piece, although certainly notthe onlypoint of view I've heard from developers - Epic chief Mark Rein has mounted a robust defense of PS3 on several occasions (onehere), and, of course, Brian Hastings of Insomniac provided a witty pro-PS3 anti-Wii tirade (see here) on the company's website.The thing is, next-generation videogame development is now so enormously complex and demanding, almost every studio (and everyonewithineach studio) is going to have a different play on the intrinsic advantages and disadvantages of each platform, based on their own personal experiences. Having an opinion on a piece of games hardware is now almost a political undertaking, similarly fraught with personal prejudice and conflicting data.The console war is a modern war - fractured, partial, almost incomprehensible to the layman. These voices from the development community are dispatches from a foreign land, fed through the static of individual experience and technological mumbo-jumbo. The only evidence we can really trust is the games.
TheGolden Joystickawards are the anti-BAFTA's, voted on by punters rather than industry insiders. It doesn't necessarily make them more valuable, but it does give a relatively accurate impression - there were 750,000 votes this year - of what the average gamer has enjoyed playing over the last 12 months. Which this year, rather depressingly, means the hugely overhyped Gears of War, the winner of the Game of the Year award. Gears better than Bioshock or Crackdown? Hardly. More deserving was Wii Sports, which picked up the family game gong.God of War 2 on PS2 winning best Playstation game highlights the mediocre PS3 release list/lack of sales awareness to date. Meanwhile the community for Lord of the Rings Online must be congratulated for helping it win the PC game of the year award. Or maybe the game has hugely improved since launch when it felt like WoW without the charm. Talking of Blizzard's juggernaught, Burning Crusade rightly picked up the Online prize.Other winners included Guitar Hero II and Assassin's Creed. The biggest surprise was GTA: Vice City Stories retaining the handheld prize. Hey, great game and all that but better than anything released this year? Oh, and just in case you care, Final Fantasy won the mobile game award. The winners in full...2 Ultimate Game of the Year 2007 -Gears of WarSonopress Xbox Game of the Year 2007 -Gears of WarPC Game of the Year 2007 - sponsored by PC Gamer -The Lord of the Rings: Shadows of AngmarPlayStation Game of the Year 2007 - sponsored by Official PlayStation Magazine UK -God of War IINintendo Game of the Year 2007 - sponsored by Official Nintendo Magazine -The Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessEditor's Choice -Gears of WarThe Publisher of the Year 2007 - sponsored by Future -NintendoThe Vivendi Retailer of the Year 2007 -GameThe One to Watch - Sponsored by Total Film -Assassin's CreedNext-Gen.biz UK Developer of the Year -CodemastersThe GameTribe Online Game of the Year 2007 -World of Warcraft: The Burning CrusadeNuts All-Nighter -Gears of WarThe 1Xtra Soundtrack of the Year -Guitar Hero IIThe Innovation of the Year 2007 - sponsored by T3 -Nintendo Wii4Talent Mobile Game of the Year 2007 -Final FantasyGames Radar Handheld Game of the Year -GTA Vice City StoriesThe Sun Family Game of the Year 2007 -Wii SportsThe Bliss Girls' Choice Game of the Year 2007 -Guitar Hero II
Aston Martin RoadsterPrice:&pound;91,000Top speed:175mphSeats:2Good for:Alpha malesBad for:Beta blockersIt's 8pm on what has been one of the very few long, hot days of this wet, wet summer. A combine harvester is scything a straight parting though a waving field of thigh-high grain and the sun has hung its long black shadows on the backs of hay bales like capes on superheroes. My 16-year-old niece is sitting beside me in an open-topped, sage-green &pound;91,000 Aston Martin. She thinks cars like this are 'boring and made for stupid old men who have big egos and small penises'.We are idling at the start of an empty country road which winds down towards Salisbury Cathedral in the far distance.'You're totally right,' I say to Natalie, 'except for one thing... They aren't boring!' And with a well-executed flourish and the sort of cheesy timing that made Jimmy Tarbuck a millionaire, I stamp on the throttle and unleash everything that the astonishing 4.3-litre, 175mph, 380bhp engine has.It quivers and whines and then, as the needle hits 3,500 revs, the clever butterfly valves placed in the twin exhaust pipes suddenly snap open and a great roar engulfs us. Despite herself, Natalie screams in delight, and we surge forward into the gloaming.This latest Aston, a soft-top version of the V8 Vantage which was introduced to rapturous reviews at the end of last year, raises driver hedonism to a quasi-religious level. It's a flawless beauty which has men in City suits grinning and women double-taking as if George Clooney had just walked past.With perfect timing, the car was unveiled the day after David Richards and his backers bought the marque from Ford for &pound;479m in June this year - and the millionaire motorsport supremo couldn't have hoped for a better start. Since then, Aston has given the go-ahead for the four-seat Rapide, started production of the DBS which 007 drove in Casino Royale and won its category at Le Mans for the first time since 1959...And this beautiful Roadster seems to epitomise the company's bright future. It sits low on the road; it's broad and muscular and yet somehow languorous. It is a no-holds barred head turner. When I was parking up in a square in the City of London one evening, two well-refreshed bankers stood and applauded. I thought it was an ironic comment on my poor parking, but actually they were just pleased to see a classic British-built sports car. An Aston, unlike, say, a Porsche, seems to tap into some romantic ideal.Inside, the car is as well-upholstered and comfortable as a hand-made brogue. It takes the hides of five cows to cover everything from the seats to the dashboard to the roof and even the doors. If that makes you feel squeamish, the DB9 requires seven...Any stains on the angel? Just two. One, if you buy a Roadster you'll have to buy a second car, too. The heavy clutch, small boot and oil-well-quaffing consumption mean it is very much something for the weekend. And two, when you turn the key, the words Power, Beauty and Soul flash across the dashboard. True, yes, but how declass&eacute;.martin.love@observer.co.uk
MondayLondon Games FestivalOf spies and street fightersWikiGame Week 13: progressEA exec wants open platformTuesdayOne Life LeftXbox 360 Arcade packageScientific gamingWednesdaySocial casual gamingWii Sports sweeps board at BAFTAsThursdayamBX reviewReviews, etcAssassin's Creed launch dateSony announces profitsFriday
With the current swirl of speculation around video games and violence, Observer technology correspondent David Smith spoke toTanya Byron, who is heading thegovernment's reviewinto the effects of games and the internet on children.The pieceexplores her approachto the review, and you canlisten to the interview here.Byron's position so far is, let's say, open-minded. While she says that 'the fact that currently there exists no concrete evidence of harm does not mean evidence of no harm' indicates a sceptical mindset, she is not an enemy of technology.It can already be forecast with some confidence that the Byron Review is not going to play to the antediluvian gallery by blaming technology for creating a couch-potato generation and driving down literacy. Quite the contrary, in fact.Pilot schemes in schools, which have seen hand-held devices such as the Nintendo DS used by pupils to practise mental arithmetic, will be applauded.Asked if she thinks these should become part of the daily curriculum, Byron says: 'Yes I do. These are the technologies that children are using and will continue to use more and more as they grow into the next workforce, the next thinking generation.The review hascalled for evidence- but what would you tell them? Do you think it will succeed?
Fittingly, Tanya Byron chose to come clean about her age via MySpace. She is not 38, as has been widely recorded in the national press. 'Everybody knows I'm 40 now because it's on my MySpace page,' she confesses. 'It was very funny when we were setting up, one of the members of my team said, "We can lie, you know." I said no, no, I'm happy for people to know I'm 40 and an Aries.'Factual accuracy matters more now that Byron, clinical psychologist and TV personality, is working for the government. She is leading an inquiry for Gordon Brown into the effects of video games and the internet on children, and last week shared a platform with James Purnell, the Culture Secretary, who recently suffered an entanglement of his own over a doctored publicity photograph. Introducing Byron at the London Games Festival in Piccadilly, Purnell praised her work on the review so far, only to receive a gentle but firm reminder that she is her own boss.She responded: 'It's quite something when you hear the Secretary of State saying that they're impressed with you - it makes you feel like a child back at school being told your homework is good. But I must impress on you that I have my own mind and am an independent thinker.'Later, in her first interview about the review since her appointment last month, Byron made clear that, while she is not due to report to Brown until March, she already has strong opinions. She told The Observer why she believes portable games devices should be part of daily schooling, suggests a likely link between violent games and violent behaviour in certain cases, and stresses the need for parents and children to balance virtual world risks as they would real world dangers such as crossing a road or talking to strangers.Byron speaks with no little authority, having gained a masters in clinical psychology at University College London, worked in the NHS for 18 years and presented BBC programmes on child behaviour including Little Angels and The House of Tiny TearawaysShe has been described as 'the respectable face of media parenting'. She is married to Bruce Byron, alias DC Terry Perkins in The Bill, and is also, with Jennifer Saunders, co-writer of the satire on daytime reality TV The Life and Times of Vivienne Vyle, which started this month on BBC2.Her conversation is refreshingly free of jargon, and her insights are rooted in her own daily experience. 'I'm a parent like everybody else and I strive to be a good parent,' she says. 'I'll say to my son, "OK, this is the time now. By half past you've got to be back downstairs," and most of the time he nails it, and most of the time I nail it, but some of the time I'm thinking, "Crikey, it's quarter to, he's still up there." That's the challenge of parenting.'He's nine and tends to use the computer mostly when I'm in the room with him doing my own work, so we have more of a shared space with him. My older child, who's now 12, keeps a diary, and in the way I wouldn't read her diary I respect that she's at the age where she understands more so she has more privacy. I also trust in our relationship that hopefully she can come and talk to me, and she does if she comes across stuff.'It can already be forecast with some confidence that the Byron Review is not going to play to the antediluvian gallery by blaming technology for creating a couch-potato generation and driving down literacy. Quite the contrary, in fact. Pilot schemes in schools, which have seen hand-held devices such as the Nintendo DS used by pupils to practise mental arithmetic, will be applauded. Asked if she thinks these should become part of the daily curriculum, Byron says: 'Yes I do. These are the technologies that children are using and will continue to use more and more as they grow into the next workforce, the next thinking generation.'But I can also talk to you not as a child psychologist, not as the review lead, but also as a mother. Both my kids have different kinds of learning experience and these technologies hugely enhance their learning.'She adds: 'It's about a balance. What parents get really anxious about is when they think, "Oh no, it's moving into an area we don't understand," and there's a real fear about computer-based stuff. I don't think it's about this becoming the core part of learning but it's complementary and, for different kids, particularly kids with learning difficulties, these technologies have transformed their learning and enthused them to learn. If you're going to get kids saying, "I want to learn because I can use this way of doing it," how can that be a bad thing?'While their educational merits are seldom noted, video games tend to become news only when gory or violent content is blamed for copycat behaviour in the real world. Is there a causal link? Byron is no fan of censorship but admits it's 'the big question'. 'I think the fact that currently there exists no concrete evidence of harm does not mean evidence of no harm. Otherwise it's very easy for people to shirk responsibility by saying, "Well, if there ain't any harm ..." Actually if you've got to prove harm, it might be too late. When it comes to kids, you've got to take an instinctively precautionary view about things - to some degree.'I used to run medium secure units for kids who were a risk to themselves or other people. There were some very angry, disenfranchised, vulnerable, isolated, sometimes abused children for whom these games could be a factor - as part of a number of factors - that impact on them in a way that could offer role models that might reinforce and validate their anger, but may not actually be very healthy. I'm not saying, therefore, put that kid in front of that game and they will shoot someone, but what I'm saying is we can't go down the "it's not going to affect anybody" [road]. There are some very vulnerable kids who will be affected by any factor that keys into their vulnerabilities.'Byron's consultation with the games and internet industries will include a mission to America and a meeting with YouTube, the video sharing site, to discuss its policy for taking down inappropriate content. She has also thrown open the process to children themselves, with blogs on MySpace and Bebo and will be appearing on BBC1's Blue Peter and Newsround. She calls the response 'phenomenal', and says probably the most sensible contribution from anyone so far came from an eight-year-old concerned about her younger sister's online welfare.'Children seem to know quite a lot more than we think they do, and they know a lot about the technologies that they're using. I was with a group of older kids recently in a school and most of them were saying if you're 14 and you want to go and get drunk with your mates you're an idiot, if you want to play these games that are just really gross you're an idiot, if you don't protect your profile on MySpace and you let anybody see your name and address you're an idiot. So these are net and game savvy. But there are a lot that aren't, and they're more vulnerable because their parents don't really understand the technologies either.''Balance' is possibly Byron's favourite word, and the government can expect a nuanced report sensitive to both sides of an argument. That doesn't mean it will be bland. As visitors to her MySpace page now know, her star sign is Aries, also known as the ram.
I had been quietly dreading the arrival on my doorstep of the new Volvo V70. Nothing against the car. On the contrary, I own one. At least, I own one of the old ones. Which is why I was dreading the arrival of a new one. The contrast was going to be hard to take.The new one was going to smell of fresh leather and burnished plastic, whereas my old one has long since taken on an unshakable odour all its own, roughly comprising one-part spent Ribena carton to three-parts old trainer. The new one was going to be full of attractive, leading-edge electronic gimmicks, whereas mine has a cassette player. (Remember them? Very popular during the inter-war years.)Like as not, the new one's power steering wouldn't groan like an unmilked cow. Furthermore, its ashtray wasn't going to contain two beads, 17 pence in coppers, an elastic band and an unwrapped strawberry Chewit, all bonded together by a gel-like substance that was probably originally Lucozade Sport. It wouldn't have a broad, white swipe-mark down its offside rear door, nor dog scratches on the inside of its rear window, and its alloys were going to look sharp as razors rather than like smushed bottle-tops.What could I possibly stand to gain from this exercise? It would be like the moment in Bullseye when Jim Bowen says to the defeated contestants, "Let's have a look at what you could have won." My life was going to be forced into pitiful relief and I would end up feeling unhelpfully rueful, maybe for many consecutive hours.And, of course, the outcome was exactly as painful as I had feared, if not slightly more so. The new V70 was far more handsome. Its engine whispered gently. Its gear changes were soft and welcoming. And, needless to add, being a Volvo, it was handing a debut to a new, gifted safety device: namely a pair of small, orange squares, set just below the window-line in each of the front doors, which gently glow whenever cars come up on your inside or outside, meaning that never again need you blindly pull out in front of an overtaking vehicle or get caught out by some fluff-for-brains passing you on the inside.The boot is still big enough to serve as a granny annexe. You can still get a seven-person version, with tip-up seats in the boot. And if you accidentally nudge even 2mph above the speed limit, your photo still automatically appears on police computer records in Sweden, and then later on billboards across Europe, marked: "Wanted: For Anti-Volvo Behaviour."Was my heart filled with gladness, the day I bought my Volvo? Did I skip to the dealership with a song on my lips? No more, really, than the day I took out life insurance. On the other hand, have I ever sat in the car since and thought, "What a pile of junk. Why doesn't this poorly thought-out crapfest work?" Not once. And what's a person with a family to do? Buy an SUV? I don't think so.When the man came to take away the new V70, I tried to give him my old one "by mistake". He wasn't fooled.Volvo V70 2.5TPrice&#163;26,495Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62 in 7.6 secondsConsumption30.4mpg (average)CO² emissions222g/kmEco rating6/10At the wheelGolden retrieverBound forIkeaIn a wordFamiliar
The New York Times'sBits blogsays it has some numbers of the size of AT&amp;T's payments to Apple from iPhone users from Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray. They are based on AT&amp;T's financial statements of "deferred revenue":His bottom line is rather shocking: AT&amp;T appears to be paying $18 a month, on average, to Apple for each iPhone activated on its network. That adds up to $432 over a two year contract. In other words, Apple will receive $831 for each iPhone it sells. (It's a little less for iPhones sold in AT&amp;T stores.) He can't tell, of course, what makes up that average. Apple may, for example, receive higher payments for customers new to AT&amp;T or those who buy more expensive monthly plans. Mr Munster says he was surprised by the numbers. He previously had estimated that Apple received $6.50 a month from AT&amp;T. A carrier will typically subsidize the price of a high-end phone by about $200, he says. With the iPhone, AT&amp;T is spreading the payments out over time, but ultimately putting up twice the typical amount.Munster is interested because it affects his estimates of Apple's revenues and stock price. He's increased his estimate of Apple's 2009 revenue from $36.2 billion to $42.8 billion and his target stock price from $220 to $250. Yes, it's all guesswork and could be horribly wrong. The blog nonetheless concludes:All this shows how much incentive Apple has to maintain its exclusive deal with AT&amp;T rather than to sell unlocked phones or cut deals with multiple carriers. AT&amp;T is finding that an exclusive on the iPhone draws in new customers and lures existing ones to buy more expensive data plans. Carriers will keep paying Apple big kickbacks so long as its phones still stand out from the pack.In its latest bid to discourage people from unlocking phones, Apple is nowrefusing to accept cashand limiting sales to two per person, down from five, reportsAP. Apple spokesman Natalie Kerris says: "We're requiring a credit or debit card for payment to discourage unauthorized resellers."It's not clear how this acts as a discouragement rather than just making life awkward. Will it just oblige you to use a different credit card for each purchase? Or is Apple proposing to get your address from the credit card company then send someone round to your house to make you produce all the iPhones you've bought?
Reactions to Apple's Leopard are, well, they're like you expect with a new OS release: good, bad, mixed.The good comes from Macworld with itsreview by Jason Snell, which we can sum up with its summation:Pros: Easy backup tools; major improvements in included applications; addresses numerous shortcomings from previous OS versions; improved security and networking functions.Cons: Stacks and Dock features seem poorly thought out; illegible menu items with some Desktop backgrounds; some bugs in Spaces window behavior.OK, and the bad includes Matt Neuberg of TidBITS withhis Leopard moan, which covers the new Help assistant (which doesn't), Stacks, the lack of Classic, the menu bars and so on.Dave Winer'sreaction so farcould be summed up as "meh".And Chuck Shotton (via Winer)noteda potential problem:The Migration Assistant app fails silently in the Installer if your old account's name is the same as your new account's name. So....Andcommented:How many THOUSANDS of people are gonna run into this same issue? How logical is it to make your new username the same as your old one? Very.And for which thefixis:If you do a clean install, pick some disposable name for the first user account, then the Migration of your old account will happen OK.John Gruber meanwhile hasextremely sensible adviceon how to upgrade. It does entail having something which can make a bootable backup of your existing system, and an external hard drive. But you have, don't you? Read his advice first, I'd say.Update:as some commenters have noted (thanks!), if you've installed Unsanity's Application Program Enhancer (APE - or "Enhancer" as Apple puts it), you'll get a BSOD - you know, blue screen of death - on reboot after your install. Apple has asupport documentabout it. Solution: remove the "enhancer" and/or do an "Archive and Install".Another update:Skypehas issues- it will only launch once (because the application file changes after its first launch). The problem is the firewall notices it's changed and so block it. Solution: wait for a Skype update, or keep reinstalling it from the .dmg disk image.
Digital devices rock my world. This might be looked on by some as a tragic admission. Not ballet, opera, the natural world, Stephen? Not literature, theatre or global politics? Even sport would be less mournfully inward and dismally unsociable.Well, people can be dippy about all things digital and still read books, they can go to the opera and watch a cricket match and apply for Led Zeppelin tickets without splitting themselves asunder. Very little is as mutually exclusive as we seem to find it convenient to imagine. In our culture we are becoming more and more fixated with an "it's one thing or the other" mentality. You like Thai food? But what's wrong with Italian? Woah, there... calm down. I like both. Yes. It can be done. I can like rugby football and the musicals of Stephen Sondheim. High Victorian Gothic and the installations of Damien Hirst. Herb Alpert's Tijuana Brass and the piano works of Hindemith. English hymns and Richard Dawkins. First editions of Norman Douglas and iPods. Snooker, darts and ballet. Such a list isn't a boast, it doesn't make one an all-rounder to rival Michelangelo, it's how humans are constructed. Adaptable, varied, versatile. So, believe me, a love of gizmos doesn't make me averse to paper, leather and wood, old-fashioned Christmases, Preston Sturges films and country walks. Nor does it automatically mean I read Terry Pratchett, breathe only through my mouth and bring my head slightly too close to the bowl when I eat soup. (None of the above, I grant you, excuses a 50-year-old for saying that anything "rocks his world"; that's just too horrid and must stop.)I blogged on my website a few weeks ago explaining my long-standing passion for all kinds of gizmos. I have never met a smartphone I haven't bought, I wrote. And so now, all juiced up by that experience, I am to bring to you every week in this paper a technology column of sorts, in which I will attempt to share my passion for the new; to review, rave over and ramble on about the latest arrivals in the field of digiware, and occasionally to stand back and survey the field.When WH Auden produced his collection of critical writings, The Dyer's Hand, he first laid out a list of his preferences and predispositions, believing it right that the reader should know what sort of person they were encountering and be able thereby to form a judgment of his opinions in the light of his prejudices. I ought to do the same.It is true that I have a great admiration, sometimes only just short of reverence, for the elegances and brilliances that have emerged from my favourite address in the world: 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, the home of Apple Computers. I am lucky enough to count their chief designer, boy genius Jonathan Ive, as a friend. I bought the second Macintosh sold in Europe back in 1984 (Douglas Adams bought the first). I currently have about 10 on the go. But I also have more than one PC. I could not pursue my love of the digital without those, too. And it certainly would not be fair or right for me to expatiate on technology without a proper understanding of the operating system employed by more than 90% of all users. I run Windows XP and Vista. Linux, too, in different distributions, including Mark Shuttleworth's increasingly popular Ubuntu, although I also take Red Hat's Fedora and Yellow Dog out for a run from time to time. It is very important to me that you believe that I will be as impartial as I can be in the great schism that has riven computing since the mid-80s. You might be amused by Umberto Eco's writing on this subject if you don't already know it:simongrant.org/web/eco.html.What do I think is the point of a digital device? Is it all about function? Or am I a "style over substance" kind of a guy? Well, that last question will get my hackles up every time. As if style and substance are at war! As if a device can function if it has no style. As if a device can be called stylish that does not function superbly. Don't get me started ...I welcomed the Macintosh in 1984 because it functioned better than any personal computer around at the time. It took Bill Gates an incredibly long time to come round to Windows, Icons, Mice and Pulldown menus, but come round he did. Believe me, when we championed that WIMPs user interface back in the mid-80s, we were regularly accused of, yes, championing style over substance, of being pretentious and arty about machines that were just supposed to "function". So you can guess that I certainly do think design is important. But it doesn't have to come from Apple. In fact, I wish to goodness it came from everywhere. I hope you'll believe I'm not an unthinking slave to Cupertino. Apple gets plenty of small things wrong, but one big thing it gets right: when you use a device every day, you cannot help, as a human being, but have an emotional relationship with it. It's true of cars and cookers, and it's true of computers. It's true of office blocks and houses, and it's true of mobiles and satnavs. A grey box is not good enough, clunky and ugly is not good enough. Sick building syndrome exists, and so does sick hand-held device syndrome. Fiddly buttons, blocky icons, sickeningly stupid nested menus - these are the enemy. They waste time, militate against function and lower the spirits. They make the user feel frustrated and (quite wrongly) dense. Mechanisms so devilishly, stunningly, jaw-dropping clever as the kind our world can now furnish us with are No Good Whatsoever if they don't also bring a smile to our face, if they don't make us want to stroke, touch, fondle, fiddle, gurgle, purr and coo. Interacting with a digital device should be like interacting with a baby.So, yes, beauty matters. Boy, does it matter. It is not surface, it is not an extra, it is the thing itself. Le style, c'est le truc, as De Buffon would have written today.If you are an IT or telecoms professional, you will probably find me lax, obvious and distressingly untechnical. If you are new and nervous in the field, you may think the opposite: indeed, the talk of red hats and yellow dogs may already have you all of a doodah. I want to reassure you on this head. I have no intention of littering my copy with unexplained acronyms, references to protocols, coding language or other recondite arcana. While I love jargon as much as any proud techie dweeb, I think it right to avoid that sort of talk when chatting to those who don't share my passion. None the less, I am going to assume that anyone reading my column has access to an online computer and can therefore, if so minded, check up on what I mean by "le style, c'est le truc" or "De Buffon" by undertaking a little search. And there's a subject I might write about one day. How to use a search engine. You'd be amazed (well, you wouldn't, because you're an intelligent Guardian reader, but some people would) by how often friends of mine say they can't find something on the net, simply because they haven't stopped and thought about how to frame or phrase input search terms. Hold that thought ...Anyway, what kind of devices might I be discussing over the coming weeks? Including, but not confined to: mobile phones, smartphones, music players, media players, cameras, electronic books, satnavs, computers, peripherals, TVs, games machines and any digital device or grown-up toy that may take my fancy. And not necessarily all that grown-up, either.I won't be writing about hand-helds and hardware only, however. I have to confess that while gaming as such is not my first interest, and I don't spend much time in World of Warcraft, Halo or Manhunt, I do have a Second Life existence (you'll never find me, so don't look. Lord, there's a thought: "celebrity avatars exposed" - fair chills the blood). I have a secret presence on Facebook and a public one, too, which I don't have the time to pay much attention to. So, yes, I'll undoubtedly have a look at Web 2.0, social networking and other contentious and contemporary digital issues.If I had a grain of rice for every minute I have spent watching a progress bar over the years, I would be able to make you all a bowl of kedgeree. As it is, I shall cook you all up a weekly article instead. I do hope you'll be able to join me. See you next Saturday.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
I'll admit it: I like stats. Numbers have a soothing, numbing effect on my brain; looking at statistics is a bit like getting drunk, but without the hangover or regrettable tattoo incidents.So what better than finding out what the biggest technology stories of the week were? Well, sounds good - here's a round-up of the stories that proved most popular in the last seven days.Photograph: Clancy ChassayThis week's most popular story was one we ran in conjunction with Clancy Chassay'sbrilliant reportsfrom Gaza, in which we discovered thatGoogle Earth is being used by Palestinian militants to target Israel.Elsewhere the long arm of the law was a major influence, with awarning to abusive bloggersand the tale ofa hacker who taunts eBayboth coming in our top five stories of the week.As ever, the conflict between the media industry and filesharers was one which piqued your interest, with two stories -police shutting down the Oink websiteafter two-year music piracy inquiry andlegal debate over the TV Links closure- getting plenty of reads.Photograph: PAIndeed, piracy - or claims of it, at least - proved one of the most popular talking points on the blogs as well, with plenty of you ready to join in onthe details about Oinkin our several postson the subject.Elsewhere gaming provided a few moments of interest, withWii Sports sweep of the BaftasandSony 's profits(despite bad numbers for the PS3) both doing brisk trade.And finally, plenty of you had something to say whether you were left breathless by Microsoft'sfrankly bizarrenewad campaign.Let's see what next week has to offer.
In Leopard, the newest version of Apple's OS X operating system, the company has mentioned 300 or so new features. But I'm a Mac developer and user, and I've been using it from the inside. So what's really there?The first thing a Mac user will notice on upgrading to Leopard is the changes - both subtle and dramatic - to the desktop's appearance. Apple puts this at the very top of its list of new Leopard features: the menu bar, dock and Finder windows have all received a makeover. Most of the updates and additions -here's Apple's full list- can be considered "subtle but very useful".My personal favourite feature in Leopard is the improvements to Spotlight, the file searching system (which I'll deal with later): now that it's much faster, I can see it becoming a regular feature of my daily work, rather than a tool of last resort. I'm also a huge fan of Stacks, which lets you view the contents of a folder rapidly from the Dock.Another small enhancement I find delightful - being an internet vagabond, hopping from one wireless network to another - is that Leopard's Wi-Fi network menu now shows you which networks in your range are secured and which are open.That's the thing about Leopard: it brings many small enhancements, and while you may not be immediately struck by the importance of some of the features, this version of OS X adds up to more than the sum of its parts. Combine what Apple has already done with what third party developers will do in their Leopard applications, and this is going to be a very solid platform for the future.FINDERThe Finder now includes a very clever new trick called Quick Look, which lets you get a glance inside documents without launching their associated application. Select a file in the Finder, hit the space bar, and a window pops up displaying a read-only version of the document. This works for standard files, such as JPegs and PDFs, but developers can add support for their own file formats.The Quick Look technology also lies beneath the new iTunes-style Cover Flow feature in Finder. Cover Flow presents files as horizontally scrolling images of their contents (just as it does with album art in iTunes). Cover Flow can be useful, but only for certain kinds of files: if you want to shuffle through a folder of images or graphical documents, Cover Flow can certainly help. But if you have a folder of text documents, it's no more than a gimmick. As a programmer, I find it hopeless for finding a particular file of code - the details are just too small to see.DOCKThis has changed too - though more controversially - from a two-dimensional panel with little black arrows for running applications, to a three-dimensional reflective shelf with little lights. Several notable Mac developers and icon designerscomplainedof earlier betas that the new appearance makes icons designed for the earlier Dock perspective appear incorrect.Fortunately, in the final version, if you position the Dock on the left or right side of the screen, its appearance changes back to a flat 2D panel almost identical to Tiger's, except it now has a smoked grey appearance instead of the transparent white of earlier systems. (And if you feel brave about typing Terminal code - only one line - you can turn off the "shelf" feel on the bottom too: seethis explanation).SPACESLeopard adopts a desktop feature which has been available on other operating systems for many years - well, Unix systems; Windows never quite managed it. It's an implementation of 'virtual desktops' which it calls Spaces. This means you have multiple workspaces, each of which can contain particular applications or file windows. You can shift between them using a hotkey (F8 is the default) or a flick of the mouse to a chosen corner.This is a powerful feature for users who multitask heavily between different applications. You might want to create one space for reading email and web feeds, another for web research, another for word processing and a final one for iTunes. A nice feature of Apple's implementation is that you can zoom out from any workspace for a bird's eye view of all your spaces. This neatly solves one of the common problems with most virtual desktop systems: you forget where you put a particular window or application.Personally, I'm still getting used to Spaces; I'm more used to the traditional Mac tricks for decluttering the screen, such as hiding unused applications (for Windows users, it's like minimising, without minimising). If you're coming to Mac OS X from an operating system which has virtual desktops, you'll feel right at home.STACKSLeopard's Dock also brings a new feature called Stacks. A stack is created by placing a folder in the Dock: when clicked it presents a window showing the files' icons contained in that folder. It's small and subtle, but will significantly increase the usefulness of the Dock as a file and folder shortcut bar. When the stack window appears, you can drag items from that window to other places.Imagine you're creating an email message and you want to attach a file. Previously, that would involve leaving the Mail program, navigating to your file in the Finder and dragging it into the message window. In Leopard, all you have to do is pop open the Documents stack and drag the file to the message window. Subtle, but a useful time saver.SAFARIApple's browser has received a major upgrade, to version 3.0, whose benefits will also be coming to those who stick with Mac OS X 10.4. Its headline feature is that you can take a fragment of a web page and turn it into a Dashboard widget, which will automatically update as the web page it belongs to does. There's also a more subtle improvement: you can resize text areas in web pages. You've probably had the experience where a web site provides a tiny little text box and asks you to write a thousand words. Safari 3 lets you drag the corner ofanytext area onanyweb page and reshuffles everything else to make room.SPOTLIGHTApple's system-wide search technology has broadened its reach. Previously confined to searching one computer, Spotlight can now search any networked computer to which you have access. As I use two Macs for different purposes, it's great to be able to search machines elsewhere in the house from my laptop. The results aren't intermingled; you have to choose whether to search "This Mac" or a connected server, and you don't see both sets of results in the same window.One drawback of the Spotlight implementation is that you have to connect to another Mac as a known user before you can search it. This is done for obvious security reasons, but does demand some setting up first. It also makes it pretty tedious to attempt a search across a large number of Macs, as you have to connect to each in turn and then search.In Mac OS X 10.4, Spotlight was often criticised for slow performance. In Leopard, search responsiveness has been dramatically improved. I used to use a third-party search tool calledLaunchBarto find programs and files on my Mac, but I've found that Leopard's Spotlight is just as fast for finding and launching applications. Apple has also made the built-in Dictionary searchable, so you can now find definitions of words through Spotlight.TIME MACHINELeopard aims to change all of our poor (admit it) backup habits with a technology called Time Machine, an automatic backup system. We all know we should back up, but doing so can be inconvenient and confusing. If you have an extra hard disk, Time Machine keeps a complete and automatic backup of your system and all your files. If you need to retrieve an older version of a file, Time Machine provides a dramatic animated interface that presents your backup files flying backwards in a star field; backup and restore has never been so pretty.Time Machine also tracks which files that have changed since your last backup, which is really useful for laptops that might not always be connected to a separate hard disk. When you get home and connect your backup drive, Time Machine doesn't need to compare every file on your laptop to every file in your backup: it already knows which files changed and can update the backup efficiently. It can even backup wirelessly. The ease of use and unobtrusiveness of Time Machine is a subtle, but ultimately dramatic, revolution in backup usability.MAILApple's Mail application has also had some attention. Catching the recent wave of enthusiasm for personal productivity tools, Apple has built in a to-do list manager and notes. This is more than a simple feature tacked-on - Leopard has a system-wide database of To-Do items, which is also used by iCal and available to third-party developers.This means that you can enter to-do items in Mail, check them off in iCal and both applications will see changes made in the other. This is pretty useful - although it's not immediately obvious that this part of both iCal and Mail are connected. I find it useful to create To-Do items right in Mail, since so many of those To-Dos are generated by email messages.It will take some time to realise the full power of this feature, but eventually it will become as important and useful as the shared Address Book database has been in previous versions of Mac OS X. With the system-wide Address Book, your contacts' data can appear in Mail, in iChat and even in networked games. With a system-wide To-Do list, other applications such as project planners and reminder programs can access your To-Do items and use them in those applications. Having To-Do items in Mail doesn't diminish iCal's usefulness; it just gives you another way to create these tasks.ICALAlong with Mail, Apple's calendar program iCal has been enhanced. If you work in a Mac-based office, you'll be interested in the support for the new CalDAV standard. If your business uses Mac OS X Server, the new iCal Server in Leopard means iCal users can schedule meetings together and share calendars rather like Microsoft Exchange users. Solo iCal users will appreciate the new inline event editor, which makes entering appointments much more efficient.ICHATApple's instant message client iChat includes a new screen sharing feature, essentially a limited one-to-one version of the more sophisticated Remote Desktop program that Apple sells to system administrators. It lets you see someone else's desktop - subject to their permission - and control their programs. You'll likely find this easier than working blind trying to help a relative over the phone. The idea of sharing your screen extends to being able to share other content via iChat Theater, which lets you show someone else both the contents of your screen and the video from a webcam over the internet. This is really useful for discussing a presentation or showing a photo slideshow.CORE ANIMATIONOne of the underlying technologies in Leopard is Core Animation. It's not a feature per se, but we Mac developers are very excited about its possibilities. From its earliest days, Mac OS X has been known for its dynamic user interface, but developers have sometimes found it difficult to implement the visual effects. Core Animation relieves us of that burden. It provides animations, fades, dissolves and other visual effects built in to the operating system and thus available without extra work to developers.Apple's use of Core Animation in Leopard has mostly been confined to "subtle and useful" but, just as some people went crazy with multiple fonts in the 1980s, some developers will surely go overboard with the visuals. In time, developers and the market will understand where animation fits into the overall user experience.In conclusion, Leopard is going to be a great release. In my opinion, Time Machine is going to be a great stealth hit. It won't change your life on the day you install it, but milllions of users will turn it on, forget it and one day be very grateful that it has been sitting in the background keeping their files safe all the while.I love the improvements to the Finder and predict that I'll be addicted to Quick Look within an hour of switching to Leopard. Personally, I'm not expecting to get a lot of use out of the iChat enhancements, or the fancy HTML templates in Mail. As a Mac programmer, though, I can tell you that there are a ton of things built in to Leopard for programmers to play with; Core Animation is just the start. You won't notice these improvements today, but in the long run, you'll start to see great things happening on your Leopard-running Mac.&middot; Fraser Speirs runs a company,Connected Flow, which produces plugins for exporting images from iPhoto and Aperture to Flickr.
Will Wright is one of the biggest names in gaming: the man behind Sim City and the world's most popular game, The Sims. His next title, Spore, is due out next year. This week Wright was admitted into the fellowship of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, Bafta, and we caught up with him in London.We've just started a government review in the UK into the affect of games on children. Do you think attitudes are starting to be a shift?I think there's always been a generational divide between people who play games and people who don't. As people get older you see more and more parents that played games as they were kids now playing games with their kids.In some sense I think the cultural acceptance of games is inevitable just because people are going to have grown up having this technology.As you get a broader set of people playing games, you get a broader set of games to appeal to those people. I think that's the slow, inevitable process going on here.It goes in fits and starts over time – if there's a school shooting, it's a case of 'did they play games or not': you don't really hear much about what movies they watch or what books they read.  But 50 years ago that's exactly what you heard, did they read To Kill A Mockingbird or whatever it is. They would blame social ills on anything that was at hand.So when games become fully accepted, what takes their place in that cycle?Who knows. At some point we're going to have direct neural connections, where you plug the thing into your brain, and the first people who do that are going to be seen as social outcasts: how dare you do that to your body, it will be almost like tattoos or body piercing and parents will all be up in arms about it. Thirty years later those people will be the parents and it will be totally accepted.Are you going to be one of those early adopters?Oh, not right off the bat, no. But they actually have some interesting devices available commercially right now that involve reading your brainwaves and controlling software.Was it a conscious decision you took to build games that appeal to a very broad range of people?As a creator, yes – although I don't begrudge the other games: I love playing shoot em up games, I really enjoy them - but it feels like that area is so overpopulated that as a game designer I'd rather work in an area that is under-represented. I've tended to work in areas that I feel it would be interesting for more people to go in.My first game was a shoot 'em up, but when I designed it I found that creating the world I was going to blow up was more interesting than blowing it up – that's where I came to Sim City.And what about the educational aspects? Many of the people who are worried about the affect of, say, Grand Theft Auto probably think that you make the 'right' sorts of games.I think we culturally disconnect the concepts of play and education, when play really is education and that's how we developed it evolutionarily.Education was always known as the kiss of death in the software industry. But I think you want to focus on getting the player interested and emotionally involved.There's an old quote that education is not the filling of a pail, but the lighting of a fire. If we can find ways to get people really motivated, that's how you get them pulling information off the web, reading books, learning.There's a strong scientific element to many of your games. Why is that?I'm very broadly interested in science as a lay person, and I read a lot of science that gets me interested in particular subjects.I think the game industry could use spokespeople that try to represent the potential of gaming. The industry hasn't even begun to realise its potential – we're getting there very slowly – but in the meantime we need to be educating the public as to what this can eventually become. If we have more discussion about what games could be versus what they are right now, we might get there sooner.From a kid's point of view gaming feels somewhat subversive. If the parents don't like it, it must be cool. If the parents also liked it, it wouldn't be cool and they'd try something else. So in some sense the games industry has a vested interest in keeping games culturally edgy – and there's an element of truth there.What games do you play? And do you play for fun or research?I try to play innovative games that are coming out – I really love Guitar Hero, I play my Nintendo DS a lot, check out things on the Wii. With the exception of Advance Wars on my DS, there's no one game that I spend a huge amount of time playing. I love Advance Wars – I used to play all these strategy games as a kid… Panzer Blitz, and all these old Avalon Hill games.Somebody asked me what I thought next generation meant and what about the PlayStation 3 was next generation. The only next gen system I've seen is the Wii – the PS3 and the Xbox 360 feel like better versions of the last, but pretty much the same game with  incremental improvement. Bu tht eWii feels like a major jump – not that the graphics are more powerful, but that it hits a completely different demographic. In some sense I see the Wii as the most significant thing that's happened, at least on the console side, in quite a while.So what set-up do you have at home?We've got an Xbox 360 collecting dust in the background, a Wii hooked up that we use quite a bit. I don't have a PS3. I still, for the most part, prefer playing games on the computer – to me the mouse is the best input device ever.Every generation it's like "the PC's dead! The PC's dead!".  But it carries on growing when consoles are flat for five years. At the moment I can get better graphics on my PC than I can on the PS3.We're doing Spore on the Wii, and we did MySims. It takes signifcant re-thinking to work out how you're going to do it. PS3 and Xbox 360 are similar enough that you can basically use the same system for both. So it comes down to what the interesting major platforms are and which markets we want to hit.So you're now approaching the finishing stages for Spore. Is this the toughest section, or the easiest?In some ways this is the most difficult part of the process, because for so long you've been dealing with potential. It depends on how it's ending up, and Spore is ending up very nicely – in some sense we've exceeded a lot of what we thought we would get. But there are minor differences in polishing that make a major difference in how people will perceive it.There are a lot of little things that we've achieved that I didn't think we would – things like procedural music, with computers composing music on the fly. In general it's about how seamless we could make these different genres. Making it feel like a cohesive experience that the fairly average player could enjoy.The most difficult thing we've experienced is hard to say. There are a lot of areas you could expand forever, but then you'd never ship it. It's really trying to find the sweet spot between what you can do and what you want to do.&#183; This article was amended on Saturday October 27 2007.
Just in case you are thirsting for the details of what bits of Apple's Leopard are great and which are just CPU-sucking eye candy, keep watching theTechnology pages.Update:here's the review, by Fraser Speirs ofConnected Flow. He says, in brief: Time Machine is going to save some peoples' bacon; and also thatas a Mac programmer, though, I can tell you that there are a ton of things built in to Leopard for programmers to play with; Core Animation is just the start. You won't notice these improvements today, but in the long run, you'll start to see great things happening on your Leopard-running Mac.The reason we haven't just given you some skimpy "someone showed me a machine that might have been running it review" now is because we got a British developer who has been using it since its first beta to review it.However, Apple insists that developers can't talk about it until their Non-Disclosure Agreement expires, at 6pm tonight.Which ought to be when we'll have it. (Maybe earlier. We're working on it.)Earlier questions still pertain (will you get it straight away? Will you wait for the .1 release? Will you ignore it altogether), plus a new one: if you're installing, will you back up your data and do a clean install, or just upgrade your old version? And why?
Communication breakdown: Kim Jong Il. Photograph: APWith the levels of mobile phone ownership at record highs in the UK, most of us take ownership of a phone for granted. Even when you travel around less wealthy places around the world, the mobile is everywhere - and much more important to many people than computers or internet access.But some places are still a dead zone for the mobile. We've seen recentlyhow the Burmese junta closed down communications, but one prime example is North Korea, where the repressive regime bans mobiles and sends teams to patrol the border with China and catch those who try to use phones illegally.This snippet from military news websiteStrategy Pagehas more:North Korean police have increased the use of German cell phone signal detectors, to find and arrest those illegally using cell phones near the Chinese border.It is possible to get a signal there, and the government sees this as a major security leak. People can say whatever they want using Chinese cell phone service, and the government is determined to stop this phone traffic.There are believed to be dozens of the German detectors in use, with teams (consisting of several dozen secret police agents) moving through neighborhoods and hauling away those found with cell phones.Many North Koreans who use mobiles to contact the outside world bury them near the border and make calls at prearranged times (here's an illuminating piece from a couple of years ago). It's sobering stuff.
Almost a year ago, Icommented: "Still, the expectation that Sony will lose $1 billion on the PS3 in the first year may turn out to be low." And asBusinessWeekhas now pointed out, "Sony's gaming division has just lost $848 million -- double the figure from last year -- and first-half losses reached $1.1 billion."In a statement, Sony said:In the game segment, operating loss increased primarily due to the loss arising from strategic pricing of PS3 at points lower than its production cost and the increase in PS3-related inventory write-downs recorded during the current quarter compared to the same quarter of the previous year.In other words, while it had planned to sell the PS3 at a loss, Sony had to reduce prices and sell at even more of a loss in order to shift consoles it had already made.Gamasutrahas rounded up the numbers for gaming division. It says:In addition, specific hardware and software numbers were given for PS3, PS2, and PSP hardware compared to the previous year. Interestingly, Sony has changed its method of gathering these numbers "from production shipments to recorded sales", as from June 2007, for unspecified reasons possibly related to a surfeit of PS3 hardware in stores.Nonetheless, the numbers given are as follows: PS2 worldwide hardware sales for the quarter at 3.28 million, down 0.13 million year on year; PSP worldwide hardware sales at 2.58 million, down 0.56 million; and PS3 sales at 1.31 million.As for worldwide software sales, the PlayStation 2 saw total sales from all first and third-parties of 38.0 million units, down 9.2 million year-on-year (bearing in mind the difference in collection methods). The PSP had software sales of 12.6 million units, down 0.6 million, and the PlayStation 3 had sales of 10.3 million software units.Seems to me the PS2 is still doing amazingly well for a seven year old machine.As The Guardian has already reported, the rest of Sony is also doing well. See:Sony profits up despite PS3 lossesand on our Gamesbog,Sony announces big profits -- no thanks to PS3.Update:Reutersreports that "Operating loss at its game unit, which offers loss-making PlayStation 3 game gear, is estimated to exceed 100 billion yen ($876 million) for the current business year, compared with its original projection of 50 billion yen, a Sony spokeswoman said."
One of the video games industry's most respected figures has called for an end to the debate over whether the games are harmful to children. Will Wright, the man behind the world's bestselling computer game, The Sims, said he believes that fears over the negative influence of video games are merely symptoms of a generation gap."I think there's always been a generational divide between people who play games and people who don't," he told the Guardian. "I think the cultural acceptance of games is inevitable just because people are going to have grown up having this technology." Mr Wright, 47, said that the opprobrium heaped on video games today was much like the drastic reactions meted out to cinema and literature in the past."It goes in fits and starts over time. If there's a school shooting, it's always a case of 'did they play games or not?'. You don't really hear much about what movies they watch or what books they read," he said. "But 50 years ago that's exactly what you heard - 'did they read To Kill A Mockingbird?' or whatever it was. They would blame social ills on anything that was at hand."His comments came as the government this week opened its review into the effects of video games and the internet on Britain's children. The investigation, which is being headed by TV psychologist Tanya Byron,  called for evidence from parents and children. "I really want to encourage children and young people to have their say about the internet and video games  - what they love about them, what they think the risks might be and their ideas for the future," said Dr Byron.Mr Wright - recently described by the New Yorker magazine as "the Zola of the form" - has a long history of producing detailed games which simulate the real world and contain important educational aspects. His first hit, Sim City, allowed players to build and manage entire towns and cities:  a forthcoming version produced in association with BP will incorporate models of climate change. His biggest success to date, The Sims, lets players build families and live virtual lives. The Sims and its sequels have sold more than 30m copies worldwide since it  launched in 2000, making it the most popular game in history.His influence has led to mainstream recognition, and this week Mr Wright became the first representative of the gaming industry to be honoured with a fellowship of Bafta. His next game, Spore, lets players trace evolution and create lifeforms.He said the industry should not just churn out games full of graphic violence. "I'm interested in how gaming can get people more involved in the real world," he said. "The industry hasn't even begun to realise its potential - in the meantime we need to be educating the public as to what this can eventually become."
Microsoft stunned Wall Steet with its latestfinancial results, based on the success of Windows Vista, Office 2007 and the Halo 3 game. First quarter revenues jumped by 27% to $13.76 billion, and profits by 23% to $4.29 billion. Sales beat expectations by more than $1bn.In theClientdivision (Windows), sales increased by 25% from $3.3bn to $4.1bn, of which $3.4bn was profit. However, this was lower than the official launch quarter this year, where Windows sales hit $5.3bn. Microsoft said it had shipped more than 85 million copies of Vista, not including business sales under the corporate volume licensing programme.In a conference call, Microsoft's chief financial officer Chris Liddell said Vista shipments of more than 85 million compared with 45 million sales of Windows XP during the equivalent period after its launch.TheBusinessdivision (around 90% Microsoft Office) increased sales by 20% to $4.1bn, and profits by 21% to $2.7bn.TheEntertainment &amp; Devicesdivision increased sales by 91% to $1.9bn to register its second profitable quarter, thanks mainly to sales of the Halo 3 game. It made a profit of $165m, compared with a loss of $142m in the same quarter last year. Microsoft sold 1.8 million Xbox 360 games consoles during the quarter.TheOnline Servicesdivision (MSN, Hotmail, Live etc) increased revenues by 25% to $671m, but it lost $264m, compared with a loss of $142m in the same quarter last year. This was expected, due to the heavy investments Microsoft is making in new Live services and accompanying server farms, but it's hardly impressive.Bloombergreported that Microsoft "shares surged as much as 13 percent to $36.02 yesterday in extended trading, a price last reached in July 2001." According to Bloomberg:"This is a big deal,'' said Jane Snorek, a Minneapolis- based analyst at First American Funds, which manages $55 billion in assets, including Microsoft shares. "It will change the sentiment on Microsoft absolutely.''
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Mobile phone company 3 is expected to unveil its long-awaited Skype phone on Monday as it looks to lure customers onto the UK's newest network with the promise of cheap internet-based calls.The company, owned by Hong Kong-based conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, has been working with a Chinese mobile phone manufacturer on the Skype phone.The device will be launched in time for Christmas and 3 is expected to offer it for both customers who want to pay by a monthly contract and those on pre-pay tariffs.It will let Britain's estimated 2.5 million Skype users make free calls and send texts. 3 has been working with Skype , owned by eBay, for well over a year, and already offers the Skype service on its niche X Series platform.The new phone, however, has been designed to appeal to a much larger market than the X Series.Full pricing details are expected to be announced on Monday.
I met up withWill Wright, the legendary creator of games like Sim City and The Sims, earlier this week for a wide-ranging. TheQ&amp;A is here- he talks about the games industry, why he loves the Wii, plugging straight into your brain (!) and his forthcoming game Spore.Among other things we discussed was the government'sByron reviewinto the affect that games and the internet have on children. He was pretty straightforward in his opinion of why we continue having this public debate(I reported his comments this morning in this story:'Video games do no harm to children, insists Sims creator').His basic argument was that games are the latest cultural form to take the place of society's bugbear: and that gaming isn't far off losing its subversive image as more people who were (or are) gamers become parents.I think the cultural acceptance of games is inevitable just because people are going to have grown up having this technology.""It goes in fits and starts over time. If there's a school shooting, it's always a case of 'did they play games or not?'. You don't really hear much about what movies they watch or what books they read," he said. "But 50 years ago that's exactly what you heard - 'did they read To Kill A Mockingbird?' or whatever it was. They would blame social ills on anything that was at hand."In a general sense, I tend to think he's right - but do you? And do you think this argument will ever be over?
What's your favourite technology?I love my SatNav: it's built into my car, a Toyota Prius. It's become crucial, and allowed me to be fairly lazy. Since I bought my car it hasn't been wrong once.When was the last time you used it?I think it was last week when I needed to find someone's house in Clapham. I'd been there before, but the SatNav also saves where you've been, so I didn't even need to remember.What would you add to it?I've seen one which did a 3D view from the point of view of the driver. I'd like that: mine's two dimensional. It was like Google Street View.Will it be obsolete in 10 years' time?This one probably will, because it's built into the car itself. But I think the notion of satellite navigation will only become more important over time.Are you a geek or a luddite?I admire geeks, I just have no ability myself. All the proper geeks I've ever met can understand maths, computer programming, those thought processes. I've embraced technology because it's helped me, and it's opened up areas of work that were impossible before. I remember working on a Channel 4 series in the 80s, and we used an offline editing suite worth more than £100,000 that was shockingly rubbish. Now you can do it all on your laptop.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever bought?I'm a bit of a petrol head, so it would be a car. But never the really expensive ones or whatever – although I once stood near a line of Aston Martins and touched them.Mac or PC?I'm a Mac guy, but only because I don't know how to use a PC. It was the guys on Red Dwarf, Rob Grant and Doug Naylor, who liked them and turned me onto it. Until then I didn't have a clue.What's the top of your iPod's most played tracks?When you just press play it always goes to what's first alphabetically, so mine is probably Abba's Mamma Mia. I was never a big fan.Do you think robots will ever take over the world?I don't think so. I'm hoping that because all the initial underlying work on computers was done by chubby hippies that they'll be nice. In fact, they'll probably be rubbish because humans made them – I can imagine a killer robot chasing you down the street before encountering a total system error.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The Panasonic SD-5 – it's a video camera that records high definition straight onto a memory card. One of the annoying things at the moment is the amount of Mini-DV tape I have. It's a lot quicker going through a digital file.Robert Llewellyn presents Scrapheap Challenge on Channel 4
