ModelPeugeot 307 CC SE HDiPrice&pound;21,100Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.3 secsConsumption47.1mpg (combined)Emissions159g/km (road tax band D)They'd rather walkBruce ForsythAt the wheelNatasha KaplinskyOn the stereoTake ThatEn route forEsherObviously common sense indicates that you should no more judge a car by its paint job than you should judge a book by its cover. But even so, I can't pretend that my relationship with the new Peugeot 307 Coupe Cabriolet was not affected, at least in its early stages, by the fact that the car was, overtly and undeniably, orange. "Salamanca orange," to be precise. Metallic Salamanca orange.It could be argued that the only thing in nature that ought to be allowed to get away with being orange is an orange. And, OK, one or two flowers, And maybe the occasional parrot-part, if we must. But no cars, surely. Unless you want to appear to be driving around in a huge metal fruit. It's not like the 307 CC doesn't already draw attention to itself. Indeed, giving it further assistance in this area, in the form of a look-at-me paint job, is a bit like slapping a coat of Day-Glo on Paris Hilton: it's not strictly necessary. The car is already jumping up and down and waving, fit to burst.Bulky at the back and snub-nosed at the front, the 307 CC must have one of the least predictable body shapes on the road. It looks like a training shoe. Less charitably, one could assert that it appeared to have left the drawing board a little prematurely. At any rate, there could, I think, under certain lighting conditions, be some room for doubt about which end was the bonnet and which end was the boot.That is, of course, until you take off the roof - or rather, until you sink the button located behind the handbrake and watch as, to the low and unstressful whirring of an electric motor, the entire top of the car slides away and folds itself cleanly into the boot. (The entire process takes just 20 seconds, and a highly diverting 20 seconds it is too.) With the roof and all those pesky windows out of the way, the lines of the car suddenly cohere and come alive. Hey presto, your cumbersome old trainer has become a cute ballet pump. Better than that: a ballet pump with the aerodynamic properties of a toboggan.It's at this point that one may come to have a few passing regrets about the engine - in the case of our test car, a 2.0 litre diesel. This may be a smart and enormously commendable piece of engineering in its frugality with fuel and in its stout and principled refusal to choke the leaves off trees as it passes. But it's not really built to supply the creamy smoothness of coupe-driving legend. The idea of a coupe, surely (as distinct from the harder-edged pleasures of a convertible sports car), is to generate a soft sigh, both from the engine and from wistful spectators on the pavement. It should be able, in other words, to turn itself to the role of airborne chariot at the dropping of its roof. When you've got one of Peugeot's diesel engines on board, clanking like a milkfloat crossing a cattle grid, the illusion is, at the very least, suspended.It may well be, of course, that the sigh you require is available using some of the lardier petrol engines. (Peugeot can do you a 1.6 litre and a 2.0 litre manual version, and a 2.0 litre automatic.) But not even opting for one of those will get you round the 307's not insignificant door problem - another small detail gently sapping the car's aspirations to splendour. (And let's face it, &pound;21,000 should buy a little splendour.)Because the 307 CC is a coupe, the windows in the doors lack frames to keep them rigid. And because, as a result, those windows are free to twang about a bit, this has considerable acoustic implications for the closing of those doors. Bear in mind, also, that these are generously broad doors in any case, to allow for the admission of passengers to the rear seats. What the combination of these factors means is that, should you find yourself still within the car when an alighting passenger slams their door, you are likely to suffer what can only be described as major sonic trauma. It's as if someone has smacked a mallet against a corrugated pig shed - a corrugated pig shed to the wall of which, for some reason, you happened to have your ear pressed at the time. The last time I heard doors sound so horrible, I was in a hired Ford Transit with a rust problem.Still, once your ears stop ringing, there is no escaping the fact that the 307 CC is a sweet and simple pleasure to drive - underwhelming in the acceleration department, but stable and stately, even. With the roof down and the windows up, the wind can't touch you. In this weather, I could have done without the steel gear knob, which at sub-zero temperatures long after the rest of the car had warmed up threatened to deliver a brutal attack of frost-bite to the palm. And I was, at all times, happier to be in the front rather than in the back where, Peugeot claims, there is room for two adults. Room for adult buttocks, yes; for adult shoulders, too. But it still seemed to me that the problem of what to do with adult legs remained largely unresolved. Hang them over the sides, perhaps. True, it will attract looks. But you're going to get those anyway.
British student Alex Tew divided a Web page into 10,000 squares of 100 pixels each and started selling space at $1 per pixel -- an idea I blogged here onSeptember 12. And according to a long story in The Wall Street Journal,How Selling Pixels May Yield a Million Bucks, it's been a big success:Currently, the site gets 600,000 to 700,000 unique visitors a month. As of yesterday evening, Mr. Tew said he was $623,800 toward his goal, more than enough to pay for college and earmark some cash for his next entrepreneurial venture.Of course, if Tew had got $1 from everyone who said "Damn, why didn't I think of that?" he might already be a billionaire.
Seems the Xbox 360 sold out in the US before it was even launched.Ars Technicareports on the aftermath:The shortage is very real, and it has plenty of people angry and frustrated. At one of two Circuit City stores that I visited, there were two separate lines, one for people who had shown up before the store even opened and were given "vouchers," and another for the voucher-less people hoping that someone backed out of the deal. I got in the second line to gauge people's hopes and expectations. The result? The overwhelming majority of people in line were actually people who had pre-ordered units from other stores, most notably Gamestop and Electronics Boutique. One individual, Dennis, had two pre-orders, and was still in the (hopeless) line. Why? It's a common story: Dennis got a call from his pre-order stores. "Sorry," they said, "but we cannot fill your order, and will not be able to do so until after Christmas." Dennis claims that he placed both of his orders in July.Visiting Best Buy, I thought I'd survey the damage. In short, the Saugus Best Buy north of Boston looks like a bomb went off. You can see where the chaos went down last night. There's accessory racks that look like they were hit by one of those "grab as much as you can in 60 seconds" shopping cart gimmicks. The Xbox 360s were, of course, long gone. There were plenty of parents at Best Buy, a notable contrast to Circuit City, which was younger in orientation. The parents were leaving the store with sad looks on their faces. This is because one employee actually said that they do not expect to receive another major shipment of Xbox 360s until February of 2006.Under the circumstances, there doesn't seem much point in advertising it, butanother adhas turned up. at AdJab. As with the previous efforts, this need not cost Microsoft anything in airtime: viral circulation is going to take it to the target audience.
Ubisoft has been a busy little multinational videogame corporation this week. Yesterday, the company announced that it would be publishing the next multi-format title from Nottingham developer Free Radical Design. Enticingly described as "an action game based on new IP for release in fiscal year 2006-2007" (oooh, those marketing people really know how to get us excited), the title is set to appear on PC and next-gen consoles. The leading quote in Ubisoft's press release is a typical piece of circumlocution:"Ubisoft is looking forward to working closely with Free Radical, renowned for creating beautiful and engaging gameplay in epics such as the TimeSplitters series," said Virginie Gretz, director of third-party development for EMEA at Ubisoft. "With this game, we plan to take players to a new level of intensity and create an environment at once terrifying, enthralling and impossible to resist."In other words, "we're not telling you anything".Anyway, it's interesting to note that this appears to be a one game deal. Free Radical Design has already worked its way through Eidos and EA over the last five years and is clearly still not ready to commit to a long term relationship. The tart.But Ubisoft is not finished there...Today, the busy company also extended its publishing deal with Sony Online Entertainment, arranging to publishing two new PSP titles - Field Commander and Untold Legends: The Warrior's Code - in Europe, Asia and Australasia next spring. From the press bumph:Developed by Sony Online Entertainment, Field Commander is the first military turn-based strategy game for the PSP system and offers engaging, challenging skill-based warfare in a realistic military setting. Untold Legends: the Warrior's Code, developed by SOE, is the sequel to the highly successful Untold Legends: Brotherhood of the Blade. It will enthrall gamers with an all-new, epic storyline brought to life through dramatic in-game cinematics and character voice-over, an evolutionary combat experience and unique 3D graphics with real-time lighting and handcrafted environments.It took ages to delete all the TM symbols from that...
The Sims 2, hitting the Xbox in time for the holiday season, is partnering up with The Guardiangamesblogto offer one lucky control-freak the opportunity to get behind the wheel of an honest-to-goodness tank atNewick Park, a beautiful Georgian house and gardens.Don't ask, just clickhere, answer a simple question and get yourself a night at Newick Park house in East Sussex with breakfast and an hour's tank driving included, plus an Xbox copy of The Sims 2.Two runners-up will also receive an Xbox copy of The Sims 2.Saddle up!
Professor Helen Margetts, Oxford Internet InstituteMaybeThe history of e-government is littered with utopias (and disutopias), but the language of transformational government is a modernist dream run riot. You can see it from the strategy's title and Tony Blair's first sentence in his foreword: "The world is changing around us at an incredible place due to remarkable technological change" to its core vision, which is "not just about transforming government through technology; it is also about making government transformational through the use of technology."The aims are highly desirable - the problem is the language, which creates false expectations. If you call something transformational, people tend to expect transformation. Shared services, more efficient human resources and finance systems, working out how much government actually spends on IT, professionalism, and the need to bring IT issues to the highest levels of organisations are all eminently worthy. But they will develop slowly, they come late (decades after the US, for example) and - they don't have the magic of transformation.When it comes to citizen-centric government, there are several good points. The Service Transformation Board sounds like an excellent idea, putting heads of the big service delivery departments together for perhaps the first time. But again, the modernist thrust wins out over a considered strategy for making e-government something that citizens are likely to use. The plan is to "rationalise" the 2,500 websites in operation and get everyone using direct.gov and the Business Link. But the internet isn't like that. You can't make users work it in a particular way or come in from a particular place.There are things you can do - work out the link structure of the government domain; employ strategies to make it easier to navigate; use hyperlinks to lead users into the domain and raise its visibility on Google; and employ external links to point outwards to other sources of information and expertise. You can track usage statistics and carry out experiments to find out how citizens use government online and how they might be encouraged to interact with government electronically. But there isn't much about these possibilities here, apart from a highly-welcome admission that "the UK has no systematic view of what citizens, businesses and frontline staff want and need" and what looks like a pointer to a link-up with Google for government searches.We can expect another strategy for implementing the strategy, apparently. But even for a policy document, this is written very much in the abstract, with few examples of how technology might be used to make a better world - cleaner, for example, though e-pricing of road use; more secure, through e-borders; healthier, through e-health. This lack of examples makes it hard for the document to inspire the reader and I should think it would leave most citizens cold.It is not easy to imagine alternative technology-enabled futures in an intelligent and inspiring way particularly after the dashed hopes of earlier e-government initiatives. But if we are going to be modernists, we ought to try.Oxford Internet Institute:www.oii.ox.ac.ukJohn Higgins, director general, Intellect, a body representing the IT industryYesToo often large-scale changes in technology have failed to deliver the improvements envisaged because of an over-simplification of what's needed, unrealistic expectations about the pace and speed of delivery, and failures in overall project management.Public sector IT projects are cited as "invariably" costing more than planned and delivering little or no discernable benefit. In reality, the headline-grabbing projects are mainly those focusing on introducing changes in the way people work. In such projects, IT is just one component; an understanding of the wider business change is often overlooked or, perhaps more worryingly, not understood by those running projects.Pure IT projects are delivered every day - much of them about upgrading computers, networks and communications to do the same job as old equipment but do it faster, better and cheaper. They go wrong sometimes but only in the same way as other complex pieces of work - the London Eye, Millennium Stadium, Millennium Bridge, Jubilee Line extension, west coast mainline - projects that are now considered successful.In comparison, projects of a similar scale are delivered successfully by the IT industry on a regular basis, taken for granted and rarely reported or lauded - new passport applications processed in four days, car tax without having to visit a post office, and land registry searches done in days rather than weeks.The emphasis must be on establishing an open and effective relationship as a platform for success. Intellect's IT supplier code of best practice provides a respected platform on which supplier commitment can be assessed and rewarded by the public sector customer. And Intellect's "concept viability" scheme for assessing projects has gone some way to show how engaging early with suppliers can help reduce the need for post-contract changes.This commitment needs to be maintained over time, with care taken to ensure political imperatives do not take precedence or override commercial reality when it comes to delivery timescales.So contractual agreements must be negotiated on the basis of a partnership between the customer and supplier and should avoid terms that distort the market, stifle innovation, unfairly burden the supplier with unrealistic levels of risk and inadequately reward the supplier for success. The strategy has laid down a series of challenges for politicians, civil servants and the IT supplier community. We should be proud of the progress made and stand ready to meet the challenges ahead.Intellect:www.intellectuk.orgPeter Ryder, vice-president of the Society of IT Management and head of ICT services at Preston city councilYesSocitm members are generally encouraged by the new strategy. Given the right support, the strategy should help ensure that progress towards the development of modern, joined-up services - which started with the announcement of the e-delivery targets in 2000 and has been supported since then by the ODPM-funded local e-government programme - will not be lost when the latter ends in March 2006. Rather, it will gain momentum and really start to deliver.Socitm has had its criticisms of the e-government programme. Earlier this year, partly as a response to the efficiency agenda, it launched a campaign for a more radical, ambitious version of e-government. Technologies available today enable organisations to connect citizens, but they should also be stimulating a rethink of every service from a citizen's point of view, involving, where possible, a completely redefined business model.So we welcome the strategy's emphasis that services enabled by IT must be designed around the citizen or business, not the provider, and be provided through modern, coordinated delivery channels.Socitm also supports another key plank in the strategy - the aim of moving public service organisations towards a shared services culture and improving efficiency by adopting a standards-based approach, simplification and sharing. (Socitm Insight will release a report on this topic early in 2006.)The strategy's call for a broadening and deepening of government's professionalism in the planning, delivery, management, skills and governance of IT-enabled change is close to the core purpose of Socitm, which is actively involved in the initiative on IT professionalism.And the understanding, implicit in the strategy - that public services are delivered by all parts of the public sector, including local government, the voluntary sector, the health service, police, and other locally managed organisations - is also welcome. Policy documents like this sometimes overlook the fact that 80% of public services are delivered outside Whitehall departments.The strategy provides an excellent platform on which local government in particular can develop and deliver the modern, joined-up public services that citizens and businesses want and, increasingly, expect.Society of IT Management:www.socitm.gov.uk
Eleven years after an MP first posted a website on the internet, the Westminster parliament may be about to start taking electronic democracy seriously. Last week, invitations went out to MPs to join the first all-party e-democracy group. It is expected to meet for the first time on December 13 to begin planning a programme of work on the practicalities of MPs using the web.In another development, the first parliamentary hearings to take evidence by mobile phone will get under way early next year - if a way can be found to pay for the necessary equipment.Both initiatives owe much to the Hansard Society, a charity which aims to promote parliamentary democracy. It says that the time is now right for e-channels (though not e-voting) to become a core part of that process. "We've had the period of e-democracy hyperbole, we're in the period of resistance still, but we're now at the point where it's starting to become mainstream," says Ross Ferguson, head of the society's e-democracy programme.Although many MPs have posted websites since Anne Campbell, then Labour member for Cambridge, set up the first in 1994, parliament as a whole is still wary of opening new electronic channels to voters. One perceived problem is that the internet knows no geographical boundaries and MPs may find themselves dealing with voters from outside their constituencies. Another worry is the cost of handling new electronic channels and protecting them from electronic mischief. Finally, there is a suspicion that e-democracy is the beginning of a slippery slope towards government by plebiscite and other forms of direct democracy. Nonsense, says Ferguson. "E-democracy is not going to replace parliament, it's going to supplement parliament."Although parliament has carried out electronic consultations in the past, collecting the views of victims of domestic violence, for example, they have been one-off events. Significantly, most innovation in this area comes from unofficial ventures such aswww.theyworkforyou.com, a site designed to make it easier for ordinary people to track what their MP does in parliament.Online consultationsAlthough the House of Commons Modernisation Select Committee last year called for committees to make online consultations "a more regular aspect of their work", this has not yet become reality.To make matters worse, several MPs who were enthusiastic about IT left parliament at the general election. They included Campbell herself, the Liberal Democrat Richard Allan and Labour's Brian White.Parliament is not necessarily to blame, says Stephen Coleman, professor of e-democracy at Oxford and one of Britain's foremost thinkers on the subject. Institutions in general are not good at innovating in ways that encourage true e-democracy, he says. At the moment, pressure for e-democracy is coming from two often contradictory movements. One is from institutions such as parliament and local government "where people feel they ought to do something but don't know where to go". On the other side there are innovative grassroots projects, such as Theyworkforyou, "which are technically quite interesting but don't always connect with the institutions". The result is "a battle between notions of top-down and bottom-up e-democracy".Both movements have limitations. Coleman describes the institutional approach to e-democracy as an "e-commerce" model: "The public are seen as an audience to sell to, not as participants." Institutions also tend to try to replicate obsolete practices electronically, even when those did not work well in the offline world.Grassroots e-democracy, by contrast, is an ongoing, networked conversation and one that captures the politics of everyday life. While grassroots activism can be highly interactive, it is also toothless.The solution is a synthesis. "Neither side is going to do it on its own," says Coleman. Institutions should "connect with people who are doing these things on the ground and recognise that interactivity works best in the context of networks that are not centralised". For their part, grassroots movements need to work with institutions.The Hansard Society's approach is to ease e-democracy into the parliamentary process via all-party groups. Such groups have solid enough credentials to be taken seriously but are open to innovative ideas. They also have budgets. Ferguson says he is working with one committee that is interested in taking evidence by text message from people who would normally be unlikely to contact MPs. The only sticking point is funding, he says. "We need &pound;30,000 for a series of pilots. We have been speaking to people developing the appropriate technology and suggesting that they might want to provide the stuff on a pro-bono basis."ChallengesIntroducing e-democracy to parliament involves challenges on several levels, Ferguson says. One is to get the design of systems right. "In real life as members of the public we would be negative about going along to an ugly and dangerous old building to participate in the democratic process - the same applies in cyberspace."Another is the need to formalise the process. Today, electronic consultations are done "on an ad-hoc basis, almost on a whim", he says. This makes it easier for government to dismiss inconvenient findings. Decisions need to be made about where e-democracy fits in the parliamentary process: whether it is better suited to making policy or scrutinising policies.The biggest question, however, may be whether e-democracy can be a solution to a growing sense of crisis in the relationship between politicians and people. In a new pamphlet, Direct Representation, published by the think-tank Institute for Public Policy Research, Coleman argues for a "conversational democracy" supported by IT. He says that democracy faces a "horribly simple" problem: "Governments have come to believe that the public don't know how to speak; the public have come to believe that governments don't know how to listen."Coleman warns that, while new technology can open up the conversation, there is no one magic recipe. "Making it easier, quicker, cheaper, gee-whizzier to do all the things that have made traditional politics dull and uninviting in the past amounts to institutional preservation, rather than democratic transformation."He is also sceptical about the future of blogging as a way for politicians to hold a dialogue with the public. Blogging's openness may "prove more than disciplined party structures can cope with".In any case, citizens tend to be more innovative in their use of IT than the politicians who represent them. If politics is not to be sidelined entirely, Coleman suggests that it may need to borrow some ideas from reality TV, which he describes as an "attempt by the public to talk for, and to, itself in its own voice". The images created by this concept are not likely to reassure MPs already wary of e-democracy.Hansard Society:www.hansardsociety.org.ukThey Work for You:www.theyworkforyou.comInstitute for Public Policy Research:www.ippr.org.uk
Nearly 50 years after introducing computers to public administration, the UK government has released its first formal strategy for IT. Transformational Government, published last month, sets out plans to change the culture of government with IT. In his foreword to the 20-page report, prime minister Tony Blair talks of technology giving citizens choice and convenience "with personalised services designed around their needs, not the needs of the provider".The ambition is not to make a one-off reform but to launch a continuing revolution, to create a government that is in itself "transformational" - capable of re-inventing the way it does things as new technologies emerge. "This is the only way in which public services can keep up with a continually changing, globalised society."In a statement that places IT at the heart of Blair's programme to reform public services such as health and education, the strategy states: "Choice will come through new channels and more fundamentally through new opportunities for service competition."A coordinated IT strategy for the British government is long overdue. Although, like most other EU member states, the UK has invested heavily in making public services available electronically, the programme has lacked coherence and been hindered by obsolete and expensive legacy technology in government. "Many systems and processes are still paper-based and staff-intensive," the strategy observes. The government's giant administrative computer systems were generally designed to run one service, such as recording national insurance contributions or deal with the demands of a particular law. Traditionally, there has been little effort to join up these "silos". This must now change, the strategy says. "Choice requires services to be able to talk to each other."It proposes sweeping changes to the way government is organised:&middot; Reforms aimed at joining up public services will be based on asking citizens what they want - a departure for an administration with no regular systematic programme of engaging with the consumers of public services. The strategy proposes setting up a "service transformation board" to set principles, identify the potential of new technologies and challenge inconsistencies in agencies' plans.&middot; Citizens will need to be encouraged into the most efficient and effective e-channels for dealing with government. "At an appropriate time" existing channels (presumably walk-in offices) should be closed. As a precedent the strategy cites the government's decision to pay benefits directly into bank accounts rather than in cash.&middot;Electronic channels will be slimmed down; central government's 130 call centres will be rationalised, possibly to a single national phone number along the lines of France's Allo, Service Public. The 2,500 existing government websites will "converge" on two portals, for citizens and business.&middot;Personal data about citizens will be routinely shared between public agencies. The strategy describes data sharing as "integral" but warns that privacy rights and public trust must be retained.&middot;Electronic identity management - the strategy proposes a suite of solutions to authenticate citizens' and businesses' identities electronically. These systems "will converge towards biometric identity cards and the National Identity Register".Apart from its core goal of transforming government, the strategy has two other aims, rooted in the domestic political agenda. One is to make public agencies run more efficiently, especially in their huge "back office" systems providing e-corporate services such as managing finance and paying public servants. The plan is to move to a "shared services culture", in which agencies share common "back office systems". The strategy seeks to pay for innovations by unlocking around 10% of the current IT spend through replacement of expensive and inflexible legacy computers.The other aim is to end the perception that the government is incompetent at running large IT-based projects. The strategy claims the government has turned a corner since the late 1990s, when public confidence reached a low point. And yet to achieve the strategy's aims, it will require "a step change" in professional attitudes and shifts in how suppliers are managed.Officials say the strategy's three aims are entirely compatible. Efficiency in corporate services is essential to release resources to front-line services (the strategy makes no mention of job cuts). Unless the government can be trusted to manage IT projects successfully, citizens and businesses will not switch to the new electronic channels that are supposed to transform government.The strategy's timetable is in three phases:&middot;2005-2006: preparation. Getting under way "the massive programmes of change" already planned, including IT-based revolutions in the NHS and criminal justice and improving professionalism.&middot;2007-2011: reform. Introducing citizen-centred public services and shared back- office functions in government. "The goal should be to have made the process irreversible by 2011."&middot;Beyond 2011: transformation. The strategy promises a period of "further radical change in the delivery of public services".By this time, "the culture of government will have changed to one which embraces - rather than shuns - sharing, which will continue to break down the silos perceived today." The vision will be of citizens and businesses increasingly serving themselves - "from a government delivery network in which the boundaries between departments, between central and local government, and between public, private and voluntary sectors continue to be less important and less visible to the citizens and businesses."Whether this vision turns into reality depends on many factors outside the scope of IT - not least, the colour of government after Tony Blair leaves the scene. But at least one sentiment in the strategy seems certain to endure: "Technology alone does not transform government, but government cannot transform to meet modern citizens' expectations without it." WeblinkCabinet Office:www.cabinet-office.gov.uk
Remote electronic voting via the internet and telephone was once the future of British elections. But trials held in the 2003 local elections found it made little difference to turn-out and raised concerns about security, privacy and transparency.Tom Hawthorn, electoral modernisation manager for the Electoral Commission, says that remote e-voting is unlikely this decade, although he believes the idea may return. "In the short- to medium-term, there's things about the existing voting system - voting stations and postal ballots - which can be improved," he says.These are likely to rely on the Coordinated Online Register of Electors (Core), the first stage of which should be finished during December, according to Tony Bellringer, Core project manager at the Department for Constitutional Affairs. This is when the six main suppliers of electoral roll management software are expected to finish implementing a standard format for exporting data on voters known as EML (election markup language).EML should make life easier for organisations which collect information from all local authority electoral registration officers (EROs), such as political parties, credit reference agencies and the Electoral Commission: Hawthorn says it will help the commission check the admissibility of large political donations from individuals, who must be registered voters.The software firms will then work on allowing EML-standard voter details to be imported automatically. "Next summer is likely," says Bellringer. "We're exploring doing a pilot scheme with Government Connect &#91;a local authority project which is creating secure standardised data transfer systems for local authorities&#93; in one or two areas."With EML export and import of voter details, local authorities can automate the transfer of voters between areas, saving staff time. Currently, unless both authorities use the same software, someone moving area has his or her details typed in by the new authority, which contacts the old authority so it can manually remove the voter from its electoral roll. Finally, the old authority confirms the removal to the new authority.Core's second stage, which is subject to parliament passing the electoral administration bill - pencilled in for next summer - as well as secondary legislation, would create a central data-set from all the local electoral rolls.This could eventually support remote e-voting but could also allow voters to cast a paper ballot at any polling station in the country. Their eligibility would be checked through the national Core database and the ballot paper for their area printed to order, although there are questions on how regularly the national list would be updated from the master local electoral rolls, or whether a national roll would be given primacy.The government is asking local authorities to run trials of such systems in next May's council elections. Alan Winchcombe, deputy returning officer at Swindon borough council, says his authority may volunteer. "You could go to a polling station on the Sunday before the Thursday - we're contemplating supermarkets and libraries," he says. Voters would have their ballot paper laser-printed to order at any polling station in the borough. "The new design of the ballot paper has a bar-code on it. That would tell you which ward was going to be for," says Winchcombe.A national data-set would also allow the creation of a secure website, through which all voters could check or change their electoral roll entries, and would enable systematic quality checks. Bellringer says roll entries could be compared to databases held by organisations such as TV Licensing or the Benefits Agency, to look for apparent discrepancies. "These could be fed back to EROs to give them addresses to target," he says, adding that these would need further investigation: an American in the UK needs a television licence but, in a case of reception without representation, cannot vote.Electoral Commission information on Core:www.electoralcommission.gov.uk/elections/Coredatastandards.cfm
Here's another strange story of fatal online gaming addiction - this time from Tianjin in China. According toseveralnewssources, the parents of a teenage World of Warcraft addict are suing Blizzard after their son jumped to his death from a building - allegedly while 're-enacting an event' from the successful MMORPG.Clearly, game addiction is aserious problemin China, but this is a puzzling case. I can't recall hearing about any WoW quests that have involved leaping from great heights. The story is everywhere on the net, but vital facts and primary source data are missing - as is often the case with these tragic tales from the Far East...
I don't think Sony has quite woken up to how bad the "rootkit" episode could get. The Electronic Frontier Foundation "along with two leading national class action law firms, today filed a lawsuit against Sony BMG, demanding that the company repair the damage done by the First4Internet XCP and SunnComm MediaMax software it included on over 24 million music CDs,"says the EFF. The Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott also "filed a civil lawsuit on Monday against Sony BMG Music Entertainment for hiding 'spyware' software on its compact discs in a bid to thwart music copying," reportsReuters. A class action suit has been filed in Los Angeles and another is expected in New York, and no doubt more will follow.There's also the risk of a consumer backlash. There's already aBoycott Sonytwebsite and an onlinepetitionthat targets "all media or hardware made by Sony".Given that the company has two high risk products coming down the line -- Blu-ray movie players and PlayStation 3 games consoles -- this is not the sort of attention Sony will find helpful.
"Hundreds of video game fans braved chilly temperatures on both US coasts on Tuesday to be among the first to get their hands on Microsoft Corp's new Xbox 360 video game console, which went on sale in North America on Tuesday. Hundreds of gamers camped out in front of stores, braving rain in Manhattan and dense fog in Seattle, to get their hands on the new video game machine, designed to offer near-photo-realistic graphics, play music and video and link up gaming communities over the Internet," reportsReuters."Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates showed up at a Best Buy store before midnight in the Seattle suburb of Bellevue, situated between his house and Microsoft's Redmond, Washington, headquarters, to play games and hand out the first Xbox 360 console sold at the store."Comment:There are similar reports all over the place includingBBC News(which also has anXbox 360 Q&amp;A). The Seattlepi newspaper blog offersGates at Xbox launchwith pictures.Update:UK journalists are also getting samples. Greg Howson has been playing with the Xbox 360 over at ourGamesblog.
Two things have happened in the world of the wonder web. First, it emerged that Nigeria's third-largest source of hard currency, after oil and cocoa, is revenue from internet scams. I don't believe it, not unless its oil reserves are paltry, or it's selling its cocoa dirt cheap. Never mind, let's call it the truth. In Cwmbran a man got into hot water for selling things on eBay. They didn't exist, see - not the "debenture" seat for the Welsh rugby team, nor the rugger paraphernalia flogged with it.Phillip Shortman, the fake rugby seller, has yet to be sentenced, though it has been made clear to him that he'll probably end up in prison. The Nigerians have yet to be caught, owing to the fact that, as well as all having $48m to chuck about, they're also coincidentally all called "Prince Mr Excellent, Son of His Excellent Excellency", and even the most tenacious terrier of probity would have some trouble hunting them down.Now, two thoughts. First, before the advent of the internet, urban lore surrounding the sale of things that didn't exist - or didn't belong to the vendor - maintained that, as an activity, it was extremely cool. For as long as I can remember there's been a rumour going round that some dumb Texan once bought Tower Bridge from a chancer he met on the street. I've also heard that a man from Ohio bought the whole of Cambridge. I think there must have been some confusion revolving around the word bridge. This has its roots in truth: the stones of John Rennie's London Bridge, replaced in 1972 with today's structure, were sold to Lake Havasu City, Arizona, though there the truth content ends, since these stones were indeed shipped to Arizona, and turned into a fully functioning bridge, called something like Havasu or Lake. Imagining, though, that Tower Bridge had been mendaciously sold, the message of the story was "buyer beware" or, more coarsely, "check out those dumb Americans". Nobody would ever have greeted this story with: "Well, we must hunt down the dishonest bridge seller and incarcerate him until such time as he's learnt his lesson."Second, it must, surely, be obvious that those Prince So'n'Sos, with their millions of dollars that they somehow can't access until they know your bank-account number, are hoaxes. In their earliest days, I worried for a fraction of a second whether my instant discard was a racist response. I searched my conscience, and it was clear - it wasn't the mention of locale that put me off; it was the absurdity of the figures. Again, buyer beware - or rather, hopelessly gullible person beware!The internet has introduced us to some new, or rather very old, values: sellers should behave with honour. Exploiting a warped perception of need is one thing, but exploiting trust is another. It's understandable, since the world of electronics is so unfathomable that we have to suspend disbelief just to log on. That suspension of disbelief can't be allowed to blow up in our faces, since we never had a meaningful understanding of it in the first place, and we'll shun the business altogether once stung. It's in the interests of everyone - buyer, seller, observer, not just the numbnut who wanted to see some rugby - that the atmosphere of trust prevails. And the jailing of Shortman, whatever it says about eBay, says more about the law: it's not reason stripped of passion; anything but. The more passionate we get in our defence of commerce, the more litigious we become. In fact, it's reason stripped of a sense of humour.Still, it's in its fledgling stages, this new, humourless bond of duty. You should still be mindful that ownership of tickets to sporting events is a difficult thing to prove; and that $48m is a lot of money - it's unlikely that Prince Superpants is ever going to share it with you.zoe_williams@ntlworld.com
I blogged Riya's face recognition system (which works from photos) before its launch, and comments to that post and Riya's blog showed some concerns about the possible mis-use of the technology.Munjal Shah, Riya's founder, has responded: "Let me address how the Riya recognition system works and how its limitations make it very unlikely that we could use this for security or 'evil' applications." Basically:It turns out that our algorithms work only because we are typically looking for 100-ish unique people in your albums. If we tried to look for 1 million unique people in your photos our accuracy rate is almost zero (more wrong than right). In fact most of the recognition you see on TV is pure fiction.
"Today we are making a really important announcement about our XML formats. We are going to bring the Microsoft Office Open XML formats to a standards body with the intention of eventually making the formats an ISO standard. This should really help everyone feel certain that these formats will always be available and fully accessible. We are going to work with Apple, Barclays Capital, BP, the British Library, Essilor, Intel Corporation, NextPage Inc., Statoil ASA and Toshiba to form a technical committee at ECMA International that will fully document all of our schemas so that anyone can understand how to develop on top of them. This is obviously a huge step forward and it really helps to increase the value of these document formats because of the improved transparency and interoperability. This will help to create a large ecosystem built around these formats that will support them in a large number of different scenarios for customers," saysBrian Jones, a program manager in Office, on his blog.
Kotaku'sgot the skinny on a list of gamer sites that are actually site spam, aimed at getting readers to click on the links at the bottom of the page. It's interesting that they registered site names that are explicitly directed at female games players. To trap whom? Women? Men?
Lawrence Lessigpoints out the pay-off to aweblog postby Microsoft's chief technology officer Ray Ozzie."I'm very pleased that Microsoft is supporting the Creative Commons approach," says Ozzie, discussing the ideas behind the firm's newly-developed "Simple Sharing Extensions" system.Lessig is clearly happy that someone at Microsoft is recognising that there's some kind of value in Creative Commons - particularly given the corporation's recent history of attacks on open source followers and "Creative Commies". After all, Bill Gates a broadside at the movement when he implied that CC advocates (among others) were dangerous communists in an interview withCNet. "There are some new modern-day sort of communists who want to get rid of the incentive for musicians and moviemakers and software makers under various guises. They don't think that those incentives should exist."These aren't arguments that are going to go away easily, but at least Ozzie is happy to state publicly that it's not all about infringement of intellectual property.
All weekend I've had friends calling me - what's it like? is it the future of gaming? how the hell did Saints lose when 3-0 up at half-time? - yes, I've finally managed to get my hands on an Xbox 360. It's very early days as I only have two games at the moment - Kameo and King Kong - but my initial impressions are good. Kameo itself is lovely, although its truly gorgeous graphics mask, in essence, a fairly straightforward third-person action/puzzler. Whether its the sky full of flying dragons or the startlingly clear textures that help show, for example, moisture on the walls, Kameo is a real looker. And the fact that there isn't a gangster or audi TT in sight is a welcome change.At the moment I'm running the 360 on a standard def telly. It still looks good, although having seen the 360 on a hi-def TV before, the drop in quality is fairly noticeable. It isn't enough to stop the graphics shining, but it's clear that hi-def makes the difference. But it's the non-gaming features that have most impressed so far.While Kameo is highly enjoyable, and KK suitably polished up, tellingly I have spent as much time faffing around with the 360's non-gaming features as I have playing. The menu system is fairly intuitive and much friendlier than the original Xbox. It is key to the whole system and accessing it while playing a game - for example to change some music or answer a friend request - has already become second nature.Likewise, connecting your iPod or camera is easy and creating a slideshow on the TV is a simple way to show the benefits of the 360 to any recalcitrant partner. While Live isn't working yet everything seems obvious and I've even dabbled with the marketplace. Finally, the DVD playback is a step up from the Xbox and good enough for all but the most anal AV fans.So far so good, but there are some issues. The power supply is huge while I've had a few occasions where the 360 gets very loud - fan noise is a potential issue, but I'll need to try other games to confirm. It also gets hot quite quickly.At this stage it's clear that the 360 itself is a decent bit of kit that demands to be used online (I've got the nifty wireless connector) and is more than "just" a games console. I hate it when marketing types say this - after all, everyone who buys the 360, at least for the next three years, is buying it "just" to play games - but in this case it may be true. Having a box under the telly that you can use with your digital content is very addictive.Whether it is worth getting a 360 now or waiting till next year depends on the quality of the games - oh, and whether you pre-ordered or not - and I'll blog some impressions when I get more titles.
Rookie Glaswegian developer, Play Technologies, thinks it has found a novel new way to enliven the dull old poker sim: emotion. In Poker Face, due on PC and PSP this Autumn, you'll play against a series of computer opponents each with their own body language traits or 'tells' which will let you know how honest they're being. Here's some explanation from the press release..."Over the past several years, poker has become a hugely popular global phenomenon, spawning TV shows, magazines, books and video games. However to date, most of the video games have failed to capture the essence of what makes the real game so widely-played and enduring. Poker Face plans to change that, giving players a chance to compete against characters who behave just like real people, giving the same signals and making the same mistakes."Poker Face also features a unique narrative thread running through the game, giving players the reason why they're playing and introducing characters like card sharks, crime bosses and femme fatales. Losing game no longer just means just losing money, your skill with the cards and how well you read the other players could be all that stands between you and a set of broken fingers."Only around 50% of a poker game in the real world is about the cards," says Jon Sykes, the Managing Director of Play Technologies. "The rest is about the other players, your ability to guess what they're up to, the risks of bluffing and the consequences of losing. What we're doing with Poker Face is recreating all of these other aspects of the game and creating what we believe is an exciting and compelling new way to enjoy poker as a video game."It's an interesting concept that may well make the rather dry world of the single-player poker-'em-up more appealing to a wider audience. This is notquiteunique though: Gameloft's mobile title, Midnight Poker, uses a similar feature - allowing you to watch opponents for tell-tale signs of bluffing. However, as Play Technologies was founded by Jon Sykes, the head of the e-motion laboratory (a unit designed to monitor the emotional response to video games, based at Glasgow Caledonian University) Poker Face should be a more technically advanced example.Whatever, it's always good to see emotional response and interpretation creeping into videogames. Obviously, being able to read an AI character's state of mind has been an important part of the simulation genre over the last few years - see Theme Park and The Sims for example (although thought bubbles have been more important here than realistic facial expressions) - but other game styles have been slow to catch on, mostly due to graphical limitations, and the fact that realistic facial emotion is computationally expensive.With more powerful hardware on the way (I think Microsoft has a new console out soon, but I've not been able to find out much about it on the web...), it would be fascinating to see more action titles attempting similar features. A spy shooter where you have to decide whether you can trust other characters from their eyes, their expressions, their mannerisms... it would be a huge step-forward for the emotional depth of videogames. And of course, a more advanced version of Eyetoy could give them a good look at you, too...
Think carefully before you do this: you only have one vote....The Search Engine Experimentinvites you to search the three leading search engines then click the one that gives the best results. It only shows the top three hits so you need to be familiar with them (and whatever's missing) to evaluate the results. That really means picking a subject you know well....
TiVo owners can already move recorded shows to Microsoft-based portable media players. Next year they will be able to move them to Apple iPods and Sony PSP handhelds that sell in vastly bigger quantities, reportsThe NewYork Times.
"Everyone right now loves Google. They are the internet darling much like Netscape was 10 years ago. They can do no wrong, they can do no evil, and they have a large pile of cash," says theWe Hate Technologysite.Terminator fans already know where this one is going, and won't be disappointed:For a mere $300 million Google will be able to effectively purchase the infrastructure of the US internet and create the next network that the US will run on. After that I am sure they will move on to Europe and other counties. Everyone take the time to bow down to your new overlords and sign into the Google Skynet.OK, so you can worry about what Google might do, if it were technically possible, and if it showed a real inclination to do it. But if it comes down to a choice between Google and the control freaks running Hollywood studios, cable TV and telcos like SBC (below), then I'll take Google, thanks.
The servers have been humming this morning becausethe Top 20 geek novels votehas beenSlashdottedOnly had time for a very quick skim, but my eye was caught by by j1m+5n0w's link tothe top-rated books on the Internet Book List. Since the IBL is read mainly by geeks, the top ranking books must be pretty geeky....
The North Americans are getting to grips with the Xbox 360 tonight at midnight. Here's a round up of what all the fuss is about:Next Generation: Xbox 360 hot on eBayGames.net: 5 reasons why the Xbox will bombEurogamer: Xbox 360 - the lid is offGizmodo: Xbox 360 dissectedKotaku: Final Fantasy XI debuts at zero hourGizmodo: Early Xbox 360 reviewsIGN: Xbox 360 launch guide - hooking it upKotaku: Perfect Dark Zero in the houseRocky Mountain News: Pricey Xbox 360 designed as a family room accessoryFerrago: Xbox 360 equipped with parental locking featuresMajor Nelson: A very special episode of Game With Fame (play vs. J Allard)Wired: Xbox 360 hits a hi-def homerUSA Today: Xbox 360 revives addictiveness of video gamesBBC: Xbox 360 to kick off console warsCNet: Xbox 360 makes desert debutMSNBC: Stores brace for Xbox 360 onslaughtAZCentral: Serious gamers lust over Xbox 360We get ours on 2 December.
Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation (back in the 1980s) and Bruce Perens went to Tunis for the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), and -- like all the delegates -- were given passes with RFID chips.Perens writes:You can't give Richard a visible RFID strip without expecting him to protest. Richard acquired an entire roll of aluminum foil and wore his foil-shielded pass prominently. He willingly unwrapped it to go through any of the visible check-points, he simply objected to the potential that people might be reading the RFID without his knowledge and tracking him around the grounds. This, again, is a legitimate gripe, handled with Richard's usual highly-visible, guile-less and absolutely un-subtle style of non-violent protest.So far, so good. However, it seems that after his talk, "UN Security would not allow Richard to leave the room". Since he was there representing the UN and carrying a UN Development Program ID, this could be considered a bit of an own goal by UN Security officers....
A few people probably rememberDigg, which I plugged here onAugust 12 (below)and in Online'sWeb watch column on August 18. Now a new site,Diggdot.us, takes stuff from Digg, Slashdot and Delicious and rolls it out as a neat-looking news page.This is a much better idea thandigg vs dot, which was "put together to highlight the act of crossposting articles among two very popular sites, digg.com and Slashdot.org".I think I still prefer Digg, but Diggdot.us is certainly worth a whirl.
SysInternals may be known to Ask Jack readers as I use and keep recommendingProcess Explorer. However, the company has become much more famous recently for starting the firestorm of criticism aimed at Sony BMG's use of a "rootkit" technique to hide the copy-protection system on some of the audio CDs released in the US. (The EFF hasa list of the albums affected.)SysInternals explains Rootkit Revealer in thisIntroduction, and you can download it using a link at the bottom of the page.I ran it this weekend just for the experience, and found I don't have any rootkits installed. Just as well, really, as the Rootkit Revealer doesn't seem to have a way of fixing them, and I wouldn't know how to do it manually....Both Process Explorer and Rootkit Revealer are freeware.
Better late than never dept:Shopzilla, the comparison shopping site, is now available in a UK version.NetImperativereports: "The service uses a proprietary search algorithm tool, ShopRank and receives more than one million consumer reviews of its merchants monthly. The firm said it is aiming to grab a hefty slice of the UK shopping comparison market, which includes rivals Kelkoo, Shopping.com, Pricerunner and PriceGrabber."A few months ago, Shopzilla was taken over by E.W. Scripps for $525 million, asTheStreet.com reports here.There's a good blog about shopping comparison-type sites athttp://www.comparisonengines.com/
"Shares of Google jumped above $400 a share to a record high Thursday, silencing skeptics thinking the soaring stock would hit a ceiling. Shares of the popular search engine gained $5.30 to $403.45, more than quadrupling since it went public 15 months ago," reportsUSA Today.After the public share offering late last year, Google shares cost $85."But Google's valuation is more reasonable now than it was when it went public, [says Ken Smith, director of technology investing for Munder]. The company has a 48 price-earnings ratio based on expected 2006 earnings, cheaper than its 60 P-E when it went public, below Yahoo's 57 and on par with Amazon's 46, he says."
Steve Rubel has been publishing a popular series of "social media hacks" andthe latest is about Wikipedia. There are another couple of tips in the comments.Rubel's blog is worth $1,255,536.96 using the same link to dollar ratio as the AOL-Weblogs Inc deal". You can generate a link showing the "value" of your blog at theBusiness Opportunities Weblog.
Two men in blue suits crept up behind Dean Ruffell so quickly he had no time to react, writes John Aglionby in Singapore. With their rifles pointing at his head, one gunned down the 17-year-old from Thames Ditton, Surrey.Ruffell was out of the quarterfinals of the Halo 2 event at the World Cyber Games, billed as the Olympics of computer gaming. With more than 1.25 million entrants - 700 from 67 nations reached the finals, which end today in Singapore - and prize money of &pound;1.44 million, WCG is possibly the world's biggest, yet most low-profile, sporting event. Eight games are played, six on computers and two on consoles. Killing your opponent is the aim, although strategy and teamwork are as important as keyboard dexterity and hand-eye co-ordination.The contestants consider themselves sportsmen (only one woman made the finals). 'If waiting 20 minutes for a fish to come along and then pulling it out of the water is a sport, then this definitely is,' Ruffell said.The youngest player is an Iranian, Armin Golman, three, who plays a football game, the oldest is Lajos Hegedus, 39, a Hungarian army lieutenant-colonel.Top teams - or clans - have an entourage of managers and assistants. 'It's my job to handle everything so the guys can concentrate on gaming,' said Gavin Baillie, manager of UK team Reason Gaming.Ruffell and his partner, Mark Thurston, 20, lost to the Americans in blue suits. 'They've been undefeated for two years,' Thurston said. 'At least we didn't disgrace ourselves.'Known to their parents as Dan and Tom Ryan and to the world's 300 million online gamers as The Ogres, the19-year-old identical twins with mop haircuts and acned faces went on to win gold and $20,000 first prize.'This is our biggest single prize,' Tom said. 'In two years we've probably made about &pound;20,000 and all our travel and accommodation paid for.'Its peanuts compared to the South Koreans, who make six-figures a year and have two cable TV channels dedicated to their exploits.With his orange-tinted hair and flawless skin, Seo Ji Hoon could be a film star - if it were not for the keyboard he carries everywhere. The 22-year-old defending champion at StarCraft: Brood War is on a gaming scholarship at a South Korean university and has his own fan club. Robert Krakoff, president of a gaming firm, is sure cyber gaming will only get bigger. 'At the moment it's confined to the under-35s. In 10 years, these guys will be running the world.'
"Swiss President Samuel Schmid has been censored by Tunisian television for harshly criticising states that muzzle civil liberties," reportsNZZ Online.In his opening speech at the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)in Tunis, Schmid said: "It is, quite frankly, unacceptable for the United Nations to continue to include among its members states which imprison citizens for the sole reason that they have criticised their government on the internet or in the media."Index on Censorshiprecords other examples of Tunisian repression, such as:In the run up the 16-18 November conference Christophe Boltanski, a journalist with the Paris daily Liberation, was tear-gassed, beaten &amp; stabbed in Tunis under the eyes of police who later refused to log his assault. The attack occurred less than 24 hours after Liberation ran Boltanski's story on how plain clothed police had beaten human rights activists in the weeks before WSIS.A world map marking the 15 'enemies of the Internet' -- "countries that trample on free expression on the Net" and pointedly including Tunisia -- was put up by media rights group Reporters sans Frontires (RSF). It was removed by officers in minutes.In one particularly bizarre incident, plain clothed police physically prevented RSF secretary general Robert Mnard from leaving an Air France plane after landing in Tunis on 17 November. Mnard said he was told that he would not be allowed off the plane since he did not have accreditation for the WSIS. He did.In Tunis there were the usual moves to wrestle "control of the Internet" from the US. It might be more useful if the UN spent more of its time looking at how so many member countries use it to prevent their citizens getting access to information (China, Iran etc) or want to use it to spy on their own citizens (doesn't that include the UK?). The democratic members of the UN could also worry about how much worse the Internet would be if their colleagues representing repressive dictatorships horse-traded their way into controlling it.Either way, you can expect dozens more meetings attended by tens of thousands of officials (all enjoying their free food, posh hotels and international travel at the public's expense), producing millions of convoluted words arranged in thousands of tortured sub-sub-sub-sub-paragraphs, all to do something that would be much better done by one bloke acting responsibly. Which it used to be, of course, when the one bloke wasJon Postel.
USA Todayhas published a piece that rounds up the Sony BMG 'rootkit' copy protection fiasco and lists the CDs sold in the US with XCP 'rootkit' copy protection. It also points out the split personality that has resulted from Sony owning both content origination and a PC business:Sony BMG wants to discourage CD-burning. Sony Vaio, on the other hand, recently released a new $2,100 PC with a 200-CD changer, the VGX-XL1. Load up 200 blank CDs in the tray, and the computer "will be set to automatically and sequentially copy all of your content in one single session," Sony says in its promotional material.Comment:Sony's attempt to own and control the whole value chain has backfired. It wants consumers to buy Sony-owned music and movies, play them on Sony hi-fi's and TV sets, download tunes from a Sony-owned Connect store in Sony-owned Atrac format, store them on Sony Memory Sticks with Sony Magic Gate protection, and play them on Sony music players or Sony Ericsson phones. It wants Sony games played on Sony PlayStations plugged into Sony TV sets and Sony movies on Sony UMD discs played on Sony PSPs. And so on.But Sony's concentration on protecting its intellectual property via proprietary Sony technologies has crippled its participation in bigger markets. The whole MiniDisc industry was screwed by Sony's copy protection and its hostility to -- and fear of -- the PC industry. Sony's efforts in the portable device market have been crippled by its initial failure to support the MP3 and, now, WMA formats and by its failure to support industry standard memory cards. The growth of its games business has been restricted by its failure to support PCs, with sales of PlayStation hardware taking priority."Vertical integration," with corporate control of the whole value chain, is a good old-fashioned way of extracting the maximum amount of money from an industry. It works when owning one part of the business makes other parts more attractive and more profitable -- as it arguably does with Sony's proprietary games business. It doesn't work when one group's interest are antithetical to the interests of other groups, and that's Sony's problem.
The 23rd annual Golden Joystick Awards, this year hosted by poker-faced TV comedian Jimmy Carr, received votes from 200,000 members of the public. This process resulted in five new decorations for Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, including PS2 Game Of The Year and Nuts magazine's Ultimate Game of 2005.The other big winner was Capcom's lovely Resident Evil 4, which walked away with, among others, Editors' Game Of The Year and the utterly misleading Best Film-Based Game of 2005 - apparently a misprint for Best Game On Which A Series Of Lacklustre Films Was Later Based, 2005. Unsung Hero of the year went to Atari's superb Fahrenheit, which gave the term "interactive film" an entirely deserved new lease of life.
Star Wars Battlefront IIPC, PSP, PS2, XBOXWith the DVD release of Episode 3, George Lucas's CGI Star Wars swansong, on the streets, you know a game won't be far behind, capitalising fully on fans' elevated level of interest in mowing down legions of Clone Troopers. Like its predecessor, Battlefront II is about participating in big set-piece battles from the Star Wars canon. Again, fights are bitty, scrappy affairs, in which you constantly die and reincarnate, giving single-player mode a slightly hollow feel. When played online, though, its massive assaults and steady balance actually make it addictive. A combination of quick restarts and your virtual presence in the Star Wars universe keep you coming back to what is a fairly limited game.&#183;Lucasarts, &pound;30-&pound;40Ultimate Spider-ManGamecube, PC, PS2, XBOXAs is well-established, the relationship between games and films is one sullied by the cold hand of commercialism, stealing development budgets in favour of an all-star licence, usually leading to a pathetically weak game. Spider-Man 2 the videogame, while far from perfect, bucked this trend by lending Spidey a wonderfully fluid set of controls that let you swing freely across New York. The first disappointment with the neatly cel-shaded Ultimate Spider-Man is that it does away completely with those. Without the joy of swinging around Manhattan, you're left to focus on the slightly glitchy combat and entirely phoney freedom of the city. Bouncing about as arch enemy Venom proves more fun, but still short of a decent game.&#183;Activision, &pound;30-&pound;40
Disney have just opened a new theme park in Hong Kong, on whichwww.miceage.comhas the scoop, including the fact that there are only four rides. For inside gossip on the American Disney parks,tinyurl.com/dhjljincludes anecdotes by cast members including Britney's royal visits and the time a customer decided to defecate in the burger queue rather than lose her place with a loo visit.www.disneylies.commajors in debunking myths surrounding the parks andsoundofmagic.comhas all the music used in the parks.Other interesting nostalgia:thedisneyblog.typepad.comhas a collection of pics taken in 1973, Widen Your World (home.cfl.rr.com/omniluxe/wyw.htm) is dedicated to discontinued rides and shows (like 1972's Wonderful World Of Water, featuring the likes of Goofy on skis) anddisneylandclub33.comtells the story of Disneyland's secretive drinking den Club 33.
SaturdayKart HighMondayDeath by design flawKorea now addicted to mobile games360 launch titles confirmedTuesdayXbox 360 develops selective memorySony's clampdown on second-hand games: UPDATEDTop videogame books?WednesdayLet's play a food gameAre you serious?Buck the marketBlue sky thinkingThursdayCapcom starts street fight on PSP"Is Nintendo's strategy confusing the public?TechnologyMicrosoft quietly confident about 360Pro Evo 5 PSPFridayUnfinished GamesSplit-end?By post
Which is the most secure, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox? John ByrdMozilla Firefox.It's not guaranteed safe -- it's had more than enough holes this year -- but in computing as in biology, parasites always attack the dominant system, and that is IE. Even if both had the same number of security holes, Firefox would still be safer.If you want maximum security, then Opera looks to be more secure than Firefox, but the difference is pretty small. SeeWeb browser security summary.I use both Firefox and IE6, and I've found an auto-updated IE running on an auto-updated XP SP2, with blocks on JavaScript etc, to be secure enough for normal use. But it probably wouldn't be the best choice for scouring the darker parts of the net for cracks/warez/hardcore/whatever.
In the lore of Silicon Valley, the Google headquarters is a Xanadu of the internet age. A pleasure dome where the geeky, play hard ethics of the 1990s dotcom boom live on: video game consoles, roller hockey each week in the yard and a table tennis table in every office.The journey from the master Googleplex in Mountain View, California, to the company's newest building in Buckingham Palace Road, London, is a long one. From the aura of the US west coast to that of the royals; from the sort of corporate set up Americans call a campus, to the fourth and fifth floors of an office building by Victoria train station.Google's London HQ is not the company's first British site - it has an office in Manchester, and until recently had London premises in Soho - but it believes the move to Buckingham Palace Road is more significant.Omid Kordestani, the company's senior vice president for worldwide development, says it will be a "strategic centre" for Google in Europe, somewhere for engineers to work on applications for devices such as mobile phones, an area in which "Europe is ahead of the US by light years". Commercial teams who make deals with affiliates and help generate the search giant's enormous advertising revenue will also be based here.One thing no one will tell you is if the table tennis tables and video game consoles of Mountain View will also be in London, taking corporate secrecy to a surprising extreme. The Google PR even clammed up when asked who will be doing the cooking. The Silicon Valley Googleplex was, after all, geek-renowned for employing an ex-chef to the Grateful Dead.The London branch is in fact rather plain. The colour scheme is white and off-white, the chairs standard swivel varieties and the desks mostly grey. It looked a lot like a regular office. All that broke it up were a large corporate G in the tea and coffee area, and lava lamps on each desk in Google's green, blue, red and yellow. No one would talk about a games room.But the invite was not about the office, it was about the children. Google chose to mark the opening of its latest 'plex with a competition among local schoolchildren to design anew doodlefor its UK homepage. Sometimes these are controversial. Master doodler Dennis Hwang - who must be one of the most-seen artists/doodlers in the world today - learned of the existence of Belgian Flemish speakers through an inbox of angry emails when he celebrated the birthday of Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands on the Dutch language site.The winning doodler, Lisa Wainaina, 11, was present, as were all the other hopefuls. In fact, Children made up the majority of the audience for the opening, so gift boxes looking something like McDonald's Happy Meals were on offer to amuse them. The contents were eagerly fished out as the corporate talk on how Google wanted to match the proportion of its non-US revenue streams to the 50% of its users outside the US proceeded.Google's self-declared mission is breathtaking - to organise all the information in the world and make it accessible, something that may take several centuries. At one end it has Google Local and the newly-launched Google Base, both of which appear to want to encroach on the territory occupied by the Yellow Pages and classified ads. Then there are the global ambitions of Google Earth's worldwide satellite maps and Google Print, whose goal of a searchable library of digital books is already stoking concerns among copyright holders.The future may belong to Google. It is one of the fastest growing companies of all time, and this year turned an astonishing third quarter profit of &#163;215m. But its success could also bring problems. The company's strength is that it knows what people want because they tell them every time they use it. It is what allows it to match advertisers to potential buyers with such revenue-generating accuracy.John Battelle, author of The Search, a book on the culture of search engines, calls this resource the "database of intentions". He describes its creation as a "bargain" between Google and its users, but wonders "if either we or they are entirely sure what to do with the implications of such a transfer".Aside from its search and advertising prowess, Google's biggest success has been to build and maintain a popular reputation on a par with Innocent smoothies - pure, and ever so slightly quirky. There has been some dissent, from a clutch of internet rights groups that has consistently raised questions about Google's privacy policies. Yet the company has so far retained the corporate motif of a small company founded by two Stanford post-grads that said its guiding principle was "don't be evil".Mr Hwang, the doodler, was on hand to award the first prize in the school doodle competition to Lisa. Personable and self-deprecating, he denied his sketches were an attempt to put a human face on a lot of cold algorithms. It was just something, he said, that evolved out of Google's try-anything culture when founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin discovered their then assistant webmaster had studied both art and computing.Even without roller hockey on Buckingham Palace Road, there are still times Google - whose shares have just topped $400 on Wall Street - likes to think of itself as a small Silicon Valley start up.
iBuzzis "a music-activated sex toy" that "stimulates you in time with your favourite music. Which song pushes your butttons?" says the site. It could certainly add a new dimension to your daily commute.The iBuzz works with any MP3 player but the white case, white lead and name suggest it's targeted at iPod users. Love Labs LLP says the iBuzz "is not endorsed by Apple Computer, Inc" and it's not available in the USA. It will be interesting to see if Cupertino responds.
Simon Jeffery from Guardian Unlimited also went to the opening of the London GooglePlex, and reportshere.
If you live in France, you could send all your holiday pressies by Mario Mail this year thanks to La Poste's game-based stamps.For 2.65 (1.81 in GBP), you get 10 stamps that (and please forgive the dodgy translation) "feature the legends of video games: the mythical heroes that everyone knows, from child to adult". Clickhereand type "jeux video" into the search box to see what it really says.As an amateur philatelist (very amateur; I'll leave the real deal to my Uncle Andy) I remember when the US Post Office first started putting pop culture icons on its stamps. Elvis, Marilyn and James Dean were my personal faves. But video game characters? No chance. Too controversial.However, Les French have a habit of tirelessly supporting its digital entertainment industry, in the past pulling companies out of the financial doldrums so uber-corp EA couldn't buy controlling shares.If Britain chose to celebrate the games industry's interactive cultural contribution by placing pics on stamps, there'd be some great home-grown talent that could feature. Here are the top eleven UK-developed games characters.Please, help me out with others. If we put together a comprehensive list I'll send it to the Royal Mail.1. Lara Croft (Tomb Raider,Core Design, Derby) 2. James Bond (GoldenEye 007,Rare, Manor Park) 3. Joanna Dark (Perfect Dark,Rare, Manor Park) 4. CJ (Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas,Rockstar North, Edinburgh) 5. Dark Mistress (Dungeon Keeper,Bullfrog, Guildford) 6. the GUI from Elite (Elite, Bell &amp; Braben, Cambridge) 7. James Pond (James Pond,Millennium Interactive, Cambridge) 8. Worms (Worms series,Team 17, Ossett) 9. Jet Set Willy (Jet Set Willy,Software Projects, Liverpool)10. Monty Mole (Wanted: Monty Mole,Gremlin Graphics, Sheffield) 11. Horace (Horace series,Psion, London)
Is the split-screen multiplayer mode on its last health pack? Has the flag been captured by broadband online gaming? Went round to a friend's yesterday and spend several hours playing through a selection of recent(ish) titles offering split-screen deathmatch modes. We tried Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood, Red Dead Revolver, Ghost Recon: Island Thunder, Freedom Fighters and a few others - and invariably I was disappointed with the results. Lack-lustre level design, drastically reduced graphics detail, dull objectives... I know we all tend to view GoldenEye through a pair of thick rose-tinted glasses, but none of these games seemed to get anywhere close to providing the superbly stage-managed face-offs of Rare's classic.Obviously, providing a split-screen mode is quite an undertaking. Having up to four separate players interacting with the game environment at once is seriously demanding on the processor. Furthermore, there's the problem of giving each inhabitant a decent view of the action - which is actually two problems in one, involving clever use of visuals and excellent level construction. And of course, Freedom Fighters, Brothers in Arms and Ghost Recon: Island Thunder challenge themselves even further by attempting to incorporate the squad-based nature of their respective single-player missions. The result, almost invariably, was many minutes of wandering around stark environments (and I meanstark), punctuated by brief devastating firefights with fatal outcomes. That might be a realistic depiction of modern war, but it's not very satisfying as a gameplay model.So in this era of broadband connectivity is the split-screen mode being over-looked by designers? Or did I just have a bad gaming day? And what have been your favourite split-screen experiences for the last few years?I guess I'll have to go for Timesplitters and Halo...
Nothing unusual about lists of the Top 10 or Top 100 games, buthereJ.J. McCullough has collected lists from several sources -- Gamefaqs, IGN, Edge, CVG etc -- and picked out the handful of games that appear on most lists. These are (drum roll, please):1Tetris(appears on 15 out of the 19 lists)2Super Mario 64(14 out of 19)3 (tie)Street Fighter II(10 out of 19)Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past(10 out of 19)Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time(10 out of 19)Big win for Nintendo, yes? Otherwise, the PC appears to be the top gaming platform, with 19 games, while the good old SNES (11 titles) hammers the PlayStation 2 (2 titles). Of course, that's partly a function of using lists that go back to 1996.But I won't be suprised if your all-time favourtie games don't even get a mention. Only one of my mine appears -- Sid Meier's Civilization -- but not Championship Manager, Defender, Freecell or Sim City.
It's this time of the year, when stacks of games are being spat out every Friday, that I always wonder. Not, as you may expect, 50 Cent game why? But how many of these games will ever actually be finished by their owners? I'd love to know the stats. Yes, I appreciate that sports games and MMORPG's can't be completed in the traditional sense, but anecdotal evidence suggests most games are put aside long before they are finished. Can you imagine doing this with a film or book? Sure, it happens - anyone else walk out ofRevolver? - but not to the same extent it does with games. So why is this? Have we all gone soft?The obvious conclusion is that games are too long and too difficult. Older gamers, veterans of the unforgiving 8 bit era when lives came in threes, may scoff, but it's true. Especially the length issue - games are generally too long. Time is tight for most people and yet reviews still mark games down for having less then, say, 20 hours gameplay. With so many games released every week it takes a committed player to stick it out when stuck on a game, especially now it is so easy to trade in or sell an older title to fund newer purchases.How many people do you know who ever fully completed, say, GTA:San Andreas?But there must be more to it than just time. Is it a cultural thing? Now that gaming is mainstream has the completist urge been diluted by post-pub players and casual participants? Is the cost an issue? Games ain't cheap.In reality I'd suggest the much of the problem is caused by competing interests. On the one hand you have hardcore gamers who demand hours of challenging action - on the other, less committed players who want to dip in and out of a number of titles and, crucially, feel like they are making progress. All the console format holders and publishers are aware of this - EyeToy, Revolution controller, Live Arcade - but the majority of games are still aimed at the hardcore guys, leaving other interested parties with a game they can't or won't finish.Most of all though, spare a thought for the game creators - the bearded guys who create these interactive worlds we all love. Imagine spending years crafting your epic only for a tiny amount of people to ever see the end - people who would probably then moan about the length anyway.We all consume media but gaming seems to fill us up far too quickly.
"MIT has unveiled its $100 hand-cranked laptop computer to the United Nations technology summit in Tunisia and said that it hopes to make millions of the devices to give to the poorest people in the world. The lime-green machines, which are about the size of a text book, will offer wireless connectivity via a mesh network of their own creation allowing peer-to-peer communication and operate in areas without a reliable electricity supply," reportsPocket-lint."MIT plans to have units ready for shipment by the end of 2006 or early 2007. Manufacturing will begin when 5 to 10 million machines have been ordered and paid for in advance."Update:There's alsoa FAQfor the project.
"Apple is planning to release its first entry-level iBook laptops with Intel processors next January at Macworld Expo in San Francisco, highly reliable sources have confirmed toThink Secret. It is not known exactly what processors or price points the new models will debut at, but it is thought Apple will expand the iBook line with one additional model and will lower pricesin some cases possibly $200 or moreto entice current Windows users and prove to the market it will be more competitive with the likes of Dell, Gateway, HP and Sony."
I've been playing Pro Evo 5 on the PSP for the last week. I still can't make my mind up, but at the moment it seems to be very much likeLiberty City Stories- i.e. technically marvellous, but hampered by the PSP itself. The nub and shoulder buttons just don't offer the same feeling of control or potential moves that seasoned players will need. And it's a shame because the game has enough bright points to encourage perserverance.The action is still as realistic as ever - possibly too much so. Retaining possession is a struggle and the way the ball bobbles around makes it hard to create passing moves. There are other flaws too - the widest camera angle doesn't offer quite enough view to fully measure your through-balls, while loading times and occasional slowdown are a pain. Also, criminally, there isn't a master league option, which will disappoint the die-hards.But it's the controls that annoy the most, with many promising situations thwarted by the stodgy controller or shoulder buttons rather than the opposition. Using the d-pad helps, but the sublime feeling of control engendered by the PS2 and Xbox versions is often absent on PSP.But you know, despite all this, the thing still works. It retains the essence of Pro Evo - namely that football is as much about perspiration as inspiration - and, despite the flaws, is still the best handheld footy game around.The staccato pace resembles the real sport and scoring even the scrappiest goal is a proper punch the air moment. Hell, I even scored a free kick last night - only ever scored one on the console version - though that was after a few drinks on the train home (maybe that's the key?) Pro Evo 5 is satisfying to play and a great technical achievement, but don't expect perfection - like most PSP games this is very much a work-in-progress.
Fifteen years ago, Tim Berners-Lee was developing the first web page, the first web server, and the first browser - all of which ran only on his own machine at Cern, Europe's particle physics research centre. The web was seen as a good way to share mainly academic information. By 1995, the web had about 20 million users and was already being used for entertainment and shopping, but what really brought it to worldwide attention was Netscape's initial public share offering (IPO). The web might appeal mainly to geeks, but clearly there were millions to be made. And, of course, lost.Well, the venture capitalists and corporate takeovers are back. Google's IPO, late last year, showed that there are still millions to be made, and some spectacular deals have followed. Indeed, eBay paying $4bn for Skype, a tiny company with revenues of only $7m, would have stunned people even before the dotcom crash.Much of the new investment is going into companies that are leading the way in what is being called Web 2.0. No one is quite sure what that means, but it is certainly the most fashionable label to slap on any cool new website or, more importantly, venture capital request. But before you invest your pension fund in its future, keep in mind that it could also mark the start of Bubble 2.0. The websites may be new but, as Michael Gartenberg of Jupiter Research points out, "the business models are still built the old- fashioned way".Is history repeating itself? Microsoft seems to be trying. In 1995, the software giant responded to the threat of Netscape by announcing a U-turn on the internet, and this month, it made a similar response to the threat of Google. Bill Gates swapped his "tidal wave" metaphor for a "sea change" as Microsoft announced new Windows Live and Office Live websites and an increased interest in online services supported by advertising.As in 1995, Microsoft was announcing things it couldn't deliver, but the launch signalled that its programmers were being mobilised for battle. However, don't for a second imagine Microsoft is going to stop licensing its software. All its programs will get an online service component, but as Gartenberg says, "it's about extending &#91;Microsoft's&#93; traditional application models, not replacing them with something new."Mercifully, Microsoft managed not to mention Web 2.0, a label coined by Dale Dougherty at O'Reilly Media to describe a new generation of sites and services that use the web as a platform. The idea has been developed most effectively by the publishing company's founder, Tim O'Reilly, who launched the first Web 2.0 conference in October last year.Principles and practicesFollowing some brainstorming at FOO Camp, an invitation-only conference, O'Reilly wrote the defining document, What Is Web 2.0, published on September 30. This lists seven "principles and practices" that usually feature in Web 2.0 sites from "The Web as Platform" to "Rich User Experiences" - and that's the problem. Different sites can qualify by offering one or more Web 2.0 features but still have nothing in common.And as O'Reilly admits, many Web 1.0 sites also espoused the same principles: "Netscape promoted a 'webtop' to replace the desktop, and planned to populate that webtop with information updates and applets pushed to the webtop by information providers who would purchase Netscape servers." As a result, it's all too easy to exploit the Web 2.0 marketing buzz whether a website qualifies or not.That Web 2.0 has more to do with marketing than technology helps explain the negative reaction of real geeks such as Joel Spolsky, chief executive of Fog Creek Software and an influential blogger. "The term Web 2.0 particularly bugs me," he wrote. "It's not a real concept. It has no meaning. It's a big, vague, nebulous cloud of pure architectural nothingness. When people use the term Web 2.0, I always feel a little bit stupider for the rest of the day."It's hard not to agree. Certainly O'Reilly was a bit too generous about Bill Gates's arrival on the scene. He went to Microsoft's Live press conference in San Francisco and reported: "Microsoft is fully engaged with thinking about what I've called 'Web 2.0'. They are focused on the internet as the platform, on software as a service, on creating rich experiences across multiple devices, on live update as a metaphor for both software and documents, on grassroots adoption as a result of user conversations. They are also very clearly focused on advertising as a new business model. We're hearing all the Web 2.0 buzzwords: RSS, Ajax, social networking."However, it is a mistake to think Microsoft has just adopted the idea of software as a service, or suddenly discovered advertising. Microsoft has offered Hotmail, messaging and online photo albums for years, and according to chief executive Steve Ballmer, sells online advertising worth almost $2bn a year. This is less than Google's $6bn, but it's not a trivial sum.Also, in many respects, Microsoft must see Web 2.0 as deja vu. For example, Microsoft is enthusiastic about RSS (Really Simple Syndication) but it is very similar to the Channel Definition Format that Microsoft and the late Pointcast launched with Internet Explorer in 1997. Microsoft is also keen on Ajax, a kind of lightweight programming, but it can claim to have invented it.Nor is there anything new about offering applications online. Microsoft, IBM and others have spent years trying to sell Office as an online service, and it has been a resounding failure. Whatever Web 2.0 is about, it is not reinventing the mainframe.But for Microsoft, Web 2.0 does involve reinventing or at least retooling its own web services platform, Microsoft.net, launched in 2000. Microsoft's idea of making the web machine-readable was right, but at the time, the company was being hauled over hot coals by the US Justice Department for abusing its monopoly power. When Microsoft announced .Net My Services, aka HailStorm, users clearly did not want to trust it with all their data, or hand it an online monopoly to add to its monopoly control of the desktop.People are now starting to think about the similar Big Brother potential of Google compiling so much data, but at least the search engine giant comes across as a user-friendly company, and its motto is "Don't be evil". If Microsoft really wants to copy Google, that would be a good place to start.Collective intelligenceAs for the positives of Web 2.0, there is clearly something exciting and potentially revolutionary going on. Compare, for example, personal home pages on websites such as GeoCities (Web 1.0) with blogs (Web 2.0). Compare the Encyclopedia Britannica with Wikipedia, or Ofoto with Flickr, or DoubleClick (which serves banner ads) with Google AdSense.Where Web 1.0 was mainly a publishing medium, Web 2.0 offers more flexibility and interactivity. Instead of static pages, Web 2.0 sites provide user interfaces that are more like simple desktop applications - or, indeed, are online versions of simple desktop applications.Examples include the Writely word processor, Numsum spreadsheet, Zimbra (like Outlook) and the 37signals cluster of Basecamp, Backpack, Writeboard and Ta-Da List. Their appeal is that you can use them anywhere there is a working internet, and they allow you to collaborate with other people online.Indeed, Web 2.0 feeds an explosion in what O'Reilly's article calls Harnessing Collective Intelligence. In other words, users are intimately involved with building the sites and systems they themselves use. People don't just buy books from Amazon, they rate them and write reviews, compile lists, and resell their own books. People don't just upload photos to Flickr, they tag and re-use other people's pictures in all sorts of creative ways. Wikipedia's readers are also its writers, and so on.Again, all of this isn't strictly new: people were doing cooperative work on the internet before the web was invented and Berners-Lee had intended to create a read/write 15 years ago. But perhaps the time for collective and cooperative online communication has finally come - that, at least, would explain Microsoft's eagerness to scramble on board the bandwagon.Sites that define the new eraGmailGoogle's Gmail launched Web 2.0 to the masses - at least the ones with invitations. Instead of using pages refreshed from the server, like Hotmail, it downloads code to your PC to provide a quicker, richer user experience.Google MapsTransformed online mapping by using Ajax-based programming to let users pan around and zoom maps without having to wait while a whole new web page is downloaded.My Web 2.0Yahoo's experimental personalised search engine lets users tag and comment on web pages, and share them with friends, so the results depend to some extent on the people you trust.AmazonNot just a boring list of books, but a community site where users contribute reviews and recommendations. A programming interface allows Amazon data to be used on other sites.FlickrAllows you to view, group, tag and re-use your own and other people's pictures. Third-party applications use Flickr photos to make postcards, montages, slideshows, etc.WikipediaAllowing anyone to edit almost any page, it is the acme of online collaboration. Its variable quality has made it a focus for attacks on Web 2.0. As Xeni Jardin wrote on Wired News: "When you invite the whole world to your party, inevitably someone pees in the beer."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Would be cyber-sleuths overwhelmed a new website listing Britain's most wanted criminals today, causing it to crash almost as soon as it was launched.Police were hoping to use the Most Wantedwebsiteto snare crime suspects, but 208,000 visitors in its first two hours online brought brought the site to it's knees."We definitely didn't anticipate that many ... we expected 10,000 or 20,000 at most." said a spokeswoman for Crimestoppers, which launched the project.She said they expected to have the site running again by the end of the day.It will include photographs, CCTV footage and descriptions of people sought by police. Eleven police forces are involved in the project, and Crimestoppers hope the site's popularity will attract others.Members of the public can leave tip-offs using a secure online form and see pictures of the most wanted suspects in their local community.The chief executive of Crimestoppers, Mick Laurie, said it would be the first time the charity could receive information about crime anonymously via the internet."This is a major step forward for Crimestoppers, being able to use new technology to aid UK policing and help make our communities safer," he said.Nick Ross, presenter of BBC's Crimewatch, hailed the site as the "biggest advance since the Wanted poster"."It is astonishing this has never happened before. Apart from Crimewatch, there is virtually no way of getting national publicity for most cases and many wanted people could just disappear - until now," Ross said."Even the police have no effective way of communicating the huge number of wanted suspects."The Sun has reached an non-exclusive agreement with Crimestoppers to publish pictures from the website in the newspaper.Crimestoppers is an independent UK-wide charity. Since its launch in 1988 it has received more than 640,000 calls with useful information, resulting in more than 57,000 arrests and charges.Every month it receives an average of 6,000 anonymous calls that lead to more than 500 arrests.The information it receives is often used to help solve existing investigations but it is also used to inform police of crimes they may not know about.Suspects featured on the website include:&#183;Ayub Khan, who is wanted in connection with the double murder of Amarjit Singh and his nephew Rajinder Singh. The east London pair were shot dead on August 29 2003 when they went outside after hearing three Asian men damaging their van. Police want to speak to Mr Khan in connection with the shooting and a &#163;10,000 reward is being offered for information leading to his arrest and conviction.&#183;James Francis Hurley, 42, who escaped while being transferred between prisons on February 16 1994. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1989, for murdering a police officer, armed robbery and firearms offences. While being transferred to HMP Wandsworth, he and another prisoner pulled a knife on a prison officer and Hurley escaped.&#183;Joseph Oduguwa, 42, is wanted for questioning by the Metropolitan Police's economic and specialist crime unit in connection with a substantial fraud. He is believed to have connections in Nigeria and may be in that country.
