Continuing this debate on browsers, followingJack's postbelow, in response to myoriginal post... is the standards compliance, or otherwise, of the browser built into AOL's software really something that's going to attract - or lose - users? I'd doubt it. Consumers only begin to really care about standards when we get locked out of sites because we're using the "wrong" browser, computer or operating system, asthisvintage piece on the Web Standards Project explains. What the analyst was not seeing is the strategic importance of making your own software. The battle between MSN and AOL, if it is to be one, will be won not on technical standards (for the reasons above), but on issues like marketing, pricing and content. But by "owning" the browser, AOL can come up with its own non standard, proprietary innovations and services within its "walled garden" of subscriber-only services, and ensure they are supported by the browser.That'sthe kind of thing that wins customers, and boosts revenues.
AT&amp;T Broadbandoffered users an e-mail filter to block spam... and found it blocked its own announcement of a rate increase.
"I didn't know you had to be a computer scientist to use toilet paper"(Thanks toNTKfor the link.)
IBMseems to be shedding about 5,000 staff -- a small number by its standards -- but it isn't trumpeting the numbers.
Artbots: The New York Times reports the return of robot art.
Beg to differ, Neil, if only a little(below): I think theWiredpiece is right on the money, and thanks to author Paul Bourtin for commenting. The point about the old browser wars was that Netscape was ignoring or setting its own standards, which is why Microsoft -- with its small minority market share -- allied itself with the W3C and did a better job of supporting industry standards. Having lost the browser wars, Netscape is trying to do the same thing -- which is exactly what you would predict and expect. It doesn't mean Netscape cares about standards any more than before, only that it has no other option. Either way, I think we are all in favour of users having a choice of standards-based browsers, but that's not something to fight about. There is still a battle, but really it's a battle for subscribers between MSN and America Online. The key question is therefore whether using Netscape in AOL will attract more users or perhaps prevent more paying subcribers from defecting. AOL doesn't deliver Internet standard e-mail, doesn't deliver Internet standard newsgroup access, can deliver non-standard browsing (have you got the original graphics on Web pages or recompressed art files?) and lumbers you with piles of stuff you may well not want -- RealMedia, for example -- but it still has to convince users it is the best way to access the Internet. Microsoft hopes that by offering Esaya's TrueSwitch software, it can convert AOL users to its cheaper and much more standard MSN service, as mentioned in my blog posted below onMay 21. As the analysts are pointing out, by switching to Netscape, AOL Time Warner is gambling with $10 billion a year in subscription income. And whether it has won, lost or drawn will not be clear until we see its subscription figures next year and in five year's time.
The sports internet sector claimed its highest profile victim yesterday when Sports.com, a business backed by sports super agent Mark McCormack, financier George Soros and golfer Tiger Woods, was placed into administration.Accountants Baker Tilly were appointed as administrators to Europe's biggest sports site in the high court yesterday morning, hours before the start of the World Cup 2002 and a month when Sports.com was expecting its highest ever number of visitors.However, advertising, content sales and online betting revenue from World Cup 2002 were below expectations.Sports and the internet was supposed to be a hugely successful financial marriage but Sports.com's collapse underlines the problems that have already been felt by rivals including Sportal and 365 Corporation.Although millions of fans log on to the websites daily, the businesses have relied largely on advertising and sponsorship and have struggled to turn a profit.Bruce Mackay, a partner at administrators Baker Tilley, said he believed cuts in advertising budgets across Europe, coupled with high operating costs, were the root of the businesses cashflow problems."We think there is a possibility of selling the Sports.com website and we intend to keep it running through the World Cup," said Mr Mackay."However, it is vital in the interests of everyone involved that we secure the support of key suppliers, advertisers and sponsors, and of course the public who use the site."Sports.com has European subsidiaries in Italy, France, Germany and Spain which are not in administration.Clients of Sports.com in Britain included the websites of Manchester United and Arsenal football clubs to which it delivered advertising and betting services respectively.Sports.com was founded in 1999 to deliver the latest sports news to fans. It also has its own reporting team that sells statistics to other media and mobile phone firms. Last year it boughtMegastar.co.ukfrom Express Newspapers.Sports.com was backed by &#163;44m of venture funds from investors, including Mr McCormack's IMG, Soros Private Equity, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Sportsline. Mr Woods and basketball star Michael Jordan were also shareholders.Sports.com's collapse came on the same day Teamtalk, the struggling sports radio group and web operation, announced it would be taken over by online bookieUKBettingafter the two companies agreed a &#163;13.7m deal.
Texting chat-up lines to members of the opposite sex could soon take on a new dimension when you can include photographs as well. And if you don't have many pictures stored on your mobile phone, well, that doesn't matter. The phone will have its own built-in camera.Over the past two days, about 60 journalists from all over Europe have been playing with prototypes of Nokia's forthcoming camera-phone, the 7650, at its annual press conference in Helsinki. We have been taking baby-steps with multi-media messaging services that are already big in Japan, where camera-phones have about a third of the market.Nokia is, to a large extent, betting its future on MMS. It gives users a good reason to buy a new mobile and it could push up the average selling price, since camera-phones - like the 7650, which will cost 800 euros in Finland - have more advanced software, more memory, and colour screens.And it could generate much more revenue for the network operators. A small snapshot takes up about 26K - the equivalent of 160 standard SMS text messages that can hold 160 characters each.Last year, only 7% of the network operators' income came from non-voice traffic. However, Pekka Ala-Pietila, Nokia's president, says: "We believe that by 2006, 35% will be coming from multimedia messaging and non-voice calls."Ala-Pietila reckons that 14% will come from person-to-person messaging, 5% from "infotainment" (mainly music and games), 4% from business services, 4% from advertising and 2% from transactions. Advertising? With a colour screen and video-streaming capabilities, companies will be able to send TV-style adverts to your mobile phone.Multimedia services are the main hope for so-called 3G (third generation) mobile phone networks, The Nokia 7650 does not use 3G: it is a standard GSM phone that also includes always-on GPRS data capabilities. However, Rene Svendsen-Tune, senior vice-president of Nokia Networks, says: "This is the first real test that we are going in the right direction."Of course, Nokia recognises that it is not just technology that drives the market, as was made all too clear by the terrible failure of Wap "internet" phones. Most phones now include Wap capabilities but hardly anyone uses them. Products also have to be easy to use, and meet users' needs at prices they are willing to pay.The J-Phone's success in Japan shows it can be done. But that doesn't prove the system will take off in Europe. To a large extent, success will depend on how much the network operators charge for the phones, and how they price the services. After all, a large part of text messaging's appeal initially was that it was either free or much cheaper than making a voice call.If the network suppliers conclude that because multimedia messages are 160 times as big as SMS messages they should cost 160 times as much to send, then you can forget it. Not even the porn market - well known for kick-starting new technologies - can stand UKP16 a shot.
A piece I wrote forGuardian Unlimitedlast week, on a possible fresh bout of browser wars, prompted quite a bit of mail from readers who complained I'd missed out the well meaning, if still slightly buggyMozillaandOperabrowsers. One gentle reader even accused me of "bending over" to those filthy Americans and their software. Evidently, the browser war continues to get a lot of people worked up. So it makes this kind of quote, from aWired News piece todayon AOL's possible switch from Microsoft's Internet Explorer to its own Netscape broswer, all the more surprising. Wired writes: "Analysts who follow both companies seem at a loss to find a strategic advantage to the pending switch. 'AOL may just like throwing money at ways to rid itself of any ties to Microsoft,' said Kenneth Smiley, director of research for Giga Information Group. 'But, in this instance, AOL has been unable to articulate a reason why it is in the best interest of AOL subscribers and AOL itself to make this move.'" Umm… what? Let's go back in time here… the reason Microsoft piled into the internet browser game was because Bill Gates spotted that the browser had the ability, in the future, to bypass - or at least marginalise - the operating system. "A new competitor 'born' on the Internet is Netscape," he wrote in a now famous memo in May 1995. "Their browser is dominant, with 70% usage share, allowing them to determine which network extensions will catch on. They are pursuing a multi-platform strategy where they move the key API into the client [browser] to commoditize the underlying operating system." What he was saying was: if a super browser of the future could do everything an operating system could (or at least replicate its major functions) why bother with Windows? Gates, of course, was spot on then, and the same wisdom is still good for today. AOL knows that, to exercise real control over what its customers experience online, and to maximise profits, they need to control both the content on AOL, and the means of distribution (browsers, even the cables). It's a tried and tested model - just ask Rupert Murdoch how well it works with Sky TV. So it certainly makes strategic sense for AOL, which will finally own a browser good enough to bring in-house the means by which its users view its content. For consumers, the benefits are less clear - this is, after all, just another big ugly corporation piling into the market, rather than the victory for the little guy that's being painted in some quarters, and the new Netscape is not any better than the latest Internet Explorer. But it's still better to have two ugly corporations fighting it out, rather than one dictating what happens next.
European law enforcement agencies were given sweeping powers yesterday to monitor telephone, internet and email traffic in a move denounced by critics as the biggest threat to data privacy in a generation.Despite opposition from civil liberties groups worldwide, the European parliament bowed to pressure from individual governments, led by Britain, and approved legislation to give police the power to access the communications records of every phone and internet user.The measure, which will be approved by the 15 EU member states, will allow governments to force phone and internet companies to retain detailed logs of their customers' communications for an unspecified period. Currently, records are kept only for a couple of months for billing purposes before being destroyed.Although police will still require a warrant to intercept the content of electronic communications, the new legislation means they will be able to build up a complete picture of an individual's personal communications, including who they have emailed or phoned and when, and which internet sites they have visited.From mobile phone records, police will also be able to map people's movements because the phones communicate with the nearest base station every few seconds. In urban areas, the information is accurate to within a few hundred metres, but when the next generation of mobiles comes on stream it will pinpoint users' locations to within a few metres.Tony Bunyan, editor of Statewatch, said: "This is the latest casualty in the war against terrorism as far as civil liberties are concerned. The problem with wanting to monitor a few people is that you end up having to keep data on everybody."The British government, which played a key role in driving through the new measures, has already introduced such powers as part of the anti-terror bill rushed through   in the immediate aftermath of September 11, although the data retention measures have yet to be implemented.UK civil liberties groups had hoped that if MEPs rejected data retention, it would open up the possibility of a legal challenge to the British legislation on the grounds that it was incompatible with European data protection law. After yesterday's vote they now expect the government to press ahead with implementing the act.The measure is contained in an amendment to a bill originally intended to improve the security of e-commerce transactions. "Looking at the results, it amounts to a large restriction on privacy and increases the power of the state," said Italian independent MEP Marco Cappato, the bill's author who tried to prevent the amended clause being added.Last night, the Home Office welcomed the result. "The UK is very pleased that the &#91;European&#93; council and parliament have reached agreement on a text that will ensure that the fight against terrorism and other crime will be given the appropriate weight. It is, of course, very important to protect people's fundamental rights and freedoms, but, as the tragic events of September 11 show, this must be balanced with the need to ensure that the law enforcement community can do its job."But critics said the move amounted to blanket general surveillance of the whole population. The communications industry has also opposed data retention, questioning the feasibility and cost of storing such vast amounts of information.John Wadham, director of Liberty, said: "This violates a fundamental principle of privacy, which is that data collected for one purpose should not be used for another."The police and other authorities will be able to trawl through all the details of the communications of millions of innocent people merely because there is a possibility that they might come across something suspicious."
Watched the BBC's 24-hour news channel in my hotel room at about 5am this morning (OK, 7am local time), and noticed that they still refer to the troubledPalmas the company that makes Palm Pilots. It's years since they dropped the Pilot name (following a lawsuit from a pen company) but most people who neither use nor buy Palm handhelds -- or perhaps are still using the original model -- don't seem to have noticed. Otherwise this is my first and probably last blog from Nokia House in Helsinki, Finland, where about 60 journalists have spent a couple of days playing with prototypes of Nokia 7650 phones. These have built-in cameras and Psion/Symbian operating systems, and could be considered more bad news for Palm.
Late night readers will have noticed some weirdness with the blog this evening... sorry, if so. Blogger.com has switched to a new publishing engine - we're not the only blog to be having troubles posting, and it has also played havok with the Blogback commenting feature. All should, now, be fixed...
(viaEvhead.com) - it appears the number of sites people are visiting from home is on the increase, according to stats from Media Metrix, quoted in today'sWashington Post. Factors likely to have an impact? I'd suggest broadband - which makes it easier to surf around for curiosity's sake - and the continued growth of the weblog, which has made personal sites worth a visit again.
Are the mobile phone companies finally getting the message? At long last they have started to offer revenue-sharing deals so enterprising people and small companies can create games and other services for mobile phones and actually be paid for their efforts.About time too. Previously they tried jealously to keep all the games limit their games to their own subscribers and couldn't see why they shouldn't keep practically all the revenues. Even now they are only offering revenue-sharing deals for premium calls - not for standard ones, and mainly for big companies not small start-ups.We know their problem - how on earth can they recoup their £22.5bn investment in 3G networks at a time when the bottom has fallen out of the telecoms market (as witnessed by Vodafone's record £13.5bn loss this week and yesterday's admission of slow revenue growth by MMO2). But their initial strategy of trying to get their money back by squeezing the blood out of content providers was the exact reverse of what a successful strategy requires.What they should be doing is offering massive incentives to encourage would-be entrepreneurs to dream up new content for mobiles, which they can then sell to the rest of the world. Britain has a wealth of creative talent in this area and it is in danger of being squandered. It is about time they realised that the winners in the 3G race will be those that have compelling content, whether a locational based game (games based on the fact that the mobile phone company knows exactly where you are), an online betting facility or real-time share tips .In a few years time the phone companies will be falling over themselves to offer good content providers 50%, 60% or even 90% of the revenues generated so as to prevent defection to rivals. This will still give them a higher return than a standard telephone call and if they become worldwide successes the rewards will be dizzy.Just look at the gaming industry. The manufacturers are selling the consoles at a loss in order to make money from the content - the games, they sell at £39.99p apiece. Mobile phone companies are not good at creating games or any other content. They should stick to their masts and try to maximise revenue on their underused networks. The sooner they realise that the balance of power between content providers and delivery networks is about to change dramatically, the sooner they will discover what they crave - a long-term revenue source to pay for their huge investments.Why hasn't this been happening already? If there was genuine competition you would have thought that at least one mobile phone company would have broken ranks and offered a high return in order to attract the best content producers. One or two companies (mainly abroad) like KPN are reported to have offered revenue shares of up to 85% - but only for their own network. That's a start, but a genuine breakthrough won't happen until content providers are offered a high return and access to all mobile phone customers across all platforms.If phone companies still have any doubts they should remind themselves of the runaway success of NTT DoComo, which is based on the Japanese company's decision to retain only 9% of the revenue generated. If Britain wants to breed golden geese then we will have to make sure they are well fed.
&#183;Mobile email has become simpler thanks to a free service from Orange, "Mobile Mail Made Simple",  available through its retail shops. Anyone in business entering the shop with a mobile phone and a PDA (personal digital assistant) will be advised on how they can be made to work together to pick up emails while you're on the move. If you have neither, the company will happily sell you a top-of-the-range iPaq and Ericsson mobile phone combination for £499 including VAT and a very fast connection based on Bluetooth technologies to network the devices together, as well as GPRS for fast pick-up of emails. The main idea though, the company swears, is to get people using the technology they've already paid for more efficiently.Vodafone is also beefing up its business services, with more business advisers in its own branches around the UK and extra business services on the way through its internet portal and its call centre - more details will be published as the services emerge.&#183;People over 40 years old who are either in small businesses of less than 250 employees, or are self-employed are being offered free IT training by MaP&gt;IT, initially in the London area. E-Skills, formerly E-Skills NTO, is part of the management consortium behind the £2m project, which will offer European Computer Driving Licence, Cad/Cam, PC usage, eBusiness and Digital Entrepreneurship and networking, with most courses leading to a formal qualification. For more information, ring 020-8231 2210 or emailmapit@tvu.ac.uk&#183;High-profile entrepreneur Sir John Harvey-Jones is lending his name to a new campaign to get British companies growing and using technology more efficiently. The former BBC Troubleshooter will be touring the country in a series of seminars entitled "IT for Profit", which will aim to put the technology firmly into a business context. Sponsored by Microsoft, Compaq, BTOpenworld and Access Accounting, the tour kicks off in June and further details are atwww.itforprofit.com&#183;People with storage problems on their computers, particularly when they're on the move, will welcome the introduction of Amacom's Flip2disk portable hard drive. Connecting to computers through USB, PCMCIA for laptops or a number of other means (cables cost extra), the units hold up to 40Gb of data (think of about 60 CDs worth of music, for example) and fit into a shirt pocket. Taking advantage of the low price of storage at the moment, pricing starts at £159 for 10Gb although the 40Gb version, available in October, will look like a better buy for many at £385.&#183;The Department of Trade and Industry has launched a new website to keep businesses abreast of new technology developments. To be found atglobalwatchonline.com, it will offer reports from overseas, thanks to the Foreign Office, plus IT information taken from 600 websites around the world and contacts with the DTI's International Technology Promoters, who aim to foster relationships with overseas partners.&#183;Do you know how much accidents and ill health at work are costing your business? Consultancy CMG thinks it can help you assess the position with its online calculator of the cost of these elements, which is now live at hse.gov.uk/costs. The total cost of illness and injury is estimated at £6.5bn per year in the UK, so it's not a trivial issue; the ready reckoner will help work out an individual company's exposure and the other information on the health and safety site should help businesses plan around reducing it.&#183;E-commerce software supplier Actinic has published its annual research on the state of e-business among the small business community. It concludes that e-commerce is gaining acceptance as an effective sales medium, with 26% of the sample selling electronically in 2002 as opposed to 25% in 2001. A further 11% plan to develop electronic trading over the next 12 months but most significantly, the rate of profitable websites has moved from 59% last year to 72%this time around. Further details can be found atactinicftp.co.uk/docs/ecreport02.pdf.&#183;The government's Ukonlineforbusiness website (ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk) is offering a series of publications on electronic business.   Subjects covered include Cad/Cam (Computer-aided design/Computer-aided manufacturing); CRM (Customer relationship management); C-commerce (that's Collaborative commerce); EPOS (Electronic point of sale); EDI (Electronic data interchange); Extranets; Forecasting &amp; planning; Hosted applications; Integrated business systems; JIT (Just-in-time compiler); Online auctions; Order tracking; Outsourcing; Personalisation; Supply chain integration tools and supply chain trust and security.   All of the publications can be downloaded from the website or ordered free of charge in hard copy form.
Are you sitting comfortably? Then we'll begin, although there's a reasonable chance we don't need to, because if you're sitting comfortably then you're probably getting the ergonomics of your office and the technology in it about right.One dictionary describes "ergonomic" as "the applied science of equipment design, as for the workplace, intended to maximise productivity by reducing operator fatigue and discomfort", which is as good a starting point as any. This makes the IT and computing issues easy to sort out, thanks in part to the high ergonomic standard of just about everything on the market at the moment.Assuming a basic set-up of PC, mouse, monitor and key board, plus a printer, there's a lot that can be done in terms of basic layout to achieve a reasonable level of comfort in a workplace without spending a lot of money. Most typing chairs are adjustable, and ideally the eye line should be level with the top of the monitor. Elbows should be more or less level with the keyboard, and people should take breaks from looking at the screen roughly once an hour. There's a good website on the basics from Hewlett-Packard which contains no product pitches but a lot of practical information on how best to use basic equipment.Another site at homeworkingsolutions.co.uk is more salesy in terms of the furniture it offers, but has a lot of   impartial information as well.But very few people have just the basic desk set-up described above: a PDA might need linking into the main computer, then there's the scanner, the fax machine and the answering machine, with maybe a few external disk drives and other peripherals added to the mix. This means three things: wires, wires and more wires. The good news is that there are numerous inexpensive solutions to the wiring clutter problem, from simple cable tidies that can be stuck to the underside of a desk so the cabling is at least unobtrusive, to pieces of furniture for racking large numbers of servers, which can be put in a corner or indeed into a full-blown wiring closet if you have a room that can be spared for that use.One alternative to this sort of cable management, at least at the level of the individual desktop, is to consider the wireless options. In terms of peripherals they need not be unduly expensive; a cordless keyboard and mouse set from Microsoft, Logitech and others, will produce change from    &#163;45 including VAT; versions with smarter buttons for internet and other applications are available at increasing costs. The smart black ones are of course the most    expensive. Wireless networking technology is also available, which is less hassle than ripping up the floorboards every time you need to move the office around. This was   once a very high-end and expensive solution to wire cluttering, but it's coming down in price slowly.Mice are often subject to upgrades, and alternatives to the most basic include some designed for increased comfort while being manipulated; if you weren't aware that your hand was stiffening up while using your existing mouse you probably don't need one. If you do find them uncomfortable then don't overlook the Trackball alternatives from Microsoft, Logitech and others, which is awkward if you're used to mice. But once you've adjusted, they're less dependent on small movements.Displays can be a cause of some controversy among ergonomics specialists; numerous publications recommend at least a 17-inch monitor for all purposes, perhaps forgetting the depth of the units - they go back a    long way. One of the less expensive 15-inch thin-screen monitors based on LCD technology is likely to be just as useful, and 17-inch models are coming down in price. But the price differential between the technologies remains, and 19-inch LCD   monitors are excruciatingly expensive.Research from NEC-Mitsubishi UK suggests that the consistency and contrast available on an LCD monitor makes it less likely to cause eye strain. Crispness of picture and good contrast between black and white areas are the things to look for.Printers, too, are being designed with ergonomics in mind. Manufacturer Tally claims to be one of the first in this area and boasts that users don't have to bend over to load their equipment with paper, and that they have low noise output, although it's years since anyone made a general-purpose printer that actually had a noise problem.Improvements will continue to happen: Microsoft has a whole research facility in Cambridge called the Natural User Interface Group, which focuses on the software elements of a system as much as the hardware. Overall, given today's standards, if someone installs their equipment with reasonable common sense then the average user is highly unlikely to cause themselves an injury.Basic ergonomics&#183;Remember this is an area in which rules of thumb do apply: if you and your staff are feeling comfortable, there's a good chance you're doing OK.&#183;If your staff working in front of VDUs ask you to pay for their eye tests, they're asking for no more than a legal right.&#183;Always check with staff before introducing "ergonomic" improvements; a "natural" keyboard, for example, will only be comfortable for touch-typists, whereas a wireless keyboard and mouse will mean fewer cables and therefore more comfort for anyone.Links:Hewlett-Packard informationhomeworkingsolutions.co.uk
The internet bubble didn't burst - it deflated. But for most dotcom pioneers, there was a single moment when they realised the hot air had gone from the new economy.For Sonia Lo, founder of procurement startup eZoka, realisation came when she had to lay off employees who had become friends. For Rebecca Lancashire, it was when venture capitalists stopped cold-calling with offers to invest in her business, ClickMusic. For Wendy Tan,   the chief executive of Moonfruit, it was the day the PlayStations were taken from the company's chill-out room.In the UK at least, some female entrepreneurs are still holding on. In 1999, Moonfruit's website design software had 400,000 customers. The company had raised &#163;6m in venture capital and employed more than 50 people. Today, headcount is down to single figures and the number of customers fell to 5,000 after Moonfruit implemented a &#163;35 annual charge for its services. The company has   almost closed on three occasions, including a spell when it was put up for sale. But its female founder and CEO, Wendy Tan, isn't ready to throw in the towel. "Women will do whatever it takes to stay in business. We have less ego and a stronger survival instinct," she says.Women have been hit particularly hard by the collapse of the internet economy because it offered them a rare opportunity to take on senior executive roles in the technology sector, says Sylvia Paull, founder of Gracenet, a hi-tech women's group in Silicon Valley. "But look at all those high-profile women now," she says. "Ellen Hancock &#91;former CEO of Exodus&#93; can't get a job and if Carly can't close the HP/Compaq deal, she won't be able to get a job selling cosmetics." Given the experience of women in the valley, Paull doesn't hold out much hope for Europe's dotcom women.The last year has been tough for Tan, particularly the three rounds of redundancies. "Internet companies were built on trying to pull people together so when they go you really feel it," she says. "My execution has got better, but it's still the hardest thing."It's a similar story at eZoka, which has cut its workforce from 40 to just 10 in recent months. "The last 18 months have been totally brutal, although I think we will be all right," says Sonia Lo. "We've had to learn the hardest lesson of all: sometimes the turkeys really do win." When times get tough, it can be difficult being a women, says Lo. "The management tools available to men aren't available to women. I've never been able to raise my voice. The moment you do, you're accused of being hysterical or overemotional."eZoka is currently in the process of closing the company's biggest ever deal in Southern Europe, and Lo is confident about the company's prospects. This determination springs from the hostility Lo experienced when trying to set up eZoka. "It was only overt a couple of times, but when you are just being treated as a novelty or a token, it's pretty insulting," she says.One of the low spots in Lo's struggle to raise $7m funding was the investor who told her she was "seductive, but not seductive enough" to seal the deal. "It happens, and I'll name names when I retire," she says. "But in the meantime, there's always capital   elsewhere."For some women, their gender has been a definite asset, reassuring jittery investors in a nervous market. "For me, the fact I was setting up a business in the charity sector was more of a problem than the fact that I was female," says Zarine Kharas, founder and CEO of Justgiving.com, an online charity portal. "If anything, I think that being a women has helped. Investors are looking for a chief executive who is a good listener, and flexible - traditionally female strengths. Backers know a woman won't let her ego get in the way if something isn't working."At music portal ClickMusic, founder and CEO Rebecca   Lancashire also puts her survival down to her gender. "The whole dotcom thing was quite a male phenomenon - how big is your market capitalisation, or how many staff work in your offices," she says. "I was never interested in an IPO because it would have meant losing the business I'd built up."Lancashire has managed to make her &#163;2m venture funding last almost three years and has deliberately kept the company small. "We had tiny offices in crappy locations, I bought all the furniture myself from Ikea, and I sign every single cheque that leaves the building," she says. However, Lancashire wasn't completely immune to the   hype of the dotcom boom. "It was nice the day I was valued at &#163;15m," she says. "I probably went and bought a new pair of shoes to celebrate."In the sober 21st century it isn't the money that these entrepreneurs miss - it's the freedom it gave them to invent new ways of working. "I wish we hadn't wasted money, but what I really miss is the opportunity it gave us to try other things, like flatter management structures and chill-out zones," says Tan. "A lot of that stuff is now being used as a weapon to beat us with. I just hope we don't lose the good stuff just to get rid of the excessive, bad stuff."Paull isn't confident, likening the economic boom of the internet to the shortage in skilled workers during the 1940s. "During the second world war, women became welders and engineers and soldiers, but what happened after the war?" she asks. "They became secretaries. And it stayed like that for another 20 years."Links:gracenet.netbusygirl.co.ukezoka.commoonfruit.comclickmusic.co.ukjustgiving.com
Even those who shun email are willing to get technical when it comes to buying a flight. It's less time-consuming than waiting in a telephone queue, and telesales staff often seem poorly trained and unenthusiastic about searching for deals.   Thanks to canny marketing by the likes of Lastminute.com and EasyJet, people also believe they can save money online.But is it true? In many cases, it seems so. A call to British Airways for a long-haul return flight to Buenos Aires got me a ticket costing nearly £800. But online I got the same for £490, including the £5 discount for using the web. A colour-coded online calendar showed me cheaper flights for stays less than 28 days, while the telesales employee never suggested this. A further call got me a ticket on the phone for £478. But the web was the first step to taking control of the trip.Among the brand leaders in this crammed marketplace are Expedia and Travelocity. Both are easy to use and offer similar layouts and services, though Travelocity has been acclaimed for business-friendly extras like repeat bookings and a farewatcher service that sends updates of changes for business travellers. A newcomer in the glossy league is Opodo, created by some of the big-name airlines in a bid to take on the budget competition.Given the alliances that are forged in the heady world of international flights, you'd probably expect these big brand sites to offer the same deals on standard destinations, but a return flight from London to Lisbon in early May cost between £105 and £295 from Expedia, £130.80 and £152 from Opodo, and £128.80 and a mindblowing £647.50 from Travelocity.But be warned: start messing about with provincial departure points and these intelligent search engines will come up with insane time- and money-absorbing routes through European hubs, even when you're bound for a common city break destination such as Venice.When this happens, it's time to go budget-surfing. If you want to go straight to the no-frills section, browsetravel.guardian.co.uk/cheapflightsto find which airlines go where, and then enter the garish, primary coloured, idiot-proof environments of EasyJet, Ryanair, Buzz and the like. Here offers are laid out like topless sunbathers and you can get a booking from as little as zero pounds at certain times of the year. As departure dates approach the price rises, so this is a good place to hedge your bets and blow £20 on a future flight you might not even take.The competition for online flight booking is fierce. According to market researchers at Jupiter MMXI, nearly 6 million people visited UK travel sites in January 2002, with Lastminute.com receiving 849,000 customers. Jupiter expects the European online travel market to be worth around 20bn euros by 2006.The other place to find bargains is at online auctions, where buyers bid against each other for flights. At sites such as priceline.co.uk, you can also choose to fly via a string of airports and widen your range of dates to make your offer stronger. Bid too low though, and you'll be advised to get real. The risk here is that you have to plug in your credit card details and once you've sent your bid, there's no going back.But it's not always easy to know how reliable an online company is. Whereas any high street punter can distinguish between a slick operator and a bucket shop, a flash web page with animation and a well-designed look does not guarantee that the represented company is reputable. An expensive site might be the seductive cover for a dodgy or even non-existent company.Keith Betton, head of corporate affairs at the Association of British Travel Agents (Abta), suggests people "check to see if the online operator is a member of Abta or Atol so that they can get their money back if the company goes bust.   "Customers should not take the onscreen membership logos at face value," he adds. "If in doubt they should check with us, via our website, where there are some 700 members, or give us a call."Of course, the web is not only about flights. Many sites are full-on travel agents offering packages, hotels, car hire, money and information. While some people will always prefer face-to-face bookings, to talk over alternative dates, routes and offers, the advantage of web booking is, in addition to saving time and, with any luck, money, it gives a sense of independence.   The flight is the bones of a holiday, the functional bit. This is just the sort of thing that the internet is very good at. Travel sites should allow you to click and fly with the minimum of hassle, leaving you to settle into the non-virtual pleasures of eating out, sightseeing and reading fat books on the beach.Links:travel.guardian.co.uk/cheapflights,lastminute.com,EasyJet,ExpediaandTravelocity.
Empty rooms are the bane of hoteliers' lives, as the bulk of their running costs are fixed. An unfilled room may mean a little less laundry or cooking, but the mortgage, bills and staff wages still need to be paid.Big hotel chains cope with this through special offers for times when they predict they will have space. But this requires much planning, as well as lots of advertising to promote the offers.So how can a small accommodation owner fill empty rooms, even if at a lower price than usual? One solution is to use auction websites, the most popular being UK-based QXL.com and Ebay.co.uk, the local division of the US pioneer of online auctions.Ebay concentrates on small traders, and has a Bed &amp; Breakfast subcategory within its Tickets and Travel section. QXL has larger companies auctioning their wares, and the Short Breaks section of its Travel category includes a UK Hotel Breaks list. The easiest way to see what's going on is to look at the two sites' lists of auctions.Relatively few hotels exploit this technique. But it can be a useful way to sell rooms at quiet times, and to get noticed. It is also fairly cheap. QXL charges no listing fee when the reserve price is the same as the auction's starting price; Ebay charges between 15p and &#163;1.25.Both charge a percentage of any winning bid. QXL takes 5% of the first &#163;50, 3% of the next &#163;450, then 2% above that. Ebay charges 5.25% of the first &#163;15, 2.75% of the next &#163;585, and 1.5% above that. Both sell ways of promoting an auction, from featuring it on the site's home page to placing it in several categories.Roxanne and Andrew Sandiford took over the Merecliff Hotel in Blackpool last year, and were determined to take advantage of the internet. Mr Sandiford built the hotel website, merecliffhotel.co.uk, after taking a course in page design."I did 23 years in the Royal Navy, and the navy way of life is: if you're going to do something, you do it properly," he says. The site has almost replaced the need to send out printed brochures.Mrs Sandiford began experimenting with auction sites as a buyer, when building a collection of antique postcards of Blackpool. Anyone wanting to sell on auction sites should start as a buyer, to get used to their conventions and to build a rating - the number shown next to your trading name, showing how many satisfied customers (both sellers and buyers) you have dealt with.Mrs Sandiford first tried auctioning accommodation last December, with modest results. She hit the big time when she tried creating a package for Valentine's Day: two nights' accommodation for two people, plus a four-course Italian candlelit dinner. "It was a sell-out," she recalls. Filling a nine-room hotel in February, in a town not known for its winter weather, is no mean feat.She says she prefers Ebay to QXL or other auction sites, as she thinks accommodation sells faster there. The couple use the site to sell packages that include tickets to shows, or passes for Blackpool Pleasure Beach. They usually sell accommodation for a certain month, meaning that the winner negotiates the precise date separately from the auction itself.Mrs Sandiford starts auctions at &#163;1 with no reserve, to attract attention and bids. This means she could lose money on a resulting booking: "It's a risk I take," she says, adding that if people began winning auctions at very low prices, she would cut the number of offers rather than set a higher starting price.Colin Fox, group marketing manager for English Lakes Hotels, has many more rooms to sell in the group's five hotels, and at higher prices. But he still finds that QXL is a useful   tool, although he prefers realistic starting prices. "I don't think we would be keen on using &#163;1 that often," he says. English Lakes uses it occasionally - QXL offers free extra promotion for such low-starting auctions.Fox has been using QXL for several years, tending to put specific dates on auctions, something that is easier with larger hotels, as selling out is less likely. He agrees that packages work best.Hayley Watts, UK marketing manager for QXL, says packages allow hotels to promote themselves to different interest groups. "English Lakes themes things, such as a watersports package," she   says.Watts says accommodation auctions work best when three or four days in length, and less well if the offer is for a specific date in under a week's time. She adds that it makes sense to spread auctions over time. "Keep the inventory fresh, so there's always something there, so people can find the hotel," she says.Fox says that auctions have a strong promotional element. "A lot of people see us on there, then find our website, or phone us," he says.Mrs Sandiford agrees: "Many people wouldn't imagine coming to Blackpool. They come from Brighton and London, as they've won   an auction." And it often snags those who don't win: "People who lose ring up and book," she says.There are other ways of selling empty rooms online. Lastminute.com has built its business on late bookings, and this summer is starting a web "extranet" service. Previously, lists of dates had to be   sent in by fax, email or phone, making management cumbersome. "But with the extranet, we'll be able to take on a lot more of the smallest hotels," says hotel account manager Richard Lamb.This kind of service is more expensive: Lastminute charges &#163;200 for registration, plus 15% commission. However, it puts a hotel on a site concerned only with travel, and Fox says he is happy using both QXL and Lastminute.But for a small hotel such as the Merecliff, online auctions are ideal. "It gives us a lot of publicity," says Mrs Sandiford. "And when people win, rather than paying a deposit, they pay immediately."How do auction sites work?An online auction takes days rather than minutes to complete, but otherwise it follows the rules of the saleroom. Users need to register and choose a trading name for themselves. A seller then sets the auction's length, the starting price, the reserve price - which can be the same, or more than, the starting price - and the increment between bids. A listing fee may be charged.The seller also chooses a category, and provides a description and sometimes a picture of the item for sale. Potential buyers can ask questions through email or by phone if the seller provides a number.A buyer is notified by email if they fail to reach the reserve price, or if they are outbid, inviting them to rebid. Many auctions pick up speed in the last few hours or minutes, if two or more buyers are keen to win.Both QXL and Ebay offer an optional immediate purchase option. This means the seller can set a price which a bidder can pay to win the auction immediately.If an auction is unsuccessful, it can be reposted, although this can trigger another listing fee. After a successful auction, the seller pays a percentage of the winning bid, and contacts the buyer with contact details. In a standard auction, the website offers no guarantee that the item will be delivered, although some provide an optional insurance or guarantee service.Rogue traders are discouraged through ratings systems. Each successful bidder and seller is asked to rate their counterparty as positive (+1), neutral (0) or negative (-1), and leave a comment, which will be publicly displayed. A successful transaction should lead to a "+1", with "-1" ratings given only in case of non-payment, non-delivery or big problems with the transaction. The other party can leave public replies to comments.Many buyers and sellers are unwilling to deal with anyone who has too many negative ratings. The +1s and -1s are added up to a number shown next to each participant's trading name, and act as an online reputation - the higher the better.Links:QXL.comEbayMerecliff HotelEnglish Lakes Hotels
It was one of those days. The sun was shining, God was in his heaven, I was on top of my workload for once, and the phone goes. Hello, it's the VAT inspector here. We'd like to come and see you. Fine, I have all my VAT records up to date on the computer - should be easy. Only there's one thing, they tell me - they aren't allowed to look at computers, so would I mind printing everything off for them.Time to sit back and start to panic. VAT lady is coming in less than a week. VAT lady would like to see all of records ("please"). VAT lady wants to see every invoice and purchase order since 1997. VAT lady is not allowed to look at computer. Oh God.This is one of those interesting areas in which computing for smaller businesses and indeed for consumers promises a whole lot and then at the last minute, turns around, pokes its tongue out at you and fails completely to deliver. This isn't anything to do with the technology itself, it's the fact that it has to exist in the real world. And whatever the government and other agencies' claims and efforts are relating to the online world for business, there are more issues to overcome than they appear to have anticipated.Take, for example, the issue of accreditation for VAT. A handful of accounting software suppliers have actually registered with the Business   Application Software Developers Association (Basda) and passed the tests required to confirm that their systems are VAT compliant; for what it's worth these companies are Deltek, Squaresum, TAS (owned by Sage), Anagram Systems and Solomon. The others are likely to work, but basically you have to take them on trust. So why have so few companies bothered registering so far?The answers are many. First, it's a lengthy and no doubt costly process, at least in terms of the time taken, and whereas there will be others awaiting their accreditation, if their products are already selling then the impetus to get a formal certification is fairly small. Second,   one of the Basda committee tells me that Customs and Excise weren't all that enthusiastic about the accreditation in the first place. C&amp;E's view, quite reasonably, was that the VAT-registered business has the responsibility to get its figures right; it's not really C&amp;E's place to mollycoddle companies or endorse individual software systems. Basda's energy saw the accreditation through but the legal position remains as C&amp;E states it: if your records aren't up to date or if you've put the information into your computer badly then frankly that's down to you.All of which leads to the conclusion that if I failed to keep a paper copy of everything to do with my VAT records then that's my problem, which has to be fair comment. Except nowhere in much of the documentation that you get with the software does it say "incidentally the VAT inspector won't touch your computer with a plastic bargepole because then you can blame them for anything that might go wrong later and you can't expect them to learn every software system on the market so print everything    out as you go". I mean, it wouldn't, there'd be no point in buying the bloody thing then. Unless of course there were some new function like a "VAT inspector" button built in as standard in all of these systems - something like a software wizard you could hit when they announce they're on the way, which would then ask which periods they're looking at and print out everything you need, clearly labelled so that you can leave it running while you get on with your work.   It can't be that difficult.And nor should extracting receipts from websites from which you've bought items be any great strain; one of these, from which I'd sourced my last-but-one computer, had just such a function. Click here and view your invoices, it said, so I clicked and found they'd changed their system in 1999 and were unable to produce any invoices issued prior to that date. (Of course they can if you beg; they're legally obliged to keep trading info for six years and they know it as well as you do). Again, my fault for not printing out and preserving the thing at the time.Or is it actually my fault for trusting that computer systems will do what they purport to do and communicate with the real world when someone has forgotten to tell the real world it's supposed to have changed to fit in with the technology? Whichever, when buying software and hardware for your business it's always worth being a bit sceptical when it tells you it's doing something and is foolproof. Software programs? Lying sods, the lot of them.
Sometimes something happens and although it is not immediately applicable to you, you are aware it could matter in the longer term. A few years ago this would have included, for example, e-commerce. The upper end of the market used it; the mere mortals among us with less money and IT talent didn't bother. Boom and bust in the e-biz market aside, it's obvious to everyone that ordering items over the internet from comparatively small companies is now commonplace.In general, IT tends to start off at the top end of the market and move downward as costs and acceptance across a broad market converge. This is where the accounting systems market is an odd one: only 45% of companies with up to 50 employees use computers to run their accounts in spite of the ability to do so cheaply, often with change from for less than £200. But Microsoft is clearly interested and has just agreed to buy Navision, a Danish accounting and financial company that specialises in mid-market companies turning over £5m plus. It did something similar a year and a half ago when it bought Great Plains, a US company doing the same thing. Presumably it expects the take-up among the middle market, if not the smaller players, to look pretty good in its balance sheets.So, why do so few smaller companies go down the IT route for their accounts? The most probable explanation is the most prosaic: frankly, changing a system that seems to work is one hell of a faff. "The owners and managers of smaller companies are often too busy doing their job to proactively investigate ways of making it easier," says Alistair O'Reilly, managing director of accounting systems house Access Accounts. A bit like the general who was too busy directing a sword fight to meet with the machine gun salesman," he adds. Budget is also an issue, since the smaller business will need accurate accounts just as much as the larger business, but will not have the money to pay for them.It's worth stepping back and looking at just how to get a company's accounts in order electronically. It's May after all, which 's a good time to start. Essentially it's not difficult, as long as you start with the right paperwork around you: your last bank statement, a list of who owes you money and a list of people to whom you owe money.Different systems handle the initial setting up of a company in different ways, mostly because they are aimed at different customers. The Small company accounting systems from Sage, Pegasus and others offer wizards to guide you through data entry to an extent but they assume a certain competence in accounting. Quickbooks from Intuit, for example,  assumes you know nothing and asks very simple questions like "how much are you owed, who by and how many bank accounts should you set up?" Also at the lower end, Simply Books offers something that looks like a spreadsheet but has a 16-page booklet to explain how it works since the company believes the small trader will want to read this rather than get all their knowledge online.Essentially, all are designed to get your records up-to-date as quickly and painlessly as possible and will help you to put the right data in the right places. Points to watch are whether your VAT registration is on a cash or accrual basis, and whether you have a personal credit card that you sometimes use for business purchases. It's actually a very good way for sole traders to realise how slapdash their accounts, which they will previously have assumed to be immaculate, have been.The advantages of automating the process are clear. As discussed in the last issue of Business Solutions (May 2 2002), it's increasingly easy to use a good accounting system to link up to the government's websites and submit company returns, VAT returns and income tax automatically, and calculating those payments will take minutes rather than days. Peace of mind in always being up-to-date is equally important. This, presumably, is why the Gates empire knows it's on to a winner.The fallout from Microsoft's second entry into the market should be worth watching, more for the inter-company politics than for any impact on the business customer, whose system will still work. Industry commentators and competitors were taken by surprise by the initial announcement, particularly in the light of the Great Plains deal, but have been quick to offer opinions. Eduardo Loigorri, managing director of accounting systems company Exchequer, believes the presence of the two product lines will lead to conflict. "Microsoft will be rationalising these two acquisitions on a worldwide scale and I think we may see product and headcount culls," he says. "Also, Sage really seems to have missed a great opportunity to acquire some mid-market muscle." Having said which, Sage bought and assimilated Tetra in that space a few years ago. Fleming Beisner, managing director of Navision in the UK, stresses that the takeover has been agreed but the deal not completed as yet, so the details of what will happen are understandably sketchy; for the moment, for Navision customers and partners, he confirms it's business as usual.What is certain is that Microsoft will now own financial and accounting systems for the larger end of the "small to medium enterprise" market, as the DTI calls anyone from the sole trader to someone employing 249 people. In fact it owns two systems, and no doubt the debate on how it will harmonise them will rage until the deal is at least done rather than just agreed.Interestingly for industry watchers it also has its financial system for individuals, Money, and the professional version, Money Personal and Business, which will handle basic invoicing and receipt of payments for a self-employed person. This leaves a fairly substantial gap in the small office to lower end of medium office market as dominated by Sage at the moment; as Philip Taylor, executive product director and founder of accounting systems developer Squaresum says, "What does not seem to be happening is a simple bookkeeping system that can be sold as part of Office. That was supposedly the original idea behind the Great Plains purchase. If it ever was the idea perhaps Microsoft has discovered that it is difficult to have a bookkeeping product that is as ubiquitous as Office but meets the legal requirements of countries all over the world."Tips on selecting your accounts package&#183;Decide whether you or a colleague have good accounting skills. If not, opt for one of the simpler systems - TAS, MYOB, Quickbooks, Simply Books - that works in plain English. If so, some of the more complex systems - Sage, Access, Exchequer, Squaresum and numerous others - will offer more financial analysis as you grow.&#183;Talk to your dealer: it's easy to buy a system that's actually more sophisticated than you need, which means you end up spending too much money.  o If your accounts are very simple indeed - perhaps you're a sole trader not registered for VAT and running a service rather than product-oriented business - consider whether a spreadsheet would be just as efficient as a full-blown accounting system.&#183;Larger companies will need larger systems: many suppliers, for example Sage, offer products throughout a company's growth cycle, but they're not the only ones.&#183;If you're changing your accounting system rather than starting from scratch, make sure your chosen system is backwards-compatible, in other words that it will read whatever format your accounts are in at the moment. Or keep your old financial software as well as its replacement. You're still accountable for your old transactions and the VAT and Inland Revenue people get mightily annoyed if you can't tell them how much you earned a couple of years ago because of a computer glitch!
Training can be an expensive business. Not only do you have to pay for a tutor and usually travel and accommodation, but it can also be difficult keeping a business running when key people are in a classroom somewhere.Alison Stanley, a director of Stanley's, a small family-run jewellery business in the West Midlands, believes she has found an answer. Rather than book places on traditional training courses, she has embraced online learning to help improve her accounting skills. "I use it for advanced spread sheets. When I get five minutes I get my laptop out and learn a bit every day. It's the flexibility which I find very useful."She is encouraging her staff to use web-based learning packages as well. "There are lots of courses you can do. I just think it's the way to go. The courses don't rush you. Everything is explained clearly and it tells you whether or not you're correct."E-learning organisations now have UK-based SMEs firmly in their sights. They see them as ideal candidates for flexible web-based courses. The government-backed University for Industry recently announced that it is making a whole range of e-learning programmes available to SMEs through chambers of commerce up and down the country. The courses are provided through learndirect, the UFI's own e-learning network."Getting to the SME marketplace is notoriously difficult. It's not one happy group of people you can just point at. Our strategy is to acquire intermediaries who already have trusted and existing relationships with SMEs. We have no intention of walking into SMEs and saying we are here to do your training," says Cameron Beard, head of sales for the University for Industry.He says the e-learning courses that are being made available to SMEs are intended to solve day-to-day business problems. And the idea is that company directors can contact their local chambers of commerce in order to work out which packages would be most likely to make a difference to their competitiveness and productivity. "Some of the courses are very comprehensive. Some are quick hits and you can do them in your office," he says, pointing out that if you are interrupted by a customer you can log straight back on to the place where you left off.He says the e-learning packages can cost anything from £20 to £250 and cover essential business skills such as communication and marketing. The University for Industry offers a module called finance for non-financial managers which lasts for about nine hours in total and teaches you how to improve your cash flow and how to use your budget as a tool to monitor and control business activities.The successful take-up of e-learning packages generally depends on winning the confidence of owners of SMEs and assumes that they already have a certain level of computing knowledge. Advocates of e-learning strongly believe it is the most practical way to get small companies to adopt new skills. "You have to look at how you can get a mass of people who have not been learning for a long time back into some form of learning," says Ian White, business manager for the Training Quarter, part of City College in Birmingham, which provides e-learning courses to SMEs. "Small businesses have to stop thinking about a course as something you have to go to. Courses are solutions to problems. A course could be an hour." White says that an e-learning course could be simply about how to work with and use digital images.Parity Training, which provides e-learning courses for IT and management skills, says that general packages do not always have high completion rates. Kae Clarke, creative director for Parity, says that bespoke e-learning packages which are deliberately tailored to meet the needs of an individual and individuals within an organisation often work best. So what advice would she give to an SME director who is thinking about trying e-learning for the first time?"I would advise them to do a skills audit - with an SME that can be done quite quickly - to see what they want to learn and what stage they are currently at." She says that e-learning can also help to launch a new product. "The learning is done online and it's something they can continue to use as an educational tool as new people join."Few e-learning companies are suggesting that online courses should completely replace traditional ones. And many argue that having a physical tutor alongside you when you are e-learning can be helpful. But most agree that the ability of web-based training to deliver immediate answers is what makes it potentially most attractive to SMEs. Clarke says, "They can turn around their training quickly. They can log on right now and start training."Jeet Khaira, chief executive of the Video Arts Group, which was set up by comedian John Cleese, believes that e-learning courses have to be managed effectively in order for SMEs to get the best results from them. He says, "The big problem about e-learning is that it tends to be for the individual and you need the individual to be motivated to learn."Video Arts offers e-learning courses through its portal and can offer SME managers progress reports that monitor which areas an individual has covered and how they are performing. Khaira says that e-learning is suited to SMEs where staff are typically expected to perform a range of tasks that don't necessarily fall strictly within their job remits.
Video Arts offers generic business courses for SMEs on subjects such as how to manage time effectively. While Khaira agrees that bespoke e-learning courses can be the most effective, he points out that generic online programmes are more affordable for SMEs and have plenty to offer. 
However it's quite an art to get SME managers to start to use them. "When you go into SMEs," he says, "they tend not to have structured training plans for their individuals. "They tend to work long hours and training is not the first thing on their minds."Links:ufi.com,learndirect.co.uk,paritytraining.co.uk,videoarts.com
Time differences could make this the web's best World Cup, with fans going online to get news, pictures and - for the first time - video clips while at work or on the move, rather than waiting for the evening's TV roundups. But the web will not be the only new media offering, and will have to compete with SMS messages to mobile phones and other news sources.The web's first World Cup in 1994 was a low-key affair: it was the wrong kind of football for a system still dominated by Americans, even though the finals were held in the USA. The second, held in France in 1998, was taken much more seriously - especially by the Americans. By this stage, local content providers such as the Guardian and the BBC had well-developed sites, but US-based media corporations saw the World Cup as a way of reaching a global audience not interested in their staple NBA/NFL/NHL fare. The major US newspapers, Time magazine and ESPN invested   heavily in coverage - not that it did them much good.This time, the World Cup web is better produced, even more global, and has much more variety. The media companies are out in force, as are the advertisers, the betting sites, the fantasy football games and the fans. And I don't just mean Rivals.net. There's at least one readable blog already covering the event, thanks to web designer Bill Davis. There's also the entertaining Football's Leaving Home site, where the lads left England in March to   travel overland to Japan.Many fans will start with Fifa's official multilingual site, run by Yahoo. This has a wide range of features, including Official Music and a Mascot Zone (think Spheriks), though you must have a Yahoo log-on to take full advantage. There are video clips of famous games, great goals, and star players such as Johan Cruyff, plus the chance to sign up for video highlights of every match - though they won't be live. The highlight service costs $19.95 and requires Microsoft Windows and   Media Player 6.0 or higher. Mac, Unix and RealMedia players are not supported.What the official site lacks is what you would usually go to Yahoo for: a decent set of links. The main site goes some way towards making amends, particularly through the 32 folders in the Teams category. Alas, the links are disappointing. If you want to find the hot World Cup sites that Swedish, Brazilian or Japanese fans are reading, this won't tell you. Since Yahoo has local operations in those countries, which must   be producing pages like the UK's Englandfan, it is an opportunity wasted.There are lots of World Cup games ranging from Fantasy League (&#163;5 per team) to Correct Score (free). Nor can you accuse Nike and Umbro of taking their eye off the ball.Off the web, text messaging could be the big winner - especially considering the price. You won't want to pay 20p per goal alert if England lose 5-1 to Argentina. Carphone Warehouse's World Cup Goal Flash solves that problem with a flat rate of &#163;9.99. You also get flashed with team news, half-time and full-time scores, and red card incidents. Flytxt is also announcing an SMS service   today, and while it will cost 20p per message, at least 7p of that will go to the Comic Relief/BBC Sport charity, Sport Relief. Flytxt's World Cup premium rate service is only open to Vodafone, Orange and 02 customers.If you want to score geek points, then you have to track the tournament on a palmtop computer. PocketPC users can download PC Consulting's Fifa WorldCup 2002 Scoreboard or Aim's World Cup Today 1.0 ($5 each), or a schedule from Cloudfish (&#163;2.15). For Palm OS users, there are free programs from Funambol and TinyStocks, plus World Cup 2002 ($3). Psion owners can download free fixture lists in Agenda format from PsionPlace, or Pocket Info data, also available in Excel spreadsheet format.But if you're driving Excel, the Guardian's World Cup planner is the thing to have.
Every night in the UK, the dwindling number of executives left in the online content business must go to sleep cursing the BBC. Rather than worry about plummeting advertising revenues and failing strategic partnerships, the Beeb is in the enviable financial position of letting the licence fee take the strain, and now spends around &#163;60m annually on its online content, all based around its home page. So what exactly do we get for our money?For a start, there is the new homepage search engine launched earlier this month, using Google technology and BBC "editorial know-how". Results are split into three categories: results from the whole BBC site, results from the BBC news site, and results from the rest of the web that brings back pretty much identical results as a Google UK search, but with added "adult" content filters. The filters, as always, are only as clever as the people who devised them, but it's a relatively handy way for parents to let their children search the BBC at the same time as the internet.The site also streams all of the national BBC radio stations (including the digi  tal-only ones), but you'll need to download RealPlayer software if you don't have it. It's well worth it, since the BBC has also recently started archiving its shows so, for example, Radio 4 fans can catch the fabulous Dead Ringers online.Once you have the Real Player software installed, head over to the excellent Video Nation, and watch one of hundreds of video diaries online. The former late-night BBC2 show is now completely web-based, and will let you record your own diary and show it on the website. Get a feel for what they want from watching any of the 260 short films they have archived online.As well as obvious sites like the excellent news and sports sites, there are many hidden gems. One of the most intriguing microsites is the Beeb's webcam site.  As   the address suggests, this is a site devoted to webcams, and the Beeb has plenty all over the country.You can watch the sun set on Edinburgh castle or see Chris Moyles be rude to listeners in the Radio 1 studio. Soap addicts can even watch EastEnders being recorded from the three webcams that film live around the set of Albert Square all day.If, however, you prefer to gaze upon real stars all night, rather than soap stars, tucked away in the weather site is a section tailor-made for astronomers. The site is run by Heather Couper, a renowned author and broadcaster, and is an excellent resource. Here you will find Couper's Sky Diary for the month, detailing what's visible and where you can look for it, plus weather forecasts for visibility.Historical programmes have been a big hit for the BBC lately and those wanting more than Simon Schama can find essays in the reading room section of the excellent history site. You can read Tony Benn's essay on the Levellers movement, for example, or Dr Chris Bellamy's excellent piece on the Battle of Britain, just two of dozens of excellent articles.In a bid to be hip with the kids, So, the Beeb's site kids site has headlines that ape text message chat and a tenuous grasp of the English language. It's a real eye-opener for anyone over the age of 18. The whole site seems to be written   in code, and split into sections named with bewildering economy; Agony, Extreme, and my favourite, Loved Up, with its charming headline: New for Lads! Is She Up Fer It? The top 10 signs yer chick's thinkin' about doing it! Hats off to the stressed 34-year-old BBC staffer who presumably writes it all.Just when you think you have a rough idea of everything the BBC offers, you stumble across another huge chunk of content, like the Where I Live section. Located in the grey browser bar, this is another jaw-droppingly comprehensive microsite that covers all the main cities and towns in the UK, giving listings, features and reviews all produced by local people.One of the few BBC TV programmes that has proved perfect for adapting online is the Beeb's attempt to create a virtual Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, known as H2G2. This is a superb site, begun independently in 1999, and taken under the BBC's wing last year. You could easily spend all day browsing the tens of thousands of entries on life, the universe, and (you guessed it) everything.The BBC site itself is practically a hitchhiker's guide even without the H2G2 section. From Walford bruisers to the outer reaches of the universe, the BBC seemingly has it covered. And you may as well use it, since (for now at least) we're all footing the bill.
When did you first use a computer?We got a Mac Classic II  about six years ago. It wasn't until we got the website up and running shortly after that I really got into it. I've moved on to a G3 PowerBook  though, strangely, I don't take it with me when I travel. I can never figure out how to get past the "dial 9" thing in hotels but also, I'd just sit up all night online! I usually just find internet cafes. That way I can keep it at arm's length.Is having a web presence important to you?Absolutely. Particularly with the campaign to get Take Down The Union Jack to No 1. I'm talking with people on the site's forum every day. The net drives this campaign. We're sending e-cards to people, as we don't expect support from radio. I've looked at other artists' websites to see who's tried to step out of the traditional record industry way of disseminating information.How do you feel about file-sharing software?Napster was a bit like radio - it's promotion! People who download some of your music and enjoy it will be encouraged to buy more and come to your gigs. I'm relaxed about it as it's happening anyway... There's no point chucking your rattle out of the pram! The first music I owned was tapes of the chart rundown from the radio and that didn't stop me from buying music.Have you downloaded music?I haven't got time! People who have 3,000 MP3s on their computers: when do they find the time to listen to them? I like the "pirate-ness" of it all, though. I wish I'd had a DVD-drive in my Mac when I bought it. I only use a fragment of my computer's capabilities, but I've got a life!How do you feel about the embedded anti-copying code in some new CDs?I own my copyrights and, in the end, you have to rely on the loyalty of your audience not to abuse copying... but people swap tapes and CDs.Online voting?I'd still be concerned for the simple possibility of whether it could be tampered with. I've yet to be convinced that we should move from the ballot box. More government should be online. You should be able to access any department and communicate directly.Microsoft: saint or sinner?Definitely sinner. I recently worked with Washtech, part of the communication workers' union in Seattle, and they're getting nowhere trying to organise in Microsoft. I try to avoid any contact with Microsoft - difficult as that is!
Stop the BBCThe BBC's launch of a powerful web search engine ought to have triggered the full Paxman/Humphrys treatment, questions in the house, swaths of broadsheet leaders and a proper national debate. It didn't.  The fact that Greg Dyke has not been carpeted by the department of culture, media and sport's select committee for wading into the web search business (the number two online activity, after email) is telling.The net is a mature medium. Half the population is online and the top web properties attract audiences bigger than hit TV shows. BBC3, a digital TV station likely to soak up no more than a 3% share has been stalled for years while ministers agonise.  Meanwhile, the new search engine - likely to hoover up half of UK web searches - was allowed to slip out almost unremarked.  Ironically, the problem is not the BBC's freedom to operate. Knee-jerk rejections    of the corporation's serious attempts to update the definition of "public service" are self-defeating.The problem is that our refusal to scrutinise the net properly stops the debate dead - slowing progress for the modernisers at the BBC who are trying to imagine what a post-Charter renewal public service broadcaster looks like and damaging the prospects of the commercial players who can't get their legitimate arguments heard outside the trade press.  The solution? Expand Ofcom's remit to include the net and, in particular, public service provision for the networked era. The attention of an engaged regulator should not scare us. It can only protect the social and cultural relevance of the net at a critical time.Steve Bowbrick,  chief executive, another.comsteve@uk.another.comUninvited TXTFor a little while I have been receiving uninvited text service messages and it was only on my last bill from Vodafone that I looked through the items to see what was contributing to my bill.  There were three text service messages not identified by an originating number that were being charged at amounts of between 30p and 52p.  Being wise after the event, I have noted down the origi  nating number of the two most recent messages and it turns out they are from Vizzavi, a joint Vodafone/ Vivendi company.  Vodafone says it is unable to block these messages, Vizzavi said the same thing and told me to register with tps-online. org.uk , which takes another month. They supposedly approach Vizzavi and tell them to stop sending the messages. I know Vodafone is in dire financial straits but this is a disgracefully underhand way to raise revenues.David Thomasdavidisaacthomas@aol.comNo time for BTIn Feedback today (May 23), there are two letters concerning BT Anytime, which should perhaps be called BTNow and Again. I also got an email from them, to say that my account was being used by two people at the same time, so they were threatening to cut me off.  I was unaware of this, and I could not easily work out why it was happening, but more importantly, why should its system allow two people to use one account at the same time? I did ask them, but got no reply.Peter Jonespierrejones@btinternet.comBroad horizonIn response to last week's letters about BT Anytime, as a broadband user I would    strongly recommend anyone to connect to an ISP through broadband. You will be wondering what you have been doing all these years using modems, dialling up, waiting for pages to load and files to download and restricted access times.  It's just a pity that many people who really want broadband can't get it yet. If you can (Anytime moaners) just get connected, you will save hours of your own time.  You won't regret it.Martin Shallcrossmartfoto1@btinternet.comGPRSwindleI read David Birch's article on G3 and GPRS with interest (Second sight, May 23). I own a GPRS-capable phone - bought for that very reason. I am writing this email on my Palm with a new floppy keyboard. However, I will have to wait until I get home to sync with my PC to send it.  The reason? Vodafone's ridiculous charges for GPRS! Another reason for poor uptake of GPRS with the non-business user is cost. I am loth to pay a basic &#163;17 a month to check my email and surf the web on my personal digital assistant with my phone on top of my line rental. Especially when my old network (sorry I left you, Orange) charges a basic &#163;3 per month. However groovy such service    is, mass use will not ensue until costs fall.Kevin Butcherkevin@kjbutcher.homechoice.co.uk
Ground zeroToday, the final piece of debris from the World Trade Center - a girder - will be removed from Ground Zero in a ceremony to mark the end of the    huge recovery effort since September 11. But it is clear - not least from the anguished debate that has surrounded today's event - that the mourning for the 2,800 people who died there continues. New York is still coming to terms with what happened, as a moving piece of web journalism from the New York Times demonstrates. The newspaper has used emails, phone calls and messages to loved ones to piece together what happened inside the towers that morning, from before the first plane struck, to when the north tower collapsed. The result is a very   powerful piece of multimedia that highlights the acts of incredible bravery inside the burning towers, and the scale of the human tragedy that unfolded. Well worth the time spent setting up free registration.Spam fanJonathan Land has a strange hobby: instead of deleting spam emails like the rest of us, he replies. At length. Visit his website, the Spam Letters, and you can read his correspondence with various spammers and con-merchants. They include particularly entertaining exchanges with the crooks behind one of the common "Nigerian Letter Fraud" emails that are, increasingly, doing the rounds (usually ALL IN CAPITAL LETTERS) and which still manage to catch hundreds of people every year. Referring to these promises of untold wealth, Land reckons he'd be "the wealthiest man in Nigeria if only he could manage to take his business transactions seriously".Caffeine freakDo you struggle in the morning without a strong cup of coffee? Find you just can't wait for the pot to brew? Then ThinkGeek, the gift emporium of choice for techies everywhere, could have the answer: Shower Shock Caffeinated Soap. The site claims it gives you that first-thing, caffeine jolt earlier than ever - through your skin, during your shower. It particularly recommends the stuff as the perfect gift for "programmers who don't regularly bathe and need some special motivation".Radio starsAdam Epstein launched an ambitious web service last year with a noble aim: let sports fans offer an alternative to the predictable, cliched commentators on TV, by doing play-by-play commentary themselves. The service bombed - fans discovered doing commentary was quite like hard work. But Fancast.com hasn't completely died out: instead, sports fans are seizing the technology - which turns them into broadcasters for little more than a cheap microphone and $5-an-hour fees - and are producing their own talk shows. Custom-made software allows them to co-host with two   other users, and take "calls" from listeners who also chat via their computers. Nobody needs anything more than a 56k dial-up modem to take part, although the service is restricted to Windows users. But, with a sports-rich summer already looming, this could be your big chance to usurp the likes of Nicky Campbell and David Mellor - if only to a niche audience.Big bucksThe Big Brother website caused much fuss last year as employers fretted over staff spending the working day watching free live video online. So their displeasure at the arrival of Big Brother 3 will at least be tempered by the news that users will have to stump up for their fix this time round. To get you hooked, the first two weeks of live video will be free, but will then cost &#163;9.95 a month, with the "bonus" of access to previously unseen diary room coverage. Those who don't pay up will get to see the news clips after a 24-hour delay.Smallest siteHere's a site to make you go cross-eyed: what claims to be the "world's smallest website". After attempting to play a game of Pong in the tiny window, I can't see straight enough to disagree. Yet, somehow, there's still enough content in here to keep you around for quite a few minutes - a lesson, perhaps, for a few much more fully sized efforts?
The next time your printer runs out of ink, you might think about buying a new printer. It could be cheaper than buying new cartridges. So far, I have only seen one printer that is cheaper than its own "consumables" - the Lexmark Z13 on sale for &#163;24.99 at Dixons Online - but that's the way things are going.This marketing strategy could get printer manufacturers into trouble with the European Commission, which is   looking into the high cost of cartridges, and any restrictions on refilling them. Recently, Mario Monti, the EU's competition commissioner, told a news conference: "We intend to examine this in detail. It's a very important market for the economy in general and consumers."Printers and their predecessors, typewriters, used to be very expensive; the consumables - mainly ribbons - used to be cheap. That has changed with the development of new technologies such as inkjet and bubblejet printers, and the popularity of fast PCs running Microsoft Windows.In extreme cases, such as a "Win printer" with the print head built into the cartridge, the PC and the cartridge now do most of the work. The printer does little more than wind the paper through.As the technology has changed, so has the printer business. Suppliers now make the bulk of their profits from sales of consumables. They don't get very excited if you spend &#163;100 on a new printer every three or four years. But a couple of cartridges - one for colour, one for black and white - can easily cost &#163;40 to &#163;50. If consumers buy several sets a year, you can almost afford to give the printers away...There is nothing unusual   about this way of doing business. For the past few years, mobile network operators have been offering expensive phones at silly prices because they make the money back on inflated call charges. Sometimes games consoles are also sold at a loss because the profits come from sales of games. But it is a dangerous game if you don't control the market the way the way it is controlled by phone companies and games companies.And this is why printer manufacturers could be running into trouble. The economic model starts to fall apart if people stop buying new, brand-name cartridges and refill their old ones instead. Or if they buy refilled or remanufactured cartridges.The response is predictable: make recycling harder. Steve Keeble, managing director of Phoenix Recycling and vice chairman of the UK Cartridge Recyclers Asso ciation, says some printer manufacturers have made their cartridges almost impossible to get into. Some have added smart chips that may prevent a cartridge from working even when it has been refilled. "This is a diabolical development," he says. "It has got to be stopped."Keeble argues that "remanufacturing" is much more environmentally friendly than, say, HP's idea of recycling, which involves reclaiming the raw materials to make into buttons, or whatever. It also has a charitable aspect. "I buy a lot of cartridges from Action Aid," he says.I have a lot of sympathy for UKCRA's views. However, I don't buy milk in glass bottles, don't shave with a cut-throat razor, don't take coffee to work in a Thermos flask, don't write with a fountain pen, and so on. As a society, we all approve of recycling, and most of us make some gestures in that direction. But markets are driven by what people spend, not what they say, and over the past 50 years, the trend has been towards disposables.Maybe it would be a good idea if printer manufacturers offered a choice of cartridges. They could introduce durable models specifically designed to be refilled, and they could sell refill kits to go with them.   But the markets for pens, razors and other products suggest that most consumers would still go for the more convenient short-term option and buy disposables.Whether the EU can do much remains to be seen. The problem with the printer market is not really disposability but the fact that there is no open or even de facto standard for cartridges and therefore no real competition. There is only a choice of hundreds of different proprietary designs, which looks like competition to the average economist who doesn't have a clue how technology markets work. The vast majority of the variations between cartridges (or typewriter ribbons) have no competitive benefits: they only exist to stop you using a Brand X cartridge in a Brand Y printer, or vice versa, thus increasing the price of both.It could well be Monti's intention to get the prices charged for cartridges closer to the manufacturing or remanufacturing cost. But the corollary is that printers could no longer be sold at artificially low prices, and will become more expensive.The idea of buying a new printer when your current model runs out of ink may not be silly after all.
An internet firm which allegedly swamped more than 500 million email users with unwanted "spam" advertisements for flowers, baskets of fruit and household appliances may have met its match in New York state's crusading attorney general, Eliot Spitzer.Mr Spitzer, fresh from eliciting $100m and major concessions from Merrill Lynch over the relationship between its investment bankers and its analysts, has filed a lawsuit against MonsterHut, an internet advertising firm, accusing it of fraudulently telling its clients that emails would be sent only to computer users who had asked to receive them."This lawsuit is the next battle in our continuing fight against online fraud, and an attempt to help consumers maintain control of their email inboxes," Mr Spitzer said in a statement."We are seeking to prevent MonsterHut from continuing its fraudulent, deceptive and illegal practices."More than 750,000 people had requested that their names be removed from MonsterHut's lists, the attorney-general said, and tens of thousands had complained to PaeTec, its internet access provider. PaeTec had tried to wash its hands of MonsterHut in the past, but in March last year, a New York judge granted MonsterHut a restraining order forcing its provider to continue sending emails advertising websites, including ProFlowers.com, an online florists', and Giftbaskets.com, a purveyor of "unique gift ideas for any occasion". At the time, Todd Pelow, MonsterHut's chief executive, told reporters: "PaeTec is painting us to be spammers and we're not."More and more US states are introducing legislation specifically targeting spammers. In California, all unsolicited email must by law carry opt-out instructions and information for contacting the sender, though MonsterHut, which was last known to be based in Niagara Falls, has said that its emails did so.Mr Pelow and his chief technical officer, Gary Hartl, are also named in the suit. But where millions of New Yorkers had apparently failed, the two succeeded yesterday in shielding themselves from unwanted communications.
The internet means that no one knows whether you're a one-man band or a multinational. Oh really? Check out the quality of the respective websites and you'll soon spot the amateurs. But there is good news: the internet does enable a small company to do the kind of marketing that the big boys find awkward or impossible. Some people call this "guerrilla marketing", though that term has been hijacked for stunts like FHM magazine's projection of a naked Gail Porter on to the Houses of Parliament. But here are a dozen top tips for low- or no-cost marketing tactics that any business can use:&#183;Go back to basics. Leaflets are cheap; give the punters a reason for reading them, highlight your website and email address, then distribute outside high-profile events like trade shows or pop concerts. Flyposting is illegal but effective for some audiences. Classified ads in local papers, postcards in newsagents' windows, bumper stickers, magnetic vehicle signs... Don't be embarrassed to use anything that works.&#183;Make it easy for them to find you. Direct mailers need reply-paid cards or envelopes, literature should have easy-to-spot freephone numbers, websites should have contact information "above the fold" - on the top half of the screen, no scrolling required to see it - along with that big button labelled BUY NOW.&#183;Collect names. Garner them from inquiries, purchasers, anyone who registers a guarantee, your website, newsletter subscribers, trade show visitors, telephone callers, market research etc. It's easier to talk to someone who already knows your name, so these people are your hottest prospects for postal or email marketing.&#183;Give something for nothing. Obvious direct mail incentives include freebies and product samples. But make it something that arrives regularly with usable information and you instantly improve your standing. Easy solution: a regular emailed newsletter - cheaper to produce and distribute than the paper equivalent and a lot more versatile. Don't forget to include a prominent "sign up for free newsletter" button on page one of your website.&#183;Find a simple-to-use domain name. Make it easy to remember, ideally short and in plain English. Register a few alternatives that redirect the visitor to your site, just in case people misspell it or put in unnecessary hyphens.&#183;Work at your website. It's a 24-hour internationally available brochure, salesperson and character reference. Tell everyone about it. And make sure it's worth visiting. For that you need real content, refreshed regularly. Offer a newsletter, comment, case studies, copies of press releases, a privacy policy, your customer service policy, user surveys. The design and copywriting have to be dead right, too - the web isn't like a paper document, and people react differently to something they're seeing on a screen. Use a pro if anyone around you thinks your website looks (gulp) amateurish.&#183;Optimise for search engines. That means adroit use of meta tags for content keywords, clever copywriting (the same keywords should appear frequently in your web page's text), link exchanges (several search engines increase your ranking if other websites reference yours), and appropriate page design: frames, Flash and lots of JavaScript can impede your visibility to search tools. Spend time learning about search engine optimisation, or pay for specialist advice. And do it right from the start, not as an afterthought. Apart from anything else, you should allow three to six months to achieve a really high ranking.&#183;Say "thank you". Make it a habit to write personal thank you notes to clients, colleagues, suppliers. It won't cost you much and they'll remember you the next time.&#183;Tell the team. Make sure everyone collects names (for the list) and comments (for testimonials) as a matter of course; that everyone knows about the promotions and special offers you have running; that everyone understands your USP and can talk about it easily.&#183;Try viral. We're talking about word-of-mouth campaigns, email attachments, free mobile-phone games or ringtones, PC utilities and screensavers - all of which can be passed on from one person to another at no cost to you. Yes, you need to get things started with a seed distribution of some kind. And no, there aren't any hard and fast rules about what works and why. So think laterally, try a few alternatives, encourage the pass-on, and have fun.&#183;Use PR. Provided you're prepared to take the long view, it can be very effective to run a press campaign: press releases, contacts with selected journalists, the occasional stunt or party. Local papers are good for local stories and industry magazines take the view that they should print as many news items as possible, but you'd better have something pretty remarkable to get into the nationals or the bigger monthlies. One tactic: be controversial, because pushy soundbite-sized comments make good copy. Argue about proposed legislation, the actions or comments of any large competitor, anything any politician or industry body says or does. React to news items with a letter to the editor if you can't reach a journalist directly to offer a proactive quote.&#183;Use testimonials. It works if your target audience can identify with the people you're quoting. Encourage customers to tell you how much they like you: enclose a reply-paid comments card with every order, ask people what they think of you when they phone up, get their permission to quote their name as well as their praise.
Always onI subscribe to BT Anytime and have just been informed that my "unmetered" internet access has been cut to a maximum of 12 hours per day. Is there any ISP that offers access 24 hours a day?Andrew NettlesJack Schofield replies:"Surf anytime" was never intended to mean "surf all the time", and staying online will block resources that were budgeted to support anything from 10 to 50 people. One 64k line costing &#163;150 a month shared among 10 people would provide each with 2.4 hours per day online on average. ( SeeISP review.) Your 12 hours a day is still far too much for what you pay. Suppliers should have made this clear to begin with. Now they have a choice between restraining the "bandwidth hogs" or putting prices up for everyone. None the less, there are still ISPs who imply you can stay on all the time.Virgin.netoffers a service called 24seven with the sales pitch: "You can be online as often as you like for as long as you like, all for &#163;13.49 a month". It requires a BT line. Readers may have other suggestions.Free moneySubject: Fw: Not Spam - FW: THIS IS FOR REAL. IT WAS ON THE NEWS LAST NIGHT. Do you know anything about this?Penny KileyJS:Yes, it is a very old hoax, sometimes known as the Gullibility Virus. The attached email says Bill Gates will send you money if you forward the letter to as many people as possible. The letter is well documented and therefore easy to check on dozens of hoax sites (examples listed below). Microsoft published a note about it three years ago. Bill Gates even wrote about it in 1998.www.truthminers.com/truth/bill_gates.htm&lt;/awww.microsoft.com/presspass/hoax/05-13hoax.Aspth/bill_gates.htmwww.microsoft.com/billgates/columns/1998EssayPlain LocoLast week you answered a query on a converter for WordStar. Is there a converter for Locoscript PC or PCW files so that I can import then into Word? David PrestageJS:LocoscriptSoftware, which wrote the original program, sells a &#163;39.95 converter called Locolink for Windows, though some manual editing will probably be required. If you don't need to convert many files, load them back into Locoscript and save them again in a standard format such as plain text or RTF (Rich Text Format) - I am not sure which ones are supported. If you have a lot of important files, you can pay for them to be converted. Searching Google with suitable terms (eg Locoscript PC convert) finds lots of sites with advice. These includeRon King'spage and an unofficial page from Amstrad'sCliff Lawson.Break outWhy is that as they have "improved" their online editions, most of the quality    papers have eliminated the possibility of increasing the size and definition of print by using the Text Size menu item? Short of copying articles into Word, can you suggest a way of increasing the font size?George LindJS:Run Internet Explorer, go to Tools|Internet Options and click the Accessibility button in the bottom right-hand corner. Put a tick in the box next to: Ignore font sizes specified on Web pages, and click OK twice. This makes some sites look horrible but at least you can read them.Proxomitronallows you to kill webpage backgrounds, frames and tables, disable Flash and Javascript, and remove other rubbish.Virgin outWhen I signed up with Virgin, I allowed them to customise my settings. I've cleaned up most of the unwanted additions, but how can I get rid of the spinning logo?Richard BeniferJS:Unfortunately, many ISPs use different ways of "branding" their versions of Internet Explorer. There are two Microsoft Support Knowledge Base articles that provide some help: Q176497 (How to Change the Internet Explorer Window Title) and Q176713 (How to Restore the Animated Internet Explorer Logo). Both involve editing the system registry. Search Google for the Q numbers or seehttp://support.microsoft.com.If the branding has been added using Microsoft's Internet Explorer Administration Kit (IEAK) then another method might work. Go to Start|Run and paste in the following line: rundll32. exe iedkcs32.dll, Clear For further details, seeJSI FAQ tip 2908(and 0881, 0889, and 2875). Although the IEAK tip has been widely published on the web, it rarely seems to work.BackchatLast week, Christian Hearne asked for a way to start more than one Windows program at once, and I offered a DOS batch file like the ones I used to write in the 1980s. Ben Shepherd has sent in a much more elegant and more modern solution using the Windows Scripting Host   (WSH) in Windows.Use the approach described last week, but create a text file called BATCHRUN.VBS and insert the four lines of text written below, using the command lines for the programs you want to run. The ,7 should follow the last command.Dim WshShellSet WshShell = WScript.CreateObject("WScript.Shell")WshShell.Run ("C:\PROGRAM1.EXE")WshShell.Run "C:\PROGRAM2.EXE",7
The Elder Scrolls III: MorrowindPC	&#163;34.99 Ubi Soft/Bethesda Softworks 	*****Rarely has a single-player game been able to capture the sense of scale and free-form nature of online perpetual environments such as those in EverQuest and Anarchy Online: games that immerse thousands of people on a daily basis, in worlds where they can literally do anything they please while shaping their own gaming experience.Emerging as the third incarnation in the Elder Scrolls series, which included Arena and Daggerfall, Morrowind is the most effective attempt to date at capturing a truly open-ended, role-playing experience,    encapsulated in a breathtakingly beautiful world. You start the game as a recently released prisoner with the task of delivering a package to a character in the nearby town. From then on, the path you choose, whether it's   closely following the main plot, or wandering into the countryside to explore every nook and cranny, is up to you.You design the make-up of your character at the start, including the skills and spells they specialise in, but the way you choose to play the game - from the weapons to the quests you carry out, even the time you spend running - all help develop your character.The wide-open world of Morrowind can feel intimidating, and it's not for the novice role-player. To get the most out of such a game, you have to be prepared to put a good part of your life on hold, not to mention having a powerful PC. But if you do, you'll find a vibrant world, as rich in imagination as it is in beauty. (RP)Spider-ManPlayStation 2 	&#163;39.99  Activision 	***The game of the film of the comic book, Spider-Man is an enjoyable action adventure romp that ultimately fails to live up to its potential.Released to coincide with the film and published on practically every format bar the Amiga, Spider-Man casts you as the titular superhero. In your battle against the Green Goblin you find yourself in a variety of unusual situations. Spinning webs, crawling across the ceiling and swinging between skyscrapers are all in a day's work.Mastering these moves is an enjoyable and crucial part. And, for a while, jumping from the roof on to an unsuspecting baddie or trading punches while dangling between tall buildings is as exhilarating as it sounds. Yet, somehow, the action gets stale quickly. Combat is   incessant, and soon leaves you desperate to do something else with the marvellously controllable character.A lack of freedom doesn't help, either. The problem is highlighted by the traffic streaming below you when in mid-air: it is for show only. The linear levels only hint at what could have been, and frequently remind the player that there is only one way of doing things. Yes, there is a little variety - sneaking rears its fashionably sly head on a couple of occasions - but unlike Metal Gear Solid 2, it feels a bit tacked on here.Graphically, this game is a looker, with the characters especially well animated. The backdrops are also impressive, although an erratic camera makes admiration difficult. Ultimately, Spider-Man is the Pop Idol of videogames: good looking but disappointingly shallow. (GH)Grand Theft Auto 3PC	&#163;39.99 DMA Design/ Rockstar Games 	****PC gamers could be forgiven for feeling aggrieved at the time it has taken for Rockstar Games' Grand Theft Auto 3 - officially the biggest-selling game of the 21st century - to reach their chosen platform. After all, the previous versions of GTA debuted on the PC before being shoe-horned on to consoles. But it was   worth the wait.Not much has changed in comparison with the PlayStation 2 version: there is a new intro sequence, and you can reskin the main character (and even replace his face with yours). But the graphics are noticeably superior to    those of the PlayStation 2 original, and the control system has been cleverly redesigned to suit the PC. Which means the classic keyboard movement/mouse-look combination, as seen in countless PC shoot-'em-ups, when your character is on   foot. If anything, that system works better than the PlayStation 2 version's less precise gamepad controls.GTA 3's gloriously un-PC gameplay has been preserved faithfully. As before, you can perform various missions in a non-linear manner, or even operate as a taxi or fire-engine driver. There is even a notoriously uncontrollable plane to fly. Butdo not allow children anywhere near this game.If you have not experienced the brutal, vicarious joys of GTA 3 - which presumably means you are a die-hard PC gamer - do yourself a favour and acquire a copy. But be prepared for it to decimate your social life.  (SB)
The World Cup is almost here but if you're stuck at work or have to battle    for the right to the television at home, you're going to miss out on all the goals, the near-misses, the spectacular dives and the thrill of guessing whose metatarsal bone is going to break next. Short of pulling a world record number of sickies, what can you do?Step forward the WinTV USB from Hauppauge, a tiny gadget that plugs into your home or work PC's USB port and turns it in to a television set. The supplied software   tunes in the channels automatically and you can watch the matches in full screen mode or - if you're feeling really sneaky - in a small window next to that vital spreadsheet you've been working on all morning.Anyone trying to watch the games while pretending to work will also have to figure out how to hide the indoor aerial, which you'll need to buy separately (running wires under your clothes along your   arms and legs is not recommended). If you want to hear the BBC's commentary, you'll also need a soundcard and speakers or headphones.The Hauppauge WinTV USB is priced at &#163;49.99 (&#163;20 off the normal retail price) until the end of June and is available from selected high street stores, including Carphone Warehouse, PC World and John Lewis.
What's the future of gaming? According to E3, the world's largest and noisiest videogames trade show, the future is online. Nothing original of course, but last week, E3 2002 in Los Angeles witnessed the first definite announcements in this area.Microsoft unveiled Xbox Live, a broadband-only gaming service that will be up and running in the UK by the end of the year. Meanwhile, Sony is launching a joint dialup/network adapter this summer in the US, although a UK date is still unconfirmed. Aside from networked gaming, the emphasis was firmly   on the games, with a host of high-quality silicon entertainment vying for the attentions of the hordes at the show.But online gaming was everywhere. "Online technology is the next revolution in videogames, and it will fundamentally transform gaming into a new form of social entertainment," says J Allard, general manager of Xbox. Plans are already in place for the UK launch of Xbox Live, with Sandy Duncan, vice president of Xbox Europe, insisting online Xbox gaming will be ready to go on schedule."We have an excellent network and expect to be up and running towards the end of this year," he says.   By going straight for broadband, Microsoft is limiting its potential audience, but Duncan feels this is the way to go. "Broadband is the only way to ensure realistic online gaming and we know that many Xbox owners already have broadband access."Sony Computer Entertainment has also caught the online bug, although it was less specific. A broad and narrow band adapter will be released for PlayStation 2 and a magazine-style portal will offer demo downloads and tailored editorial."Online is very important to us, with all games we currently have in development having an online component," says Phil Harrison, SCEE's senior vice president of development. Although this may be as unexciting as the ability to upload high scores, Harrison did suggest that soccer sim This Is Football 2004, out next year, would be fully playable online.Nintendo was more cautious, focusing instead on the connectivity between GameCube and Game Boy Advance.But although online gaming loomed large at the show, the games were the real stars. Titles such as Legend of Zelda, The Getaway, Blinx, Doom 3 and Super Mario Sunshine were the highlights of an impressive display, much improved on last year. "Both publishers and developers are getting to grips with the new hardware and this has been reflected by the high quality of games at the show," says Jon Rissik, the UK marketing director of Electronic Arts.Each format produced some titles of genuine quality. For PS2, The Getaway stood out. A gangster adventure set in a stunningly accurate and comprehensive rendering of central London, The Getaway mixes game and film influences from GTA3 and Max Payne to Lock, Stock... and Snatch.In a totally different genre, but equally impressive, was the return of Nintendo's big two - Mario and Zelda. The latter was particularly lovely, retaining the classic adventuring gameplay but adding some beautifulcel-shaded graphics. Maybe a touch too cartoony in places, Zelda is still a striking visual experience. Less pretty, but equally interesting was Super Mario Sunshine. Updating many of the elements of Super Mario 64, but adding in water pumps and an even more agile lead character, SMS will appeal to most GameCube owners.But perhaps the most pleasant surprise was Blinx on the Xbox. What looked like a twee platform game was transformed by a time recording element. This allows players to rewind time or solve puzzles by recording themselves and then joining in with the played-back action.Elsewhere on the Xbox, Panzer Dragoon and Unreal Championship impressed,   with the latter likely to be one of the first online Xbox releases. PS2 highlights included the kid-friendly role-playing game (RPG) Kingdom Hearts and the inventive Ape Escape 2. Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness was also shown. While graphically disappointing, the emphasis on character development and stealth suggests Lara's latest will be worth checking out this November.The most crowded stand was Nintendo's but the hordes weren't just enjoying Mario and Zelda. Most of Nintendo's other big names are returning this year, with new titles starring Metroid and Starfox. Capcom's gory Resident Evil Zero added some maturity to the GameCube lineup. The Game Boy Advance was also swamped with games, with highlights including Yoshi's Island and BAM Entertainment's Sound of Thunder.A mouse and keyboard are never easy to pick up and play at a noisy trade show but PC games were in abundance.   Doom III showed some incredibly detailed graphics - certainly the most impressive seen at the show - that created a compelling sci-fi atmosphere. Sadly, the gameplay doesn't appear to have advanced as much as the visuals. Elsewhere on PC, there was the attractive RPG Neverwinter Nights, the visually powerful shooter Far Cry, and the free-roaming space adventure Freelancer, which should appeal to fans of Elite.Deus Ex 2 also looked good, retaining free-flowing gameplay but adding a welcome graphical sheen. Online PC games were also shown. An expansion pack for the addictive Anarchy Online - entitled Shadowlands - appeared. So did Star Wars Galaxies, an ambitious online RPG that allows thousands of fans to live out their Jedi fantasies simultaneously.Original titles were at E3 - witness Blinx - but tucked away in a dark corner of the show was Ghost Master, a Sims-style game where you   have to scare the inhabitants of each house by employing a variety of ghouls. Then there was Republic, a complex, but highly promising, political sim game set in Russia.Another trend seen at the show was the convergence between movies and games. Along with some obvious blockbuster tie-ins such as Lord of the Rings, Spider-Man and Harry Potter, there were less prominent, but potentially interesting, games based on the forthcoming Reign of Fire and Minority Report movies. Games releases now usually coincide with the film, with the creative process increasingly intertwined. "EA worked very closely with New Line, the makers of the Lord of the Rings films, to ensure all the details in the game were correct," said Rissik.Mobile gaming was fairly muted, perhaps reflecting the difficulties in the US cellphone market. But companies such as Digital Bridges were showing games based on Star Trek and Fifa.Then there were the gizmos and, in particular, Sony's Eye Toy. Consisting of a webcam plugged into the PS2's USB port, the Eye Toy allows players to see themselves on the screen while indulging in simple but enjoyable dancing or reflex games. Jason Fitzgerald, Eye Toy's developer, said, "People enjoy watching, and those who may not normally play PlayStation 2 want to have a go."Komani's dancing games, complete with mats, were also on display, although judging by the bulk and appearance of the average E3 attendee, only an interactive shaving game would be less popular.With all the LA news channels covering the event and aftershow parties, E3 2002 was a reminder of how important the games industry has become. E3 not only showed that the future of gaming may be online, but that it'll also be a lot of fun.Sony's giantThe most fascinating sub-plot at the E3 show was the rivalry between Sony - which has sold 30m PlayStation 2 units - and Microsoft, which has sold 4m Xboxes.Ken Kutaragi is Sony Computer Entertainment's president and chief executive, the man who launched the PlayStation and PlayStation 2, and one of the most influential men in the games industry. Renowned for having a clear vision of the future of the industry, he hinted at some unusual developments.Does he think there is room for three consoles? "Yes," he said. "This market is continuously growing up, and the content is being enhanced year by year."When asked whether online gaming is important for Sony, Kutaragi alluded to Sony's strength being an empire that combines videogames, music, film and consumer electronics: "Our question is how to broaden the service in each country with the current limited network. In Japan, you can now access always-on services for about &#163;20 per month, which is cheap."Games consoles have huge potential but current servers are based on PC technology. Our online policy is open, the same as the internet: Microsoft's is always closed."Kutaragi plans to revamp   the back end of the internet, through a joint project with IBM and Toshiba codenamed the Cell Project, which is engaged mainly in semiconductor research. He says: "The Cell Project is for the future: not of the client, but the network itself."Kutaragi does not accept that the more powerful Xbox will rush Sony into unveiling the PlayStation 3 earlier than planned, but he does hint that Sony's next console will be more of a general entertainment device and, intriguingly, speaks of collaboration: "If other consoles wanted to communicate and collaborate, it would be impossible. But in future, it will be like the internet is now: all types of information will be transferred and exchanged through the network. Our main target is the living room."But to whom would this collaboration extend? "At Nintendo, Miyama-san is a good friend, and we have already collaborated with Sega." But not, it would appear, Microsoft.Fries with everythingEd Fries is Microsoft's vice president of Xbox game content. Despite criticism over poor Xbox sales in Europe and Japan, Fries is adamant that the Xbox has been a success: "We had the most successful launch in US history and outsold PlayStation 2 by 17% in the same period. It is true we came out with a price that was too high in Europe, but we tried to fix it as quickly as we could."Fries clearly sees Sony as the enemy: "There's less and less reason to buy a PS2," he says. "And there will be even less of a reason next year. We will have more than 200 titles this Christmas. Buy a GameCube if you're younger or into Nintendo. But why buy a PS2?"Fries points out that publishers are launching versions of their games spanning PlayStation 2, Xbox and GameCube. But a few games have slipped away: notably Eidos's Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Angel Of Darkness, which will be exclusive to PS2. He says: "Is that the best way for Sony to spend its money when it could have spent it on original content?"For once, Europe will not be treated as the poor   relation when Microsoft launches its Xbox Live online gaming service simultaneously in the US, Japan and Europe this autumn. But can Microsoft make money out of online gaming? "I think it's a longer-term play. The potential is huge, but it's not as though revenue is the justification for this project."Although Unreal Championship will be a launch Xbox Live title, the game Xbox owners would most like to play is Halo. Will Microsoft and developer Bungie put out an incremental release of the game with an added online component?"We're not going to do that because Halo is a triple-A title and we're not going to just tack on an OK multiplayer experience. Everyone wants Halo 2 or Mario 7 or Zelda 9, but people will ask: 'Where's the innovation?' We're not about regurgitating old franchises."Steve Boxer
Britain's online bookmakers are expecting a multi-million-pound windfall as they tap into the lucrative but heavily regulated Far East sports betting market during the World Cup.It is the first time the fledgling online industry has been in a position to take bets on the world's biggest sporting event and operators have been determined to woo traditionally high-spending Asian customers.Leading UK website operators - including William Hill, Ladbrokes.com, Coral-owned Eurobet.com and Sportingbet.com - point out that Asian customers already dominate the global betting market for other sports.Global gambling turnover for horse racing is thought to be &#163;60bn a year, with Asia contributing more than half, according to analysts at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.William Hill - which will tomorrow publish a price range prospectus for its forthcoming flotation - has estimated that British bookmakers could take up to &#163;200m in additional bets during the World Cup, including a huge jump in online punts.The company made a profit of &#163;2m from Euro 2000 and &#163;12m from the World Cup 98 in France. This time around, the bookmaker is said to be expecting profits between those two figures because of the unfavourable time difference.Sportingbet, which operates exclusively on the internet, believes the fixture times will prompt many British punters to turn to the internet.It also says that gamblers in many Asian states will be betting on reputable UK sites because independent high street bookmakers are illegal in Japan and Korea."For the first time, the internet will be their most accessible route to placing a bet," said chief executive Nigel Payne. He added that reaching Asian gamblers remained a problem because betting advertising was forbidden in many Far East countries.One analyst pointed out that international football matches were often a disappointment to bookmakers because of the predictability of their outcome.He said that the result of the opening game, between France and Senegal, did not appear likely to create the kind of uncertainties on which the gambling industry thrives.Many online operators could even be preparing to make a loss on the World Cup, he said, using the event as a showcase for the new betting medium in front of an Asian market.British firms benefited from the Treasury's decision last October to more than halve the tax burden on bookmakers.
Mobile phone group mmO2 today reported losses of £873m in its first set of financial results since being demerged from BT last year.The group, which is expected to break into profit in five to six years time, said the market remained "challenging", with subscriber growth slowing. However the company's core earnings - £433m - were at the upper end of analyst expectations.MmO2 owns UK mobile business BT Cellnet, which has been rebranded as O2.The figures come a day after rival Vodafone announced the UK's largest ever corporate loss, at £13.5bn.MmO2's losses for the year ending March 31 included charges of £27m relating to the demerger and £123m of restructuring costs, which included costs of cutting 1,400 jobs in the UK, announced earlier this year.Figures were also obscured by a £369m write down of the book value of previous acquisitions - seen as a routine accounting charge - and hit by £25m of interest charges. It compares with last year's £3.5bn losses, when the group was part of BT's Wireless division and was hit by writing down the value of some of its assets such as its German operator Viag.MmO2 chairman David Varney said: "MmO2 has delivered results in line with expectations at the time of the demerger, despite a challenging industry environment. Our market environment remains challenging, with subscriber growth slowing and the market for mobile data services  still in its early stage of development."
Shares in the telecoms giant Vodafone rose in early trading today but eventually dropped after   the City pondered the company's future after it posted one of the largest losses in global corporate history.Vodafone today reported pre-tax losses of £13.5bn, including a £6bn fall in the value of companies it bought during the technology boom. The company's losses dwarf those of the stricken telecoms equipment group Marconi, which earlier this month reported losses of £5.7bn as a result of a fall in the value of acquisitions in the US.City traders initially welcomed the company's strong underlying growth, but shares ended the day 2.1% down.However, underlying profits mean Vodafone shareholders can expect a dividend of 1.4721p a share, up 5% on the previous year, while chief executive Sir Chris Gent may receive £2m in shares as a bonus payment.Setting aside the one-off loss, Vodafone reported pre-tax profits of £6.2bn for the year to March 31, up 54% on the previous year. Turnover rose 52% to £22.8bn, while its customer base increased 22% to 101.1 million.Sir Chris said: "These are excellent results. The bottom line loss could be misleading. This disguises the true performance of the business."However, the City also expressed concern over the company's future prospects.The Reuters news agency quoted investment bank Nomura as saying: "We remain concerned on what happens from here. Customer growth is slowing and spending is flat. As competition intensifies, we remain of the view that revenues and margins will come under pressure."Vodafone said it was taking a goodwill charge of £13.4bn relating to its acquisitions of Japan Telecom, J-Phone and German industrial group Mannesmann.The group also said it was taking a £6bn impairment charge relating to the value of businesses such as Arcor, Cegetel, Grupo Iusacell and Japan Telecom, meaning it was writing down the value of these investments.But Vodafone did not write down the value of its £113bn takeover of Mannesmann two years ago, which some analysts had been expecting.Analysts said the goodwill charge, while pushing the company into loss, would will be largely ignored by the city and reflected an accounting principle to which every company had to adhere. Analysts were focused on the £6bn impairment charge, which came in better than expectations of between £8bn and £20bn.Sir Chris said: "The past year has seen the group successfully execute its adjusted strategy, delivering very strong operational performance and exceptional financial results, including the generation of substantial free cash flow."He said that in the current year he expected net customer growth of just below 10%, and double digit revenue growth.Justin Urquhart Stewart, at Seven Investment Management, said he had expected the group to write off more."What they are doing is writing down parts of the landline business but saying - the mobile business we didn't overpay for. I would have expected them to say - here are the big write-offs now, reset the level lower and grow from there."
Super stats: Microsoft, in attempting to flog some of its wireless wares, has hit the Online inbox with a worrying statistic from the UK Office for National Statistics: 4.8 million cups of tea or coffee are spilled onto the UK's office floors and desksevery weekbecause of one of the country's 60 million computers getting in the way with their wires. This throws up a whole bunch of questions: even assuming only one computer is responsible for every spillage, this rate of spillage should mean that every computer in the country causes a spill roughly once every three months, give or take. Yet this, obviously, is only an average - many people survive years without a spillage. So is there a careless minority living in a near-continual farce of trips, spills, curses and broken keyboards? Do you spill tea habitually? Call one of our researchers now.
EPN World Reporterlinks to Onlineblog in a piece about the Guardian's relationship with the blogging community. "The Guardian is the paper that bloggers love to hate," reckons the author, because "the most interesting blogs" regularly get stuck in to our coverage of the war against terrorism. It even likens Online contributor Ben Hammersley's trip to the O'Reilly Emerging Tech conference (filled with "a-list" bloggers) as something akin to a Christian facing the lions. Hmm - I wasn't aware the weblogging community - apart from a handful of right-wing US bloggers - had a problem with the Guardian. Blogging types have certainly been very supportive of Online, and Onlineblog. And you'd hope most bloggers could see that the same principles that ensure a broad range of voices in the paper's opinion pages also mean we see this kind of technology as important: it enables a similarly broad, if immeasurably larger, debate to happen online. What's more, let's face it, even the hawks would be lost without the Guardian's opinion pages - whatwouldthey link to otherwise?
More World Cup team news: half of England's team have malfunctions inside their heads, reports Annanova. Ah - this'll be therobotworld cup, then. Right?
Friends Reunited, the popular UK website that enables users to track down their old school friends, is planning to expand into Europe and South Africa.The first sites will launch as franchises in Spain, France, Holland and South Africa and will use the same design as the UK site.Whoever takes up a franchise will be able to use the Friends Reunited name and technology in return for a share of the subscription and advertising revenue.Despite the odd hiccup, the site has been an unqualified success since it went live in the UK almost two years ago.Friends Reunited, which is run by husband and wife Steve and Julie Pankhurst, has more than 6.2 million registered users.It garnered acres of press coverage as features editors realised its potential for generating human interest stories.The dotcom has spawned a rash of imitators - including a website aimed at ex-convicts - but none has been able to attract anywhere near as many users as the original.Although the US market is dominated by Classmates.com, the site that inspired Friends Reunited, there remains plenty of room for international growth.Mr Pankhurst has refused to reveal how many of the 6.2 million registered users have stumped up the £5 subscription fee that enables them to contact other people on the site.However, the service has been profitable from day one.The site made the headlines recently when a teacher successfully sued a former pupil who made disparaging allegations about him on a Friends Reunited message board.Over the past year the dotcom has introduced additional services that allow users to contact their former work colleagues and even arrange dates.In an effort to cash in on World Cup fever, the site has also launched a fantasy football game called Svens Reunited.
Gerald Ratner, the former jewellery tycoon who went down in the annals of corporate history for describing one of his firm's low-price products as "total crap", has announced plans to return to the trade with an online retail offering.Asked how he planned to assure customers visiting his website that they will not be sold similarly inadequate goods, Mr Ratner said: "We never sold crap - that was a comment I made about a particular decanter, and I regret it very much."Remember, you do not get 50% of the market by offering crap goods."More than 10 years ago, Mr Ratner - then chairman of the 200-store Ratner Group - told an audience at the Institute of Directors that one of his firm's &#163;4.99 cut-glass sherry decanter sets, including six glasses and a silver-plated tray, was "total crap".To roars of laughter, he added: "We sell a pair of earrings for under &#163;1 - which is   cheaper than a prawn sandwich from Marks &amp; Spencer; but, I have to say, the earrings probably won't last as long."Yesterday, he acknowledged that online shoppers may initially be sceptical about the quality of products he plans to offer."We will mainly sell recognised watch brands - such as Seiko and Cassio - while we build customer confidence," he said.Shoppers would also be reassured by the involvement of established jewellery chain Goldsmiths, which will look after stock as well as deal with customers seeking repairs or refunds.Watches would be sold at a 30-50% discount to high street prices.Asked why he plans to trade under his family name once again, Mr Ratner said: "We were going to call it something else, but thought it was more likely to get hits on the internet &#91;as Ratners&#93; ... albeit for the wrong reasons."Mr Ratner plans to launch his website after a &#163;876,000   reverse takeover of shell firm DPA Investments.He is seeking funding for a &#163;4m private placing in advance of an intended Ofex-listing, and hopes the company can be listed on Aim in about a year.Mr Ratner, who lost his job and much of his personal fortune after his injudicious remarks sent Ratner Group's share price tumbling in 1991, recently sold a health and fitness club venture in Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire, for &#163;3.7m.Yesterday he declined to say how much of his own money would be behind the project. "I don't really know, quite a bit," he said.Funds raised will be used to develop the website, market the business and buy start-up stock. Ratners-Online products will range in price from &#163;40 to &#163;300.Mr Ratner's finance director will be Gary O'Brien, former Ratner Group finance director.
Two record labels are getting together to trial a stunning new distribution method...releasing an MP3 on the internet. Don't hold your breath for news of vast online sales - the track is a mix of a single by Meshell Ndegeocello, rather than a mainstream single from a really huge star (although a respectful nod goes to Ndegeocello's influence on the "neo-soul" movement, of course :-)). But it's interesting that Maverick Records and Vivendi Universal are experimenting with the MP3 format, which has been dismissed by record labels (until now) as being a Completely Bad Thing. Traditional record label thinking says that you'll sell only a few copies online, before the single is shoved on the various file-swapping networks and folk help themselves for free. But many net users say that, if they had the choice, they'd much prefer to buy their MP3s, rather than pirate them.
Antelope, in Denver, is taking up the idea of IBM'sMetaPadto build pocket computers that run full-spec software. It could be a replacement for your agedPoqet PC....
Reuter: "British video games maker Rage Software Plc moved to stave off insolvency on Monday, saying it planned to raise up to 5.6 million pounds ($8.2 million) by selling new shares." Full storyhere
Gerald Ratner today announced his return to the jewellery trade - a decade after calling one of his products "crap".He is to resurrect the Ratners name and create an online version of the high street brand, which disappeared following the remark.The operation, run in conjunction with jewellery chain Goldsmiths, will mainly sell products priced between £40 and £300.Mr Ratner said he had chosen to retain the name because a survey revealed it was still the country's most recognised jewellery retail brand.     He said: "We were going to call it something else but thought it was more likely to get hits on the internet - even from a curiosity point of view."Mr Ratner left the firm he built into the world's biggest jewellery empire after saying one of his company's cut-price decanter sets was "total crap".     His speech to the Institute of Directors in April 1991 devastated consumer confidence and many of the company's stores were forced to close.The group, which included the H Samuel and Ernest Jones shops, eventually relaunched under the name Signet.Today, Mr Ratner said he was eager to revive the Ratners identity despite the link to the remark of a decade ago: "It would be nice to get the Ratners brand up and running and successful again."The new business Ratners Online is scheduled to launch in September, selling jewellery and well-known branded watches.Goldsmiths will handle warehousing, order taking and despatching and will assist in sourcing of stock.Customers will be able to take Ratners Online goods back to Goldsmiths for a refund or repairs.Mr Ratner, who recently sold a health club venture he established in Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire, for £3.7m, said he was confident the internet was the right place to launch a new business.He added: "Internet shopping has been the fastest growing area of the retail sector. We won't have the overheads I had with the shops and that means I can work on a much lower margin."Joining Mr Ratner in the venture will be Gary O'Brien, who served as a finance director during the last 18 months of Mr Ratner's time as chairman of Ratners.The management team also includes Goldsmiths chief executive Jerzy Piasecki and Theo Paphitis, chairman of Rymans stationers and the La Senza lingerie businesses.
Green Destiny, or blade servers at the Los Alamos lab. You can get supercomputer performance on the cheap using processors that are too slow to run Windows XP adequately.
AudioGalaxyis the latest file-swapping system to feel the heat. The Recording Industry Association of America and the National Music Publishers Association filed a lawsuit on Friday.
A little Sunday reading:Eight technologies that will change the world, from Business 2.0 magazine.
Most people's journey into cyberspace involves crossing a series of thresholds.  There is, for example, the first e-mail message and the terrible question of what to put in the 'subject' line. To this day, that bothers some of my regular correspondents, and they invariably chicken out by typing something anodyne like 'Friday' or 'Thoughts'.The second threshold involves bridging the chasm between email and the Web.  I often include interesting URLs in messages, but for some correspondents that simply doesn't work.  They look at the string of characters beginning "http://" and see only gobbledegook. And then one day the penny drops. They click on the link and - Bingo! - they realise that email and the Web are, somehow, part of a seamless whole.Next comes the Amazon experience.  For a time, newbies listen incredulously to the rest of us burbling on about buying books online. Fancy being so stupid as to give out your credit-card detailson the internet. But then they find that the Amazon catalogue is in itself a wonderful resource, so they get into the habit of looking things up on it.  And finally comes the Awful Moment. They realise that there's something theyreallywant that the local Waterstones never stocks. With trembling fingers - and one or two abandoned shopping carts - they lose their online virginity andactually buy something on the internet!For many users, the next epiphany came with Napster. They had heard about all these people downloading music tracks from the net and then one day clicked on Napster.com and downloaded the 'client' program.  Next time they connected to the net, something funny happened - the Napster programme called home, letting the mother-ship know that they were online.  They then searched hesitantly for a song, found it, downloaded it - and later discovered that, in addition to having it on their hard disks, their PCs were sometimes - apparently of their own volition - serving those same tracks to others on the net.  It was an eerie feeling, but they got used to it.Now, Napster has come and gone, but the file-sharing habit endures via Gnutella, LimeWire, Morpheus and a host of other programs and services. Tens of millions of people now share files every day, to the teeth-gnashing fury of the record companies.  But they can't put the genie back in the bottle. Too many people have jumped that particular hurdle.There is, however, one more threshold to be crossed.  It leads into eBay, which is one of the wonders of the world.  eBay was the first - and is still the pre-eminent - online auction site.  It is possibly also the only dot-com business that was profitable from day one.Most newcomers to the net initially affect a sneering incredulity towards eBay, seeing it as a kind of global car-boot sale.  And indeed it is astonishing to see what people sell - and buy - on it.  Who could possibly want such tat?  But eBay gets most people in the end - and often for the most unexpected reasons.It might be that you need a piece of kit - perhaps a charger for an obsolete mobile phone or elderly PDA - that no self-respecting dealer would nowadays stock, or that they would charge an arm and a leg for. But if you hunt for it on eBay, the chances are that someone, somewhere has one and is trying to get rid of it.Or you might be a desperate parent seeking a 'retired' beanie baby for your daughter's looming birthday.  The creature in question has long disappeared from the High Street, but your little girl has her heart set on it and on nothing else.  So what do you do?  Try eBay of course.How do I know this?  Reader, I am that parent. And it worked.
