Mobile dating startup Tinder is facing a lawsuit from one of its own co-founders, alleging &quot;atrocious sexual harassment and sex discrimination&quot; before she left the company in April.Whitney Wolfe is suing Tinder, its parent company IAC and its sister firm Match.com in a lawsuit mainly focused on Tinder&apos;s chief marketing officer Justin Mateen, who has since been suspended while the company investigates the allegations.The lawsuitclaims a pattern of &quot;threatening and abusive&quot; behaviour from Mateen towards Wolfe after a romantic relationship between the pair soured, including a &quot;barrage of horrendously sexist, racist, and otherwise inappropriate comments, emails and text messages&quot;.It also claims that Wolfe was stripped of her co-founder title because she was a &quot;girl&quot;, and criticises Tinder&apos;s corporate culture for &quot;representing the worst of the misogynist, alpha-male stereotype too often associated with technology startups&quot;.IAC has responded to the lawsuit, which was filed in Tinder&apos;s native California. &quot;Immediately upon receipt of the allegations contained in Ms. Wolfe’s complaint, Mr. Mateen was suspended pending an ongoing internal investigation,&quot; a spokesperson for IAC told The Guardian.&quot;Through that process, it has become clear that Mr. Mateen sent private messages to Ms. Wolfe containing inappropriate content We unequivocally condemn these messages, but believe that Ms. Wolfe’s allegations with respect to Tinder and its management are unfounded.&quot;Wolfe was involved in Tinder from its earliest days as a prototype app called Matchbox, within ICA-funded startup incubator Hatch Labs.Her lawsuit claims she played a pivotal role in Tinder&apos;s success, including choosing its name and focusing its early marketing efforts on students in US colleges. It also details Wolfe and Mateen&apos;s relationship, which began in February 2013 when he was her direct supervisor.By the end of that year, they had split, by which point the lawsuit claims Wolfe had lost her co-founder title, partly on the grounds that &quot;Facebook and Snapchat don’t have girl founders, it just makes it look like Tinder was some accident&quot;.Wolfe resigned in April 2014, after an incident at a company party.Tinder has been one of the fastest-growing mobile apps in recent years, matching single people who browse one another&apos;s profiles and swipe left to reject or right to indicate interest. The app was reported to have10m daily active usersin April.Mateen talked to the Guardianin February about the company&apos;s aims. &quot;We never intended it to be a dating platform. It’s a social discovery platform, facilitating an introduction between two people,” he said.•The Tinder effect: psychology of dating in the technosexual era
Almost 30,000 bitcoins seized from the Silk Road, the defunct darknet market, were auctioned on Monday by the US Marshals Service.The USMS has revealed that 45 bidders registered, each putting down a deposit of $200,000, and that 63 bids were received. The process was carried out as a blind auction. No winning bidder has come forward, and the USMS didn&apos;t release any information about the winners, or the price they eventually paid for thousands of bitcoin.In October 2013, the US government came into possession of the bitcoins when it arrested San Franciscan Ross Ulbricht, now 30, and charged him with running the Silk Road, an online black market.One of the bidders was bitcoin-based consumer finance startup Circle.Speaking to the Guardian before the results were announced, the company&apos;s CEO and co-founder, former Macromedia CTO Jeremy Allaire, said that the mere existence of the auction was likely to be a boon for the currency.&quot;I think it&apos;s a very legitimising activity. The fact that the federal government of the United States is saying &apos;this is a legal asset, and we&apos;re going to liquidate it like other financial assets&apos; is a big deal.&quot;Allaire, who declined to comment on the details of Circle&apos;s bid, added that &quot;as a company who has a treasury and a set of reserves in Bitcoin … for us it&apos;s just an opportunity to acquire a meaningful chunk of bitcoin, potentially at a discount to spot prices, and to do that without affecting the price.&quot;If we were to go out to [bitcoin exchange] Bitstamp and trade for a whole bunch, it&apos;s going to move the price upward. So just from a pure economic calculus, it&apos;s a good opportunity.&quot;While no winners have come forward, many bidders have revealed that they failed to secure the bitcoins. Alan Silbert, founder and CEO of online bitcoin luxury marketplace BitPremier,estimatedthat $20m worth of bids went unsatisfied, and that those bidders may now try and fulfil their demand on the open market. Since the auction closed, the price of bitcoin has climbed to $651, up from $570 when it began, which could indicate Silbert&apos;s prediction coming to pass.Other bidders entered the auction in syndicates. Investment firm SecondMarket received 186 bids from 42 bidders, but said it was outbid on all blocks, while Pantera Bitcoin&apos;s syndicate also failed to get hold of any bitcoin.But some have questioned whether reports from the bidders are to be trusted. Isabella Kaminska,writing in the Financial Times, pointed out that the individuals and companies reporting on failed bids &quot;may have an interest in proclaiming that their bids were unsuccessful or that the accepted bids were higher than expected (even if they they were not).&quot;Writing later on her own blog,Kaminska went further, suggesting that &quot;the whole auction was a sting.&quot;&quot;For, if I was the government stuck with a bunch of bitcoin I couldn’t shift because everyone knew my coins were the Silk Road batch, I too might be inclined to “launder” the association away via a sealed auction that would make everyone assume that the coins were no longer on my book but actually still were,&quot; Kaminska said.&quot;Especially if the process also provided me with great information about prospective bidders. Much easier than buying stock in the market directly in any case.&quot;•US government prepares to auction $17m of seized Silk Road bitcoins
Samsung says that an external audit found labour violations at dozens of its suppliers in China, including failure to provide safety gear and excessive working hours, but that none involved child workers.The findings covered 100 of its Chinese suppliers - which number over 200 - and were outlined in its annual corporate social responsibility report.&quot;A majority of suppliers do not comply with China&apos;s legally permitted overtime hours,&quot; says page 69 of thereport(PDF), saying that it demanded those suppliers reduce overtime.The report is part of growing pressure on the world&apos;s two biggest smartphone suppliers, Apple and Samsung, which rely on Chinese labour to produce millions of phones every quarter. Apple was the focus of intense scrutiny from 2010 over labour practices at Foxconn, its principal supplier in China.Samsung has already come under fire in its home country of south Korea over its response toclaims that chemicals in one of its chip factories caused leukaemiaand led to the deaths of a number of workers.The company has apologised for the length of time it took to provide compensation, while saying that it does not accept there was a link.The world&apos;s largest maker of mobile phones and smartphones, Samsung has been subjected to increasing examination of its practices. In 2012 it faced allegations that its plants in China used child labourers. New York-based pressure group China Labor Watch claimed that working conditions at Samsung suppliers were &quot;inhumane&quot;, and the company vowed to eliminate illegal overtime by the end of 2014.The latest report says that 33 suppliers broke local regulations on insurance, 39 paid fixed wages without compensation for overtime, and 33 cut pay as a disciplinary measure. The report doesn&apos;t specify the extent to which those figures overlapped.The audit, covering the period to the end of December 2013, also found that 59 suppliers in China didn&apos;t provide sufficient protective goggles, masks and other safety equipment to workers, while 48 let minors (employees aged 16-18) handle chemicals. Most of the audited factories did not comply with legally permitted overtime hours.The audit also found suppliers which had excessively noisy or dusty workplaces, and which failed to control air and water pollution from their output.Samsung conducted its own audit of Chinese suppliers in 2012 and said it found instances of Chinese workers working beyond legal hours.The audit was carried out by a third party auditor certified by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, an electronics industry group.•Shenzhen is the hi-tech manufacturing hub making one quarter of the world&apos;s smartphones - but also millions of fakes
Union leaders from Britain, France and Germany are to meet in Berlin on Wednesday to discuss the rise of Amazon in Europe and how to engage with the online retailer on job security, warehouse working conditions and low pay.National organisers from the Verdi union in Germany, CGT in France and the GMB in Britain all view Amazon as a leading example of how a new generation of powerful e-commerce employers treat their low-skilled workforce.Workers at some Amazon warehouses in France have held a series of strikes recently, while many of their counterparts in Germany took industrial action earlier in the year and are awaiting meetings with management before deciding on further moves.In Britain the GMB is still building membership at Amazon and wants to be granted "fair and unfettered" access to warehouse sites to talk to staff about joining up.It is understood that the three unions meeting in Berlin will explore campaign strategies including efforts to draw links between Amazon's much-criticised European tax arrangements and the group's approach to low-wage workers.Some union leaders have already argued low-wage employees are often heavily dependent on in-work benefits, which they say effectively amount to a government subsidy. They believe the wider public does not want to see such subsidies channelled to successful multinational businesses if they are not seen as contributing their fair share in tax.Amazon has been accused in the past of using aggressively anti-union tactics to resist unionisation in Milton Keynes, one of its first UK warehouses. In evidence to a parliamentary committee union leaders said the Graphic Paper and Media Union (GPMU), which is now part of Unite, was defeated in a 2001 union representation ballot in Milton Keynes after Amazon ran an anti-union campaign, issuing workers T-shirts with slogans such as "Tell the GPMU yesterday's gone", and "Vote NO".Union leaders told MPs: "Prior to the ballot taking place the management held interviews with each individual employee and meetings with groups of workers to ask why they needed a union and to make sure they were aware of the company's views on union membership. In addition the company distributed a sample ballot paper to make it clear how employees should fill it in." Amazon have since disputed this account.The online retailer today employs about 7,000 staff in the UK, many of them in low-pay warehouse jobs. Amazon says 5,800 are permanent staff, on a minimum salary of £7.10 an hour.The group says temporary staff earn more than 90% of starting wages for permanent workers for the first 12 weeks, then the same pay as permanent colleagues.In April, the head of Amazon in the UK, Christopher North, said the online retailer pays a competitive wage "to attract the best and brightest we can". He said: "We think morally its is our responsibility to ensure they are safe and are properly compensated."Asked about its approach to unions, a spokesman said: "We firmly believe the most effective way to understand and respond to our workforce needs and concerns is to work directly with our associates [staff]. We have multiple avenues to listen to and respond to our [staff], including employee surveys, anonymous helplines, voice of associate boards, All Hands meetings, roundtables, and other mechanisms."We have a democratically elected forum at each fulfilment centre which represents the interests of employees and regularly meets with senior management. We also have an open-door policy that allows associates to bring their comments, questions and concerns directly to their management teams and we feel we can best address our associates' needs by encouraging this open-door policy in our workplace."
Rdio may not be the most popular streaming music service – it has never said how many people use it – but it has always been one of the nicest to use thanks to its widely-praised design.Now it wants to make it easier for people to discover new music. The company, which was launched in 2010 by Skype co-founders Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, hasbought music app startup TastemakerXfor an undisclosed amount.The latter company started life in 2012as an iPhone apppitched as a fantasy sports-style game for music fans, who would buy virtual shares in songs, then watch the price rise or fall based on their popularity with other players. It has since alsolaunched on Android.The real goal was to create a network of music tipsters, with a chart of trending songs, and a gradually-deepening understanding of the tastes of those users. The game was a path towards a valuable data set, in the same way that Foursquare&apos;s system of points and mayorships helped that startup build a useful database of places and recommendations.Over time, TastemakerX de-emphasised its game aspect in favour of a feature called Collections, which encouraged people to choose their favourite musicians, then gathered songs, music, photos and videos from various internet services for other users to browse.Now the company is part of Rdio, with its seven-person team joining the company and its chief executive Marc Ruxin taking up a role as the streaming service&apos;s chief operating officer.“Unlike many of the other players in the space, Rdio exists, in one way, as fiercely independent. It serves only the master of distributing a great music experience. It is not in business to sell hardware, search queries, or physical products,”said Ruxinas the deal was announced, taking a shot at Apple, Google and Amazon.“It is my hope that over time, music discovery becomes easier, more fun and seamlessly social. Rdio really is a place for music lovers, we thrilled to begin this next voyage.&quot;In a separateinterview with PandoDaily, Ruxin said that Rdio has “millions” of users, but has chosen not to announce a detailed figure because until recently, it didn’t have a free version, so wasn’t trying to publicly talk up its growth.By comparison,Spotify has 40m active usersincluding 10m paying subscribers; Deezer has 16m active users including 5m paying subscribers, and Rhapsody has 1.7m paying subscribers split between its service in the US, and its Napster subsidiary elsewhere in the world.Rdio is not the only streaming service buying startups to boost its music discovery features. Spotify bought Tunigo, a Swedish startup focused on curating playlists for streaming services, in March 2013. The effects of that deal can be seen in the themed playlists that now appear on Spotify’s homepage.Spotify alsopaid a reported $100m for US big-data firm The Echo Nestin March 2014, and is using its technology to better understand the relationship between songs and artists, as well as to provide more personalised music recommendations. Rdio had been a partner of The Echo Nest too, but swiftly cut its ties following the acquisition.Spotify, Rdio and their rivals are focusing a lot on music discovery at the moment, because they want to go mainstream. While early adopters relished the idea of unlimited access to a catalogue of more than 20m songs, the streaming companies believe a much bigger, more mainstream audience needs more help navigating through all this music.Playlists – built by humans or computer algorithms – are a big part of this drive, but so are tastemakers, from journalists, DJs and musicians through to well-informed fans. Rdio&apos;s acquisition of TastemakerX hints at its ambitions to capitalise more on the latter group in the future.•Five big challenges looming for Spotify and streaming music
Facebook changed its terms and conditions to allow data to be used for researchafter it had used data for research,it has been shown.A clause granting Facebook the right to use information about its customers &quot;for internal operations, including … research&quot; was onlyadded to its data use policy in May 2012, four months after it performed experiments on hundreds of thousands of users aimed at seeing whether it could affect their emotions.In a section titled &quot;how we use the information we receive&quot;, the company gives examples of ways it &quot;may use the information we receive about you&quot;.The version of the document in force in January 2012, when the wide-ranging experiments were performed, said Facebook would use information:… as part of our efforts to keep Facebook safe and secure; to provide you with location features and services, like telling you and your friends when something is going on nearby; to measure or understand the effectiveness of ads you and others see; to make suggestions to you and other users on Facebook, such as: suggesting that your friend use our contact importer because you found friends using it, suggesting that another user add you as a friend because the user imported the same email address as you did, or suggesting that your friend tag you in a picture they have uploaded with you in it.The examples given are not intended to be a comprehensive listing of all the ways Facebook uses users&apos; data, but the company describes the policy as &quot;one important way we try to provide people with transparency into our operations.&quot;The May 2012 alterations to the policy were made following an audit of the company by the Irish Data Protection Commission, whichforced the company to stop indefinitely holding users&apos; advertising data. Facebook&apos;s European office is based in Ireland.In the US, the company had also just settled a complaint from the Federal Trade Commission, after it was accused of &quot;unfair and deceptive&quot; privacy practices.A Facebook spokeswoman told the Guardian that “when someone signs up for Facebook, we’ve always asked permission to use their information to provide and enhance the services we offer. To suggest we conducted any corporate research without permission is complete fiction.&quot;Companies that want to improve their services use the information their customers provide, whether or not their privacy policy uses the word ‘research’ or not.”•Facebook told to stop indefinitely holding users&apos; advertising data
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid Wear, Auto, and TV save you from skins, and OEMs from themselves &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAndrew Cunningham:Talking with Google engineering director David Burke confirmed that all of the new Android initiatives announced at the keynote this week--Android Wear, Android Auto, and Android TV--will have user interfaces and underlying software that is controlled by Google, not by the OEMs. "The UI is more part of the product in this case," Burke said to Ars of Android TV in particular. "We want to just have a very consistent user experience, so if you have one TV in one room and another TV in another room and they both say Android TV, we want them to work the same and look the same... The device manufacturers can brand it, and they might have services that they want to include with it, but otherwise it should be the same." ...The flipside of this is that the Wear, Auto, and TV components probably won't be things that people can download source code for and build on top of. If you want to build an Android watch or a set-top box of your own design, you'll have to do what Samsung did with the first Galaxy Gear or what Amazon did with the Fire TV--take the standard Android Open Source Project code and do all the UI work and form-factor-specific optimization yourself.Closed-source and uncustomisable.Android "L" feature spotlight: write Wi-Fi passwords to NFC tags directly From Android &gt;&gt; Android PoliceYou know the scenario: friends come over, want to use your Wi-Fi, and expect you to just hand over the password. I don't know about you guys, but I'm pretty weird about just giving my password to everyone who walks through the door, regardless of how well I know them. Most of time I opt to type my password in for them, but there is an easier way: store your Wi-Fi info on an NFC tag. Then all it takes is one tap (assuming their phone has NFC, of course).Of course.Widgets in iOS 8 explained &gt;&gt; iMoreThe explanation comes after this part, which is instructive in itself:The original iPhone was supposed to include a version of OS X-style Dashboard widgets, namely Weather and Stocks. They wouldn't have looked or acted any differently than any other full-screen iPhone app, but they would have been built like Dashboard widgets, using Apple's web technologies instead of native Objective-C. Since the presentation was to be no different, and the limits of WebKit at the time meant performance wasn't as good as native apps, they were ultimately rewritten in Objective-C anyway. Other platforms, including Nokia (pre-Windows Phone) and Android went ahead with widgets. What's more, they distinguished them from full-screen apps by making them smaller and letting them live on the home screen, amid the app icons. Power users loved them, but few mainstream customers embrace them.According to HTC, a prominent vendor of Android devices:"Widgets [on HTC phones] aren't widely used - weather, clock and music are the most used and after that, fewer than 10% of customers use any other widgets. "Most of you don't modify your home screens much. In fact, after the first month of use, approximately 80% of you don't change your home screens any more."The dark side of .io: how the UK is making web domain profits from a shady Cold War land deal &gt;&gt; GigaomDavid Meyer:The .io country code top-level domain is pretty popular right now, particularly among tech startups that want to take advantage of the snappy input/output reference and the relative availability of names -- Fusion.io, Wise.io and Import.io are just a few examples. But who benefits from the sale of .io domains? Sadly, not the people who ultimately should. While .tv brings in millions of dollars each year for the tiny South Pacific island nation of Tuvalu, and .me benefits Montenegro, the people of the British Indian Ocean Territory, or the Chagos Islands, have no such luck. Indeed, profits from the sale of each .io domain flow to the very force that expelled the Chagossian or Ilois people from their equatorial land just a generation or two ago: the British government.LAUSD shifts gears on technology for students &gt;&gt; Los Angeles Times"Let's see what works from letting the people in the field -- the teachers, the students and the parents -- tell us what works," said Thomas Rubin, a consultant for a committee that oversees the spending of school-construction bonds. The initial money to pay for the technology is coming from voter-approved bonds. Officials have not yet identified funding to sustain the $1-billion-plus effort. Three of the laptops being tried in the high schools are likely to cost more than the iPads. A different style of laptop, called a Chromebook, would cost less. Teachers and students at the high schools sent delegations to try out devices and meet with vendors at district headquarters. It wasn't a perfect process. The curriculum, for example, was hard to assess in a process akin to speed dating, said one participant.Microsoft said to halt Surface Mini production &gt;&gt; DigitimesMicrosoft reportedly has called off a plan to mass produce its small-size Surface Mini tablet because of fierce compeition in the small-size tablet segment, as well as negative responses from its brand vendor clients, according to sources from the upstream supply chain. Microsoft has finished developing the Surface Mini and also completed the product tests; however, mass production did not start as scheduled in May, the sources said, adding Microsoft still paid the costs for the module development and production equipment, the sources said."Brand vendor clients" probably meaning Dell, one suspects. Non-brand tablets prices simply make a Surface Mini a non-starter, the story suggests.Five Easy Pieces &gt;&gt; CCS InsighPeter Bryer:Paul Eremenko, Google's visionary head of Project Ara, wants to further this by enabling a hardware bazaar of interchangeable gadgets that sit snugly on a Google-made "endoskeleton". Mr Eremenko spoke last week about his long-term ambitions for modular phones. He expects the devices to disrupt the smartphone industry entirely, bringing the basic building blocks to users and enabling them to add to these according to their needs and budgets. Mr Eremenko expects that Wi-Fi-enabled endoskeletons will be available from Google for $50 from as early as 2015. A beta version of the Module Developers Kit is already available for download, and the company is offering a $100,000 prize for what it judges as the most innovative Project Ara module. This is impressive forward momentum, but CCS Insight believes that the economic and logistical challenges of modular phones will be difficult to overcome (see Google Launches Build-Your-Own-Phone Project Ara) and that Google's energies to bring connected devices to another 5 billion users could be better spent. We understand that certain new technologies (such as functional 3G printing) are interesting developments for the industry, but the efficiency of mass-produced phones built with standardised components will be the greatest competitive hurdle for modular devices to overcome.And, as he points out, it's now competing also with Android One. Any benefits from this most likely won't accrue in smartphones. In which case, what is Google's real plan?Comment followup on the demise of Aperture &gt;&gt; ApertureExpertJoseph Linaschke runs the site:Apple does care about photographers -- even professional ones. They care deeply about them. I'm not saying this because I want to believe it, but because I know it. I got the call personally from Apple for two reasons yesterday -- because I run this site, and because I'm a professional photographer. Lots of pro 'tog friends got calls yesterday too. This decision didn't come lightly, it isn't personal, and no it wasn't made because they hate you, dear reader. It's a business decision and a technology decision and they are going to do everything possible to support the pros as much as feasible. Will Photos.app be the right solution for every pro out there? No, but neither was Aperture. Neither is Lightroom, or any other app you can name. So why am I so sure that Apple does care about photographers? Look at how much of the keynote and sessions at WWDC (the recent Apple World Wide Developers Conference) was dedicated to photography.Boston to try out solar-powered 'smart benches' in parks &gt;&gt; The Boston GlobeThe benches, to be located in various parks, will allow residents to take a load off their feet -- while plugging in and recharging their cellphones. "Your cellphone doesn't just make phone calls, why should our benches just be seats?" Mayor Martin J. Walsh said in a statement Friday. The high-tech benches were invented by MIT Media Lab spinoff Changing Environments, a Verizon Innovation Program. The benches also connect wirelessly, using Verizon's network, to the internet to upload location-based environmental information, such as air quality and noise-level data. City officials said the first units in Boston will be funded by Cisco Systems, a leader in development of smart city solutions, at no cost to the city.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Last week, nearly 3,500 people met in London to discuss management of the internet. Yet judging from the media coverage, it was less newsworthy than the arrival of an app called Yo. Apart from a flare-up from a French government minister at one point of proceedings (on protecting wine domains), the whole show went largely unnoticed.The occasion was the 50th meeting – and the first in the UK – of Icann, the 16-year-old organisation that manages the internet’s centralised domain name and numbering system. Is that boring or what? Well, perhaps, but as the US TV talk-show host John Oliver said recently, on another vitally important but soporific-sounding topic – that of net neutrality – “if you want to do something evil, put it inside something that sounds incredibly boring …”So what is the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann)? It’s a private Californian company, established by the US government in 1998, which sits atop the lucrative domain name industry. (The one that allows you to register putinarainbow.com for an annual fee.) After the explosion in domain names this year from the original group of 22 (.net, .org, etc) to over 1,000 (.manythings), Icann’s annual revenue is soaring - close to $300m at last count.The business of giving title to these digital landholdings has made Icann a plush operation – as evidenced by the slick event at the Hilton Metropole (complete with lavish free social programme). But all corporate beanfeasts are lavish. So what’s the problem?Simply this: Icann isn’t a corporation competing with others for a share of its market. Instead, it’s a centralised, monopolistic, hardly accountable private organisation that exercises public authority and power. At the same time that it’s providing services to the domain name industry, it is also trying to regulate it. On top of that, it claims to be “dedicated to keeping the internet secure, stable and interoperable.” Think about that, and the realities of the surveilled internet, as you digest how Icann operates.We know from history and economics that monopolies in private hands never act in the public interest. Icann, however, masterfully avoids this topic by appealing to amorphous, unenforceable notions of accountability to the “global community”; something they try to capture with the ugly term “multistakeholderism”.The real problem with this poorly defined notion is that, in practice, it serves powerful incumbents and the centrally positioned US government, diffusing talk of any genuinely representative global alternative for policy-making and oversight. Participants in Icann, who still can’t quite believe their luck, will defend the model to the hilt, regardless of where it’s been and where it’s taking us.Take, for example, the starting statement of the senior US official Larry Strickling, which is standard fare at Icann meetings: “No one country, no two countries, no 10 countries can claim to speak on behalf of the public interest.”Now, what exactly do governments speak for, if not the public interest? And what does Icann offer instead? Its hardly pacifying alternative is an unelected, self-interested, self-legitimised corporate board, answerable, when it really comes down to it, only to itself and the attorney general of California.The UK communications minister, Ed Vaizey, played right into Icann’s pocket: “Just imagine an internet that relied on governments agreeing on things,” he said, suggesting that the result would be “top-down, centralised decision-making: a bureaucratic worldwide web of red tape. The internet being run not by the people who make it work on a daily basis but by horse-trading politicians behind closed doors.”Putting aside Vaizey’s rather bizarre characterisation of governments (and by implication himself), he overlooks many important layers here. And he seems to have forgotten that the mobile phone network, which relies on governments agreeing on things, does work rather well, and has grown rapidly and affordably worldwide, particularly in developing countries.The permissionless, bottom-up growth and expansion of the internet is something that we all relish. But anyone who attributes this to Icann – or who believes that Icann is run only by techies and not itself centralised, bureaucratic, and susceptible to insider horse-trading and the rapacious intellectual property lobby – is not watching properly.If this was just about money, it might not matter. But it points to a deeper problem. Icann has made itself the central manager of the furniture of the internet - from the IP addresses of each connected device to the root servers that tune to Icann’s single root zone and domain name system.These are some of the most powerful strategic assets on the planet. They are intrinsic to the internet experience that we all value, but also to the fears - surveillance, incumbency, inequality - that we harbour. And right now these assets (themselves a distracting mirage from greater power held by the NSA, Google, and others) are being bartered in a disturbingly one-directional manner.Today, the ultimate backstop control over key global internet resources rests with the US government. Actions are afoot to transfer them to the so-called global community (while keeping Icann as a private US company, subject only to US law). But the US government has expressly removed from the table a seemingly obvious alternative steward: the United Nations, despite its imperfections. That leaves Icann, with all its hopeless conflicts, as the only option in a vacant lot.Involving UN-sanctioned bodies, and particularly the International Telecommunication Union, in oversight of the internet, is vigorously opposed by the US and its allies, as well as many in the technical community and moderate governments. But the reasons for this have not been made explicit to differentiate between policy-making, implementation, and oversight. UN processes are supposed to be openly and genuinely negotiated. Accredited non-governmental organisations (of which there are hundreds, if not thousands), can observe sessions, make statements, and engage with governments.An alternative which gained some minor traction last week is that at the very least Icann shouldn’t be both policy-maker and implementer when it comes toroot zone filemanagement. Both these functions and root server oversight require independence from political and economic influence.Nightmares of some kind of stuttering, stultifying, Stalinist takeover of the root zone - which seems to be the main unstated fear against arms-length UN oversight - are discussed in private, rather than aired in public where structural and functional separation, the reality of UN decision-making, and the likely plausibility of an authoritarian takeover could be more healthily ventilated and proactively insured against.And don’t anyone question the anathema to Icann’s entire existence: the merits, or otherwise, of a centralised domain name system for internet security and governance at all.One positive outcome of last week’s meeting was that everyone seemed to acknowledge that Icann needs to work on its accountability. That said, this has been the case since its inception, requiring court cases and endless reviews (this is the fifth in seven years), all to no avail. The byzantine, meandering processes of Icann are engineered in a way that avoids any dissent surfacing, all under the reassuring guise of consensus.The metaphor currently favoured by President Fadi Chehadé is that Icann has “grown up, and is about to lose its training wheels of US stewardship.” The focus now, he continues, is “fixing the bike.” An astute observer, Jonathan Carver, called out the flaw in this argument, stating “it’s not about training wheels. It’s about accountability tools.” It might be the only broken bike in the lot, but it’s one with a huge degree of unshackled power. We should all question whether Icann is truly capable of serving today’s global internet community before we let it continue on its merry, free-floating way.Julia Powles is a researcher in law and technology at the University of Cambridge. Find her on Twitter @juliapowles•Meet the seven people who control the keys to worldwide internet security
It's Tuesday.
Factories, farms, lakes and towns will become proving grounds for robots, drones and driverless cars under plans handed to the government on Tuesday that would transform Britain into a leading test centre for the machines.Decommissioned nuclear plants at Sellafield, the nation's deepest mine at Boulby in Yorkshire and Loch Linnhe near Fort William are among places being eyed up as facilities to put the next generation of robots through their paces.The strategy would see airfields co-opted for experimental drone flights and towns such as Milton Keynes used as tough urban proving grounds for driverless cars, where navigation, object-avoidance and automated parking can be tested to the limit.Unveiled in the UK's first official robotics strategy, the proposals aim to increase Britain's income from robotics and so-called autonomous systems (RAS) which can perform certain tasks without human operators.The plans, drawn up by the government'sTechnology Strategy Board,foresee around a dozen proving grounds where companies and researchers can test their robots in real-world situations to make sure they work properly and are safe for humans to be around.Once the testbeds are established, they will host a series of challenges that set robots specific tasks. These will be designed to drive new technologies, and could include a deep-water search for an aircraft black box, the dismantling of equipment in a nuclear plant, smart route-finding to parking places, or the ability to move a sick patient in their home."If we are going to have robots interacting with people we need to make sure they work properly, but we also need to understand how people behave around them. We need to get used to the idea of working with robots," saidDavid Lane, chair of the Technology Strategy Board's RAS special interest group.RAS is one of the eight technologies the chancellor, George Osborne, is banking on to drive UK growth, but other countries, including Japan, the US, South Korea and Germany, are dominant in the market, which could be worth £70bn by 2025 according to aMcKinsey reportlast year. "It's important we don't dilly-dally, because the race is on," said Lane.Speaking before the announcement of the strategy, science ministerDavid Willettssaid: "We're very keen for people to come up with ideas for robot enterprise zones where you can try them out in a controlled environment. Over the months ahead we'll work with the experts to see where there are public expenditure costs, what they are and [whether they are] affordable," he added. In total, the government invests about £150m in RAS.For robotics to become a leading driver of the UK economy, the regulatory environment has to move with the demands of the technology. That means adapting rules to allow drones to fly in civilian airspace and driverless cars to take to the roads. According to Lane, the regulators are making progress: "They are up for it. In one sense they have no choice, because they know this is coming."The country's long history of offshore oil and gas exploration has led to homegrown expertise in submersible robots for maintenance and inspection. As one of the first countries to decommission nuclear power stations, there are facilities becoming available where robots could be developed to work in the grim conditions that faced Japanese operators at the Fukushima Daiichi plant after it was crippled by the 2011 tsunami.Though robots are most often built to do jobs that are dull, dangerous or dirty, the challenge in making them work lies in the specifics. In a deep mine, a robot needs to not only cope with the hot conditions but with fine particles that can wear down robotic limbs. In a nuclear plant, a robot might need radiation protection, but also be able to manoeuvre in tight and complex spaces.Urban environments are no easier. A robot road-cleaner needs to sweep the streets, avoid pedestrians and other objects, but also complete its route unscathed. "You have to engineer a robot for the environment it's going into. If you're going to put it into Glasgow city centre on Friday night, it's the same principle," said Lane.Rather thanAmazon deliveries of books, mooted by the online firm last year, some of the first commercial uses of drones could be on farms, to monitor crops and deliver pesticides. Farms have the advantage of being on private, isolated land, where the risk of accidents is lower than in towns and cities."Shifting a hardback Harry Potter volume will require a fair amount of power, and that, if it crashed or went awry, could seriously harm people. I think we are a long way off the Amazon book delivery. The whole area of liability is going to be important," said Willetts.
Larry Page, Google's chief executive, expressed his frustration last week with people's lack of trust in "big data" companies such as his own. "We get so worried about [data privacy] that we don't get the benefits," he said, arguing that if Google were to let companies mine our health data 100,000 lives a year could be saved.Page and others at Google might therefore be unhappy at how Facebook has behaved. During a January week in 2012, around 700,000 English-speaking Facebook users were chosen, without their knowledge or consent, to be emotional lab rats. The researchers found that if you tweak what people see in their Facebook news feed – the scrolling information on your page –to suppress or heighten certain emotive words, readers' emotions will shift to match.It's not only emotions Facebook can nudge. It can make you vote, too. On the US presidential election day in 2010 it offered one group a graphic with a link to find nearby polling stations, along with a button that would let you announce that you'd voted, and the profile photos of six "friends" who had already done so. Users shown that page were 0.39% more likely to vote than those in the control group who hadn't seen the link, button or photos.The researchers reckoned they'd mobilised 60,000 voters and that the ripple effect caused 340,000 extra votes.As the New Republic points out, what if Mark Zuckerberg – or some future Facebook chief – wants to influence a future election? The growing amount of data suggests that subtly influencing people's opinions, and voting turnout, could prod voting in one direction or another. George W Bush's narrow win in the 2000 presidential race is a reminder of how close some elections can be.It's hardly a new concern; Orson Welles described it in Citizen Kane, whose newspaper-owning proprietor seeks election victory through biasing the news he publishes. The fictional Kane was based on the real-life newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst – who then used his influence to suppress Welles. But what's different from the scenario in Kane is that we can't compare what we're seeing with anything else. These aren't biased newspaper articles, they're a sort of biased reality. If our friends all seem a little down, judging by their Facebook posts, or if we're being constantly urged to vote, we can't see the hidden hand behind it. Subliminal advertising has been banned in many countries for decades.Now Facebook seems to have reinvented it for things that aren't exactly advertising but are about how we feel about each other and what we do. Concerns about Google or Facebook biasing an election might seem far-fetched. But until a few weeks ago, the idea a few people in California would set out to silently change how half a million people feel would have seemed weird too.The most worrying thing? That hardly anyone is surprised this is possible. In which case, what are the limits of possibility in this tweaking of our online environment? Page may be dismayed at our lack of trust, but we keep being given reasons not to trust what happens with our data. There's no simple resolution, because even if these experiments stop being published, we can't be sure they'll stop.
Facebook's experiment in which it tweaked the words used in nearly 700,000 users' news feeds to see if it affected their emotions breached ethical guidelines, say independent researchers."This is bad, even for Facebook," said James Grimmelmann, professor of law at the University of Maryland, who says that the lack of informed consent in the experiment carried out for a week during January 2012 on Facebook users is a "real scandal".In an extensive blogpost entitled "Facebook didn't give users informed consent" Grimmelmann said people did not have the information to allow them to decide whether to take part in the study. The study harmed participants, because it changed their mood, Grimmelmann added.The blogpost came after it emerged that the social network had manipulated news feeds to see if reading about people having a good or bad time made others feel the same, or the opposite.The conclusion of the research, which was conducted in conjunction with two academic authors from Cornell University, was that emotions were contagious, and that seeing posts by people who were feeling down may have the same effect on readers.Cornell said that it had decided the research did not require it to check if participants had given their consent, as it would normally, because Facebook itself had been responsible for the collection of its users' data.John Carberry, a spokesman, said in a statement: "Because the research was conducted independently by Facebook and Professor [Jeffrey] Hancock had access only to results – and not to any data at any time – Cornell University's institutional review board concluded that he was not directly engaged in human research and that no review by the Cornell human research protection program was required."Max Masnick, a researcher studying for a doctorate in epidemiology who says of his work that "I do human subjects research every day", said the structure of the experiment meant that there was no informed consent, which is a key requirement of studies on humans. "As a researcher, you don't get an ethical free pass because a user checked a box next to a link to a website's terms of use.The researcher is responsible for making sure all participants are properly consented. In many cases, study staff will verbally go through lengthy consent forms with potential participants, point by point. Researchers will even quiz participants after presenting the informed consent information to make sure they really understand."Based on the information in the PNAS paper, I don't think these researchers met this ethical obligation."But one of the Facebook researchers, Adam Kramer, posted a lengthy defence of the Facebook research, saying it was carried out "because we care about the emotional impact of Facebook and the people that use our product". He said that he and his colleagues "felt it was important to investigate the common worry that seeing friends post positive content leads to people feeling negative or left out."The experiment hid certain elements from 689,003 English-speaking people's news feeds – about 0.04% of total users, or 1 in 2,500 – over the course of one week. The experiment hid a "small percentage" of emotional words from the news feeds, without their knowledge, to test what effect it had on the statuses or "likes" that they then posted or reacted to.The results found that, contrary to expectation, people's emotions were reinforced by what they saw – what the researchers called "emotional contagion".Kramer does not address the topic of informed consent in his blogpost. But he says that "my co-authors and I are very sorry for the way the paper described the research and any anxiety it caused. In hindsight, the research benefits of the paper may not have justified all of this anxiety".The study is the latest in a number of "controlled experiments" Facebook has carried out on its users without their knowledge, though none has been as radical as this one.The firm argues that its terms of service allow it to do so, and that users give their consent to being used for such experiments when they sign up and agree to the terms and conditions.In 2010, during the presidential election, Facebook showed maps of polling stations and photos of friends who had already voted to encourage one randomly chosen set of people to vote, while showing nothing to others. It claimed afterwards that this lifted the number of votes across the US by around 340,000 based on a "ripple effect" from 60,000 voters who were mobilised by its subtle encouragement.An earlier study , also carried out by Facebook and published by PLOS One, an online journal, had found that rainy weather could affect peoples' postings and that that could in turn affect the postings of others who read it. But unlike the recent study, that simply observed the content of posts, rather than altering them.Facebook could also separately face an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission, which oversees consumer protection in the US. However a spokesman for the FTC declined to comment: "Any kind of investigations or compliance monitoring we do is nonpublic," he said. The FTC previously rapped Facebook in November 2011 over charges that the network deceived consumers by failing to keep promises that it would keeping postings private, and then making them public.Adi Kamdar, of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a pressure group that works to defend people's digital civil liberties, said the study should teach users "to be wary of how much data you want to give Facebook and how much you rely on "."What a mess," said Kamdar. "People need to understand that Facebook as a service is not a neutral platform. It is not the internet. It is a for-profit company with its own needs, and its own agenda, and will affect what users see at its own whim. It could be manipulating data all the time, but this is the first time we saw the results."Another Cornell academic, who works alongside Hancock at the university's Social Media Lab, was awarded almost $1.2m in US government funding earlier this month for a new study on the disclosure of personal information by social media users – "from mundane details of daily life to tragic warnings of planned suicide" – to help assist in "well-being interventions".A summary proposal for the study, which is being led by Natalie Bazarova, an assistant professor, said it would "collect examples of actual disclosure" from social media postings. Bazarova said in an email to the Guardian: "We will be collecting data from consenting social media users on sites such as Twitter or Facebook."
Around the time of the Indian election in May, a badly-headlined story began spreading which asked &quot;Did Google affect the outcome of the Indian election?&quot; The answer wasno, it hadn&apos;t. But beneath the headline was an iceberg.A non-peer-reviewed study, not carried out by anyone affiliated with Google, looked at the effects on undecided voters of tweaking the search engine&apos;s search results on different candidates - showing positive or negative results. Though not rigorous, it did highlight the possibility that if Google were so minded, it could influence floating voters, and so any close election.Google responded that &quot;Our results reflect what&apos;s on the web, and we rigorously protect the integrity of our algorithms. It would undermine people&apos;s trust in our results and company if we were to change course.&quot;Larry Page, Google&apos;s chief executive, expressed his frustration last week with peoples&apos; lack of trust in &quot;big data&quot; companies like his own. If only we would let companies mine our health data, we could save 100,000 lives every year, heargued. &quot;We get so worried about [data privacy] that we don&apos;t get the benefits,&quot; he said.Undermining the feedPage, and others at Google, might therefore be unhappy at the way that Facebook is again undermining our trust. During a January week in 2012, around 700,000 English-speaking Facebook users werechosen, without their knowledge (or explicit consent)to be emotional lab rats. The researchersfoundthat if you tweak what people see in their Facebook Newsfeed - the scrolling information on your page - to suppress or heighten certain emotional words, readers&apos; emotions will shift to match.It&apos;s not only emotions Facebook can nudge. It can make you vote too. On presidential election day 2010 it offered one group in the US a graphic with a link to find nearby polling stations, along with a button that would let you announce that you&apos;d voted, and the profile photos of six other of your &quot;friends&quot; who had already done so. Users shown that page were 0.39% more likely to vote than those in the &quot;control&quot; group, who hadn&apos;t seen the link, button or photos.The researchers reckoned they&apos;d mobilised 60,000 voters - and that the ripple effect caused a total of 340,000 extra votes. That&apos;s significantly more than George Bush won by in 2000, where Florida hung on just 537 votes.As the New Republicpoints out, what if Mark Zuckerberg - or some future Facebook chief - wants to influence a future election? The growing amount of data suggests that subtly influencing peoples&apos; opinions, and voting turnout, could be engineered to prod voting in one direction or the other.Fraud at polls?It&apos;s hardly a new concern; Orson Welles described it in Citizen Kane, whose newspaper-owning proprietor seeks election victory through biasing the news he publishes. And the fictional Kane, of course, was based on the real-life newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst - who then used his influence to suppress Welles.But what&apos;s different from the scenario in Kane is that we can&apos;t compare what we&apos;re seeing with anything else; these aren&apos;t biased newspaper articles, they&apos;re a sort of biased reality. If our friends all seem a little down, judging by their Facebook posts, or if we&apos;re being constantly urged to vote, we can&apos;t see the hidden hand behind it. Subliminal advertising has been banned in most countries for decades. Now Facebook, one of the few online advertising behemoths, seems to have reinvented it - for things which aren&apos;t exactly advertising. They&apos;re about how we feel about each other, and what we do.That&apos;s a worry. Concerns about Google or Facebook biasing an election might seem far-fetched. But until a few weeks ago, the idea that a few people in California would set out to silently change how around half a million people feel would have seemed weird too.The most worrying thing? That hardly anyone is surprised that this is possible. In which case, what are the limits of possibility in this tweaking of our online environment? Page may be dismayed at our lack of trust. But we keep being given reasons not to trust what happens with our data. There&apos;s no simple resolution - because even if these experiments stop being published, we can&apos;t be sure they&apos;ll stop.•How does Facebook decide what to show in my News Feed?
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best newiPhoneand iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSMoment (Free + IAP)There are umpteen apps to help you quantify yourself, from activity to diet to fertility to stools. Moment has a new twist on the trend: it tracks how much you use your iPhone, with the aim of providing a polite intervention (of sorts) if you&apos;re spending too much time squinting at your screen, and not enough interacting with the real world and people around you.iPhoneWhyd (Free)Subtitled &quot;everyone&apos;s music playlist&quot;, Whyd is one of a clutch of music startups – see also Bop.fm, Songdrop and Tomahawk – trying to sit in between the various streaming music services, and provide a way to create and share playlists that work across them all. Its app is a good way to discover new music, or simply to show off your own tastes.iPhoneOsper (Free)Osper is an interesting idea making its debut in the UK: a &quot;money management system&quot; for young people – i.e. under-18s. It&apos;s essentially a prepay debit card, funded by parents, with the app used by both children and parents to keep tabs on balances and transactions. Although a fair few teenagers may balk at the idea of their parents seeing an itemisation of their spending...iPhone / iPadDinosaur Mix (£1.99)Dinosaurs: reliably brilliant for children, and indeed, for most adults too. The latest app hoping to capitalise is Dinosaur Mix, from inventive British developer Cowly Owl. It gets children to build colourful dinosaurs from their constituent body parts, then feed them and send them off exploring the scenery. Creative and fun.iPhone / iPadMakerBot PrintShop (Free)This is the work of 3D printing firm MakerBot: an iPad app designed to work with its own MakerBot Replicator printers, creating everything from signs and rings to designs uploaded to the company&apos;s Thingiverse web community. A fun, intuitive tool to get you creating your own objects, not just printing other people&apos;s.iPadBeamIt - Visual Messaging (Free)The latest messaging app for iOS comes from a startup, Cooliris, that has traditionally focused on photo-sharing. That&apos;s still a big part of BeamIt though: a private messaging app to ping photos back and forth with text, with comments supported and also the option to send messages to people who don&apos;t have the app.iPhone / iPadLenka (£1.99)More photography: this is an uber-stylish camera app by photographer Kevin Abosch. It&apos;s for black and white shots only, with neat real-time previews, &quot;constant light&quot; instead of a flash, and a trend-bucking ban on front-facing camera shots. In other words, a selfie-free zone.iPhoneBernhoft Islander (£13.99)If you&apos;re new to Norwegian musician Bernhoft, this might be a good introduction: it&apos;s an app version of his new album Islanders that&apos;s as focused on getting you to play with the music as play it. There&apos;s a remixing tool, a set of virtual loops to make your own music, and a 360-degree video. Although of course, an HD version of the full album is also included.iPhone / iPadShutter (Free)It&apos;s a good week for new iPhone camera apps: the schtick here is &quot;an unlimited camer roll&quot;, uploading all your shots to maker StreamNation&apos;s servers, while ensuring you can always access your last 200 shots. It can shoot videos as well as stills, and ties in to the StreamNation cloud service, which charges for some levels of storage.iPhoneAlertsPro (£1.49 + IAP)This app aims to keep you posted on severe weather coming your way, from blizzards to monster thunderstorms. The app promises up to 48 hours advance notice, with a simple system of colour-grading to indicate severity. A handy tool for weather-watchers of all stripes.iPhoneSupernauts for iPhone and iPad.GAMESSupernauts (Free + IAP)Supernauts has been a long time coming: the first game from hotly-tipped Finnish publisher Grand Cru. It&apos;s a little bit Minecraft, in the way you craft buildings from raw materials, with elements of city-building and resource management games. You build a space-base, complete missions to rescue Earthlings, and play and chat with friends over the network. Early days, but this could be a big hit.iPhone / iPadWartune: Hall of Heroes (Free + IAP)I was once given a demo of Wartune at a press event held by publisher Kabam, by someone who&apos;d unlocked pretty much everything in this massively-multiplayer game that blends battles with city-building. It looked mind-bogglingly baffling, but playing from the start opens up its features at a manageable pace. It&apos;s still hardcore, but looks worth the investment in time (and, yes, in in-app purchases should you so desire).iPhone / iPadEnigma Express (Free + IAP)Over to British developer Relentless, for its latest polished hidden-object game. You have to search locations around the world for various objects, enjoying the scenery, storyline and music along the way. It&apos;s neatly integrated with Apple&apos;s AirPlay – this genre works very well projected onto a TV screen with nearby friends or family members helping (or, indeed, hindering you).iPhone / iPadWorld of Tanks Blitz (Free + IAP)And now... war! A wargame from Wargaming.net, based on its existing massively multiplayer online PC game, but created for iOS as a standalone spin-off. It sees you choosing tanks (from the US, Germany and USSR in times gone by) battling other humans across a varied set of environments, upgrading your army as you go.iPhone / iPadCivil War: 1864 (£2.99)The second polished war-game this week, this focuses on the American Civil War – part of a series from developer Hunted Cow Studios – with 40 missions based on real battles, and accessible gameplay and controls to make the game appealing for more than just experienced virtual generals.iPhone / iPadMonty Python&apos;s The Ministry of Silly Walks (£0.99)And now for something completely diff... Well, you see where I&apos;m heading. This is the first official Monty Python game for iOS: an endless runner where the running is silly walking based on one of the comedy troupe&apos;s most famous sketches. John Cleese provides voice acting, while the rag-doll physics are good for a few laughs.iPhone / iPadKim Kardashian: Hollywood (Free + IAP)Once upon a time, Paris Hilton had her own mobile game: she even turned up to the E3 games industry show to promote it (while, er, forgetting its name). Several years later, Kim Kardashian is getting in on the act, with a fashion-themed freemium game that gets you wandering around LA trying to become a celebrity – occasionally running into Kim herself. Actually pretty fun, regardless of whether you&apos;re a fan or not.iPhone / iPadMonsters Ate My Birthday Cake (£2.99)This game&apos;s by Cartoon Network: the latest in a burst of mobile gaming from the TV channel. It&apos;s a puzzle game populated by colourful monsters, each with their own special powers to help you navigate through levels – pushing lots of blocks as you go. It&apos;s very addictive.iPhone / iPadThe Rhythm of Fighters (£0.69 + IAP)Here&apos;s a genre to conjure with: &quot;Fighting x Music&quot;. This game comes from SNK Playmore, working in elements of its famed beat &apos;em up series The King of Fighters, with rhythm-based musical gameplay as you tap in time to tunes to make your character fight.iPhoneWokamon - Virtual Pet Pedometer (Free)Here&apos;s something strange but potentially captivating: a fitness-focused virtual pet game. The idea: you do lots of walking in the real world, and your Wokamon beastie grows faster, with you unlocking more as you go. It works with devices like Fitbit and Jawbone&apos;s Up, as well as Facebook&apos;s Moves app – if you&apos;re already tracking your steps.iPhoneThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best newAndroidapps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSGoogle Slides (Free)Unveiled at Google&apos;s I/O developer conference last week, Slides is the official app for Google&apos;s PowerPoint-esque presentations software. You can create and edit presentations, working across the app and website, as well as accessing PowerPoint files and inviting colleagues to collaborate on individual presentations.Osper (Free)Osper is an interesting idea making its debut in the UK: a &quot;money management system&quot; for young people – i.e. under-18s. It&apos;s essentially a prepay debit card, funded by parents, with the app used by both children and parents to keep tabs on balances and transactions. Although a fair few teenagers may balk at the idea of their parents seeing an itemisation of their spending...Udacity - Learn Programming (Free)Udacity is one of the online learning startups getting a lot of buzz in the US and elsewhere, with this its first Android app. The focus is on learning programming skills in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Python and other languages, with a host of classes to then push on: from applied cryptography through to robotics AI.Yahoo Aviate Launcher (Free)Available in beta for a while, Aviate is now out and proud in the Google Play store, as the latest &quot;launcher&quot; app trying to smarten up Android users&apos; homescreens. The twist here is that it claims to &quot;adapt&quot; to your daily behaviour, trying to show you the most relevant apps to your time and activity for faster access. The proof will come a few months down the line when it&apos;s adapted to you well (or not) but early adopters seem impressed.Cardboard (Free)By far the quirkiest thing announced at Google I/O, this app goes with amake-your-own cardboard pair of virtual reality Goggles, into which you slot your Android device. If you&apos;ve got or made a pair, this app offers some demos of how Google services can work with them, from YouTube to Google Earth.Nudge (Free)Nudge is the latest health-tracking app, although in this case, it aggregates data from others – from Fitbit gadgets to the Moves and RunKeeper apps. Its aim: to give you an overall &quot;health score&quot; while comparing your quantified self to friends. Well, friends who are also on Nudge, anyway.Panic Button (Free)Hopefully, most people reading this article won&apos;t ever find themselves in a position dangerous enough to require this app. It&apos;s from Amnesty International, mainly for its activists as well as journalists around the world who might suddenly be in danger and need to let friends or colleagues know. The app sends location updates to the user&apos;s chosen contacts, hiding itself as best as possible so an attacker can&apos;t disable it.AlertsPro (£1.43 + IAP)More alerts, but these are of the meteorological kind. This app aims to keep you posted on severe weather coming your way, from blizzards to monster thunderstorms. The app promises up to 48 hours advance notice, with a simple system of colour-grading to indicate severity.SpeakingPhoto (Free)SpeakingPhoto does what it says on the tin: you take a photo, then record a voice note to go with it, and then share to various social networks with up to eight pics and notes at a time. There&apos;s also a global gallery so you can see what other people have been spotting and sharing.YouTube Creator Studio (Free)Finally, another app with a very specific audience: people who run channels on YouTube. It&apos;s a simple, useful app for keeping an eye on your stats, answering comments from viewers, and managing other aspects of your channel. An essential tool for YouTubers.The Walking Dead: Season Two for Android.GAMESThe Walking Dead: Season Two (Free + IAP)I can&apos;t speak highly enough of Telltale Games&apos; work with The Walking Dead on mobile: it&apos;s made gripping, atmospheric classics. This is the second &quot;season&quot; – it uses TV lingo – of the zombie games, with one episode available for free, another two available as in-app purchases, and two more coming later in the year. A rare zombie game where character and plot development are as important as gory action.Wartune: Hall of Heroes (Free + IAP)I was once given a demo of Wartune at a press event held by publisher Kabam, by someone who&apos;d unlocked pretty much everything in this massively-multiplayer game that blends battles with city-building. It looked mind-bogglingly baffling, but playing from the start opens up its features at a manageable pace. It&apos;s still hardcore, but looks worth the investment in time (and, yes, in in-app purchases should you so desire).Eliss Infinity (£1.76)Eliss is brilliant: a puzzle game that&apos;s perfect for modern multi-touch devices, as you fuse and split planets to match them. Eliss Infinity is its first appearance on Android, complete with a new &quot;endless&quot; mode, a revamped version of the iOS-only original, and more polish. An excellent introduction to one of the best mobile time-killers.Spy vs Spy (£1.99 + IAP)As someone who wasted countless hours on the Commodore 64 version of Spy vs Spy back in the 1980s, I&apos;m quite excited about its revival for modern smartphones and tablets. If you&apos;re new to it, the game focuses on a trap-laden battle between two enemy spies, sneaking around embassies trying to off one another. In-app purchases may raise an eyebrow, but the core game remains great fun.Kim Kardashian: Hollywood (Free + IAP)Once upon a time, Paris Hilton had her own mobile game: she even turned up to the E3 games industry show to promote it (while, er, forgetting its name). Several years later, Kim Kardashian is getting in on the act, with a fashion-themed freemium game that gets you wandering around LA trying to become a celebrity – occasionally running into Kim herself. Actually pretty fun, regardless of whether you&apos;re a fan or not.Wave Wave (£1.09)There&apos;s a demand out there for viciously-difficult &quot;twitch&quot; arcade games – Super Hexagon being one of the prime examples. Wave Wave fits into this trend, and doesn&apos;t suffer in the comparison with Super Hexagon. It sees you guiding a line through a frequently-rotating maze by tap-holding on the screen: Tron meets Flappy Bird, but not for the faint of heart.Monsters Ate My Birthday Cake (£1.76)This game&apos;s by Cartoon Network: the latest in a burst of mobile gaming from the TV channel. It&apos;s a puzzle game populated by colourful monsters, each with their own special powers to help you navigate through levels – pushing lots of blocks as you go. It&apos;s very addictive.The Rhythm of Fighters (£0.69 + IAP)Here&apos;s a genre to conjure with: &quot;Fighting x Music&quot;. This game comes from SNK Playmore, working in elements of its famed beat &apos;em up series The King of Fighters, with rhythm-based musical gameplay as you tap in time to tunes to make your character fight.The World Ends With You (£12.99)Yep, £12.99. Publisher Square Enix isn&apos;t one to undervalue its classic games on mobile devices, so roleplaying game The World Ends With You – originally released for Nintendo&apos;s SD in 2007-8 – isn&apos;t cheap. It is, however, very good: an RPG based in modern-day Tokyo, with impressive graphics and lots to explore.The Ministry of Silly Walks (£0.99)And now for something completely diff... Well, you see where I&apos;m heading. This is the first official Monty Python game for Android: an endless runner where the running is silly walking based on one of the comedy troupe&apos;s most famous sketches. John Cleese provides voice acting, while the rag-doll physics are good for a few laughs.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying onAndroidthis week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
Apple users are losing patience waiting for a larger-screened iPhone. New data showing that 26% of British buyers of Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S5 in the three months to the end of May switched from the iPhone - compared to 12% the year before, according to Kantar ComTech&apos;s Worldpanel.Though the effect was not as marked across Europe, Kantar&apos;s data still shows that 17% of Galaxy S5 buyers there had switched from the iPhone. In the US, the figure was just 8% - indicating, said Kantar, higher brand loyalty to Apple in its home country.With larger-screened iPhones not expected before September, Apple may see more defections as Samsung presses its advantage. Samsung has begun cutting the price of the Galaxy S5, only two months into its launch.But Samsung&apos;s satisfaction in capturing switchers may be tempered by the fact that its Galaxy S5 was only the third best-selling phone in the UK – behind Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S and 5C.Update:The 5C was best-selling with 11.1% of all sales, the 5S next with 11%, said Kantar. The Galaxy S5 had 9%, and its year-old Galaxy S4 7.4%. The Moto G had 6% of all sales. Together those five handsets had 44.5% of all sales.The month of May included the first full month of sales for Samsung&apos;s new flagship phone, which has a 5.1in screen - substantially larger than the 3.5in screen of the iPhone 4 and 4S, and the 4in screen of the iPhone 5 and successors.Think bigApple&apos;s need for a larger-screened phone wasindicated as a perceived weakness by an internal sales presentationunveiled in its recent trial with Samsung in the US. That dated to April 2013 - since when the company has been working on designing the phones due for release this year.A growing amount of claimed leaks from Apple&apos;s supply chain, as well as new software functionality included in its forthcoming iOS 8 release,suggest that the iPhone maker will be releasing at least one and possibly two larger-screened iPhones in the autumn, when it usually releases new phone models.Overall,Kantar&apos;s datashowed a surge in the share of sales for handsets running Google&apos;s Android for the three months to the end of May 2014. In the US, its share of sales rose to 61.9%, the first time they have been above 60% since August 2012. Apple&apos;s share of sales was 32.5%, its lowest since October 2011 when the iPhone 4S was launched.In Germany, Android sales passed 80%, for the first time; iPhone sales were 12.1%, the smallest since September. Windows Phone sales fell, to 5.9% of sales.For the &quot;EU5&quot; - the UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain - Android&apos;s sales share hit a new peak of 73.3%, while Apple&apos;s dropped to 16.6%, its lowest since October. Microsoft&apos;s Windows Phone saw no progress though, falling to 8.1%, its lowest since June 2013. Even Japan, which has seen enthusiastic adoption of the iPhone, saw Apple&apos;s share fall to 51.7%, its lowest in seven months, while Android sales rose to 47%.Kantar&apos;s figures do not however give the relative sizes of sales between different periods, making comparisons difficult. Typically, the fourth quarter of the year sees the largest level of sales, while the second quarter is the second-largest - about 70% as large in sales terms as the fourth quarter.The saturated nature of mature markets also means it is difficult to know how ownership patterns are changing. However, Kantar collects both sales data from outlets and panel information from phone owners to see how ownership patterns are changing.Samsung&apos;s strengths under stressIn the US, the Galaxy S5 was the second best-selling phone, just behind the iPhone 5S, Kantar said. &quot;However, at a total brand level Samsung claimed the top spot with 36.8% of sales versus 32.5% for Apple over the past three months,&quot; said Dominic Sunnebo, Kantar&apos;s head of research. &quot;Apple loyalty is high in the US, with former iPhone owners making up just 8% of Galaxy S5 sales. The majority of those switching to Samsung [in the US] were LG and HTC users.” In Europe, 58% of Galaxy S5 buyers were existing Samsung owners - suggesting that the remaining 25% were either switching from other smartphone brands, or upgrading from featurephones.Separately, other data has suggested that the Galaxy S5 is not producing the sales boom that the South Korean company might have hoped for, with market sampling data suggesting that its total smartphone sales for the three months to the end of June are static compared than the same period in 2013. Samsung Electronics chief financial officer Lee Sang-hoon said last week that earnings wereexpectedto be &quot;not that good&quot;. Analysts have begunsuggestingthe division&apos;s earnings, to be announced in mid-July, could be around $8.2bn - compared to $10.2bn in the second quarter of 2013, and that smartphone sales could be around 79m units, compared to 73m units a year before.•Leaks suggest Apple is preparing larger-screened iPhones
You may have noticed there’s a little football tournament going on at the moment. It has been pretty interesting, thanks to the unpredictable efforts of teams like Costa Rica and Chile. The World Cup has shown that football isn&apos;t all about the star teams showboating their way to glory; sport can be gloriously unexpected.So it’s a bit of a shame that Fifa 15 – the newest in EA Sports&apos; eternal series – isn’t yet ready. The officially licensed World Cup game can charitably be described as a travesty, a current-gen-only release that crams in all the eligible teams, but feels more like an add-on than a full release. From the E3 demo, however, it seems Fifa 15 will be worth the wait.That’s mainly because it’s the first version of the franchise which is apropernext-gen game. Good though Fifa 14 was, like a lot of cross-generational titles, it felt rather transitional. Fifa 15 takes much better advantage of the PS4 and Xbox One’s number-crunching power, while finally ditching the legacy code from old consoles which could still be found in creaking away within Fifa 14&apos;s innards.As a result, Fifa 15 contains a wealth of cute touches and intricate attention to detail. For example, the development has worked on replicating the emotion that real players show on the pitch – so they might be euphoric after scoring, then sink to their knees in despair when they realise they were offside (as in the real game, Fifa 15’s virtual refs will delay things like offside decisions).One new system in the game dictates that all the players on the pitch will have changing attitudes towards their team-mates, according to whether those team-mates have performed well or not. They may clap each other along to maintain team spirit, or shake their heads when someone is clearly under-performing. As for their attitudes to opponents, a scrappy foul may be overlooked, but two or three few more and you&apos;ll have a fight on your hands.Meanwhile, environmental realism has been stepped up. Every step made by every player will be logged, and the resulting divots will accumulate through the course of a match. In the background, major teams will have contextual celebrations – like Manchester City&apos;s borrowed Poznan routine.Such changes contribute to a startlingly realistic and believable general atmosphere, but there are also more tangible alterations. EA Sports has reworked both player animations and the physics system – fundamental building blocks of a football game. So now, for example, when you make a 360-degree turn with a player, he won’t jerk through three separate animations, but will execute the move smoothly. When dribbling, every touch of the ball, with the inside or outside of the foot, is modelled accurately (an issue that was previously fudged), and the game takes into account players’ favoured feet. So Gareth Bale, say, will dribble predominantly with his left foot, and shorten or lengthen his stride according to where the ball goes after each touch.The added rigour in the physics engine is perhaps the one factor which is most noticeable when you play the game – the ball really does go where you would expect it to after each touch (rather than along one of the usual eight directional pathways), which ramps up the sense of realism massively, along with the sense of feel and control.It does require an initial adjustment period, but the end result is impressive. On top of this, the turning circle of the players has been tweaked along with their general agility; they can cope better while boxed in by defenders. Oh and some of the super-powered kinks of yesteryear – the unstoppable headers, the volleys from the corner of the box – have been ironed out, apparently.The artificial intelligence engine has been junked and replaced, too. Whereas previously, computer players only reacted to what was taking place at any given moment in a match (so tended to play conservatively), now they have medium and long-term goals, so will, for example, start lumping long balls up to their forwards if they reach the latter stages of a match and are losing. Just like real footballers.• Fifa 15 is released on Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Wii, PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One on 23 September (US) and 26 September (Europe).•Fifa World Cup Brazil video game preview – the gFreatest show on turf?
Facebook is secretly filtering my news feed? I&apos;m outraged!Not so secretly, actually. There is controversy this week over the social network&apos;sresearch project manipulating nearly 700,000 users&apos; news feedsto understand whether it could affect their emotions.But Facebook has been much more open about its general practice of filtering the status updates and page posts that you see in your feed when logging on from your various devices. In fact, it argues that these filters are essential.Essential? Why can&apos;t Facebook just show me an unfiltered feed?Because, it argues, the results would be overwhelming. &quot;Every time someone visits news feed there are on average 1,500 potential stories from friends, people they follow and pages for them to see, and most people don’t have enough time to see them all,”wrote Facebook engineer Lars Backstromin a blog post in August 2013.“With so many stories, there is a good chance people would miss something they wanted to see if we displayed a continuous, unranked stream of information.&quot;Bear in mind that this is just an average. Inanother blog post, by Facebook advertising executive Brian Bolandin June 2014, he explained that for more intensive users, the risk of story overload is greater.&quot;For people with lots of friends and page likes, as many as 15,000 potential stories could appear any time they log on,” he explained.How many stories is Facebook filtering out, and how?Backstrom explained in August that Facebook&apos;s news feed algorithm boils down the 1,500 posts that could be shown a day in the average news feed into around 300 that it &quot;prioritises&quot;.How does this algorithm work? Backstrom explained that factors include: how often you interact with a friend, page or public figure; how many likes, shares and comments individual posts have received; how much you have interacted with that kind of post in the past; and whether it’s being hidden and/or reported a lot.Hidden and reported?You may have spotted the little downward arrow that appears next to stories in your Facebook news feed: you can use that to hide them, and optionally tell Facebook why you don&apos;t want to see them:Hiding posts or status updates on Facebook filters into its news feed algorithm.It&apos;s a feature as useful for banishing people whose status updates don&apos;t interest you but who you don&apos;t want to unfriend, as it is for cleaning your feed of social quizzes, Candy Crush requests or nightly set lists from that band you liked a few years ago, but who&apos;ve gone off the boil now.But these actions will also influence how many other people are shown those updates too, via the news feed algorithm.Why is this emotion study controversial?Facebook has the right to filter your news feed, including for research: it&apos;s right there in the terms of conditions that very few of us read when signing up to the social network.There is a debate about whether agreeing to these Ts and Cs counts as &quot;informed consent&quot; to take part in a research study – if not, the study has breached US ethical guidelines on human subjects research.There is also unease at the thought of Facebook deliberately manipulating our emotions, rather than simply using its filters for its traditional goal of making sure we see the stories that are most interesting to us.One of the researchers, Adam Kramer, hasposted a defence of the work, claiming Facebook had users&apos; interests at heart: &quot;We felt that it was important to investigate the common worry that seeing friends post positive content leads to people feeling negative or left out. At the same time, we were concerned that exposure to friends&apos; negativity might lead people to avoid visiting Facebook.&quot;Is this the first such row about Facebook filters?No, although it&apos;s looking like the one most likely to be heard about by mainstream Facebook users. The last year has seen a debate rumbling around the &quot;organic reach&quot; of the Facebook pages created for brands, musicians and other public figures, and then &quot;liked&quot; by Facebook users.Organic reach – the percentage of people who&apos;ve liked a page who&apos;ll see any given post by it – has been falling, leading to accusations that Facebook is deliberately showing fewer page posts in our news feeds, in order to force their creators to pay to promote them.Some marketers argue thatthey shouldn&apos;t have to pay to reach their own fanswho&apos;ve signed up to receive their updates by tapping a &quot;like&quot; button at some point. Others argue that Facebook has built this massive marketing platform (yes, it&apos;s that, not just a social network for our benefit) and has the rights to charge marketers.It&apos;s the arguments about organic reach that have nudged Facebook into revealing more information about its news feed algorithms from time to time, including Backstrom and Boland&apos;s blog posts.Who else is worried about this?Media companies (the publisher of the Guardian included) are spending more and more time thinking about the algorithms of Facebook, Google and other internet companies, with their sheer scale making thempowerful cultural gatekeepers– for better or worse, depending who you speak to.Asparky session at the SXSW conference in Marchdebated this point, particularly as it relates to younger internet users: &quot;millennials&quot; – as explained by Kelly McBride from journalism school The Poynter Institute:&quot;If you look at the research on how people get their news now: you often hear this phrase: ‘If news is important, news will find me’ – particularly for millennials. But behind that statement is something really important: if news is going to find you, it’s going to find you because of an algorithm,&quot; said McBride.There is this idea that is falsely propagated that we’re in a superior market of ideas because the algorithms are neutral. They’re not neutral: they’re all based on these mathematical judgments that the engineers have made behind the algorithm.&quot;The counterargument to this is that if Facebook is a new gatekeeper, it&apos;s no less neutral than the old news gatekeepers – newspapers and TV stations, editors and reporters – it&apos;s just that its priorities may not be as obvious.Can I take back control of my Facebook news feed?Yes, you can. One way is to change your news feed from &quot;top stories&quot; to &quot;most recent&quot; – the latter being a more traditional reverse-chronological feed of updates from all your friends.How you do this seems to change regularly – at the time of writing, it&apos;s accessed via a downward arrow next to &quot;news feed&quot; at the top left of Facebook&apos;s website, and under the &quot;more&quot; menu in Facebook&apos;s mobile apps. Some people love it, and others think it shows why Facebook&apos;s filters are needed in the first place.You can also spend a bit of time sorting out your Facebook friends,classifying some as &quot;close friends&quot;to see more of their updates, andothers as &quot;acquaintances&quot; to see less:Set people as "close friend" if you want to see more of their status updates on Facebook.For pages – whether brands, musicians or other public figures – you can manually choose to &quot;get notifications&quot; when they post something new.This should take half an hour at most, unless you have thousands of friends (in which case, the manual weeding-out process may be even more necessary). But as Facebook has suggested, your day-to-day activities – how often you interest with specific friends and/or pages – should also help to sculpt your news feed.Thanks, I&apos;m feeling happier now …Careful now. Your mood may not last if, next time you log into Facebook, your feed is full of your mopiest, angriest and/or most passive-aggressive friends&apos; updates. But at least you&apos;ll know that it&apos;s all in the name of research. Possibly.
Researchers have roundly condemned Facebook&apos;s experiment in which it manipulated nearly 700,000 users&apos; news feeds to see whether it would affect their emotions, saying it breaches ethical guidelines for &quot;informed consent&quot;.James Grimmelmann, professor of law at the University of Maryland, points in anextensive blog postthat &quot;Facebook didn&apos;t give users informed consent&quot; to allow them to decide whether to take part in the study, under US human subjects research.&quot;The study harmed participants,&quot; because it changed their mood, Grimmelmann comments, adding &quot;This is bad, even for Facebook.&quot;But one of the researchers, Adam Kramer,posted a lengthy defence on Facebook, saying it was carried out &quot;because we care about the emotional impact of Facebook and the people that use our product.&quot; He said that he and his colleagues &quot;felt that it was important to investigate the common worry that seeing friends post positive content leads to people feeling negative or left out.&quot;The experiment hid certain elements from 689,003 peoples&apos; news feed – about 0.04% of users, or 1 in 2,500 – over the course of one week in 2012. The experiment hid &quot;a small percentage&quot; of emotional words from peoples&apos; news feeds, without their knowledge, to test what effect that had on the statuses or &quot;Likes&quot; that they then posted or reacted to.The results found that, contrary to expectation, peoples&apos; emotions were reinforced by what they saw - what the researchers called &quot;emotional contagion&quot;.But the study has come in for severe criticism because unlike the advertising that Facebook shows - which arguably aims to alter peoples&apos; behaviour by making them buy products or services from those advertisers - the changes to the news feeds were made without users&apos; knowledge or explicit consent.Max Masnick, a researcher with a doctorate in epidemiology who says of his work that &quot;I do human-subjects research every day&quot;, says that the structure of the experimentmeans there was no informed consent- a key element of any studies on humans.&quot;As a researcher, you don’t get an ethical free pass because a user checked a box next to a link to a website’s terms of use. The researcher is responsible for making sure all participants are properly consented. In many cases, study staff will verbally go through lengthy consent forms with potential participants, point by point. Researchers will even quiz participants after presenting the informed consent information to make sure they really understand.&quot;Based on the information in the PNAS paper, I don’t think these researchers met this ethical obligation.&quot;Kramer does not address the topic of informed consent in his blog post. But he says that &quot;my co-authors and I are very sorry for the way the paper described the research and any anxiety it caused. In hindsight, the research benefits of the paper may not have justified all of this anxiety.&quot;When asked whether the study had had an ethical review before being approved for publication, the US National Academy of Sciences, which published the controversial paper in its Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), told the Guardian that it was investigating the issue.•Facebook reveals news feed experiment to control emotions
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAbout that PNAS paper... - Adam D. I. Kramer &gt;&gt; FacebookAdam Kramer was one of the authors of the Facebook paper:OK so. A lot of people have asked me about my and Jamie and Jeff's recent study published in PNAS, and I wanted to give a brief public explanation. The reason we did this research is because we care about the emotional impact of Facebook and the people that use our product. We felt that it was important to investigate the common worry that seeing friends post positive content leads to people feeling negative or left out. At the same time, we were concerned that exposure to friends' negativity might lead people to avoid visiting Facebook. We didn't clearly state our motivations in the paper.…Having written and designed this experiment myself, I can tell you that our goal was never to upset anyone. I can understand why some people have concerns about it, and my coauthors and I are very sorry for the way the paper described the research and any anxiety it caused. In hindsight, the research benefits of the paper may not have justified all of this anxiety.Experimental evidence of massive-scale emotional contagion through social networks &gt;&gt; PNASJust in case you haven't read the paper that pretty much nobody noticed. Only three pages. Its conclusion: what other people write on the internet can affect your state of mind if you read it.OnePlus One review &gt;&gt; Business InsiderSteve Kovach:OnePlus is only selling the phone through an invitation system. The only way to get an invitation is to sign up through the company's website.The OnePlus One is one of the few smartphones available that ship with an operating system called Cyanogen. Cyanogen is an open source mobile OS that takes Android and adds a few minimalistic tweaks that improve the overall user experience. For years, most users were geeks who hacked Cyanogen onto their phones, but Cyanogen is making a push to come preinstalled on high-end hardware like the OnePlus One.At first glance, it looks just like the standard version of Android that comes with Google's own line of Nexus smartphones, but there are a lot of nice extras like option to install customized fonts, themes, and sounds.Sounds great. However, it's a small company, andsome users are complaining on its forumsabout the difficulty of getting their order fulfilled.The case for banning laptops in the classroom &gt;&gt; The New YorkerDan Rockmore:I banned laptops in the classroom after it became common practice to carry them to school. When I created my "electronic etiquette policy" (as I call it in my syllabus), I was acting on a gut feeling based on personal experience. I'd always figured that, for the kinds of computer-science and math classes that I generally teach, which can have a significant theoretical component, any advantage that might be gained by having a machine at the ready, or available for the primary goal of taking notes, was negligible at best. We still haven't made it easy to type notation-laden sentences, so the potential benefits were low. Meanwhile, the temptation for distraction was high. I know that I have a hard time staying on task when the option to check out at any momentary lull is available; I assumed that this must be true for my students, as well.Feature Friday: Trust &gt;&gt; AVCFred Wilson revisits his list of required attributes from 2011 for a web app:Nowhere on this list is Trust. Maybe that was an oversight. Or maybe times have changed.Take auto photo backup from my Android phone to the cloud. I have two great options on my phone, Dropbox and Google+.I don't use Google+ for this and I do use Dropbox for this.It is not that I don't trust Google to host my photos. And it is not that I don't trust Google in general. It is that I don't trust Google to change the privacy rules on Google+ and instantly expose all of these photos to their crawlers and the web at large.It's really Facebook's fault that I don't trust Google with this.Apple to cease development, support of pro photo app Aperture [Updated] &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaApple offered a statement directly to Ars Technica: "With the introduction of the new Photos app and iCloud Photo Library, enabling you to safely store all of your photos in iCloud and access them from anywhere, there will be no new development of Aperture. When Photos for OS X ships next year, users will be able to migrate their existing Aperture libraries to Photos for OS X." In addition to telling users that iPhoto will be discontinued and rolled into the new Photos app, Apple also confirmed to Ars Technica that Aperture will be updated to ensure Yosemite compatibility, but users shouldn't expect any further development or updates beyond that.iPhoto first introduced 2002, Aperture in 2005.Share: the icon no one agrees on &gt;&gt; PixelapseMin Ming Lo:What do each of these symbols [above] have in common? They are all trying to convey the exact same action - share! Sharing to a social network or via email is a ubiquitous action nowadays but designers have still not been able to reach a consensus on what symbol to use to represent it. Not only does each major platform use a different icon, but they've each witnessed changes over the years.I have spent sometime thinking about this, trying to figure out which symbol best conveys sharing to the user.I agree with the conclusion.I turned Google Glass into opera glasses &gt;&gt; The VergeAdi Robertson:For its latest project — an adaptation of Rameau's Pygmalion performed amidst wax statues and mannequins — [New York's On Site Opera] tested a new kind of [opera lyric] translation, projected not on a wall but on the lens of Google Glass. Working with veteran supertitling company Figaro Systems, On Site Opera streamed its lyrics through a web app called MobiText, allowing them to be played on Glass or a cellphone. It's not just an experiment, it's a way for On Site Opera to expand beyond an English-only repertoire. "There are some companies that do translations in English, singing translations, and that's not something that we want to do. We like the idea of doing it in the original language," says Einhorn. But the venues it picks — including Harlem's legendary Cotton Club and the Bronx Zoo — can't effectively support projectors. "It became a real question for us — how do we do that? How do we get titles to people effectively?"At a showing last week, the system worked surprisingly well. Readable but minimally distracting translations floated in the corner of my vision, allowing me to move my eyes instead of my head.The overlap of opera-goers and Glass wearers must surely run into the dozens. Also: "My biggest problem was power: the roughly 45-minute, one-act opera drained half my battery."Designing for wearable technology &gt;&gt; MediumSinead Kennedy points out that wearables have to communicate with us in new ways:While at SXSW this year, I went to a workshop on sensory UX with @Acuity_Design. We were given the task of communicating a sentence to one another with only touch (by the way, our skin can detect three sensations: pain, pressure, and temperature).A team of three people directed my hands to different recognizable shapes and materials. As I spoke out loud as to what I believed they were trying to tell me, there was little they could do to respond to my thought process.At one point, they took my hand to form a "thumbs up," and while it was obvious to everyone watching that they were telling me I had just said one of the correct words, to me it just felt like I should now be saying the word "like."Taking ourselves outside of the visual-rules-all world and into one in which we were challenged to communicate in news ways made it apparent that what we think is obvious is not in fact obvious when we are lacking our visual faculties. And this was all with a small group of people, never mind designing for mass users.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hey, it's Monday – did you have a good Glasto weekend?
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewNintendo's vision of go-kart racing is one of driving skill and judicious use of comedy weapons, from the straight-shooting green shell to the newly minted super horn, which toots away other karts and incoming missiles. It's a process honed over more than 20 years, making this a game of staggering refinement and responsiveness. Along with new characters and tracks, classic courses have been given physics-mocking makeovers, adding anti-gravity, underwater and hang-gliding sections, your kart floating like a time-travelling DeLorean or sprouting a miniature propeller or parachute, while you look out for shortcuts in the game's convoluted courses. The karts' handling is magnificently precise, and although you'll often come to grief at the hands of other players' weapons, every other crash is entirely your own fault. A new addition, Mario TV, pulls together a surprisingly watchable highlights reel for each race that you can upload to YouTube in a couple of clicks. Gorgeous-looking, endlessly competitive and about as much fun as it's legal to have.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKTomodachi Life, 3DSTomodachi Life gives you a beautiful, empty island and asks you to populate it by adding characters from your Mii list, creating them from scratch or scanning QR codes for various game, film and TV characters that you can find with a bit of light Googling. Unlike Miis made on a Wii or 3DS, Tomodachi Life gets you to choose a voice and shape their personalities, giving them a distinct life of their own on the island. As in The Sims, you have no direct control, merely influencing and observing the game creating its own delightfully offbeat dramas from your cast, along with regular news reports keeping you updated on their activities. You can drop in to see them whenever you like, solving their problems or giving them presents. Nobody dies, there's no scoring system and you can't "win", but you can watch your idiosyncratic creations meeting, arguing, falling in love and going about their lives. Like a walk in the park, Tomodachi Life's aimless interaction makes for a charming, meandering experience that will certainly not test your dexterity.Nintendo, £29.99
It already knows whether you are single or dating, the first school you went to and whether you like or loathe Justin Bieber. But now Facebook, the world's biggest social networking site, is facing a storm of protest after it revealed it had discovered how to make users feel happier or sadder with a few computer key strokes.It has published details of a vast experiment in which it manipulated information posted on 689,000 users' home pages and found it could make people feel more positive or negative through a process of "emotional contagion".In astudy with academics from Cornell and the University of California, Facebook filtered users' news feeds – the flow of comments, videos, pictures and web links posted by other people in their social network. One test reduced users' exposure to their friends' "positive emotional content", resulting in fewer positive posts of their own. Another test reduced exposure to "negative emotional content" and the opposite happened.The study concluded: "Emotions expressed by friends, via online social networks, influence our own moods, constituting, to our knowledge, the first experimental evidence for massive-scale emotional contagion via social networks."Lawyers, internet activists and politicians  said this weekend that the mass experiment in emotional manipulation was "scandalous", "spooky" and "disturbing".On Sunday evening, a senior British MP called for a parliamentary investigation into how Facebook and other social networks manipulated emotional and psychological responses of users by editing information supplied to them.Jim Sheridan, a member of the Commons media select committee, said the experiment was intrusive. "This is extraordinarily powerful stuff and if there is not already legislation on this, then there should be to protect people," he said. "They are manipulating material from people's personal lives and I am worried about the ability of Facebook and others to manipulate people's thoughts in politics or other areas. If people are being thought-controlled in this kind of way there needs to be protection and they at least need to know about it."A Facebook spokeswoman said the research, published this month in the journal of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in the US, was carried out "to improve our services and to make the content people see on Facebook as relevant and engaging as possible".She said: "A big part of this is understanding how people respond to different types of content, whether it's positive or negative in tone, news from friends, or information from pages they follow."But other commentators voiced fears that the process could be used for political purposes in the runup to elections or to encourage people to stay on the site by feeding them happy thoughts and so boosting advertising revenues.In a series of Twitter posts, Clay Johnson, the co-founder of Blue State Digital, the firm that built and managed Barack Obama's online campaign for the presidency in 2008, said: "The Facebook 'transmission of anger' experiment is terrifying."He asked: "Could the CIA incite revolution in Sudan by pressuring Facebook to promote discontent? Should that be legal? Could Mark Zuckerberg swing an election by promoting Upworthy [a website aggregating viral content] posts two weeks beforehand? Should that be legal?"It was claimed that Facebook may have breached ethical and legal guidelines by not informing its users they were being manipulated in the experiment, which was carried out in 2012.The study said altering the news feeds was "consistent with Facebook's data use policy, to which all users agree prior to creating an account on Facebook, constituting informed consent for this research".But Susan Fiske, the Princeton academic who edited the study, said she was concerned. "People are supposed to be told they are going to be participants in research and then agree to it and have the option not to agree to it without penalty."James Grimmelmann, professor of law at Maryland University, said Facebook had failed to gain "informed consent" as defined by the US federal policy for the protection of human subjects, which demands explanation of the purposes of the research and the expected duration of the subject's participation, a description of any reasonably foreseeable risks and a statement that participation is voluntary. "This study is a scandal because it brought Facebook's troubling practices into a realm – academia – where we still have standards of treating people with dignity and serving the common good,"he said on his blog.It is not new for internet firms to use algorithms to select content to show to users and Jacob Silverman, author of Terms of Service: Social Media, Surveillance, and the Price of Constant Connection,told Wire magazineon Sunday the internet was already "a vast collection of market research studies; we're the subjects"."What's disturbing about how Facebook went about this, though, is that they essentially manipulated the sentiments of hundreds of thousands of users without asking permission," he said. "Facebook cares most about two things: engagement and advertising. If Facebook, say, decides that filtering out negative posts helps keep people happy and clicking, there's little reason to think that they won't do just that. As long as the platform remains such an important gatekeeper – and their algorithms utterly opaque – we should be wary about the amount of power and trust we delegate to it."Robert Blackie, director of digital at Ogilvy One marketing agency, said the way internet companies filtered information they showed users was fundamental to their business models, which made them reluctant to be open about it."To guarantee continued public acceptance they will have to discuss this more openly in the future," he said. "There will have to be either independent reviewers of what they do or government regulation. If they don't get the value exchange right then people will be reluctant to use their services, which is potentially a big business problem."
Price £17,995MPG 37.2Top speed 107mph"How big is yours?" It's a pretty direct question. And I don't think I've been asked it before. But last week, crawling along the A36, I&nbsp;found myself following a chopped-down, eccentrically modified Land-Rover-slash-beach-buggy. (It's a shame that the home-built vehicle is an increasingly rare sight on our roads. Remember those cars finished with a&nbsp;coat of house paint? Or the ones with a hand-cut sunroof sealed with a ring of tape? Or the boot nailed shut?) Anyway, emblazoned across the back of this buggy in foot-high letters was the question: "How big is yours?"Normally I'd dodge the bullet with a&nbsp;saucy "Who's asking?" or maybe a&nbsp;"Big enough!" (It's taken me all week to think of that.) But this time I&nbsp;was in the blessed position of being able to yell: "Yeah! Truly massive."I presumed buggy man was talking about cars, obvs, and this new super-spacious SsangYong (think of the brand as a cut-price Kia) is half car, half minibus. It is a shoo-in to do awesome business as an airport hauler dragging passengers and luggage from arrivals halls to awful hotels. Cheap, reliable, no-nonsense – it's destined to be a&nbsp;minicab marvel. But for large families on a budget, or for those with a fear of packing light, there isn't a&nbsp;better option on the road.Take control: the commanding position of the driver.The Turismo's interior is incredibly flexible. It ranges from seating for seven adults with a&nbsp;decent boot through to two adults and 3,146 litres of load space. The car it replaces, the Rodius, was one of the most reviled and ridiculed cars of its generation. Uncomfortable, unsophisticated and comically ugly, it was the Marty Feldman of MPVs – a&nbsp;class of car already near the bottom of the beauty ladder – one rung ahead of dump trucks and mobility scooters. So, this new model couldn't really have failed to improve, but SsangYong has made the most of the opportunity.The sheer scale of the car is hard to&nbsp;comprehend. It's more than 5m long and so high you can't touch the&nbsp;centre of the roof unless you stand on a door sill. Climb in and you&nbsp;will find four captain's chairs split by an aisle for you to walk down (only slightly crouched) to the&nbsp;triple bench seat at the back. With this amount of room to squander, the Koreans haven't bothered with any space-saving devices. The interior is simple and uncluttered. In party terms it's&nbsp;chairs around the dancefloor and&nbsp;we'll put the&nbsp;bar in the corner. That straightforwardness makes the Turismo likably accessible and usable.Birds-eye view: a roof-down image of the interior of the Turismo showing how it seats seven in comfort.Only a 2-litre diesel engine is available, but there are four trim levels: the top is matched to a&nbsp;Mercedes-Benz five-speed auto box and four-wheel drive. You couldn't argue that it's a&nbsp;driver's car: it's simply too large. But sit back, look down on the world from a seat that could be a lifeguard's, and the messy business of navigating the road seems pleasantly pain free.In the poshest of the four specs (it's an extra five grand) you'll lounge on leather seats and your passengers will watch films on a roof-mounted screen. You will also find ESP, an active roll-over system, air bags, air-conditioning, eco cruise control, parking sensors and Bluetooth connectivity.  All SsangYong's cars come with  a five-year limitless warranty.Pound for pound there isn't a&nbsp;bigger deal on the road. And you'll never again be plagued with doubts about the size of your MPV: in&nbsp;a&nbsp;Turismo, it's easily the biggest!Why biking is good for youAre you a happy biker? Dogs riding to work in a sidecar on the Sunshine Coast in Australia. The pets are kitted out in their own pair of doggles. Photograph: RexTravelling to work on a motorcycle, scooter or moped is one of the least likely modes of transport to affect your wellbeing, according to a government travel survey. The Office for National Statistics released a report in February 2014 examining the impact of commuting patterns on people's levels of anxiety, happiness and satisfaction. For journeys of up to 30 minutes there was no effect on levels of happiness or anxiety for those who rode a motorcycle, moped or scooters to work. In contrast – for journeys between 15 and 30 minutes – those who walk, cycle, drive a car or take the bus – all experience an adverse increase in some or all of the factors measured.Bennetts– the UK's No 1 bike insurance specialist – is going one step further and is investigating whether commuting by motorcycle or scooter has a positive effect on productivity levels in the workplace. Bennetts has launched ashort surveyand wants to know your thoughts (good or bad) on your daily commute. Everyone completing the survey will be entered into a prize draw – the winner will receive aBikenation.co.ukvoucher worth £500, while five runners-up will each receive a voucher worth £100. To take part in the survey, go tomyvoice.co.uk.Everything you need for driving in EuropePlanning on driving to your holiday destination this summer? Love the freedom of your own car and the open road?  If so, you are in good company – 4.2 million British motorists choose to travel to Europe by car every year. Whether you are driving to Portugal, Denmark or France, you need to make sure you are prepared for every eventuality on the road and many countries now have specific legislation detailing exactly what you need to have in your car. Take these with you and you'll avoid a fine!Warning triangleGB stickerAlcosense Single NF approved breathalyser twin packUniversal spare bulb setHeadlamp beam convertorsAdult high visibility vestFirst aid kitFoil blanketEuropean driving guidance leaflet.Handily the RAC does a Driving in Europe Essential Kit for £29.95. Buy it online from its shopracshop.co.ukCycling in YorkshireLizzie Armistead cycling past Harewood House ahead of the Tour de France.Britian and in particular Yorkshire is about to go cycling crazy. Taking place throughout the Grand Depart from 4-6 July 2014, theDare 2b Yorkshire Festival of Cyclingwill be hosting high quality camping and glamping facilities, providing groups of all sizes a prime spot to see the Tour de France first hand. The Tour peloton will ride up the front drive and stop outside Harewood House for the Ceremonial Start of the 2014 edition of the race, which will be got underway by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry.The fun isn't limited to camping and viewing the race, however, with plenty more on-site activities to keep festival-goers entertained throughout the weekend. These include a range of sporting participation events such as duathlons, cycling time trials and trail runs (with the challenge to beat times set by Olympic gold and bronze medal-winning triathletes Alistair and Jonathan Brownlee). A series of led rides will head out into the Yorkshire Dales so that fans can view the later stages of the race on both days, with selected routes led by Olympic silver medallist and local rider Lizzie Armitstead. Amongst a host of sporting and family entertainment over the weekend there will be a cycling cinema, an outdoors shopping expo, live music on various stages, literary and adventure talks, family action activities in a 2-acre Army &amp; RAF Activities Zone and big screens to view the rest of the Grand Depart, as well as the Football World Cup quarter finals, F1 British Grand Prix and Wimbledon in a bumper weekend of British sport.Adding an even further sense of British-ness to the weekend will be an RAF Red Arrows fly-past just as the Tour passes through the grounds, a Battle of Britain Memorial Flight the following day featuring the rare sight of a WWII Spitfire, Hurricane, Dakota and a Lancaster, and a series of performances by the marching Band of The Corps of Royal Engineers through Harewood's historic grounds.As well as Lizzie Armitstead, high profile guests will include 2006 Tour de France winner Oscar Pereiro, Ireland's former Tour, Giro and World Champion Stephen Roche and some principal guests who will see the race off just before midday on Saturday 5th July. "The Yorkshire Festival of Cycling will be a great place to bring everyone together in celebration," said ambassador Alistair Brownlee; "it's an opportunity to experience the beauty of one of Yorkshire's oldest estates and watch the race up close, but you can also have a go at these events yourself, meet like-minded people and get inspired to keep up a sport afterwards."Day tickets start from £18, with a range of tailored packages available for camping and participation activities. Camping prices start from £14 per person per night. For more information on the Dare 2b Yorkshire Festival of Cycling, please visit:festivalofcycling.orgEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Just over a year ago, afterEdward Snowden's revelations first hit the headlines, I participated in a debate at the Frontline Club with Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former foreign secretary who is now MP for Kensington and Chelsea and chairman of the intelligence and security committee. Rifkind is a Scottish lawyer straight out of central casting: urbane, witty, courteous and very smart. He's good on his feet and a master of repartee. He's the kind of guy you would be happy to have to dinner. His only drawback is that everything he knows about information technology could be written on the back of a postage stamp in 96-point Helvetica bold.In the discussion, he stuck closely to the line that, whatever theAmericanswere doing, he was confident that everything GCHQ was doing on this side of the pond was lawful. In that sense, he was a masterful exponent of the establishment view that everything was in order, that proper and effective oversight arrangements were in place and that the access of the intelligence and security committee to what it needed to know about the activities of the security services had been much improved.So far, so predictable. But in conversation after the debate, Rifkind said something that really brought me up short. I'm paraphrasing from my notes, but the gist of the exchange was this: even if it were true that the spooks were hoovering up all the data that Snowden claimed, that in itself wasn't grounds for concern, because nobody was actuallylookingat it. It was only when a specific item had been identified as being of interest that an official – a human being – looked at it. Only then was that data deemed to have been legally "collected".It was at this point that I realised why our former foreign secretary – and by implication most of his parliamentary colleagues – is having such difficulties dealing with these issues: they come to digital realities with analogue mindsets. It was clear that Rifkind knew little, if anything, about the capabilities of machine intelligence, data mining, network analysis and all the other stuff that computers do with big data. So, for him, it made perfect sense to regulate only the actions of intelligence officers in relation to surveillance data. And it's why William Hague thinks that the fact that we're "only" collecting metadata and not "content" means that there are no grounds for concern about bulk surveillance.But in fact this misconception – that algorithms are not "agents" in the way that humans are – runs through the surveillance debate like the legend in a stick of Blackpool rock. The argument that although Google's algorithms "read" your emails in order to decide what ads to place alongside them, they're notreallyreading them, is part of the same genre. So is the contention that the decision to refuse you a loan is not anything personal, just an impersonal decision made by an algorithm. And so is the claim that just because your clickstream – the log of all the websites you've visited – is collected by the NSA, it doesn't mean that the spooks are spying on you.This is legalistic cant and we could change it at a stroke by updating our legal conceptions of agency. In fact, as the world becomes increasingly controlled by algorithms, we will have little choice but to do so if we want to retain any vestige of social control over this technology. And the funny thing is, there is a good precedent for making the change.It goes back, oddly enough, to a case,Dartmouth College v Woodward, which was decided by the US supreme court in 1819. In effect, the judgment meant that a corporate body could be a legal "person". This decision, wrote one commentator,Samir Chopra, "facilitated the stabilisation and the expansion of the early American economy; it allowed corporations to sue and to be sued, provided a unitary entity for taxation and regulation and made possible intricate transactions that would have involved a multitude of shareholders. Only by assigning legal personhood to corporations could judges make reasonable decisions about contracts."At the moment, internet corporations and security agencies are able to hide behind the fact that algorithms – like corporate bodies prior toDartmouth College v Woodward– are not legal entities. The lesson, says Chopra, is clear: "If you want to violate internet users' privacy, get programs – artificial, not human, agents – to do your dirty work, and then wash your hands of them by using the Google defence: there is no invasion of privacy because no humans accessed your personal details."Our legislators could do something about this, by enacting laws that drag notions of software's agency and responsibility from the analogue era and into the digital one. But we will probably have to wait for Rifkind's successors to appreciate the need for the change. So don't hold your breath.
This latest edition of the snipe-'em-up franchise comes bursting with cheap, gory and mostly satisfying thrills beneath a po-faced pretence of historical realism. As an allied sniper in north Africa during the second world war, players are set to traversing respectably sized maps to round up intelligence and shoot people from ever-greater distances. Gameplay is solid, despite occasionally lazy enemy AI, and the slow-motion x-ray killcam that follows your accurate shots is an ingenious if guilty pleasure.There is an unpolished feel that anyone familiar with the franchise will recognise, however. Even on higher difficulties, outsmarting enemies is a matter of patience over skill, and characters occasionally skip over large distances in the blink of an eye. Action frequently feels claustrophobic in spite of the size of the maps, which themselves feel padded out rather than diverse.Fans of stealth and slow-burning combat will find plenty to enjoy, but not too much to write home about.
England are out, which means the World Cup is now properly in full swing, and with the knockout rounds under way in earnest, look no further thanTiny Striker(iOS, Fat Fish Games, free) for a bite-size chunk of football action.It's certainly not a full-featured sim – for that, look to Fifa 14 or Football Manager Handheld, which both offer solid approximations of their superior, non-mobile equivalents but still struggle to cram massive titles onto an i-device. What Tiny Striker does well is small chunks of gaming, focusing onscoring goals(the best bit of football, right?) with a series of finger swipes required to curl the ball (bend it like Beckham is so 2002, how about move it like Messi) and beat the keeper.A 69p in-app purchase will remove the tiresome adverts, and the game gets&nbsp;progressively tougher, with defenders and goalkeepers plonked in your way – the cheek! – as the timer ticks&nbsp;down, forcing you to hurry ever more precise efforts on goal. It's not going to last forever, but it will give you something to while away the boring hours until 5pm and the start of the footy.
Taking theNintendogsformula in an adventurous direction,PlayStation Vita Petsintriguingly combines both pet care and role play, wherein visually impressive and fully voiced canines are encouraged to explore caves, mazes and castles by tapping the screen, using voice commands or, on occasion, the built-in camera.What starts as a novelty develops into an engaging relationship for youngsters, with each dog recognising their face and voice. There's a companion tablet app,Vita Pets Puppy Parlour, that offers further dress-up options and a free way to try before you buy.But at its heart are the mini games that present challenges to develop each pet's skills and equipment to allow them to progress further in the adventure.It's a mechanism that letsVita Petsdeliver a much more involving experience than first appears to be the case.So while children will love it, adults too will be keen to pry the Vita from their sticky-fingered hands.
It is probably Silicon Valley&apos;s most striking mantra: “Fail fast, fail often.” It is recited at technology conferences, pinned to company walls, bandied in conversation.Failure is not only invoked but celebrated. Entrepreneurs give speeches detailing their misfires. Academics laud the virtue of making mistakes.FailCon, a conference about “embracing failure”, launched in San Francisco in 2009 and is now an annual event, with technology hubs in Barcelona, Tokyo, Porto Alegre and elsewhere hosting their own versions.While the rest of the world recoils at failure, in other words, technology&apos;s dynamic innovators enshrine it as a rite of passage en route to success.But what about those tech entrepreneurs who lose – and keep on losing? What about those who start one company after another, refine pitches, tweak products, pivot strategies, reinvent themselves … and never succeed? What about the angst masked behind upbeat facades?Silicon Valley is increasingly asking such questions, even as the tech boom rewards some startups with billion-dollar valuations, sprinkling stardust on founders who talk of changing the world.“It&apos;s frustrating if you&apos;re trying and trying and all you read about is how much money Airbnb and Uber are making,” said Johnny Chin, 28, who endured three startup flops but is hopeful for his fourth attempt. “The way startups are portrayed, everything seems an overnight success, but that&apos;s a disconnect from reality. There can be a psychic toll.”It has never been easier or cheaper to launch a company in the hothouse of ambition, money and software that stretches from San Francisco to Cupertino, Mountain View, Menlo Park and San Jose.In 2012 the number of seed investment deals in US techreportedlymore than tripled, to 1,700, from three years earlier. Investment bankers are quitting Wall Street for Silicon Valley, lured by hopes of a cooler and more creative way to get rich.Most startups fail. However many entrepreneurs still overestimate the chances of success – and the cost of failure.Some estimates put the failure rate at 90% – on a par with small businesses in other sectors. A similar proportion of alumni from Y Combinator,a legendary incubatorwhich mentors bright prospects, are said to also struggle.Airbnb 'started as two guys with an air-bed' and is now a global rival to hotel chains valued at $10bn. Photograph: Ole Spata/CorbisCompanies typically die around 20 months after their last financing round and after having raised $1.3m, according to a study by the analytics firms CB Insights titledThe RIP Report – startup death trends.Failure is difficult to quantify because it does not necessarily mean liquidation. Many startups limp on for years, ignored by the market but sustained by founders&apos; savings or investors.“We call them the walking dead,” said one manager at a tech behemoth, who requested anonymity. “They don&apos;t necessarily die. They putter along.”Software engineers employed by such zombies face a choice. Stay in hope the company will take off, turning stock options into gold. Or quit and take one of the plentiful jobs at other startups or giants like Apple and Google.Founders face a more agonising dilemma. Continue working 100-hour weeks and telling employees and investors their dream is alive, that the metrics are improving, and hope it&apos;s true, or pull the plug.The loss aversion principle – the human tendency to strongly prefer avoiding losses to acquiring gains – tilts many towards the former, said Bruno Bowden, a former engineering manager at Google who is now a venture investor and entrepreneur.&quot;People will do a lot of irrational things to avoid losing even if it&apos;s to their detriment. You push and push and exhaust yourself.&quot;Silicon Valley wannabes tell origin fables of startup founders who maxed out credit cards before dazzling Wall Street, the same way Hollywood&apos;s struggling actors find solace in the fact Brad Pitt dressed as a chicken for El Pollo Loco before his breakthrough.“It&apos;s painful to be one of the walking dead. You lie to yourself and mask what&apos;s not working. You amplify little wins,” said Chin, who eventually abandoned startups which offered micro, specialised versions of Amazon and Yelp.That startup founders were Silicon Valley&apos;s “cool kids”, glamorous buccaneers compared to engineers and corporate drones, could make failure tricky to recognise, let alone accept, he said. “People are very encouraging. Everything is amazing, cool, awesome. But then they go home and don&apos;t use your product.”Chin is bullish about his new company,Bannerman, an Uber-type service for event security and bodyguards, and has no regrets about rolling the tech dice. “I love what I do. I couldn&apos;t do anything else.”The comedy Silicon Valley lampoons the culture of tech entrepreneurs and also highlights their attendant failures. Photograph: HBOVenture capitalists and angel investors tolerate failure only up to a point, said Bowden. &quot;You won&apos;t get funding unless you&apos;re credible. One previous failure can be OK but multiple failures will make it impossible to get funding.&quot;Shikhar Ghosh, a lecturer at Harvard who has studied startup mortality, noted that “VCs bury their dead very quietly.”Many founders are confessing anxiety in public for the first time via anonymous gossip sites likeSecretandstartupsanonymous.com. “My biggest mistake was trying to be an entrepreneur when I should have continued on with my current job,” confided one.“I’ve got this month to pull something off, otherwise I’m screwed and looking for a job. I’m scared as hell that I can’t do it,” wrote another.Common threads are fear of failure and the stress of pretending everything is going well. “The time you send your monthly investor update and spend an hour trying to come up with positive shit to say,” wrote another.Failure post-mortemsby founders and investors – the tone ranging from philosophical to despairing – have proved a hit on the CB Insights blog. A Wired cover story about one startup&apos;s travails, titled No Exit, also set tongues wagging.Tragedy struck last year whenJody Sherman, a 47-year-old serial entrepreneur, shot himself. A tattoo on his wrist said “I am awesome” but it emerged he had agonised over raising fresh funding for a startup, Ecomom, which he knew was floundering.Some startups raise the white flag under cover of “aqui-hire” in which they are bought by established firms, allowing founders a graceful exit, but often it is a fig leaf to poach staff, especially programmers and designers.Even if startups survive the stress can drain you, Justin Yoshimura, 24, a high-school dropout who founded three companies, most recently 500friends, an online retail loyalty platform, told the General Assembly, a business and technology speaker series.“I&apos;m not burned out but I don&apos;t want to be a founder or CEO anymore,” he said. “It&apos;s like running marathons back to back.”Such cautionary tales, and fears of a bubble, are not denting exuberance. Silicon Valley remains in thrall to the success stories, none more so thanAirbnb, which started as two guys with an air-bed and is now a global rival to hotel chains valued at $10bn.“You need stars that inspire massive numbers of people to pursue their dreams,” said co-founder Nathan Blecharczyk, 30, seated on a sofa in the company&apos;s gleaming new headquarters.Failure really does pave the way to success, he said. “I started coding when I was 12. A lot of things I did didn&apos;t pay off but it all went into my toolbelt. It takes a massive number of attempts to be successful.”
Chet Kanojia, the chief executive of the internet TV service Aereo, on Saturday announced a “pause” in operations, in reaction to thesupreme court rulingagainst the company on Wednesday.Aereo service was scheduled to cease at 11.30am ET. Kanojia concludedan open letter to customersby appealing for public support and saying: “Our journey is far from done.”Aereo, which is available in US cities including New York, Boston and Houston, allows customers to receive broadcasts via a digital antenna, store them on a DVR and stream them to various devices. Backed by the media mogul Barry Diller, the company offers subscriptions starting at $8 a month, a fraction of charged levied by the cable companies which carry the broadcasts in question.Broadcasters including ABC, CBS and Fox took their case against Aereoto the supreme courtafter an attempt to have the service banned was rejected by an appeals court.The supreme court justices voted 6-3 against the earlier ruling, effectively saying that Aereo should be treated like any cable company. Therefore, unless it pays broadcasters licensing fees for offering TV stations to tablets, phones and computers, it violates copyright law.On Saturday, in a letter to customers, Kanojia said: “On Wednesday, the United States supreme court reversed a lower court decision in favour of Aereo, dealing a massive setback to consumers.“As a result of that decision, our case has been returned to the lower court. We have decided to pause our operations temporarily as we consult with the court and map out our next steps. You will be able to access your cloud-based antenna and DVR only until 11.30am ET today.”Kanojia added: “The spectrum that the broadcasters use to transmit over the air programming belongs to the American public and we believe you should have the right to access that live programming, whether your antenna sits on the roof of your home, on top of your television or in the cloud.”
The problem with riding a £5,400 bike is that it comes with certain expectations. "Look at you on one of them Pinarellos!" called a&nbsp;bloke as I huffed my way up Buttertubs Pass in North Yorkshire. "You should be leading the peloton on that," he said, as he pulled past. I&nbsp;was struggling on a relation of a&nbsp;model that won last year's Tour de France, ridden byChris Froome. My baiter's bike was probably under a&nbsp;grand on the Cycle to Work scheme.Personally, I was most interested in finding out if I could beatGlynis Francis, the 60-year-old founder of my Manchester cycling club. A&nbsp;retired grandmother and total legend, Glynis last year won gold in the 500m sprint at the World Masters Track Cycling Championships. She was also one of 14 women from Team Glow who set out in May to ridestage one of this year's Tour de France, a 190km course from Leeds to Harrogate via the Yorkshire Dales.We did it over two days, with Glynis leading the pack. I tried to stay with her coming out of Reeth and over Grinton Moor, but she gobbled up the 10%-plus gradients with humiliating ease. Even working with my double-hard team-mate Louise, who is training for an Ironman, we didn't catch Glynis until Leyburn, where she stood waiting by the war memorial.When I first took charge of the Pinarello, I asked the lad atthe Bike Rooms in Manchesterhow a&nbsp;bike could cost so much. It was the frame, he explained, as Pinarello is the only manufacturer allowed to use Japanese Torayca carbon. Usually used on Boeing tail wings, it's super-light and stiff, yet 10 times as strong as steel.I had to suppress an eye roll when another shop assistant said she felt "at one" with her Dogma. For the first 24 hours I didn't get it and would say to anyone who asked that I couldn't understand what the fuss was about: "It's got two wheels, gears, brakes…"Then I descended from Buttertubs into Swaledale and it clicked: usually I'd be juddering down, terrified, with the brakes half on. On the Pinarello I&nbsp;felt invincible, leaning into corners likeFabian Cancellara trying to hold on to his yellow jersey on that mad descent in 2009.On the flat I was flying. Changing gear required the subtlest nudge of my ring finger, like the nod of a rich man to an auctioneer. The brakes were super-responsive; the carbon absorbed all but the nastiest road buzz. At the end of stage one, my average speed was up by 1.5mph. Yet I felt depressed. As if it was the final days of a holiday romance, I&nbsp;started dreading going back to normal life, riding my actual bike. I&nbsp;even did the equivalent of changing my flights, and phoned the Bike Rooms to ask for a loan extension. Just one last ride. One more.Pinarello Dogma 65.1Price£5,400FrameCarbon Torayca® 65HM1K in 859 naked shinyGroupsetShimano Ultegra 6800 (compact, 22 gears)WheelsFulcrum Racing ZerosTyresVittoria Corsa Evo CX ClincherExtrasMost carbon finishing kit, Most Jaguar XC carbon wrap bars, Most Tigerlite stem, Selle Italia for Most carbon railed saddle
Entwined(PS4) is the surprise game Sony announced during its press conference at E3; it was released immediately, ready for eager players to download that day. It tells the story of a fish and a bird in love and looks like a moving neon artwork. However, it’s mind-numbingly tedious, its faint-hearted challenge and under-developed mechanics make it feel endless and largely pointless. Other games out this week includePlants Vs Zombies: Garden Warfare(PC), the beautifully made multiplayer third-person shooter formerly only available for Xbox One; inOne Piece Unlimited World Red(PS3, 3DS, Wii U, Vita) “The Straw Hat Pirates encounter and befriend a cheerful yet mysterious raccoon named Pato,” it says here; andTransformers: Rise Of The Dark Sparkoffers more depressingly weak movie tie-in robot action for people too fixated on the word “Transformers” to notice.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewSet in the future and starring Chibi-Robo, a cigarette lighter-sized robot who loves to help, your job is to assist the curator of a museum by going back in time and taking photographs to fit a series of templates. Naturally, Chibi is in fact jumping back to our time, the camera on your 3DS acting as his lens, letting you frame nearby objects to match the silhouette of each template, a task which starts with readily identifiable everyday bric-a-brac and soon gets much more obscure. Earning new templates means collecting happy points by doing favours for some deeply eccentric characters, your jobs ranging from hoovering and picking up litter, to finding ingredients in a cluttered fridge. It's in these moments that the game loses some of its zing. The photo-taking augmented-reality moments shine, but the rest feels like padding.Nintendo, £11.69 (download)ALSO OUT THIS WEEKSniper Elite III, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4 &amp; PCThe standard-issue grizzled antihero of Sniper Elite III isn't a sniper so much as a one-man Nazi-assassinating special forces team, in this no-frills second world war jaunt. Its penny-pinching sensibilities extend to wobbly controls, rough-and-ready graphics, and enemies who forget about their dead comrades once you've moved a certain distance away, as you singlehandedly change the course of the allies' campaign in north Africa. Stealth is the only viable approach here so you'll have to get used to using ambient noise to mask shots and learn to enjoy running away when guards get suspicious. Shots that connect with the soft parts of enemies treat you to a kill-cam that follows the bullet from the muzzle of your gun to an X-ray view of their exploding brains.505 Games, £24.98–£45
Almost half of British children and teens believe that people should be able to download online content for free,according to a new report from online pollsters YouGov.The firm asked 614 children, aged 8-15, about their attitudes to online media and digital consumption, and found that 49% agree or strongly agree that &quot;you should be able to download or access content you want for free from the internet&quot;.&quot;The general consensus is that digital content should be free or at least cheaper than the physical equivalent,&quot; says YouGov. &quot;File-sharing continues to be common amongst younger adults and children. Cost, availability of content and convenience are all key motivators. However, there is evidence of growing usage of legal alternatives to file sharing. Younger adults show less concern and understanding about piracy and digital rights but are keen to see punitive action taken against providers and search engines.&quot;Some of that belief appears to stem from a lack of faith in copyright. Less than one in ten (7%) agreed with the statement that &quot;file sharing is a form of stealing&quot;, although 45% agreed or strongly agreed that it is wrong to access content online without the creator&apos;s permission. When asked specifically about online file-sharing such as bittorrent sites and &quot;file lockers&quot;, support dries up. Only 6% agree that using the sites is easy and 7% agree that it has become &quot;a normal thing to do&quot;.&quot;Children aged 8-15 are the key adopters of digital technology, and are likely to be more familiar with accessing content without paying,&quot; says James McCoy, YouGov&apos;s Research Director. &quot;File sharing is most common amongst younger adults; cost and availability are key drivers.&quot;McCoy added: &quot;Children in this generation have grown up with digital material and are used to having access to what they want, when they want it and, for some of the time not paying for it.&quot; But it&apos;s not just file sharing driving that attitude. YouGov points out that &quot;online services that offer a free service (usually ad-supported) such as Spotify, YouTube and Blinkbox, tend to be popular&quot; amongst children.&quot;All these studies suggest the same solution to reducing unauthorized sharing: offering easy-to-use services at fair prices,&quot;says Glyn Moodyat Techdirt. &quot;When will it ever learn?&quot;•YouTube&apos;s new features: crowdfunding, fan-made subtitles and 60fps video
Independent music body Impala hasfiled a complaint with the European Commissionalleging that Google subsidiary YouTube is abusing its dominant position. The video subsidiary has threatened to take videos from small labels off its site completely if they don&apos;t sign up for its forthcoming music subscription service.Impala, which has previously lobbied the European authorities about major label mergers, claims YouTube has breached European competition rules in five separate ways while trying to strike deals with its indie members, and asked for urgent action to block YouTube&apos;s proposals.The complaint is the latest in a growing list of antitrust allegations made against Google and its subsidiaries in Europe, though the search giant has not been found to have formally breached any rules.YouTube is accused of sending contracts to small labels offering worse terms than those already signed by major labels, and trying to force them to sign bythreatening to remove their videos from its existing free serviceif they decline. That has infuriated the labels, which don&apos;t believe the two should be connected – and so say Google&apos;s business is abusing its monopoly in video to force a position in that of music subscriptions. If the EC&apos;s antitrust division agrees, and decides the move is anticompetitive, Google could face hefty fines.&quot;The formal process has started in Brussels where the European Commission has consistently shown it will take a stance to ensure its competition rules are properly respected,&quot; said Helen Smith, executive chair of Impala, in a statement.Impala and fellow indie trade body WIN hope Joaquín Almunia, the EC commissioner for competition, will take action against YouTube, which could include a fine of up to 10% of its revenues if it is found guilty of abusing its position.&quot;Commissioner Almunia has already underlined the importance of the contribution made by independent music companies. This is a crucial moment for the development of the online music market with European services leading the charge,&quot; said Smith.&quot;What kind of legacy will Europe give those companies? How does Europe want its artists and consumers to be treated? We look to Commissioner Almunia to take urgent action. It&apos;s red card time.&quot;However it is not clear what percentage of music video consumption YouTube has in Europe - although it is by far the largest online video service. Impala does not offer any detail in its press release about the complaint.Google said it had no further comment beyond a statement provided earlier this month. At that time, a spokesperson told The Guardian: &quot;Our goal is to continue making YouTube an amazing music experience, both as a global platform for fans and artists to connect, and as a revenue source for the music industry. We are excited that hundreds of major and independent labels are already partnering with us.&quot;Growing dissatisfactionThe official complaint follows growing dissatisfaction expressed by Impala during apress conference organised with WINearlier in June. For his part, Almunia has indicated that he is willing to listen to the independent labels&apos; grievances against YouTube, in a letter sent to colleagues andsubsequently leaked to the New York Times.In the letter, Almunia hinted at new investigations into YouTube&apos;s parent company Google including &quot;a potential complaint about the pressure Google is putting on independent music labels to extract better terms in its negotiations for a new streaming product on YouTube&quot;.Impala&apos;s complaint remains confidential, but the body has published a summary of its main accusations against YouTube:&quot;YouTube is insisting on extracting a package of rights that no other partner could get away with. The terms appear to seriously undervalue existing deals in the marketplace with other business partners. They also appear to include a highly controversial ‘least favoured nation’ clause, as well as provisions regarding delivery of content that restrict the freedom of labels and their artists to decide how to handle releases and marketing such as exclusives. This goes far beyond what would be agreed with any other service. The terms are also suspected to breach competition rules because they are not comparable to the terms that are believed to have been reached with the majors.&quot;The filing comes shortly after acontract sent by YouTube to independent labelswaspublished by music industry site Digital Music News.That leak sparked discussion in particular about its favoured nation clause, which appeared to suggest that if any major label agreed to lower royalty rates for streams of their music on YouTube&apos;s new Spotify-style service, independent labels would then be forced to accept those lower rates too.YouTube has claimed that labels representing 95% of the recorded music industry have signed up for its new service – including several distributors of music for independent labels.Impala&apos;s complaint will not be taken lightly, though: Google is well aware of the potential for European authorities to rule against it in various parts of its business.UnforgottenIn May, theEuropean Union&apos;s Court of Justice backed the &quot;right to be forgotten&quot;when ruling that Google must delete &quot;inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant&quot; data from its search results when requested to by a member of the public. Google has nowbegun removing search links in response to those requests.Meanwhile, the company remains locked in sensitive negotiations with Almunia over a long-running antitrust investigation into whether it has abused its dominance of online search and advertising.Google is also facing a complaint filed by Portugese Android app store Aptoide, which has accused the company of anticompetitive behaviour in &quot;systematically setting up obstacles&quot; preventing Android users from installing app stores other than the official Google Play.•Will YouTube block indie labels if they snub its new service?
In a small room on the upper floor of the Galen Center, Phil Spencer is waiting for the press. Two hours ago, this vast arena saw Microsoft&apos;s pre-E3 press conference, a 90-minute event in which Spencer, now head of Xbox, laid out the future of the company&apos;s console business. It was something of a success, a barrage of game demos from big-hitters to indie newcomers.Getting to see Spencer requires a walk into the bowels of the building accompanied by PR staff, then a service elevator up to the second floor, another long corridor, and finally a room filled with more PR people. As ever he smiles a big charming smile while the Microsoft staff tap away on laptops, not looking up; they will have briefed him carefully on who I am and what media outlet I write for. There is no natural light in here.&quot;The second year for any console is an important year,&quot; says Spencer as we chat about the conference. &quot;The first E3 is always challenging because the developers are working on early dev kits for a console that hasn&apos;t launched yet. Just thinking about last year in terms of what we showed …&quot; he pauses and changes direction. &quot;This year we brought a great line up. We wanted to show Xbox One owners, and potential owners, what games they&apos;re going to get to play in 2014 and beyond. There was a lot of game content - I don&apos;t need to see more of me talking on stage.&quot;Inside Sony&apos;s E3 headquartersTwo days later, I&apos;m over at Sony&apos;s traditional E3 enclave, the JW Marriott hotel, right next to the convention centre. Andrew House, the head of Sony Computer Entertainment, is holed up in a suite on the third floor, a much brighter room, looking out over the eight-lane flyover that snakes out toward South LA. Assured and understated, he is much more of a businessman than Spencer. When he talks he glances at a page full of handwritten notes.I ask if there&apos;s a sense of self-congratulation at Sony. PlayStation 4 has come into E3 with 7m units sold and a clear lead over Xbox One. &quot;Seriously, we&apos;ve been absolutely delighted with the success,&quot; he says. &quot;I set a target at the Tokyo Game Show for 5m units. There was considerable skepticism about the role of consoles, given the massively changed device landscape that consumers have. It was important that we were able to exceed those fairly aggressive goals.&quot;But also, we were able to exceed the launch period of PlayStation 2, which is really significant. People maybe underestimated the fact that, although PS4 is primarily a game device, it did arrive fully baked as a multifunctional entertainment machine, which is kind of what PS3 migrated into over time. I think there&apos;s a primary user motivated by great games, but I think there&apos;s a secondary user who also wants a great Netflix device, or a great video streaming device, or a great catch-up TV device.&quot;The return of multimediaWhile Microsoft completely sidestepped the whole multimedia angle in its presentation, Sony spent time discussing tertiary features like the streaming games service PlayStation Now, the mini secondary console PlayStation TV, and the exclusive Marvel TV series, Powers. This is the sort of demographic-widening stuff that Microsoft relied on for its original Xbox One unveiling event last year – the event that gamers hated.House shrugs away concerns. &quot;You have to continue to innovate at the system level, at the multifunctional element, to reach other audiences,&quot; he says. &quot;I announced at CES that our intention this year is to deliver a cloud TV service in the US. This is almost the final piece of the puzzle. You&apos;ve got music, you&apos;ve got streaming video, you&apos;ve got games, now you can have a service that elegantly combines live TV and video-on-demand with a really slick user interface that is, with all due respect, far ahead of the television manufacturers because of the native processing power of PS4.&quot;So where does television and video-on-demand sit in the Xbox plans at the moment? &quot;We&apos;ve got to win with the core gamer first, that is the most important customer for a games console,&quot; says Spencer. &quot;I wanted to make sure that we weren&apos;t only putting an E3 show together, because E3 will come and go, but that we&apos;re building a program that supports that customer.&quot;However, Xbox Live is important, not only for games but also for the way all entertainment is consumed; we pulled the entertainment apps out from Gold membership because I wanted everyone to be able to use them. And the focus we have on television, on the HDMI In functionality, this is a long term focus. But it&apos;s about sequencing – making sure we win with gamers every single year and that the other functionality supports that, it doesn&apos;t drown it.&quot;The allure of indieThe two executives are aligned in their apparent keenness to broaden the range of games available on current platforms. For Sony, that has always meant embracing indie development, something it has done since releasing theNet Yarozehobbyist dev kit back in 1997.&quot;It came very organically and from the ground up,&quot; says House. &quot;There were individuals in both the Europe and US offices who were passionate gamers and really interested in the indie scene, and fortunately they were well placed to engineer that outreach.&quot;For me, I was starting to get worried that the industry was trending towards a concentration around fewer and fewer major franchises; you&apos;ve got to worry about the long-term health of the business if there isn&apos;t new talent, new creativity and new IP coming in. Don&apos;t get me wrong, I love the big blockbusters, but it&apos;s great for the health of the business to have the quirky, the new, the different, and to have experimentation in narrative and technical design. Our goal as a platform holder is to be in the business of A&amp;R, of talent development and nurturing. We have to bring these guys in and say we can connect you with an audience. No Man&apos;s Sky is a great testament to that. Seeing the feedback it is garnering, it&apos;s been universally positive. That team is six people.&quot;Phil Spencer has clearly been using his own tastes and contacts to broaden the Xbox One output. He talks about going to dinner with Platinum Games during last year&apos;s Tokyo Game Show to secure the studio&apos;s first Xbox exclusive, Scalebound (&quot;it turns out that our team working with them on the game is just around the corner from me - they get tired of me turning up&quot;). He also mentions indie titles like Ori and the Blind Forest as a priority in his plans.&quot;Brothers was my game of the year last year - the ending was so emotional,&quot; he says. &quot;Those are the kinds of thoughts we need to embed in terms of how we&apos;re building for this platform. I want to have a great line-up, I want to make the tools that allow developers to build on Xbox, to enable the breadth of content.&quot;During the Xbox press event, Microsoft shows a trailer of Inside, the latest game from Playdead, the team behind cult monochrome platformer, Limbo. &quot;That is one of my favourite games of all time,&quot; says Spencer, who wore a T-shirt bearing its name on stage. &quot;Last time I was at Playdead I got to play Inside and talked to the guys about it. I thought, I really want this on Xbox One. It&apos;s so interesting.&quot;Social engineeringAs for the future, both men agree that the social element will play a major role, with games evolving away from transient anonymous online matches. &quot;Multiplayer co-op feels like it&apos;s going to be important,&quot; says Spencer. &quot;Sunset Overdrive, Assassin&apos;s Creed Unity, Fable Legends - these are games that friends will play together. And Dave Jones is talking about what he wants to do with Crackdown, bringing people together via co-op but using the compute CPU capability in Xbox Live to make it a different kind of experience. The physics and destruction calculations around buildings and other objects will happen in the cloud, freeing up the local capabilities to do something that looks better.&quot;Our investment in Live and in servers will continue. You&apos;ll see more teams making use of that cloud capability to handle AI and dedicated servers for matchmaking. And multiple years later, when those games sunset, and gamers move on, we&apos;re handling the whole backend for those developers. If you&apos;re a small studio and you don&apos;t know how many servers you&apos;ll need or how long you&apos;ll need them, our service gives them the capability to build a server-based game without having to invest in all the infrastucture.&quot;House talks about how, during the development of the PlayStation hardware, there was a moment where he had to decide whether or not to hardwire in the console&apos;s sharing capabilities; ensuring that the machine automatically records footage, adding the &apos;share&apos; button on the controller which uploads highlights to the web. It was a risk. &quot;I said to the engineers, &apos;I only have one question for you guys, there&apos;s a lot around the community, what if we throw the party and no one shows up?&apos;&quot;But we made the right call, tapping into this idea that gaming could become more social, that people would want to share their experience. I don&apos;t think we envisaged that Playroom would be used by people to broadcast themselves from their living rooms, but if that&apos;s what people want to do fine, so be it – we jumped on it. So there are now visual tools to help you do that. There&apos;s a sense of a vibrant community around the games and that&apos;s helped PS4 enormously.&quot;&quot;I&apos;m particularly intrigued by what will happen with the games share functionality [of PlayStation Now]: for the first time ever you can be playing a game and lend it to someone else effectively, have them play with you - that creates this whole new social dynamic.&quot;After 10 minutes with House, a PR rep sitting at the far end of the suite&apos;s vast conference table tells me I have one more question. I&apos;ll be shot by my readers if I don&apos;t ask this, I say – but what is happening with Last Guardian? The long-awaited and much-delayed title from Team Ico, the studio behind classics Ico and Shadow of the Colossus, has become something of a metaphor for the unfulfilled and unfulfillable promises bandied around at this event. The news site IGN has just posted a rumour that the game has been quietly cancelled.&quot;It isnotcancelled,&quot; says House, slowly and deliberately. So what&apos;s happening with it? There is a long pause. I sense that the PR manager at the end of the table has momentarily stopped tapping at his keyboard. These interviews are carefully stage-managed and controlled – sometimes you get more from them if you are belligerent and insistent, but that&apos;s rarely the case. Sometimes you have to play the game. Spencer and House are both good players; you get what they want and no more. But then, they too are under the control of a business which insists on the micro-management of information. Games are multimillion dollar bets these days, and no one wants to show their cards.&quot;I&apos;ll just say … active work is ongoing,&quot; House says at last. &quot;I&apos;ll get shot by my studios if I say any more.&quot;•E3 2014: Sony hits with Uncharted 4, GTA 5 and Grim Fandango•Microsoft at E3 2014: from Halo 5 to the return of Crackdown - the key points
New York City has released data of 173m individual taxi trips – but inadvertently made it &quot;trivial&quot; to find the personally identifiable information of every driver in the dataset.The data could let malicious parties work out the home addresses of drivers, uncover their income, and retrace their movements across the city. But even without that, some users worry that the dataset also exposes passenger information to the world – which could reveal personal information about their journey points and times.Thetrove of informationcomes from a Freedom of Information request filed by open data activist Chris Whong. In the original release, each record includes the time and location of the pickup and drop off, as well as an anonymised licence number and medallion number, which identifies the driver and taxi respectively. But Vijay Pandurangan, founder of secure password manager Mitro,discoveredthat the anonymous data was easy to restore to its original, personally identifiable format.&quot;These data are a veritable trove for people who love cities, transit, and data visualisation,&quot; Pandurangan wrote. &quot;But there’s a big problem: the personally identifiable information (the driver’s licence number and taxi number) hasn’t been anonymised properly — what’s worse, it’s trivial to undo, and with other publicly available data, one can even figure out which person drove each trip.&quot;Panduragan realised that the medallion and licence numbers both have a very specific format. Medallions only take one of three formats – either 5X55, XX555 or XXX555 – while licences are all six-digit or seven-digit numbers starting with a five. That means that there are only 2m possible license numbers, and 22m possible medallion numbers.That let Panduragan reverse-engineer the anonymised data to find out which trips were carried out by which drivers, and in which taxis. The data had been anonymised by hashing, a cryptographic function which is supposed to be &quot;one-way&quot;: it&apos;s very easy to find the hash of a given piece of data, and very hard – mathematically impossible, in theory – to find the piece of data which resulted in a given hash (for instance, the MD5 hash, the particular type used by NYC, of the data &quot;Alex&quot; is a08372b70196c21a9229cf04db6b7ceb). As the same piece of data always results in the same hash, such functions are frequently used to anonymise just this sort of data.But once Panduragan had narrowed the possible entries down to 24m different numbers, it was the matter of only minutes to determine which numbers were associated with which pieces of anonymised data.&quot;Modern computers are fast: so fast that computing the 24m hashes took less than two minutes,&quot; he said. &quot;It took a while longer to de-anonymise the entire dataset, but… [I] had it done within an hour.&quot;There’s a ton of resources on NYC Taxi and Limousine commission, including a mapping from licence number to driver name, and a way to look up owners of medallions. I haven’t linked them here but it’s easy to find using a quick Google search… This anonymisation is so poor that anyone could, with less than two hours work, figure which driver drove every single trip in this entire dataset. It would even be easy to calculate drivers&apos; gross income or infer where they live.&quot;Paduragan points out that there are a number of ways that the city could have more successfully anonymised the data. The first is if they hadn&apos;t tried to be so smart: rather than going through the effort of hashing the data, if they had simply assigned random numbers to each licence plate, it would have been much more difficult to work backwards. New York&apos;s Taxi and Limousine Commission was asked for comment, but didn&apos;t respond by publication time.But in an update to his initial post on Medium, he says that there may be little the city could have done to fully guard against some data being de-anonymised. Citing a similar case where Netflix released a large quantity of anonymised data,which was then de-anonymised, he says that &quot;there are a number of other ways in which [personally identifiable information] may be reconstructed … NYC is dense enough that it may be much more challenging to target specific passengers using these data, however.&quot;Anonymising data is really hard.&quot;In Netflix&apos;s case, in 2006 the company released the movie ratings of 500,000 customers in an effort to encourage better recommendation algorithms. Unlike the NYC data, there was no way to reverse engineer identifiable information from the dataset itself. But whattwo researchers realisedis that some users were likely to rate movies similarly on Netflix and IMDB. What&apos;s more, they are likely to rate the same movies at the same time, which made it possible to link an anonymised entry in the Netflix dataset with a very identifiable user on IMDB – even if the IMDB ratings don&apos;t include more sensitive movies which the user may not have wanted to make public.For instance, the researchers said, a user&apos;s &quot;political orientation may be revealed by his strong opinions about Power and Terror: Noam Chomsky in Our Times and Fahrenheit 9/11, and his religious views by his ratings on Jesus of Nazareth and The Gospel of John.&quot; Eventually, the revelations led to a 2009 lawsuit from an in-the-closet lesbian mother,who sued Netflix for privacy violation.The Netflix experience raises a further question: how much more information can be deanonymised from the taxi data set? &quot;I think there&apos;s a much bigger privacy issue here than what the author focuses on,&quot;says one commenter on Hacker News.&quot;Couldn&apos;t you deduce many passenger identities based on addresses? There&apos;s a lot of scenarios where passenger identities could be effectively de-anonymised, just based on GPS data. You could then use this data set to analyse their comings and goings … can you imagine someone just plotting all the trips from a single gay bar? Listing off all the connected residential addresses? And not only that, any subsequent trips home from those addresses the next morning?&quot;•Uber: the smartphone app that is driving London cabbies to distraction
The attractions of Yo, the app which does nothing more than send a notification saying &quot;Yo&quot; to its target, aren&apos;t immediately obvious. Nor is its connection with the future of wearables. But it exists.Yo has rapidly become useful within the Guardian&apos;s technology team: we&apos;re so often doing other things than looking at the particular computer screen where a message from a colleague might arrive, we need some method of prodding people to look at that particular screen. Yo fills that gap. It&apos;s not an email which might get ignored. It&apos;s not a text message that might take unknown time to arrive. It&apos;s not a public tweet. It&apos;s not a Twitter direct message that might go unnoticed. It&apos;s a person-to-person, personal, private, nudge.And it&apos;s nothing more than that. Yet it doesn&apos;t have to be any more than that to be useful. Usefulness is the best metric for the survival of a technology - not its capability, or even necessarily its convenience (though we tend to roll downhill towards, rather than away from, more convenience).Yo, mamaYo is easy, quick, simple, unambiguous. By contrast, a lot of the wearable devices that we&apos;ve been seeing lately have been complex, physically fiddly and overreaching. This thought struck me particularly as I watched the presenter (the one who wasn&apos;t telling us how wearables are about fashion while wearing jeans and a hoodie – that one) demonstrating how he could control his Android TV from across the room using his smartwatch. Watching the painful care with which he made sure not to mis-swipe and order a pizza instead was agonising.Google&apos;s aims with wearables are clear: get Android everywhere. It completely makes sense that the major assault would begin with watches (given that Google Glass, introduced with skydivers two years ago, is very much in the down phase of the hype cycle). Watches are worn; they can be quite big (offering room for a battery); they display information. You can even finagle a touchscreen onto them - and touchscreens are everywhere, aren&apos;t they?This leads to the situation where LG and Samsung are offering us smartwatches that will last an entire day on a single charge. Wow! And that for a device which costs only £159 (for the LG device) - that is, as much as a growing number of smartphones. While needing a smartphone. And being operated only by touch input. And being the size of a small TV.The latter point (and quite a few of the former ones) are why smartwatches, at least in this generation, don&apos;t have a hope of interesting around 50% of the population - women. Shara Tibken of Cnet made the point with a single image from Google I/O, where LG smartwatches were given away to attendees:This the the LG G Watch next to the actual watch I wear every day. Pretty big difference.#io14pic.twitter.com/dszy9JeXj9&mdash; Shara Tibken (@sharatibken)June 25, 2014(Hers is on the right, if it wasn&apos;t obvious.) The potential audience for watches is already quite small; hulking designs like this LG&apos;s don&apos;t help. Nor do I think that the Moto 360 will pass this test. It has a round face, but thepicture of its hulking form on Joanna Stern&apos;s wristin the Wall Street Journal tells you everything you need to know.Distaff attractionYet if you&apos;re going to appeal to women as well as men, what do you need? You have to rethink what the wearable is about.I think the idea of using your watch to control things is overdone. It&apos;s too easy to miscue on a tiny touch screen; and if the screen gets too big, you&apos;re off overboard into the waters of &quot;women will never buy it&quot;. True, you can have buttons on the front or side which provide the control function - but in that case, ditch the touchscreen, which anyway only sucks up battery power. Having owned a Pebble watch for more than a year*, which has four buttons and a non-touch screen, I can honestly say I&apos;ve never used the buttons for anything except changing settings - even though in theory I could use it to refuse calls on my Bluetooth-connected phone and control the music playing on it. I&apos;m not that involved with my smartwatch.Mostly it tells the time. Occasionally it tells me that someone&apos;s calling my phone - which if I&apos;m away from my phone, or have it on silent, is a big benefit. Oh, and the battery? Typically it lasts five days - which is mostly because of its non-touch e-ink screen.In passing, I&apos;ve met three senior Apple executives in the past 12 months - of whom the first two expressed interest in my Pebble, asking my experiences. One had even bought one - in orange. (He wasn&apos;t wearing it.) I suspect Pebble&apos;s hits, and misses, have informed whatever Apple is doing in this space with the fabled &quot;iWatch&quot;.Active notificationNo; wearables, if they&apos;re going to be actively useful (rather than passively measuring details about you such as the famous &quot;steps taken&quot;, heartbeat or blood pressure) need to be about notification.But how should that be done? The whole idea of vibrating alerts - borrowed from smartphones, which got them from games controllers - feels clunky. I much prefer the ideas being put forward by Christina Mercando.Christina who? She&apos;s the brains behindRingly- a ring (wearable!) with 18-carat gold plating, precious and semi-precious stones; you can set four different kinds of vibration, and five different lights (which glow through the gem). &quot;Our core belief is that technology can be more discreetly integrated into our lives,&quot; says Mercando in anFAQ. &quot;Ringly places style and simplicity above all else, and our first product line is a collection of rings.&quot;Ringly's moonstone ring (on left index finger) uses different lights and vibration patterns to notify its wearer. Photograph: /PR/RinglyBattery life? She reckons two or more days, and it charges (wirelessly) in its ringbox. If she can get it together, I think Ringly could be a hit with women who want a wearable notification system; if Mercando can develop a line that&apos;s more, well,ruggedthen I think she could interest men too. The idea of using light colours for notifications is obvious enough; the idea of a ring is smart. (Here&apos;s Craig Hockenberrywondering if the iWatch could be a ring in March 2014.) And yet the simplicity of a ring that occurred to Mercando (and Hockenberry) has eluded scores of designers - even Google&apos;s - in favour of the touchscreen paradigm that has been with us for seven, or ten, or20years.Being able to see the new only in terms of the old is what prevents people developing the new. Wearables don&apos;t need more complexity; they need more simplicity. They don&apos;t need the old idea of touchscreens; they need a new idea of what &quot;notification&quot; means. They don&apos;t need to be obvious; they need to be unobtrusive. They don&apos;t need to be bulky; they need to be light.In short, they need to be Yo. Ten years ago, when Facebook was starting and blogs ruled the world, it was &quot;obvious&quot; that you needed a big canvas to write on. When Twitter arrived and only allowed 140 characters, people called it &quot;microblogging&quot; - for want of a better word - but questioned how you could say anything useful in such a short space.Well, that&apos;s not a debate with any legs now. And so, Yo: one bit of data to one person. Wearables need to make that transition too. After all, if you need to change the channel on your TV using your watch, it&apos;s probably just time to find your remote.•Apple&apos;s first smartwatch draws closer to mass production* Sorry,hedgecreep. Looks likeyours is the melted foot spa sandwich.
Comedian Ryan Higa, make-up artist Michelle Phan and boy-band Boyce Avenue are among YouTube’s most popular stars, with 12.4m, 6.6m and 5.8m subscribers respectively on their channels.Now they’re among the first YouTubers to partner with a new US-based startup calledVictorious, co-founded by YouTube’s former head of creator development and management, to launch their own mobile apps.The company, which says it will run apps for emerging YouTubers as well as established stars on Google’s video services, is hoping to tap into the heavy mobile habits of the young fans who watch these channels.“Half of YouTube’s audience comes from mobile devices, and we have seen creators building big audiences on platforms like Instagram and Vine too,” Victorious chief executive Sam Rogoway told The Guardian.“Increasingly, the smartphone is becoming the first, if not the only screen for the millennial generation. We think apps can connect creators more directly with their fans, and open up new revenue streams.”Victorious’ chief creative officer is Bing Chen, a well-known figure within the YouTube creator community, whoresigned in Mayfrom his role at YouTube leading its partner programme for YouTubers.Chen told The Guardian that Victorious is aiming to help YouTubers build their own “hub” for their keenest fans.That strategy has been tried in the past for established artists and celebrities by companies like Mobile Roadie and Backplane. The former’s service has been used by apps for stars including Adele, Taylor Swift and Madonna, while the latter runsLady Gaga’s Little Monsters community.“YouTube is an incredible platform, especially for the mass market. What we are doing is highly complimentary: it provides an outlet for a deeper super-community of fans, which doesn’t exist on most social networks,” said Chen.“We think that fans are creators. Each of the apps will be a social network, a community around content, where fans can do much more than just like and comment. They’ll be able to express themselves in different ways, including photos, videos and GIFs.”Victorious execs Bing Chen and Sam Rogoway.Victorious may be perceived as a threat by some of the multi-channel networks (MCNs) that specialise in signing up YouTubers, helping them to develop their audiences, and make money on and off YouTube.Some, like Maker Studios, tend to launch their own technological tools for their clients. Victorious isn’t an MCN – at least, not yet – but working with it may loosen the ties between YouTubers and their current MCNs: if they choose to leave, they’ll still have their mobile apps.That is not part of Victorious’ public pitch. “We think we’re very complimentary to MCNs, because we’re focused exclusively on building really amazing technology, and a platform on which creators can engage with their superfans,” said Rogoway.“MCNs have a lot to do, and while some have played with technology, it’s really technically challenging to build an expensive, beautiful app. Our exclusive focus on technology makes us a nice partner for MCNs, and we’re working very closely with several of them.”Chen said Victorious will provide detailed analytics to its clients on how their fans are using the apps, which will be available for Android and iOS devices. The first will be released in the autumn, with more stars beyond Higa, Phan and Boyce Avenue set to be announced.“Between now and September we’ll be working with dozens of the world’s biggest digital luminaries. These digital creators are self-made businesses: they truly are the full C-level suite of CEO, chief financial officer, chief marketing officer and chief creative officer,” said Chen.“And this digital economy is growing rapidly: in the last year alone, the number of YouTube channels that got over 100,000 and over 500,000 subscribers actually doubled.”•YouTube multichannel networks stake claim to the future of TV
It may be possible to argue, you know, just theoretically, that the world doesn&apos;t need another zombie franchise. There have been a few recently, you may have noticed.Nevertheless, The Evil Within, a game that has a variety of monsters including the undead, is hotly anticipated, thanks to its enviable pedigree. The man behind it is Shinji Mikami, the designer and producer responsible for bringing us the Resident Evil games and virtually inventing the &quot;survival horror&quot; genre.Given that legacy, The Evil Within will generate few surprises. It’s a classic survival horror game, with a deliberate clunkiness to the controls, very limited resources with which to eliminate enemies (so you have to employ brains and stealth much more than fast-twitch reactions), some memorably twisted puzzles and a relentlessly and often scarily surreal horror film atmosphere. In the last respect, it goes much further into psychological dread than Resident Evil ever did, entering territory more akin to the Silent Hill series.Cult horror in the house of hellOur extended playthrough at E3 revealed something of a cult classic in the making. From the off, it’s dark, moody and disturbing. You play a cop called Sebastian Castellanos, who starts by investigating a gruesome mass murder that may be part of some sort of conspiracy. However, he and his partner are attacked by an invisible entity and he&apos;s bopped on the head, only to wake up in a sort of nightmare horror world, populated by monstrous creatures and full of horror-movie tropes like mysterious hooded figures and underground corridors with walls that spontaneously rearrange themselves.At first, he must escape – a process that involves a certain amount of initiative (thanks to those rearranging walls) and plenty of stealth (hiding in cupboards and under beds is a prominent gameplay mechanism). But gradually, he acquires zombie-killing objects like a handgun, shotgun and bolt gun – and then there are the deadly traps. For example, in an early showdown in a sewer, an assemblage of spikes falls from the ceiling, and these can be triggered manually after you attract the attention of the nearby zombies. Squish! You suddenly have fewer zombies to worry about.Combining exploration and trap exploitation is paramount, as ammunition for your weapons is in almost comically short supply. Shotguns, for example, can only load two cartridges, and take an age to reload, and when you do manage to find ammo for them, it&apos;s only two or three shells.Later on, when you regularly encounter clusters of zombies, you discover the usefulness of matches. You can stun enemies with a single shot to the head, or a nifty kick when they get too close. And once they are down, the application of a single lighted match will cause them to burn, transforming them into green gunk that you can scoop up and use for upgrades.The fact that you can only carry five matches at a time rather sums up the sheer rigour of The Evil Within&apos;s fiendishly challenging system. However, you soon get into the minimalist spirit, deriving vast amounts of satisfaction from, say, dispatching two zombies with a single bullet followed by a single match.Brain sucking puzzlesWe played one chapter of the game set in a deliciously creepy mansion, reminiscent of the original Alone In The Dark, or of course, the Umbrella house from the original Resi. The site of some sort of neuroscientific laboratory, this place provides some of the most ghoulish puzzles we’ve ever encountered. Every so often you pass some beautifully rendered brains in brass mountings; and in order to open a certain door, you have to extract red fluid from one such brain by plunging probes into precisely the correct area, aided by clues embedded in the experimental notes strewn nearby. So that&apos;s nice.Those who demand nothing but originality and a previously untrodden approach from their games will disdain The Evil Within as something of a throwback – it certainly conforms to Mikami’s tried-and-tested blueprint. But they would be in danger of missing out on something rather fabulous. Mikami has exercised his love of the grotesque with much more exuberance than in the past. The Evil Within also achieves the aim behind all good survival horror: to put you at the controls of a truly chilling and disturbing horror film.• The Evil Within is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 21 October (North America) and 24 October (Europe).•Evil Within: new game from Resident Evil creator announced•Is Resident Evil 6 the death of survival horror?•Shock and gore: why video games are failing at horror
To many YouTube users, it&apos;ll mean absolutely nothing. Among gamers, however, it has caused a wave of excitement and relief. In a blog post on Thursday, the video sharing site announced that it will now support footage running at 48 and even 60 frames-per-second.Why is that important? Well, currently, YouTube only runs video at 24 frames per second, which is fine for films, but video games tend to run at between 30 and 60 frames per second. This is important because, unlike watching movies, games rely on a smooth feedback loop between the player, the controller and the screen refresh rate – the faster the FPS count, the smoother the interaction between player and onscreen action.One of the major selling points of the next-gen consoles and high-end PC graphics cards is that they run games at full 1080p high definition resolution and at 60 frames per second – now publishers will be able to post trailers on YouTube showing off the full eye candy experience.First up is Battlefield Hardline, which is now on YouTune running in full 60fps, but others will be flooding in soon.The ability to record and upload footage at 60fps is also likely to be leaped on by gaming news sites and YouTubers. Comparison videos that show new games running on various platforms while pointing out key performance differences are popular online, and now sites will be able to reveal any frame rate issues. There has been some controversy over the fact that several high profile console releases including the Tomb Raider Definitive Edition have run at 60fps on PlayStation 4 but only 30fps on Xbox One.Certainly YouTube is becoming an increasingly vital forum for games coverage. The rise of superstar YouTube gamers like PewDiePie and Syndicate has prompted publishers to boost their output of games footage onto the platform. Meanwhile, Nintendo alienated YouTubers last year byclaiming ad revenue on &quot;Let&apos;s Play&quot; channels, where players share and comment on game footage. However, the company relented this May, announcingan affiliate programmeto share revenues with YouTube presenters.•YouTube&apos;s new features: crowdfunding, fan-made subtitles and 60fps video•PewDiePie was the king of YouTube with 1.3bn views in second half of 2013
I&apos;m planning a year-long stay in Malaysia, on a contract. I plan to take my two-year-old HP Pavilion laptop. Will it survive the humidity? What supporting tech should I use for backups? Also, is Skype the best way to stay in touch with friends and family in the UK?AlanI don&apos;t expect too many people are planning to spend a year near the equator, but millions of holidaymakers may face the same problems on a smaller scale. But do people worry about taking their laptops and tablets to, say, hot and humid Florida or Hong Kong? I don&apos;t think so.Most of today&apos;s laptops are made in China by Taiwanese contract manufacturers and the same machines are sold in practically every country in the world. They seem to survive all the different climates. The real issue is not so much the country as whether you&apos;re in a developed part of it. The main cities and large towns in peninsular Malaysia do not seem to be any more hazardous than similar cities in Florida or California. You&apos;ll be able to sit in aMalaysian Starbucks(there are 140 of them), or a local equivalent, and use the free power-points and Wi-Fi. If you were going trekking in the jungles of Borneo – where the Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak are situated – it would be a different story.In this case, I have quite a bit of experience. My wife was born in Malaysia so I have relatives in Ipoh, Kuala Lumpur and Penang, as well as in Singapore. Other large cities include Johor Bahru (almost 2 million people, cheek by jowl with Singapore), Shah Alam and Petaling Jaya. It&apos;s true that Malaysia suffers from tropical rainstorms, particularly from October to December, but most people just stay indoors until they blow over.Laptop hygieneThe main threats to laptops are heat, moisture and dirt, including dust, sand and fluff. None of these is specific to Malaysia. You shouldn&apos;t have any problems if you take the same kind of precautions that you would take in the UK. For example, if your laptop is prone to overheating, use it on a riser or cooler so that air can flow all around the case. Always use it on a table or tray rather than carpets or bedding etc that can block air vents and produce fan-clogging fluff. Carry it in a slipcase to protect it from dirt and rain.In theory, moisture could be a problem, due to condensation. Some companies supply environmentally sealed enclosures for PCs used in hazardous climates, but those are not appropriate for laptops. They also apply &quot;conformal coatings&quot; to electronics to protect them from moisture. This is a sophisticated industrial process. You can buy spray cans of stuff online but disassembling your laptop and spraying the motherboard would probably do more harm than good.One extra precaution: don&apos;t munch sandwiches and biscuits over your keyboard. Food scraps may attract small creepy-crawlies, including ants. Your laptop could end up riddled with a different sort of bugs.Storage for backupsHow much storage will you need? It depends how much data you are going to generate. Over the years, I&apos;ve shifted from small external hard drives to USB thumb drives and most recently to SD cards for backup storage. This is partly because most of my data originates on SD cards in digital cameras and recorders, and my laptop has a built-in card slot. But cheap SD cards now come in large capacities such as 16GB and 32GB, they don&apos;t have any mechanical parts that could fail, and they take up very little space.You can currently buy 32GB SD cards for £11 to £16 or so, and 64GB cards for roughly £15-£30, depending on speed, so that would be an economical way to store 100GB of data. If you need an order of magnitude more space, then buy a 1TB portable hard drive for around £50. With 1TB, you can take a full backup of your laptop&apos;s hard drive in case you need to reinstall everything.The main aim is to have backup copies of irreplaceable data that won&apos;t disappear if your laptop fails or is stolen. If there&apos;s not too much of it, you may be able to back it up online. In this case,Dropboxis probably the best service, but it only provides 2GB free. Alternatives include Microsoft&apos;sOneDrive, which offers 15GB free with each email address, Barracuda&apos;sCopy(also 15GB) and possibly Kim Dotcom&apos;sMega(50GB). If you use Microsoft Office, thenOffice 365offers 1TB of storage per person up to 5TB for only £7.99 per month or £79.99 per year. This is great value even if you don&apos;t actually use Microsoft Office. For comparison, Dropbox provides only 100GB for $9.99 a month – the same as Microsoft&apos;s US price – while Copy Pro offers 250GB. (Idon&apos;t recommendGoogleDrivefor backups.)If you expect to take a lot of photographs and/or videos, then Yahoo&apos;sFlickroffers 1TB of free space.The problem with online storage is that it can take ages to upload data, and bulk uploads are not always as reliable as they should be. But if you have decent Wi-Fi and you&apos;re just backing up a few documents and photos every day, it provides extra security without too much effort.Keeping in touchSkype is still a good way to keep in touch with close friends and family members, and Skype-to-Skype video seems to work well between the UK and Malaysia, though it&apos;s not always convenient because of the time difference. My own family – which includes relatives in Ireland and Kuwait as well as Malaysia and Singapore – mostly uses Facebook. We have a closed group, which means family messages are not shown to other friends. Facebook messaging adds one-to-one communications, almost totally replacing SMS. Facebook also makes it easy to share photos.If we&apos;d been setting something up from scratch then we might have looked for something else, but that&apos;s irrelevant. All of us were already on Facebook when I set up the family group, so I didn&apos;t have to ask anybody to sign up. If I&apos;d tried, say, Google+, I&apos;d have had to persuade at least a dozen people to start using it just to make it viable for the others, and the chances of that happening were zero. Even if that had worked, nobody would have abandoned Facebook because their non-family friends are on it as well.To conclude, whatever you&apos;re using to keep in touch now, you can use from Malaysia or anywhere else. This includes voice calls, which you can make via Skype or using one of the internationally-oriented mobile systems such asWorldSIM. (Dual-sim phones are particularly handy when working abroad.) You&apos;ll probably find that time differences and cost constraints seamlessly shift the balance towards Facebook messaging or WhatsApp or whatever&apos;s handiest for everybody.
Under development since 2012 at a new studio in Austin, Texas, BattleCry represents a tentative entry into the free-to-play sector by publisher Bethesda. The team behind the game is something of a dream roster, including industry legend Rich Vogel, a veteran of genre-defining MMOs Meridian 59 and Ultima, and Viktor Antonov, the art director responsible for the striking Half-Life 2 and Dishonored.The fruit of their labours is certainly offbeat – a 32-player third-person combat game that can’t be described as a shooter, since it doesn’t contain any guns. Set in a striking steampunk world, where gunpowder has been banned, it features three factions fighting each other in designated war-zones (essentially, a fancy name for enclosed levels). The two factions we saw during an E3 demo were the Royal Marines (more Victorian than modern, with colourful red uniforms and a reputation for disciplined fighting) and the Cossacks (wilder-looking and more frenzied in their fighting style). The third faction remains as yet mysterious.The key to BattleCry’s gameplay lies in its different classes, which have wildly varying abilities. Most – but not all – of the characters you play are geared to close-in, melee-type combat, anf the close-up, third-person default view supports that style of play. There are five classes to choose from: Enforcer, a tank-like character whose huge sword transforms into a shield in its alternate form; Duellist, who launches quick attacks, is nimble and can cloak for surprise attacks; Gadgetteer, who is more about support than actual fighting; Brawler, who has a powerful mechanical arm; and Tech Archer, the only ranged specialist, who can fire arrows and throw knives when up close and personal with enemies.We tried the Enforcer and the Tech Archer – you can change class mid-match. The action is fast and frenetic, with a hint of Team Fortress 2 to it, albeit with swords rather than assault rifles. Certainly the stylised look of both the levels (large and boasting plenty of vertical scale) and the characters is reminiscent of TF2, with a touch of cel-shading.Grappling hooks enabled you to cover large swathes of the maps very quickly, and much of the game’s tactical element lies in choosing when to use the three special abilities each class possesses, which all have a cool down period. The Tech Archer, for example, gets to fire a short volley of rockets, which provide quick bursts of destruction.As you amass kills, you built up an Adrenaline meter, which you can deploy in short bursts for extra damage, or in one big splurge, rendering you more or less invincible for a short period. After each round, players can roam the battlefield and earn Iron, the in-game currency, by congratulating the players who have performed the best – a cute touch that suits the game&apos;s gentlemanly setting.BattleCry is fun and distinctive, although a short play didn’t really give us any massive insight into how tactical it might be, or where the nuances lie. And of course, we&apos;re not sure of how the monetisation will work, although Bethesda has ruled out any &quot;pay-to-win&quot; scarios so character customisation is the obvious guess. Currently, the game is planned for a PC release, although Bethesda hinted that it would like to bring it to next-gen consoles. It will be going into beta in 2015.
As Monty Python prepare for what may be their last-ever live stage shows in July, one of their most iconic sketches has been reborn as a mobile game.Monty Python&apos;s The Ministry of Silly Walks is the work of developer Boondoggle Studios, which has released it forAndroid,iPhone and iPad. Python member John Cleese, who starred in the original sketch, has lent his voice to the new app.The game, which falls into the endless runner genre, involves walking through the streets of London collecting coins and power-ups, while avoiding pigeons and other obstacles.The game costs £0.99 with no in-app purchases, and has been receiving warm reviews on Android, but a mixed reception on iOS, where a number of App Store reviewers have complained it crashes on their devices.It is not the first official Monty Python app. 2012 saw the release ofPython Bytes, a collection of 22 sketches from the first series of Monty Python&apos;s Flying Circus, andThe Holy Book of Days, an iPad app based on the Monty Python and the Holy Grail film.&quot;iPads are here, apps are here: there&apos;s no way of being a Luddite any more! You have to go with the flow,&quot; Python member Terry Gilliam told The Guardian in May 2012. Gilliam had previously worked on a CD-ROM game in the mid-1990s, as well as promoting console game Heavy Rain in 2012.The Pythons arereuniting for a series of concerts at London&apos;s O2 Arenain July, promising singers, dancers, parrot jokes and Gilliam animations, although no silly walks – Cleese&apos;s artificial hip and knee have ensured that.The last show, on 20 July, will bebroadcast simultaneously to 450 cinemas in the UKand another 1,500 across the world.Creaking joints aside, the Ministry of Silly Walks sketch is playing a key role in the promotion for the reunion. Besides the new mobile game, the Pythons uploaded a new song –The Silly Walks Song– to their YouTube channel in April.Cleese has been promoting the game on his official Twitter account,posting his best score– 3,135 metres, since you ask – andchallenging fellow celebrity Stephen Fry to beat it.•Terry Gilliam talks apps, iPad and interactivity
YouTube has revealed plans for several new features, including the ability for channel owners to make money by soliciting donations from their fans.YouTube Fan Funding will be tested soon with a limited number of channels in the US, Mexico, Japan and Australia, with YouTubers in those countries able toapply for a spaceon the test scheme.&quot;Fans will be able to contribute money to support your channel at any time, for any reason,&quot; explained ablog post by YouTube execs Matthew Glotzbach and Oliver Heckmannfollowing its announcement at the VidCon conference in Anaheim.The new feature will make YouTube a rival for crowdfunding services including Kickstarter and Indiegogo, although its tip-jar structure makes it more of a direct competitor to Patreon, the US startup thatrecently raised $15mto help YouTubers and other artists raise money from fans.The company has also launched an Android app for YouTubers calledYouTube Creator Studio, which they can use to access their statistics, respond to comments and get notifications on how their channels are performing. YouTube says it will also launch for iOS in the near future.YouTube&apos;s burgeoning community of gamers are the focus for another new feature: support for videos at up to 60 frames per second.&quot;Your video game footage with crazy high frame rates will soon look as awesome on YouTube as it does when you’re playing, when we launch support for 48 and even 60 frames per second in the coming months,&quot; explained the blog post.The 100 most popular games channels on YouTube generated nearly 3.5bn video views in May alone, according torecent research from Tubefilter and OpenSlate, so this new feature will be widely welcomed.YouTube is also planning to tap its community of more than 1bn viewers to provide translated subtitles for videos. &quot;In the coming months, your fans will be able to submit translations in any language based on the subtitles or captions you’ve created, helping you reach even more viewers,&quot; explained Glotzbach and Heckmann.Channels Barely Political, Fine Art-Tips, Got Talent Global and Unicoos are already testing the new user-generated subtitling. It matches a feature that has been available in some time in south-east Asian online video service Viki.Other new YouTube features include more songs and now also sound effects in its licensed Audio Library for creators; plans to help them link to one another from within the descriptions on their videos; better annotations – or &quot;Info Cards&quot; – that will work across desktop, smartphones and tablets - and more ways for YouTubers to build playlists.This follows announcements earlier in the month of aYouTube-branded music showon US satellite radio service SiriusXM, alarger video player on the YouTube website, andbeefed-up messaging and commenting featureson the service.YouTube is also working on a subscription streaming music service to rival Spotify and Deezer, although the company has attractedstrong criticism from independent labelsover the way it&apos;s seeking to sign licensing deals for it.•From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing how we watch TV
Google has begun removing search links to content in Europe under the "right to be forgotten" ruling, which obliges it not to point to web pages with "outdated or irrelevant" information about individuals.Searches made on Google's services in Europe using peoples' names includes a section at the bottom with the phrase "Some results may have been removed under data protection law in Europe", and a link to a page explaining the ruling by the European court of justice (ECJ) in May 2014.However searches made on Google.com, the US-based service, do not include the same warning, because the ECJ ruling only applies within Europe.Google would not say how many peoples' search histories have been tweaked, nor how many web pages have been affected. The companyrevealed in an interview with chief executive Larry Pageat the end of May that it had received thousands of requests for changes to search results within days of the ECJ ruling.Google has set up an online form where people can request removal of links, and says people can appeal to data protection authorities if they disagree with its decision.The ECJ ruling followed a court case brought in Spain by Mario Costeja González, a lawyer who argued that under the European Data Protection directive any company carrying out "data processing" should have to remove information about him that was "outdated, wrong or irrelevant" which he argued applied to a Spanish newspaper's online report in March 1998 about financial problems he had had.The ECJ ruled that the newspaper's report was protected under freedom of expression, but that Google's links to it were not, because Google was a "data processor".
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid and the next billion &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBen Bajarin:Developers make more money with iOS than Android (even though the installed base is larger). A large percentage of the current Android installed base is not on the absolute cheapest device in the world.To put it succinctly, Google likely has the most profitable customers they are going to get. So what does this mean for developer revenue opportunities when the next billion new Android users will come from devices on the extreme low end?It is extremely important Google is active in getting new customers online, empowered with a pocket computer, in every region of the world. The problem however, is this group is likely not profitable to anyone but Google and even that may be debatable. Connecting the next billion is massively important but is it profitable? Who will be the hardware OEM, chipset providers, screen manufacturer, willing to chase pennies to serve this market? Certainly Samsung will not. Will it require a new business model like Xiaomi's, where the service is where the money is and not in the hardware?Certainly Xiaomi has the most promising business model of any emergent vendor.At Google, Larry Page finds his right-hand man &gt;&gt; The InformationAmir Efrati also profiled Sundar Pichai:The bespectacled Mr. Pichai is agreeable and occasionally self-deprecating, often poking fun at his lack of pop-culture knowledge. He takes his time with big decisions, often going on walks to think things over, colleagues say. But he can be testy when annoyed and even raise his voice when he feels dismayed or betrayed, though such instances are rare. After 10 years at Google, he's no stranger to tension-filled meetings, both internally and externally.One such meeting occurred in January at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. There, Mr. Pichai told Samsung's mobile-products leadership that he was willing to "walk away" from Samsung, the biggest maker of Andorid smartphones, according to a person who was officially briefed about the meeting at Google.In other words, Mr. Pichai was prepared to forbid Samsung from using Android. The threat was part of a long-running feud between the companies over Google's perception that Samsung is hijacking Android by de-emphasizing Google's pre-installed, revenue-generating applications in favor of competing Samsung apps, among other things."He wasn't going to be a patsy to Samsung," this person says of Mr. Pichai. The companies later reached an uneasy truce.Perhaps the price of allowing Samsung to continue using Google Mobile Services was that it contribute its secure Knox service to Android L. If so, Pichai is an incredible negotiator - and Samsung's weakness has been exposed. (Subscription required to read full article.)Futurist Kurzweil says he's building AI into Google search &gt;&gt; MIT Technology Review"You would interact with it like you would a human assistant," said Kurzweil. It will be possible to ask a question of the software just as you would if talking to another person, he said; and you could trust that it would return a fully reasoned answer, not just a list of links as Google's search engine does today. Such a virtual assistant might also take the initiative, Kurzweil said, coming forward when new information had appeared that was related to an earlier query or conversation.Kurzweil said the technology will eventually be as widely used as Google's current search engine, and its scope will extend beyond text documents. He also predicted that specialized chips designed to implement key parts of the information processing involved would make the technology cheaper to deploy.Parking spot auction startup defies San Francisco's orders to shut down &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaMonkeyParking's app lets users auction off their public parking spaces. The Rome-based company has until July 11, 2014 to comply, and then it could face a lawsuit brought by the city. In addition to the City by the Bay, the startup also operates in the Italian capital.In a statement sent to Ars, MonkeyParking claimed that it was, in fact, not auctioning off public parking spaces. Rather, the company says it auctions off information about the parking spaces."The real issue here is that a local ordinance is being misapplied to wrongfully target our service," the company said. "This is happening with our company and other companies operating in the social sharing space. This is yet another example of a local ordinance that was drafted in a world pre-shared economy which local authorities are improperly applying to a shared economy service."Add "shared economy" to the buzzometer for this decade. Also: it's ludicrous. You can't auction the space without also auctioning the knowledge of the space; and the knowledge of the location of a publicly-owned good is itself a publicly-owned good, because no one person or group can own that knowledge.No doubt Monkeyparking, if (when) it loses that case, will continue on a reductio ad absurdum where it claims it's auctioning information about how to contact people who have information about parking spaces. Which will remain public goods.Thoughts on the Amazon Fire Phone – Bubba VCBubba Murarka is a partner at DFJ:in the long-term, the dominant platform owner's interests diverge from customers and application developers. Unfortunately, there is oftentimes little that customers can do directly when things get to this state, so government regulation or market-driven disruption have to solve the problem. Large developers, like Amazon, fund both approaches via lobbying and projects like Fire Phone.However, at some point, the interests of head and long tail of app developers result in open standards and source to commoditize the dominant platforms (web browsers vs. windows, linux vs. *nix). Then, the disruptive platforms, and frankly the platforms that lost, implement the new open standards first to put pressure on the winning platforms to also adopt them. If you think this is too much of a stretch, I'd suggest looking at many of iOS8's features and imagine if they'd been built if Android didn't exist. Cue, "the circle of life".Taking it all together, I'd argue Amazon has customer problems firmly in mind with the launch of Fire Phone. It is just over a much longer timeframe than most companies can conceive.Here's why two protesters disrupted Google's biggest event of the year &gt;&gt; The Verge"You need to develop a conscience, Google," Tirado yelled while holding up a T-shirt urging people to stop Google's lawyer Jack Halprin. Halprin owns the seven-unit Victoria building where Tirado and her family live, and is reportedly trying to evict them using a controversial piece of California legislation called the Ellis Act to take the entire building off the rental market and evict rent-controlled tenants. The other protester let loose on Google for what he called "machines that kill people," a reference tothe company's acquisition of robotic engineering company Boston Dynamics last December.Erin McElroy, one of the protest's organizers, told The Verge that Tirado got into the show by receiving a pass donated by a sympathetic attendee.Technorati — the world's largest blog directory — is gone &gt;&gt; Business2CommunityOrun Bhuiyan:On May 29th, 2014, Technorati removed millions of pages from the web, deleting their entire blog directory and all associated information.What's more interesting is that they performed this action rather stealthily, without an announcement of any kind. Technorati's motive behind this sudden decision is presumably related to their increased interest to focus on developing their advertising network.As someone with design, programming and statistical skills, I frequently wrote scripts that scraped information from Technorati in an effort to analyze and visualize trends in content. Last week I visited my favorite directory to find that it was a very different site from the one I had come to know and respect. It was a downright surreal sensation. Like visiting New York City and discovering that the Statue of Liberty had been removed.Even more curious was the fact that no major web publications have covered Technorati's abrupt transformation. I rummaged the Internet for signs that I wasn't the only one seeing this sudden disappearance of millions of pages and hardly found any reputable sources covering it. Perhaps no one noticed?Just trying to remember the last time we looked at Technorati. Umm..Introducing the new Gmail API &gt;&gt; Google Apps Developer BlogEric DeFriez, Gmail Extensibility team:For a while now, many of you have been asking for a better way to access data to build apps that integrate with Gmail.It's the only thing people talk about in the pubs around here. "If only there were a RESTful API for Gmail that wasn't as good as IMAP but did some of the same things!"Cynical view: Google wants to deprecate IMAP so that people have to visit its browser page (or on mobile use its app) and see an ad. Optimistic view: you'll be able to write apps that can do user-limited but clever things with Gmail that aren't possible on Yahoo or Hotmail/Outlook.Ringly: fashionable wearable tech &gt;&gt; ElleRingly.com offers 18-carat rings that connect to iOS or Android and light up or vibrate for notifications:Q: When considering the current, basically grassroots state of wearable tech, how did that inform how you built Ringly as something that people would actually want to wear?Christina Mercando, Ringly founder: "I get that question a lot, and when I first came up with the idea, wearable tech wasn't as buzzy as it is today. It was never a reaction to wearable tech: I was just always missing calls and texts because my phone was in my purse, and my family was getting frustrated with me [to the point that] it became a running joke. And I was looking at my hands, and I thought, "You know, I wear some big rings. I wonder if I can make a technology that would fit into the things I wear every day that would help solve this problem and be useful?" And so that's where the idea came from. It was always about wanting to make beautiful things."It was never, 'How can we make technology beautiful?' I wanted to make beautiful things and put technology into them. And I think that's very different from the way a lot of technology companies work, because they start with the technology first and then design around it. We're using a very different approach by starting with the style and design.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Google is dialling back integration between web search results and visibility on Google+, its social network.John Mueller, a webmaster trends analyst at the firm, announced Wednesday evening that a re-haul of the search results would see less information pulled in from Google+. Currently, if a result is authored by someone on the social network, the search engine shows the writer&apos;s face, name, and how many &quot;circles&quot; they are in on Google+.&quot;We&apos;ve been doing lots of work to clean up the visual design of our search results,&quot;Mueller wrote in a post on Google+, &quot;in particular creating a better mobile experience and a more consistent design across devices.&quot;As a part of this, we&apos;re simplifying the way authorship is shown in mobile and desktop search results, removing the profile photo and circle count. (Our experiments indicate that click-through behaviour on this new less-cluttered design is similar to the previous one.)&quot;For many publishers, the authorship features are a key reason to be on Google+ in the first place. By highlighting a particular result with an image and an author&apos;s name, the features are thought to boost the number of clicks. While Mueller says that removing the image leaves searchers acting in a &quot;similar&quot; fashion,Barry Schwartz of Search Engine Landsays he &quot;highly doubts that&quot;.Kristine Schachingerof Search Engine Watch commented on Mueller&apos;s post that she had intentionally removed her picture three times from its G+ profile, which in turn lost it from search results: &quot;Each time the drop was approximately 25%. Since I have one million impressions and 110k CTR [click-through rate] on average every threemonths, I think my tests show there is a significant drop.&quot;Also your assertion it does not change CTR would violate all other usability and eye-tracking studies that show that an image in search increases CTR,&quot; she added.Authors still have an incentive to be on Google+, with the byline field staying in place, but by taking out the count of how many circles a given writer is in, the company takes away the incentive for people to artificially inflate their authorship importance just by having lots of Google+ friends.It remains difficult to get a grasp of exactly how popular a social network Google+ is in its own right. Its obligatory integration with a number of other Google services, particularly YouTube and Hangouts, which replaces the texting app on newer Android smartphones, makes the raw statistics look good. The service boasts over a billion registered users, and almost 350m monthly active users – both statistics putting it around midway between Facebook and Twitter in size.But statistics on how many of those users have an actively maintained profile page on Google+, or visit the site itself as opposed to use services which integrate with it, are harder to come by. The service was barely mentioned on stage at Google&apos;s I/O keynote, where the company lays out its plans for the next year to developers from around the world.•Google+: how to prevent Gmail users emailing you out of the blue
