Silver 
PC CD-rom £29.99 
Infogrames (0161 827 8000)David? It's not the sort of name you'd associate with a sword-waving hero, but David it is who has the lead role in this epic adventure. Silver is a role playing game (RPG), a genre hugely popular in Japan where its convoluted plotlines, deep characterisation and drawn-out combat scenes are devoured. 
The market leader is Final Fantasy VII, which also enjoyed huge UK success, and Silver is one of the first attempts to create a European RPG on this Japanese model.Mightily peeved at seeing his wife whisked away and grandpa murdered, David sets off to rescue her from the clutches of the evil sorcerer, Silver yawn, you get the idea. The game itself is less predictable than the plot 
suggests, as you proceed to recruit a motley bunch of 
characters who help young David find the eight orbs needed to defeat the sorcerer.The natives are most definitely restless, with lots of swordplay and spell casting required to beat the numerous baddies, although you are aided by the excellent one key and mouse control system that enables you to hack and slay quite easily.David is "good at magic and violence" but his CV also highlights his communication skills. These are put to good use as conversing with the eccentric characters is essential for success.Silver looks and sounds superb with its gorgeous Final Fantasy-style rendered graphics and an atmospheric orchestral soundtrack, although the screen does get crowded when enemies swamp your party. Davids everywhere will relish the chance of achieving hero status while the rest of us will enjoy a violent and good looking, if slightly unoriginal, RPG.Greg HowsonMagix Music Maker ProfessionalMagix Entertainment
(0181-968 3704 ) £369 
System requirements: from Pentium 166MHz, 50Mb free disk space minimum, 32Mb RAM minimum, 800 x 600 with 16-Bit High-Colour, 16-Bit sound cardBilled as a "professional multimedia and video production package", what we are given is, in effect, access to a 64-track studio and an apparent wealth of samples on the accompanying CD-roms.Of the two, the video library is the more impressive with a great range of real footage and enough breath-taking/pupil-dilating computer-generated images to keep even the most ardent MTV fan interested. The selection of audio samples is a bit of a disappointment. Nothing out of the ordinary jumps out at you, and the library is slightly less than the "gigantic" promised on the cover although, in fairness, they do cater for a fairly broad spectrum of taste, from drum &amp; bass right through to pop and even classical.The audio studio is an independent multi-track hard-disk recording and WAV-editing program and, as in the "drag and drop" tradition of the Rave-E-Jay packages, is very user-friendly.There are a reasonable number of processing features such as Filters, Reverb and Compression et al, and there's also an MPEG encoder to export your finished masterpieces. Both audio and video sections have fairly comprehensive editing facilities and the package seems designed to allow maximum creativity without getting too bogged down in all the technical aspects.On that level it works very well. You're given access to a broad sweep of high-standard features, making it ideal for today's multimedia-embracing musician/artist. It may even have an application in schools or colleges.But it can be criticised for setting out too broad a canvas and for trying to do everything, because, inevitably, something has to suffer. I did encounter several glitches when trying to sync images to the music and, when held up against rival packages like Sonic Foundry's Acid or even Cubase VST, the price and value for money are a little wanting. That said, there are a number of great little features and you will be making sweet music and beautiful images in next to no time.Hamish Mackintosh
Apple computer has always been a mixture of soap opera and religion: a soap opera for the press, and a religion for many of its users. As you'd expect with a good soap, the past two decades have seen one disaster after another, with a succession of chief executives laying off staff and trying to sell the company. Then, at the start of the last series, when doom seems inevitable, the Saviour returnsIt's a story that Michael Malone, editor of US business magazine Forbes ASAP, tells well. He's lived close to it. He went to school with a nine-year-old Steve Jobs, wrote about Apple for the local paper, the San Jose Mercury News, and later joined the company. This first-hand 
experience - at least 
of the early days - gives 
this book a vivid flavour 
and supplies details 
that will entertain lots of Mac trivia buffs.It also allows Malone to right some wrongs, give neglected figures the credit they deserve, and stomp on a few famous faces in his typically hobnailed way.
Yes, he makes errors that will be spotted by readers with wider computing experience. However, these don't really 
matter because the Apple story has never had much to do with technology - for years its "chief technologist", 
John Sculley, was an ex- Pepsi-Cola marketing man. 
Even the success of the 
iMac is, as Malone says, "a triumph of style over substance".The question is, who will want to read 600 pages of this stuff, apart from geek journalists and historians? Mac fans? Malone, who describes Apple's main markets as "the young and the old and the computer illiterate", may be too robust for the True Believers who are famous for their unwillingness to suffer criticism. PC fans? Few will care enough to wade through so many pages of business stupidity and backbiting.But still, Apple is not just a soap opera, and not just an ersatz religion: it's a great story, and one that will live on long after Apple has finally gone.
E-commerce was the central theme at this year's Conference of Booksellers and Publishers, with Amazonbloody.com, as one bookseller described it, the villain of the year for some and the fashion leader for others. Listening to the debates it wasn't at all clear whether the new ways of doing business were going to be good for all, or only for some.It was probably much the same sort of talk at every other business association conference, unless, of course, it was the conference of internet servers.Even there, however, it is probable that a similar message would emerge: the big boys would win and the small would lose out. Because, in spite of all the hype about the internet creating a miraculous global marketplace, open to all and level 
for all, it isn't working out 
that way."I've got a website now," 
a bookseller said, "and my bookshop is open for the world to visit 168 hours a week." Quite, but who knows it's there? One small website is a tiny brick in one enormous shopping mall which most people enter through "portals".Go online with AOL/Netscape and look for finance information and you will immediately find yourself confronted by the product range of Citibank. It requires energy, and time, to go farther. It is said that the bank paid something like $40 million for this gateway site. In some sectors, a small group of major players will group together to buy a portal, and most shoppers will be content to sift around among them without exploring deeper.If you can't buy a portal then you must needs have a brand, and a good one. Shopping in a virtual mall, I can't feel the material, smell the scent or judge the ripeness of the banana. If I don't know you, how can I trust you to give me quality or to respect the privacy of my credit card details? Surveys show that we often trust brands more than institutions these days, and certainly more than people or stores or websites that we have never known. But building brands costs money, a lot of it.There are a growing number of search engines which will shop around for you, comparing the prices and delivery times on offer, but price and delivery are only two elements of the marketing mix that sells products and are not always the most important. No one has developed a way to measure trust.Back with the booksellers, it was argued that there was nothing to stop an independent bookstore developing its own version of Amazon, or combining with partner stores around the country to offer Amazon-like facilities. Nothing except the cost, that is, the cost of the system to start with and then the cost of the discounts needed to match Amazon or Barnes and Noble.Some think that Amazon will never make money from its books but will use its 
business system to sell products such as travel and medicines at higher mark-ups, leaving books and music as loss leaders, another sort of portal in a way.You have to be big to do that, and while Amazon admittedly started small it has probably pre-empted the chance for others to do likewise, for this is a world where the first in bags the prizes, Microsoft-like. It is a world made for elephants, with experts prophesying that 80% of online sales will eventually go to only 30 companies, although those 30 elephants will need to be agile, for every environment changes almost while you are looking at it. It was only about six years ago, after all, that Tim Berners-Lee and his colleagues at Cern, the European nuclear research laboratory, were introducing the http protocol for their own scientific purposes and so gave birth to what they jocularly called the web.What future is there then for the fleas, the ordinary buyers and sellers of goods and services? Are we in fact seeing the "closing of capitalism" instead of its liberation? The booksellers certainly feared so, as they watched their sales and margins shrink before the advance of Amazon.co.uk in this country, the arrival of Barnes and Noble online, or, in the more tangible world, Borders with its department store-type bookstores and the merger of Dillons and Waterstones. Elephants all, and agile too.It was a relief, therefore, to turn to a new book by Wingham Rowan promoting the idea of Gems, guaranteed electronic markets (published by MacMillan Business). It is subtitled "the ultimate potential of online trade" but for me it is an outline of a world made for the fleas among us, a way for individuals or small businesses to trade without fear of being cheated. Rowan envisages a truly open marketplace, neutral, with an infrastructure established by government and monitored independently which anyone can access for a minimal percentage charge.It works like this: you go to a terminal in your home or in a public place, key in the market that you want to sell in, fill in the schedule that pops up, outlining the details of the good or service that you want to offer, and the price. The system then matches you with a buyer. The "guarantee" comes from three things: an accumulating trading record of satisfied customers, totted up by the system; a requirement that your identity and claims, as a seller, are validated by some appropriate person or body who then issues you with the Pin (personal identification number) which gives you entry to the system; and a financial deposit requirement from both buyer and seller which releases the money only when the deal has been completed to the satisfaction of both parties.Rowan's book is dotted with examples of possible trades and illustrations of the actual images that might appear on the screen. He starts with a couple looking for overnight accommodation for a weekend on the coast. One click tells Gems that they are buyers, not sellers. A proforma on the screen then asks them for details of their requirements, including neighbourhoods and price range. Immediately Gems will display a map of accommodations which fit their requirements.These will have been supplied by anyone with a room to hire who has a) got a Pin, a guarantee from the relevant authorities such as the fire 
service that they meet safety requirements; b) deposited a bond from which compensation can be deducted if there is any default on the deal as judged by independent arbitration; and c) has provided details to fit the Gems proforma for that market. The  sellers can vary the prices as often as they wish, to suit the state of the local market - something that they can find out from Gems with a few clicks. When the buying couple find a place they like, they can check its trading record from Gems before they confirm their choice with a final click. A formal contract is then automatically recorded and off they go.The importance of Rowan's scheme is that it allows individuals to offer goods and services at minimal risk and minimal cost in a market which cannot be dominated by big companies or big brands who, if they bothered to enter such a market, would be at no advantage. The system also allows for forms of local currency to be used as alternatives to conventional money, or for swaps. Primarily tailored to local goods and services, it can be national or, eventually, international.It is a system for fleas, for the growing number of "portfolio" people who need to put together a mix of different ways of earning money, mostly by earning fees rather than wages: that is, by looking for customers not employers, when employers are going to be in short supply.It provides a way for people outside organisations to access the economy, to try out mini-businesses, to do pocket-money work to supplement their pensions or, as young people, to experiment in the world of work without too much risk. 
"Look for customers not jobs" is a useful maxim in this new world of work and Gems offers a technologically efficient way to do it.The snag is, as Rowan admits, that the system needs to achieve a critical mass before it becomes useful. He pins his hopes on the precedents of Britain's water and postal systems which both replaced a motley collection of private enterprises catering for the rich few with state organised universal systems at much lower prices.The introduction of the penny post in 1839 was achieved in spite of virulent opposition but resulted in hugely increased commercial activity and a sudden interest in reading and writing. Rowan has the same hopes for Gems. He doesn't add that Rowland Hill, the father of the penny post, was acting as a private individual when he started his campaign, just as Wingham Rowan is today. 
This book is his starting point. It is a refreshing new angle on the world of electronic commerce and deserves our serious attention.• Charles Handy is the author of many books on the future of work and society, the latest of which is The Hungry Spirit (Arrow Books).
When women learnt how to cook, there was a revolution in human evolution: we developed big brains, women became sexier, and men attempted monogamy. 
In comparison to our body size, we have a larger brain than any other animal on the planet; we also have an unusual kind of social system - most other primates, and even other mammals, do not live in groups and mate monogamously. These two things need explaining and, according to a team of scientists led by Professor Richard Wrangham from Harvard University, learning to cook root vegetables almost two million years ago was the defining factor.Around two million years ago a new kind of hominid evolved which was quite different from any of its predecessors: Homo erectus walked upright, had a much bigger brain, and the female of the species was large - almost as tall as the male. Other key differences were that Homo erectus had much smaller teeth and a shorter gut compared with its cousins, Australopithecus, implying that Homo erectus didn't spend so long chewing or digesting food.Cooking, suggests Wrangham and his colleagues 
(James Holland Jones, Greg Laden, David Pilbeam and NancyLou Conklin-Brittain) in a paper about to be published in Current Anthropology, would have increased the digestibility of plants and the number of vegetables our ancestors could eat.Boiling or roasting are  essential ways of cracking plant defences against herbivores. The heat destroys toxins and poisons, breaks open skins and husks, and modifies starches and proteins, making them easier to absorb.The key to our success was learning to love root vegetables. Homo erectus ranged from Africa to Indonesia and lived in the drier savannah regions. Root vegetables, or tubers, are 400 times more numerous and there are nearly seven times as many different species in the savannah as there are in the rainforest. As they are a vital source of nutrients in times of drought, our ancestors might have relied on them when other food was scarce.A few animals, including pigs, baboons and naked mole rats, also treat tubers as an essential part of their diet. Mole rats are not renowned for what's between their ears, and pig IQ remains firmly on the scale. The secret is in the cooking. Nearly half of the world's tubers are not edible unless cooked. Potatoes, for instance, are indigestible when raw. Many vegetables release more energy when cooked: cassava provides 76 per cent more.Previous theories dealing with human evolution have concentrated on meat-eating, hunting, scavenging and co-operation as the key factor in our shift towards a bigger brain and a less ape-like mating pattern; others thought sucking soft bone marrow enabled our teeth to become smaller with a thinner layer of enamel. Homo erectus probably ate more meat than apes do; the average chimpanzee consumes roughly eight kilos of meat a year: the average hunter-gatherer, 80 kilos a year.But Wrangham argues that regardless of how much meat Homo erectus ate, the majority of the diet consisted of plants, just as it does for most hunter-gatherers today. Cooking plants would have provided more energy than eating meat - hunting is a high-risk albeit high-gain exercise and was only possible because most of the food provided came from women cooking vegetables. "It is striking that among all modern humans, women tend to be the cooks," the team says, adding, "Why don't men gather (much)? They don't need to because they can scrounge plant foods from women. Why do men hunt? They can afford a high-risk, high-gain activity because they are supported by women's foraging and food-preparation effort."For cooking Homo erectus must have learnt how to control fire. There is evidence of hearths and burnt bones around 200,000 years ago when early modern humans expanded into semi-glacial areas, and one argument is that cooking developed to defrost meat. However, Wrangham believes that it was cooking and the higher nutrition it provided that led to the suite of changes in gut size, tooth size, body mass and brain size 1.9 million years ago.Inconvertible evidence for these fires has either not been preserved or not just discovered. Professor Chris Stringer, from the paleoanthropology department at the Natural History Museum, says: "This is a really interesting model. The main problem I see with it is that we can't really fix when cooking started."But if Wrangham and his colleagues are right, how did chargrilled root vegetables give rise to monogamy? Many male primates are much larger than females; if humans followed this pattern, men would invariably weigh twice as much as women. According to biologists, this kind of size discrepancy does not exist because human females are nearly continuously sexually receptive. In species where females are only sexually active at certain times, males tend to grow larger to compete for access to females. If females are always receptive, large males are redundant because it is unlikely a male can guard a female 24 hours a day, if she is bent on mating with someone else.The fossil record indicates that Homo erectus males and females were pretty evenly matched. Wrangham's team suggests that "the modern human pattern of extended female sexual receptivity was initiated at the same time as cooking".The knock-on effect of this is that if female Homo erectus were doing the cooking (and males hunting occasionally) food might easily be stolen from them by men. Females attached themselves to males who would protect them from thieves. This "bodyguard-theft" hypothesis meant that initially females would have a disadvantage because males would be more dominant."Out of this dynamic, we propose that females who could sexually attract particular, dominant males more often would be better protected from theft. An arms race would ensue among females, in which females became increasingly sexually attractive over increasingly long durations, as a means both to out-compete other females and to exploit male interest in investing in her protection." So female sexiness - from curves to cooking - developed because our ancestors ate roast root veg.Camilla Power, from University College London, has quite a different take on female cooks. She believes that women cooked in order to tempt men to return from hunting with meat rather than eating it raw by themselves.Wrangham's response is: "What I don't particularly like about &#91;our paper&#93; is the possibility of its being misused in discussions of domestic politics. However, the fact is that both extended female sexual receptivity and cooking evolved sometime, and whenever they did, they did so for some reason."I don't see our proposal as being any worse than any other - in fact, in many ways it is more palatable . . . since it gives females a central social and ‘technological' role, making them active partners with males in an economy made possible only by their labour, and providing them a degree of social power that isn't always thought about."Perhaps this is what the WI had in mind all along.
What was your introduction to computers?I bought an Atari 1040ST in 1987, partly because it was the low-budget industry standard for music sequencing. I use it for composing and sound editing sometimes: like going back to the 1950s but remarkably reliable.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC... or something different?Apple Mac, but I wish it worked better.Are computers important... for you?... for the world?Yes and yes. All of my work and a lot of my communications have become dependent on them. That goes for the world too.What do you use the machine for?Word processing, music composing (though less and less) and editing, communications, research, emailed job offers coming out of the ether, buying stuff, writing for websites, listening to CDs, getting angry.Any particular favourite software?Anything you'd like but can't have yet? I'd like to have Pro-Tools at home, to do music editing, but I'd want a resident operator to go with it.Any favourite websites, or news groups on UseNet?I've yet to find a website that grabbed my affections in the same way as a film like Point Blank. I like finding ultra-specialist sites such as Arid Lands Newsletter (http://ag.arizona.edu/OALS/ALN/aln42/ about-aln.html), marvelling, but never going there again.Any favourite gadgets?Yes, but they're always in somebody else's recording studio, so I don't know what they're called (and don't fully appreciate what they do).Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the net?Strangers contact me via email and the dialogues that ensue can be unpredictable. But I wouldn't dialogue with strangers in real time on the net. That's too spooky for me.Do you use your own name when surfing?I don't think this question is relevant to me but I could be disastrously wrong.Spend long at the terminal?All day, most weekdays. Some evenings, some weekends. And I don't even like computers that much.Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?I'm more of an otaku &#91;Japanese obsessive&#93; than a geek.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?Would an iMac take off its shirt to flag down a passing ship while I was indisposed? Come to that, name the computer that would take off its shirt for any reason at all.What do you see in the future for computers?More of them, doing more, more of the time.Are you worried about the Y2K millennium bug?I try to be, but fail. We should look on the bright side - quite a lot of rightwing maniacs will go and live in holes underground.Professionally, what's taking up your time?New album, Museum of Fruit, out in the US in April; new book, Exotica, and spoken word and music album, Hot Pants Idol, both out in May.
The widely held view that email is the most ephemeral form of communication - here today and gone tomorrow - has been undermined by the subpoenas in the Microsoft and Monica Lewinsky hearings. The brutal truth is that courts can demand emails going back years and the fact that they may have been deleted is no longer an obstacle.A new industry has sprung up employing battalions of people to recover emails previously deleted from hard drives. And, surprise, surprise, lawyers have discovered yet another lucrative seam to mine. Wired magazine quotes a case where two companies in dispute had a combined email volume of a billion messages.Few companies in Britain have an email policy but they may have to change quickly once they realise the implications of not 
having one. The fact that almost anything you have committed to an email can be recovered either by your company or by the lawyers of your competitors ought to give everyone pause for thought.The general rule - that you shouldn't commit anything to email that you would be ashamed to have read out in public - is easier said than done. Email is now the raw material of corporate history. Erasing it is like burning the archives - yet keeping it could be mortgaging the future.The information ageis supposed to be about empowering the individual - but no one has told the big corporations. There has been 
a flurry of merger activity in Europe recently culminating in this week's announcement that two domestic monopolies, Deutsche Telekom AG and Telecom Italia, are planning to merge into a single company split 60/40% between German and Italian shareholders. This would constitute the world's largest local telephone company and one of the largest of any kind. It appears to scupper another bid for Telekom Italia 10 days earlier by the Italian company Olivetti, which barely two years ago was nearly bankrupt.Earlier, Deutsche Telekom was reported to be planning an £11bn bid for One2One, the British mobile network part-owned by Cable and Wireless. This follows Vodafone's purchase of the US group AirTouch Communications to create a global wireless giant. Oh, and you may not have noticed that the state-owned carriers of Sweden and Norway are also planning to merge.Why is all this happening now? Partly because Europe is in the midst of a bout of merger mania as companies of all kinds exploit the  opportunities generated by the creation of a single currency in January. But for phone companies it is also part of the race to dominate the infrastructure of the communications revolution.The ludicrously inflated values of internet stocks may be hogging the business headlines, but the biggest long-term spoils may well go to the companies that dominate the transmission of data along telephone lines or the air waves.
The companies will argue that by exploiting the increased economies of scale brought about by mergers, they will be able to deliver a better, cheaper service. This may well be true in theory. But in practice monopolies have an irritating habit of trying to keep prices up where they can to preserve their profits.Fortunately, it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to do this with the explosion 
of competition from mobile alternatives and the internet. In 1995 no public telephone services in the OECD area offered dial-up internet access. Now they all do.The general rule is that countries with the strongest competitive forces (like the 
US and Finland) produce the lowest prices. And the countries with the lowest prices are much better placed to exploit internet usage with all that that entails for economic growth. Europe's regulators should be asking some searching questions about merger mania. The key is whether it will accelerate or slow down the world-wide swing to lower prices for the consumer.How bigis the world wide web? It is easy to get the impression that cyberspace is growing so rapidly that it is getting out of control. 
Millions of new pages are being added every few months around the world, ranging from corporate and personal websites to university archives against the descant of millions of emails and goodness knows how many chatrooms.
Yet research by a company called Alexa Internet (reported in the New York Times) reckons that the size of the web last year was a mere three trillion bits of information. It sounds a lot but it is 
equivalent to only 5,000 CD-roms, and the whole of it could fit inside one of Sun Microsystems' top-of-the-range servers occupying less than 150 cubic feet. Hmmm.
El Niño: here to stay?"The tropical Pacific climate system is thus predicted to undergo strong changes if emissions of greenhouse gases continue to increase. The 
climatic effects will be threefold. First, the mean climate in the tropical Pacific region will change towards a state corresponding to present-day 
El Niño conditions. It is therefore likely that events typical of El Niño will also become more frequent."Motib Latifand colleagues of the Max-Planck Institute for Meteorology at Hamburg. NatureGreat shakes"A tsunami is produced impulsively by an undersea earthquake or, much 
less frequently, by volcanic eruptions, meteorite impacts or underwater landslides. With speeds that can exceed 700 kilometres per hour in the deep ocean, a tsunami wave could easily keep pace with a Boeing 747. Despite its high speed, a tsunami is not dangerous in deep water."Frank I Gonzalez, Pacific marine environmental laboratory, Seattle. 
Scientific AmericanTrouble on tap"Among the 600 or so cities in China, about half have insufficient water supplies and around 110 cities now have a serious water shortage. By the middle of the 21st century, the Chinese population will have increased to about 1.6bn, and half of these people will be living in cities. The number of cities will have increased from 600 to about 1,000, making water shortage in cities a pressing problem."Jun L Zhou, University of Wales Bangor. Chemistry and IndustryCourting Mary Jane"Last November, voters overwhelmingly approved medical marijuana 
referenda in five states National public opinion polls regularly show that more than 60% of Americans favour medipot. Wherever the issue was on the ballot last fall, voters decided to ‘just say no' to the madness of making people suffering from Aids, cancer, multiple sclerosis and glaucoma the victims of the failed and expensive war on drugs.Doug Ireland. Poz
What are you driving?I have three vehicles. Two are BBC ones, which I need for the travelling we do on Countryfile: a Peugot 406 and a Discovery. We've been through a few Discoverys. I have an old style Ford Scorpio as a family car. It's a rather posh van. We do a lot of ferrying stuff around. My wife is keen on antiques.A bit of a car boot car then?It's more antique fairs. I went to a car boot sale once. Seemed great fun, a good way of getting rid of stuff.What does your car say about you?I've never had a flash motor. I suppose that's very Yorkshire of me - careful with the money. I'd love an S-type Jaguar; they're beautiful. But, as somebody who's quite keen on the environment, I shouldn't be thinking of such a fuel-guzzler.Sounds like you're wrestling with a bit of a dichotomy.Yeah, maybe I'll get it converted to gas, like John Prescott has.What do people say about your driving?I think they consider me a pretty staid driver.What about your young, reckless Newsround days? You must have thrown caution to the wind then.Probably. I don't know. I've always been careful. I shouldn't say that sort of thing. I might tempt fate. I do about 700 miles a week for Countryfile.So what do you think about when you're driving?I have an automatic, so very little actually. It just cruises along. I enjoy driving. As you get on a bit, and the left arm stiffens, it makes more sense to let the oil pressure do the job.Can country lanes be dangerous?Ooh, yeah. There are plenty of accidents. With most cars today, you're doing 70mph before you realise.No jams caused by 4x4s?No. That happens more round Chelsea, doesn't it?Tell us about your early driving days.First of all, I had a bubble car that I drove on my motorbike licence. It didn't have reverse, so that was legal. It had a front opening door, so I parked it up against a wall, and couldn't get out. Luckily, I had a sunroof. The only car I've cried over was a Citroen. I love the way Citroens weren't conventional.Ever had sex in a car?Not full. In those days, I never had a big enough car. I prefer more comfortable places these days.• John Craven presents Countryfile on BBC1.
The file on the tragedy of Jennifer Reichardt - given an 'accidental death' verdict by a coroner last week - is being examined by the Department of Transport. Reichardt, 47, from Merseyside, died last year when her Rover crashed into another car whose driver walked away almost unhurt. Her airbag had inflated.The question all motorists will want the DoT's engineers to answer is this: are airbags safe? The circumstances surrounding Reichardt's death may be unique to a British Coroner's court, but more than 100 fatalities have been attributed to airbags in the US. And, last year, a UK mechanic was killed when he accidentally triggered the device's explosive mechanism.Originally termed the 'Auto-ceptor safety pillow', the airbag concept was first explored in 1957 by Ford and was later developed in Michigan by Eaton Yale and Towne. In 1971, the device was displayed to the media in Britain - with disastrous results. One reporter described the test crash: ' ... the dummy driver pushed the bag up against the screen, which flew out; and the dummy hit his head on top of the screen aperture with such force that a human would undoubtedly have broken his neck'. Later it emerged that the bag had also fractured the seat's anchorage.By now, though, the US had signalled its intent to make the airbag compulsory within two years. As a safety solution, it was born out of laziness. Most Americans were unwilling to put up with the 'hassle' of seat belts. UK reaction was sceptical. Ironically, given that Reichardt was driving a Rover 414, one of the device's chief opponents in 1971 was Peter Wilks, technical director of the then Rover Company.'Lap and shoulder harnesses already in use are better in many ways,' he said.Nevertheless, in the US, the 50-litre bag became the norm. Once airbags and seat belts were seen as complementary, European cars followed. A smaller, 30-litre bag became the EU standard.Devices vary, but for an airbag to be triggered, a sensor must detect deceleration by more than around 4gs (roughly four times the weight of your car) for more than a set period. Sensing the 'crash', the sensor sends a pulse which activates an explosive charge. This unleashes a gas which fills the airbag in a few milliseconds. Modern systems go from detection to deflation in less time than it takes to blink.The RAC says it will await Rover's findings on the Merseyside coroner's report before considering its position, but technical service engineer John Clayton urges drivers to follow precisely what the manufacturer says: 'Most makers recommend that the driver's head should be no closer than around 33 centimetres to the steering wheel. The head restraint is vital, too. It should be at a height which positions its centre directly in line with the back of the driver's head. Drivers tend to set them too low, which can result in severe whiplash after impact, or a broken neck.'The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) has more specific advice. 'Modern car design standards permit the steering wheel to move forward in an impact by up to six inches,' says road safety advisor David Rogers. 'The safe deployment zone for an airbag - the distance at which your head contacts with the airbag on impact - is at least 10 inches. If you're sitting just 10 inches from the wheel and it moves forward six inches, the airbag will deploy four inches from your face - far too close.'He says drivers should sit at least 16 inches, or 41cm, from the wheel. Rogers also criticises car makers: 'I am sure that every car maker has data at hand which shows the deployment zone for their airbags. Why the hell don't they tell their dealers?'Car companies in the UK say they are getting closer to introducing the 'smart' airbag. For Ford, Visteon Automotive Systems says it has a design which detects impact speed, stature of front seat occupants and whether they are wearing belts. Because each bag has two gas generators, the speed and degree of inflation can be varied. In a lower-speed impact, the bag will go off more gently. Nevertheless, RoSPA says the car industry has been 'playing with smart airbags for five years' and is dragging its feet.Meanwhile, TVR, the UK's biggest British-owned car maker, continues to refuse to fit airbags to its sports cars. Managing director Peter Wheeler says he habitually disconnects the mechanism from any car his family drives. 'I am not prepared to fit something to TVR cars that could damage somebody. In the long run, I think it's more likely that airbags will be banned before they become statutory. If they were ever fitted as a government requirement, it will open the government up to litigation from airbag victims and their families.'While he is reading the file on Reichardt's death, there is little doubt that the same thought will cross Prescott's mind.
Taken for a rideCongratulations to Julie Kendall of North Wales for passing her driving test. Okay, we are a little late (it was in 1985) but she deserves a special mention - as she was only 12 when she passed. And Julie has only just been found out. She accidentally put her real date of birth on the form she was filling out to renew her taxi licence. Now she's got to do 120 hours community service, and retake her test.Red is dead...Well it's on the way out anyway, as a car colour. And we're all going to be in millennial silver by 2002, says car coatings firm PPG. Well, grey is the new black, after all, so it's hardly surprising. In the US meanwhile, they're still very much into their primary colours.Quote of the Week'With the south of France, God can say, "I did okay there. I like the way you can ski down to the beaches and all the women have no tops on." But we must never let him forget Australia, a vast and useless desert full of spiders that'll kill you and men in shorts. Or Florida.'Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday Times
Not many BMW drivers will have heard of Johanna Quandt. But the reclusive widow of the late Herbert Quandt, the man who was instrumental in rebuilding the firm after the second world war, has for almost 40 years been one of the most important - yet mysterious - figures behind the scenes of the BMW empire.According to last week's Sunday Times Rich List, 71-year-old Quandt is the second richest person in Europe, worth almost  £12 billion. The family's shares in BMW alone, which she inherited after her husband's death in 1982, are worth  £5 billion.Given the fantastic extent of her wealth and power - not least over the workforce of the Rover plant in Longbridge - remarkably little is known about her or her family. She spends most of her time in a guarded villa in Bad Homburg, an exclusive suburb of Frankfurt, occasionally venturing out to make incognito shopping trips. She is almost never seen in public, and has never given an interview to a journalist. She is even said to travel economy class, under an assumed name.In fact, the Quandt family is so secretive that it was only in 1995, when a new German insider-trading law obliged them to disclose their stake in BMW, that the full extent of their control emerged.But behind Quandt's spectacular wealth is a remarkable story of how a secretary became one of the most powerful women in European industry, a story which spans the entire post-war history of Germany; and, in fact, parallels the reconstruction of Germany after it lay in ruins in 1945.In 1960, when Herbert Quandt married his secretary Johanna Bruhn, BMW was a struggling manufacturer of motorcycles, which was heavily in debt and had narrowly avoided bankruptcy and takeover. Many of its shareholders had lost faith in its ability to recover, and few could have anticipated its future.The Bayerische Motoren Werke was set up in 1917 as a manufacturer of aircraft engines (the company's famous blue and white logo represents a propellor). With its increasing success in the 1920s, it expanded into motorcycles, then automobiles.At this point, Gunther Quandt, Herbert's father, bought into the company. But the second world war left it discredited and virtually destroyed. The Quandts, by then significant shareholders in BMW, had been part of Hitler's inner circle: not only was Gunther Quandt an economic adviser to Hitler, but his wife, Magda (Herbert Quandt's mother) later also married Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels.During the war BMW had, like nearly all the great names of the German car industry, been integrated into the German war machine, making engines for the Luftwaffe. When the Red Army reached the BMW motorcycle factory in south-east Germany in 1945, it confiscated the little that had survived bombing. The Americans, meanwhile, dismantled BMW's two factories near Munich, and barred the company from producing anything more threatening than saucepans and bicycle frames.In the early fifties, after the ban had been gradually lifted, BMW struggled to rebuild its reputation with a range of luxury limousines. In post-war Germany, few could afford a motorbike, let alone a car, and the firm struggled. In 1959, with the company on the verge of bankruptcy, the shareholders, including Herbert Quandt, narrowly averted a takeover bid by Daimler-Benz.The real turnaround in the company's fortunes came with the so-called 'economic miracle' in the early 1960s. With the boom came greater spending power, so BMW spotted a gap in the market for a sporty, mid-range car, and launched the 1500 model. Within a few years BMW was back in profit.Meanwhile, Herbert Quandt, recognising the company's potential, set about increasing his stake. By 1982, when he died, the family held 49 per cent of the company's shares, and exercised even greater control.The role played by Johanna Quandt during these years remains shrouded in mystery. But with her husband's death, she became, at a stroke, the most powerful figure in the company, taking control of the family's shares and her late husband's seat on the advisory board. Together with her closest adviser - the executor of her husband's will, Count Hans von der Goltz - she has effectively run the company for the last 15 years. According to a family acquaintance, she was 'a very purposeful, confident woman' from the beginning.Johanna Quandt has now passed the mantle to the fourth generation of the family. Two years ago, she stood down from the advisory board, and handed control over her shares to her two children, Stefan Quandt and Susanne Klatten. The extent of her behind-the-scenes influence is now even more unclear. 'How important her voice will now be at BMW is impossible to say,' a journalist close to the Quandts commented.&#91;QQ&#93;Susanne Klatten, 36, appears to take after her mother. She spent several years working incognito in the company's canteen in the Munich factory, where she met her future husband, only revealing her identity when she was sure of his motives. Journalists who have met her and her younger brother describe them as very down-to-earth, pleasant people, who share their mother's emotional attachment to BMW.Observers expect them to take an active part in running BMW - 'perhaps more than their mother', according to a BMW spokesman. In fact, there were rumours that they were instrumental in the recent bloodletting at BMW in February, which saw the forced resignation not only of chief executive Bernd Pietschetsrieder - who had been responsible for the takeover of Rover - but also his expected successor and long-time rival Wolfgang Reitzle.The Quandt family might be shy but they're certainly not shy about showing who's in charge.
Leeds-based Web design agency flg21 advertises on its Web site for designers. "Nothing special", reads the job specification, "Just immense talent."What is immense talent in the world of Web design? According to the recruiters, it has little to do with being a great artist. "There's a distinct difference between designing multimedia for the Web and designing for print publications," says managing director Daryn Forster. "Lots of people want to do it, but they are enthusiastic graphic designers who like the idea of making their pictures move. A Web designer has to think about what they want the Web page to achieve rather than whether to paint the screen red or blue."Charles Grubb, recruitment sales manager for Computer People West in Bristol, hears similar requirements all the time. "Large organisations embrace technology from the business point of view, so they want business skills," he says. That means designing a functional Web page, not a pretty one. To develop those skills, flg21 plucks many of its recruits from university. "We recognise talent, take them and mould them," says Forster, "Get them young. There are 18 of us here, our average age is 24 and at 34 I'm the oldest. That's representative of the talent that's out there."The young average age of Web designers is not surprising - after all, the job didn't exist five years ago. It isn't a nine-to-five job, and with its short deadlines, passion for innovation, and - at flg21 at least - 24-hour MTV, it's seemingly made for eternal students.In the search for Internet credibility, many companies prefer to use agencies rather than recruit designers; for example flg21 works for the very un-MTV Clifford Chance and Coopers &amp; Lybrand. So Web designers must be able to answer the more mundane questions, like: "What does this Web site actually do?"Digital Broadcasting Company, which will launch a pay-per-view digital television service this summer, chose to use an agency - Fish - rather than recruit its own designers, but only because it knew the Web designers could write a page that would maximise their electronic commerce. "A good designer will integrate what the Web site does into the other business you have," Forster  says. "I'm not looking to use young, arty people. I'm looking for young, arty, commercial people."That commercial design sense is the most sought-after commodity in today's Web designers. "Ninety per cent of the Web belongs in an art gallery or a museum," says Nick Spooner, the managing director and founder of Entranet, who has built award-winning Web sites for Eagle Star and the Co-operative Bank. "They are built by people who grasp HTML, but we want people who will build a site that is practical to use, and who think from the customer's point of view, not their own ego."Entranet describes its designers as "creative developers" - closer in spirit to industrial designers than graphic artists. "You have to understand how to make something usable," adds Spooner, who admits to taking on good thinkers, and then teaching them how to use Web page design software. Writing the code for the Web site is only a quarter of what Entranet does, he adds.At InteResource, a City-based agency that works with the BBC and the Stock Exchange, marketing director William Howells divides his Web page developers into "coders" who do the programming for sites that access company databases or use electronic commerce, and designers. For coders he likes a "good university and a sharp mind" - "they don't need a lot of experience because they can pick up the software packages".But the designers "must have business experience". His problem that is too many artists apply: "they don't understand the Web," he laments.
If you have HTML, Javascript and Photoshop skills, the precious business awareness, the ability to work round the clock and a tolerance for loud MTV when you're working, the rewards can be substantial.Starting salaries between £18,000 and £20,000 for graduates are common. With two years of commercial experience - and you must provide the Web addresses of that experience, so it's easy to check - expect between £20,000 and £30,000. For designers who join a small agency, there's usually a share of the profits; just don't ask about the pension plan.If you want to join a larger company's IT department as a Web designer, the basic salary may be larger, but there's no profit sharing nor music videos, and less variety in the work. "By now, most large companies want someone with at least a year's business experience," warns Grubb at Computer People West. If they can't find that person at the right price on the open market, he adds, they retrain from their existing IT staff."Design is one of the last things you do on a Web site," says Forster. "It's putting a skin on the structure. We want Web designers who know how to build the structure."• Browse though hundreds of IT job ads on the Guardian's appointments siteJobs Unlimited.
The Internet's potential to regenerate disadvantaged areas is unrecognised and not exploited by the Government, according to a report to be published next week.The study, by independent community networking group Communities Online, examines Internet-based schemes run by voluntary and non-profit bodies which combine computer training with social and cultural expression.It finds such schemes can boost people's confidence by making technology seem less threatening, and also help them find employment. Technology can also overcome the isolation of rural communities, and offer ethnic minority groups an opportunity to use their cultural knowledge and language to their commercial advantage in developing Web content, applications and services."What may constitute a local minority can frequently be the local centre of competence for a very large global Internet audience," the report says. "Within the next few years, online native speakers of Chinese and Indian languages will equal native English speakers."The report's author, Claire Shearman, says the Internet can overcome resistance to re-entering education. "A lot of people don't want to go back to college because they feel scared or humiliated, they feel they should know the basics already," she says. "But the new technologies are new to everybody, so there is no street-cred lost in learning about them."The report finds the potential for community networking projects is largely untapped because "regeneration has been constrained by an institutional funding system that favours large-scale projects; fits projects to funding rather than funding to projects; and often sets unrealistic lead times for achieving project goals".It proposes a "social venture capital fund" to finance small-scale experimental work by "social entrepreneurs" - local people who have the vision and the energy to make community projects work. "It is not about spending lots of money, it is about changing ways the money is currently being spent, away from blinkered, institutionalised mechanisms," says Shearman."We need to develop a context in which imaginative ideas can be produced; support the technical skills behind them; and encourage community-building and links outside the community." She says a community may need to be supported through two or three entrepreneurial 
projects before a working formula is found.The report is a response to Bringing Britain Together, a paper on community regeneration published last year by the Government's Social Exclusion Unit. The unit has set up a working group which will report to the Prime Minister on technology and neighbourhood renewal by the end of this year. 
Shearman says: "This Government is expecting to win two terms, so it is in a good place to take a risk with long-term outcomes in regeneration. It could change the funding climate to one in which people can experiment, but it will take real guts."• Local Connections: Making the Net Work for Neighbourhood Renewal is published next week byCommunities Online.
Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's president and chief operating officer, has just reversed the Windows strategy announced by his boss, Bill Gates. Making his first speech to thousands of PC manufacturers at WinHEC, the annual Windows 
Hardware Engineering Conference held in Los Angeles last week, Ballmer announced that Microsoft was continuing to develop Windows 95/98, and plans to produce a new consumer-oriented version that is much easier to use.For more than five years, Microsoft's stated strategy has been to replace its original DOS-based Windows with the more powerful and more advanced Windows NT (New Technology) version. Gates himself announced that Windows 98 would be the last of the old line, and that all future versions would be based on NT, which was renamed Windows 2000."We will get there eventually with Windows 2000 in the consumer market," Ballmer said. "It had been our target to get here in 2000, but we've decided to do the things that we all need to do to simplify the experience."The new code will include a Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) system to simplify home networking and connect PCs to consumer electronics devices. UPnP has more than 50 supporters, and a UPnP Forum has been set up as an open working group to develop and enhance the standard.Software that's easier to use will be loaded onto hardware that's easier to operate. This will be developed under the Easy PC Initiative that Ballmer announced at WinHEC. The initiative is being led by Intel and Microsoft, and according to Ballmer, the participants include Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Compaq, Toshiba, NEC, IBM, Fujitsu, and Gateway.Ballmer promised "reduced hardware complexity, the right software support and a rebirth through Easy PC of the consumer computing experience".It all sounds laudable, but a similar initiative called Simply Interactive PC, announced at WinHEC in 1996, has so far produced no visible benefit.Microsoft will continue to develop Windows NT for business use, and Ballmer showed a 64-bit version in a surprisingly advanced state of development.He also demonstrated a new device called a Windows Server Appliance, which uses an embedded (built-in) version of NT. The WSA has neither keyboard nor screen, just an LCD read-out. However, it will enable any home or small business user to set up a network of computers and share an Internet connection in about five minutes.Ballmer's speech
Unhealthy views"While accepting that there is no such thing as 'safe fiction', and no point in trying to define it, one can still maintain that the sheer amount of television being watched is a public health concern. Prolonged withdrawal from real life is self-evidently harmful not just to depressed people but to society as a whole."John Collee, scriptwriter, on paracetamol overdoses and the TV series Casualty. 
The British Medical JournalSoy long, it's been good"GM soybeans? Who needs them? Bringing products to market that add value at the consumer end will, more than any instructional sermon or ad campaign, help people begin to appreciate why this new green revolution is so vital."Editorialin Nature BiotechnologyFuture shock"The new century that is coming up is going to be much more technologically dominated than ever before, which will inevitably bring greater ethical issues. We can't just leave it to scientists to decide what's ethical and what's not, that wouldn't be fair."Susan Greenfield, director of the Royal Institution, on its 200th anniversary. Chemistry In Britain
Star Wars: DroidworksUbiSoft (0181-944 9000) £29.99PC: Windows 95/98: 133MHz Pentium/16Mb Ram minimum
Apple Macintosh: PowerPC with Mac OS 7.5.5 or higher/32Mb RamGiven the prospect of a summer of all-round Star Wars media overload - thanks to the upcoming release of The Phantom Menace - parents could be forgiven for wanting to keep their kids' computers a Force-free zone.However, this BAFTA award-winning debut title from Lucas Learning will prove hard to resist. It looks nice (it has that Star Wars future primitive aesthetic just right), is well designed, and has a lot of depth.The big idea in Droidworks (apart from the one about maximising cross-media merchandising opportunities) is to take the contraption-tweaking gameplay familiar from adventure games (think of all those clockwork gizmos in Myst) and tie it to lessons in basic science.You take on the role of a rebel spy trying to do your bit against Darth Vader by passing your physics exams. OK, strictly speaking your job is to build various robots (droids in Lucas-speak), then use them to nobble the Empire.Players have to equip their droids with the capabilities they need to meet the challenges in the various missions: the ability to communicate, enough power to push crates up inclines, arms that can manipulate pulleys.If the early challenges are a bit workaday, things perk up later on when you get to ponder lasers and holograms. To help them on their way, players are prompted to use the game's database for more information about levers, pulleys and the rest. As a result, as you play Droidworks, you're supposed to learn about the way the physical world works.But often you really seem to be getting lessons in the way computer game worlds work. For example, if you need a piece of equipment to complete a particular task, chances are it will be lying around at the end of a tunnel somewhere. 
In fact, any child with some game experience will probably intuitively know how to solve the challenges presented here without 
ever accessing the built-in science lessons.As a result, Droidworks suffers from the problem facing edutainment as a whole. Incorporating 
education with gameplay is supremely tricky and often the latter overrides the 
former.It's not hard to imagine kids playing the game through without ever 
checking out its various 
scientific databases.Parents who want to give their kids a more straightforwardly educational 
experience might prefer something else.However, if you just want to give them a fun game that might also teach them something, you could do a lot worse than Droidworks.There's plenty of fun for older players too. Prior to sending them into battle, you can give your droids natty pink paintjobs and watch them dancing to kitschy disco. Something to do while waiting for the release of The Phantom Menace, perhaps.
I think I finally understand the method behind the madness of a hysterically funny but surprisingly effective Web site called(r)Tmark. Pronounced "ArtMark", the name is a loose acronym for "registered trademark" and a fitting title for this tongue-in-cheek social action investment scheme.Ostensibly a clearing house for the organisation and funding of media pranks, (r)TMark is an archive, network, and subsidiser of late 20th century Agitprop at its best. But in its ultimate execution, this artfully clever Web site may be something of a media prank in itself.(r)TMark's named target is corporate America - those giant companies who, thanks to laws passed in Abraham Lincoln's day, enjoy the privileges of citizenship without any of the responsibilities. In the United States, corporations have all the rights of people; but when they do something wrong or very wrong, no human being is held accountable. This is why, according to (r)TMark, corporations continue polluting our waters and murdering thousands through negligent industrial practices.Even when caught, the offending corporation needs only to pay a fine in order to continue business as usual. No one goes to jail. Meanwhile, with more money at their disposal than most countries, these multinational corporations can donate to elections and pay for lobbyists who give them more access to and influence on public policy than any group of "private citizens".In order to promote the kinds of pranks and protests that will call 
attention to corporate greed and the resulting atrocities, (r)TMark's founders came up with a unique idea: exploit the same corporate veil that the big boys use. (r)TMark is a fully registered corporation dedicated to matching the resources of anonymous donors with the pranksters who hope to topple the corporate hegemony.Through (r)TMark's Web site, Internet users can scroll through dozens of proposals for media terrorism, select a prank they wish to fund, and then offer financial assistance with the click of a mouse. The corporation guarantees the donor freedom from liability, using the same laws that protect a corporation's officers from blame when they make a mess.(r)TMark's most successful "grant recipient" to date is probably The Barbie Liberation Organization, an anonymous collective of media activists who made world headlines by switching the recorded voices of hundreds of Barbie dolls with those of military action figure GI Joe. Unsuspecting consumers in 43 states were horrified when their children's dolls spoke in the voices, and sexist dialogue, of their supposed gender counterparts.The site offers dozens of such opportunities to put one's money to work. The only rule is that its pranks are limited to the mediaspace, and cause no physical harm to anyone. (r)TMark also features "Mutual Funds", through which donors can support a variety of actions researched and approved by the fund's manager. The "Media Fund", overseen by writer and filmmaker Andrei Codrescu, is currently 
dedicated to a variety of Y2K-hype bashing efforts. One project Codrescu has chosen for his fund hopes to "make and distribute a videotape with packaging that claims it will 'scan any VCR for Y2K compliance'. When played, the video should reveal that Y2K bug hysteria is a smoke screen, the function of which is in part to obscure continued consolidation and dominance of corporate power in everyday life and government".Ironically, (r)TMark has come under greater criticism from fellow activists than from its corporate targets. At the Ars Electronica festival in Austria last year, more than one card-carrying leftist publicly scolded these purveyors of  "radical chic" for trivialising the efforts of more genuinely productive groups.And then there's also the question of whether or not (r)TMark actually makes any real money available to the groups it claims to sponsor. Several activist groups currently listed on (r)TMark's Web site as successful funding efforts told me they had yet to receive any money from the organisation.The Electronic Disturbance Theatre's FloodNet program, for example, is an
(r)TMark "sponsored" effort  that attacks Web sites run by the Pentagon and the Mexican government, mostly on behalf of the Zapatista movement. The simple Internet hack works to overload and incapacitate the offending Web sites with millions of hits.Floodnet's spokesman, Ricardo Dominguez, says although he appreciates (r)TMark's public support, some cash would have been nice, too. Still, (r)TMark did buy Floodnet's programmers a few beers, and the much-publicised sponsorship did account for what Dominguez says was "a great propaganda spasm, and more than enough payment for us".(c) Douglas Rushkoff
Three of the world's best-known companies - Microsoft, America OnLine (AOL) Yahoo! and  - are locked in a multi-billion dollar battle to give you something for nothing. That something is a "portal" or gateway to the Internet, where Web wanderers can start when they go online.Portals attract millions of users and consequently lots of lucrative advertising banners and sponsorships. And with the Internet expanding at breakneck speed into electronic commerce, video, music and voice transmission, the biggest prizes will go to the sites that capture the most surfers.This desire for "eyeballs" is behind the frenzied bout of takeovers that has inflated Internet stocks to levels that would give the South Sea Bubble an inferiority complex.The most dramatic example came last week when Yahoo!, which started as a directory of Web sites, paid $6 billion for Broadcast.com a small company sending out streams of audio and video.Broadcast.com's accounts show that it had revenues of only $22 million on which it lost $14.9 million, or 66 per cent of its income. This sounds like the most over-priced transaction in corporate history. But not through the looking glass of the Internet, which sees online multimedia and e-commerce taking off once cheap high-speed Internet access becomes widely available.But how many companies will be able to stay the pace until Nirvana arrives?Jeff Mallett, president and chief operating officer of Yahoo!, thinks there will be three, with Yahoo!, the Microsoft Network (MSN) and AOL "clearly starting to separate themselves" from a pack that includes Disney/Infoseek's Go, Excite, Lycos, C|Net's Snap!, Compaq's AltaVista and several more. Chris Charron, a research director at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Massachusetts, says he predicted portal market consolidation more than a year ago in a report, The Great Portal Shake-Out. The market "is definitely going to shake down, and it's in the process of doing so," he says. But picking three winners isn't easy."Certainly Yahoo! and AOL are the clear leaders and some way ahead," Charron says. "The third spot right now? Excite, the Go network and MSN are all challenging for that, and then there's a lower tier with things like Snap!, Lycos and AltaVista"Barry Parr, director of the Internet and e-commerce strategies programme at US-based International Data Corporation, was also predicting a shake-out last year. He says the "big three" will be "AOL, Yahoo! and TBD or To Be Determined. I think Microsoft has a shot, Excite has a shot, and Go is kind of a long shot, but Disney is clearly very motivated and better than any other company on earth at exploiting media synergies. Lycos is very much of a long shot."It's a poker game with huge stakes. Just this year, Yahoo! has not only plunked down $6 billion for Broadcast.com, it has also chipped in about $4 billion to take over GeoCities, which provides Web users with free home pages. Last year, Yahoo! bought a string of companies such as ViaWeb (Internet shopping), Yoyodyne Entertainment (promotions), HyperParallel (data analysis software) and WebCal (online calendar software). In 1997, it picked up Four11 for its phone directories and RocketMail free e-mail service, and licensed online chat software from iChat.Each new purchase or licensing deal or in-house 
software development gives Yahoo! an advantage in attracting more users . . . but not for long. Mallett says you're lucky if a lead lasts 60 days, because what one portal offers, others will match.Personalised start-up pages? We do that. Free e-mail, news, games, shopping, stock quotes, auctions, maps, city guides, addressbooks, calendars. . . . The list is not endless, but it no longer fits on Yahoo!'s front page.
To stay in the race, Yahoo!'s rivals have to do their own software development, licensing deals, and takeovers. For example, Excite has taken over the Webcrawler search engine, Magellan (a Web directory), NetBot (shopping), MatchLogic (advertising) and Classifieds 2000, and been taken over itself by AtHome.Lycos - named after a predatory spider - has picked up WhoWhere for its directory, the Angelfire and Tripod home page sites, GlobeComm's iName e-mail service, and Wired Digital for its HotWired site, HotBot search engine, Wired News service and Suck magazine.One of Yahoo!'s strengths is that it is one of the few Net companies that makes money, and although it's not much, it's often more than Wall Street analysts expect. Last week, Yahoo! reported $86million in revenues for the first three months of this year, three times last year's figure, and operating profits jumped from $2.6 million to $20.6 million. By contrast, AOL and 
Microsoft both have substantial incomes from other businesses: AOL from paid subscriptions to its online service, and Microsoft from sales of personal computer software. Both can afford to lose money on the Net.AOL and Microsoft also have other sources of traffic. Whereas Yahoo! has to pull in users the hard way, AOL has 16 million subscribers, and Microsoft gets a lot of traffic by setting MSN as the default home page on its Internet Explorer (IE) browser - which is why Yahoo! pays some PC manufacturers to set Yahoo! as the default home page.With independent incomes and the ability to generate their own traffic, neither AOL nor MSN has had to spend as heavily as other portal contenders. However, AOL has made two huge purchases, taking over CompuServe, its former rival, and Netscape, for its Netcenter portal and Navigator browser software. It has also made some smaller buys, including Mirabilis for its messaging software, ICQ. Last month it bought online calendar company, When Inc.Microsoft has concentrated on creating a string of Web sites including Microsoft.com, MSN, Expedia (travel), CarPoint, Home Advisor (property), MoneyCentral, WomenCentral, Slate (an online magazine), the Sidewalk series of city guides and, in partnership with American TV network NBC, the news site, MSNBC. But it has also bought three Internet companies - Hotmail, Link Exchange, and Electric Gravity, which started Internet Gaming Zone - and it will be surprising if it doesn't add a calendar company, an Internet broadcasting outfit to counter Broadcast.com, and perhaps a home page site. Tom Bowman from MSN UK says: "It's certainly something that's on our minds, but you can't do everything at once, and you have to decide: Which pieces are vital to have?"Microsoft didn't get serious about the portal business until last year, when it planned to pull everything together under the Start logo. It has struggled as MSN. Forrester's Charron says: "Some of Microsoft's sites have been very successful in their own right, but it's been very difficult to get everyone working in the same direction, getting them to sacrifice the part for the greater good of the whole." Parr says IDC's study of portals found that Yahoo!, AOL and Excite had the most loyal customers, whereas Microsoft's MSN "seems very cold and corporate and generic: people don't seem to be adopting it as their principal site".But all the portal players are also aware that the game is not even half over, and it may not be decided on the Net. However many Web users there are today, there are twice as many who are not online, but who will arrive in the next five years. According to Parr, "they're going to find out where to go probably from television." That's what give portals like Go a chance. "You see the Go logo on all ABC's TV shows now, and that's pretty significant," he says.Go has been created by combining Infoseek's portal - in which the Walt Disney Company has bought a 43 per cent share - with Disney's string of TV-related Web sites including ABC, ABCNews, Disney, the ESPN sports site, Family.com, and Mr Showbiz. The Go portal thus had 20 million users when it launched in January, but Infoseek chief executive officer Harry Motro says the aim is to grab the next 50 million people to come online. "We're going to get those users through the four ESPN &#91;television&#93; networks, and through the ABC TV network, which is used by 150 million people a week," he says. "There has never been this kind of brand built on the Internet."Lycos is now going through a three-way merger that will link it with USA Networks and its television channels, including the Sci-Fi Channel and QVC Home Shopping Network, and Ticketmaster Online-CitySearch Inc. The combined company will start with four of the top 20 Web sites plus 19 online city guides, the Internet Shopping Guide and First Auction site. It will also reach 70 million homes with TV sets and handle more than a million telephone sales per day.
The problem is that Lycos has built Web traffic without even trying to build a consistent brand. Bo Peabody, who went to Lycos as founder of Tripod, says: "Our strategy is to better segment the market, programming in the same way that cable stations have - and at the same time aggregate a mass reach and sell across it like the &#91;TV&#93; networks do."But Parr thinks that if all the portal sites look the same and offer the same features - which they do - then branding is what will set the winners apart. He also says the merger with USA Networks is a "savage mis-step because there's not a lot of overlap between their audience and the Internet audience.
"QVC could be cheesier, but it wouldn't be easy," he says.
Yahoo! has not allied itself with a television network, and Parr thinks "they'll have to pick one eventually". However, in January it announced a deal with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, which owns America's Fox broadcasting network (Fox Sports Net, Fox News Channel, Twentieth Century Fox Film, Fox Music, and Fox Interactive). Yahoo! has been promoting itself with advertisements in Fox programmes, including the Superbowl (American football final), and sponsoring a programme called Family Guy, while Fox has been promoting itself through Yahoo!With newspaper readers tending to get more news via the Net, and tending to watch less television while spending more time online, this is probably a relationship Murdoch would like to cultivate. However, a takeover is unlikely because the prices of Internet stocks - like the prices of tulip bulbs in Holland in the 1630s - are famously over-inflated.It's the inflated value of their shares that is enabling portal builders to take over smaller Internet companies, and while that continues, they would be silly not to grab the extra assets. The real shake-out may come only when that stops and the survivors run for cover by merging their operations. Whether there will be three or more winners remains to be seen, but Mallett's choice of Yahoo!, MSN and AOL must be a good bet for two out of three. It will be a great shame if Yahoo! isn't one of them.Useful portalsaltavistaAOLbroadcast.comexcitegeocitiesgolycosmsnukmaxyahoo!
Salon, house magazine of the Internet's techno-trendies, has had a face-lift and moved to the obvious new address,www.salon.comThis will ease the lives of people who could never remember to type salonmagazine or salonmag instead. The problem has shifted to the hairdressing types now the site that still styles itself "Salon dot com" is at www.salon.net  Salon magazine has also bought the Well (Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link), a small US-based bulletin board where techno-trendy types hang out.The 1999 Edinburgh FestivalWeb site has been launched athttpwww.eif.co.ukso visitors can search the programme and e-mail their reservations direct to the box office. A history and archive of more than 50 years of Edinburgh Festivals is being developed.Realnetworkshas announced the finalists for its second annual Streamers Awards, for sites that exploit streaming sound or video. The winners will be chosen atRealNetworks' conferencein San Francisco on May 7. There are links to the best eye- and ear-candy on the Web.
Also at the RealNetworks site, Internet Explorer 5 users can now add aRealGuideExplorer Bar giving access to a huge selection of sites that feature streaming media, including more than 1,700 radio and television stations.Starmarket.comhas improved its market-tracking charts and added historical graphs. For the latest in the browser and operating system wars.LDS, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a world leader in genealogy - Mormons believe in saving the dead - and it has finally put a beta test version of itsFamily Search service online.Simple name searches also find near misses (variant spellings), and with more than 300 million names online, this can produce too many "hits". Also bear in mind that the results aren't gospel.Randy Cassingham, a journalist famous for his long-running newsletter This Is True, is starting a new project called Heroic Stories. It will be about "upstanding things real people have done, the only thing required is that the stories are interesting". The first issue is due on May 1 but you can subscribe now by sending a blank e-mail message toJoin@HeroicStories.comor by going to the Web site,www.HeroicStories.comGreat Expectations, the BBC's latest costume drama, has a Web site in the form of a souvenir programme.
Charlotte Rampling plays Miss Havisham.The BBC is also invadingAmericawith a satellite/cable television service.OSIL8has bowed under pressure from 3Com, maker of the Palm Pilot, and removed its parodies of the latest American Palm ads that show naked women. Trademark infringement, they say. But the 3Cum "Pure Porn" ads produced by Jason Kottke 
have not been expunged from the Web: a dozen other sites are now showing them, such aswww.fucker.com/fuckers/0sil8NovelistNeal Stephenson's latest Web site has a novel feature: it's hard work getting in to it. Devise your US social security number and take the Cryptonomicon challenge atwww.cryptonomicon.comAl Gore, the US vice pres who "invented" the Internet, has finally launched a site athttp://algore2000.comand taken a few brickbats for it. As people reading the page's source code have noted, Gore is in favour of "open source" and has even launched the Gore 2000 Volunteer Source Code Project, but the site has been built entirely using "closed source" Microsoft products.Poison Arrowfrogs, howler monkeys and other Amazon rain forest residents have been put online by theWorld Wildlife Fund. The site promotes the WWF's work in the Amazon River Basin, and includes a link to a charity auction at the new auction site run, appropriately, by bookseller Amazon.com. Nearer home, the Tree Council (UK) has launched a Web site at www.treecouncil.org.ukThe Royal Familyas soap opera: now you read all about the Gold State Coach and other vitally important matters atwww.royalinsight.gov.ukIf youare sorry you haven't a clue, it's time to read the 95 articles that Chris Locke and friends have nailed to the Web atwww.cluetrain.comIt's a primer on Internet marketing.Intelhas opened an onlineArt Museum; Masterpieces from the Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam. Visitors 
will soon be able to move inside an immersive, fully-navigable 3-D re-creation of the Van Gogh's Van Goghs exhibition at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC.Hoover's- famous in the US for supplying information about companies - has just introduced a UK version at 
It has news headlines and a job centre, among other things.Download of the week: for those who feel the need 
to be better organised, but never quite get round to it, this neat bit of Windows 95/98 shareware is a good start. It's RKS Software Store's frills-free To Do list manager that, at 660K, can be easily downloaded over a modem.It's free for 30 days and $19.95 if you decide to keep it - a small price for sorting your life out. P&gt;
Why don't women like the Web? Nearly four million of Britain's 10 million Web users are women, and they are joining at a faster rate than men: four years ago women represented only 30 per cent of the online population.
Yet of the few Web sites which publish details of their customers, most show that only a quarter to a third of their users are women. So where are the missing millions?Even with Web access, women are much less likely to log on than men. Data in 
both the UK and the US show that women go online less often and for shorter periods than men.The list of the most popular Web sites in the UK makes interesting reading. News and sports from major media 
players dominate, followed closely by the laddishness of Loaded and FHM magazines. Microsoft's MSN UK portal offers large subject areas around football and computing, but little on families.Compare this with the British magazine market where women's titles have, until FHM's resurgence, dominated.It is true that a great deal of Internet activity has reflected its scientific and technical background. Selling Internet routers online or providing software are more obvious fits than, for instance, delivering careers advice.But the Internet is no longer solely a self-reflective beast. Its real value lies in solving real everyday problems for companies and their customers, and it is now a fairly stable platform for commerce.But while women control the vast majority of household spending (about 80 per cent 
of it, in the US), the Web is one of the few places where male shoppers outnumber female ones.This is an odd situation. The same rules that apply in the real world should apply to the Web, with its superb selling potential. You've read the review, now buy the product. Surprisingly, few online investments in the UK attempt to target female audiences. Good exceptions include Arcadia, a shopping service, and Jamba, a Web site delivered by Carlton.The weakness of current offerings is their one-size-fits-all-approach. It doesn't. Research shows that men and women behave differently online. 
The crass generalisations are these:• Women tend to be more results-oriented. They seek an answer rather than surf their days away.  US research suggests they "use the net in a very utilitarian way". They want to "solve problems and keep in touch with their 
families".• Women prioritise time 
and money-saving activities. Men aim for depth of 
content. (Some exceptions: online gaming and entertainment news attract women.)• Women tend to be lesscomfortable with technology than men, and are less likely to be evangelical or optimistic about its opportunities, according to Forrester Research. Web sites with 
complex designs and clever bells-and-whistles are likely to be more confusing and less attractive than simple, 
intuitive, trustworthy ones. (Surely good advice for anyone building a Web site.)The cause of this part of the gender gap may lie in the birth and delivery of Web 
businesses. This process is still poorly understood in many corporations struggling to come to terms with the 
strategic value of the Internet.As pre-eminent Web 
pundit Jakob Nielsen argues, online operations are plagued by unclear objectives. Coupled with designing to satisfy a firm's top executives rather than the audience, this leads to a large number of inadequate Web sites. 
Poor market research, opinion rather than data, and a lot of people (mainly men) arguing their pitch results in poor Web sites in general and makes them deeply unattractive for a female audience.One exception is New York-based iVillage.com. Attracting an active membership approaching one million and a monthly audience three times that, iVillage which bills itself as "real solutions for real women". It delivers a network of sites aimed at women.Ranging from Parentsoup, a parenting service, to Moneylife, a personal finance 
operation, each site heavily stresses problem solving, 
participation and community. Parentsoup, for example, has dozens of active discussion boards on subjects such as raising troublesome children or dealing with teething 
toddlers. Online chats with 
childcare experts are typical daily events.The power of iVillage is its ability to deliver a qualified, captive audience to marketers. The heavy emphasis on 
participation gives their users a stake in the service, 
encouraging them to come back time and again and rewarding them when they do. The average user views far more iVillage pages per month than most sites, except blockbusters like Yahoo!This repeat business drives a strong relationship that turns into significant advertising dollars and commerce revenues. In 1998, its second year of business, iVillage brought in $15million of revenues. Admittedly, this pales in comparison with its overall loss of $46 million, but it is still early days.
Investors love it. The 
company debuted on the American stock market a month ago. In true Internet style, the stock hit the sky, tripling in value on the first day. Now the business is 
worth $1.5 billion.This presents an opportunity for entrepreneurs in Britain. Very few British Web sites appear to be trying to 
create a female audience for marketers to address 
mercilessly.Without a high-calibre business like iVillage or the LookSmart directory service, which attracts a 61 per cent female audience, they will be an increasingly difficult group to reach.The first firms to create value-for-money and value-for-time Web content and tools aimed at and marketed to women could build this 
critical audience.Advertisers and retailers, particularly those outside the low-margin computer hardware business, will move in. The first-mover advantage is crucial online. Act quickly and success could be on the cards.• Azeem Azhar is an Internet business strategy adviser
Fantastic realityIn your article on computer games and art (April 8, page 2), you say that "in the future, video games developers will be seen as artists and visionaries". This is already true. People like Sid Meier, developer of Civilization and Alpha Centauri, and Shigeru Miyamoto, the driving force behind the Super Mario and Zelda series, are already respected as such.You reported Dinos Chapman as saying:"A game with no elements of fantasy - normal bars, normal streets where you knock people over - would be far superior". Two revolutionary new games, Shenmue and Driver, are exactly that. In Shenmue, you are required to navigate around fantastically realistic streets in real time (days and seasons pass, just like in the real world). You must eat to stay healthy, and earn money by working or gambling.Driver is a car chase game where you must do jobs for the Mob. You can use the money you are paid to repair your car after run-ins with the police. Miles of road have been faithfully reproduced.It seems the future is closer than your article suggests. I look forward to more in-depth features on computer games, and not as many gags about Lara Croft.Jim Mooregeoff.moore@lineone.netDVD sales hypeHello, DVD set for huge sales (April 8 page 4)! It stores Mpeg2 video not pristine but compressed till the pips squeak. Or is that a lip sync problem? As for CD-i, well that sank quick. Can you name two CD-i players? Also, why are people being done for importing (American) region 1 disks that they paid for, including local taxes? There are no laws broken, so what is the score? 
Keith Scottkscott@c-one.demon.co.ukNo big dealJoe Latham (Feedback April 8) may be a little premature congratulating himself on his financial acumen. Using BT with Premier Line discount and your ISP as Best Friend, phone charges are 39p hourly at weekend and 55p hourly weekday off-peak, not far away from his 30p and 50p.But he pays £5 monthly for this while BT customers pay £5.10 quarterly for Premier Line. So unless he is online for an average of about two hours a day he is losing money on the deal.John DeanOxfordFree is fineReading Cameron Crook's letter (Feedback April 8) would put most people off using free ISPs. Cameron says that it took up to three-quarters of an hour to log on during one of the free weekends.This particular period was extraordinarily busy because of the option to use a freephone number. Hence the effect on his log-on time, and connection speed. 
I use Freeserve, have never had to redial once to log on, and get excellent connection speeds, with download speeds of about 4.6Kbps.Compare this free service to the monthly fees of some ISPs, added to a charge per hour, and I wonder which is the more sensible choice to make. Take the plunge, it's worth it.David TriskaBury
Sony Computer Entertainmentis still throwing its weight around, and following lawsuits against two PlayStation emulator makers, Connectix andbleem!, it has closed downDave's Classics Web site. In a lawsuit filed in Northern California, Sony alleges the site wilfully copied the proprietary PlayStation BIOS (Basic input/output system chip) and made it available for downloading. Emulating the BIOS is an important part of emulating a games console or computer, and companies that sell IBM-compatible PCs have to produce independent implementations of the IBM PC BIOS chip to avoid infringing copyright. However, in the unrelated case against bleem!, filed in San Francisco's Federal District Court, Sony has been denied a temporary restraining order to prevent shipments of bleem!'s PlayStation emulator. David Herpolsheimer, bleem!'s head of sales and marketing, expects to start shipping pre-ordered copies this week. The three-man company has almost been crushed by Sony's assault, but Herpolsheimer quips: "We know we're legal and we know we're right and won't let little things like personal bankruptcy and homelessness stand in our way!"Cavedog Entertainmenthas launched a revolutionary online multi-player gaming system called Boneyards by opening a public beta test on its Web site. The first game, Total Annihilation: Galactic Wars (pictured right), can be played by owners of the original Total Annihilation game. Game-play takes place across a Galactic Map of 50 to 70 interconnected planets with human players battling for control of each planet. Cavedog reckons that Total Annihilation: Kingdoms, the next version of its superb real-time strategy game, will be released for the PC in June.GT Interactive, a star of the computer games world, says it expects an operating loss of $50-$55 million in its fourth financial quarter, and is to shed 650 staff, about a third of its world-wide workforce. The loss is blamed on the cost of a reorganisation, which included moving headquarters from New York to Los Angeles, and delays in the production of games such as Total Annihilation: Kingdoms, Duke Nukem Forever, and Unreal Tournament. GT Interactive has a number of software development companies including Cavedog Entertainment, Legend Entertainment, Humongous Entertainment, and Oddworld Inhabitants.Female Fraggersare invited to grab a rocket launcher and start training for June 1, when Vangie "Aurora" Beal and Stephanie "Bobbi" Bergman - co-hosts of 
the Internet video show Lilith &amp; Eve - will launch the world's first all-female Quake II tournament. Female Frag Fest '99 (FFF99) is intended to be the first in a series of tournaments "dedicated to providing female gamers with a fun, supportive gaming environment where they can meet other women in the gaming community while at the same time providing a venue for highly competitive gameplay". The girl gamers plan to launch a Web site atwww.femalefrag.comAmiga presidentJim Collas has written his "first open letter to the Amiga community", though most fans of this defunct home computer - designed by Amiga Corporation and launched by Commodore in 1985 - have long since moved on to other systems. Amiga expects to have a new O/S 3.5 version of its operating system, developed under contract by Haage &amp; Partner, ready by July/August, and a new AmigaSoft Operating Environment ready by the end of the year. New hardware is being developed for the new operating environment. Amiga is a subsidiary of Gateway, a US-based PC manufacturer. For further details, seewww.amiga.comJapan's SNK gamescompany and Planet Distribution have unveiled a colour handheld games console, a rival to Nintendo's Colour GameBoy, which could be on sale in the UK this summer. As well as playing games like Pocket Tennis, Samurai Showdown and, inevitably, King of Fighters, the pocketable console also has a built-in calendar, world clock, alarm, and horoscope features. Meanwhile, Nintendo is planning TV advertising and about 50 more colour games for its GameBoy Colour handheld.Army Men II, fromUbiSoftcan be summed up in four words: real combat, plastic men. The toy soldier game (see below) makes it possible to fight battles over the usual terrain - kitchens, bedrooms, garages - without inconveniencing the rest of the family. However, traditional hazards remain. Send plastic attack squads across a hot hob and they still meltGamesdue to be launched tomorrow include Gremlin's Actua Ice Hockey (PlayStation and PC), Konami's Poy Poy 2 (PlayStation), Interplay's VR Baseball and Electronic Arts' Triple Play Baseball 2000 (both PC), UbiSoft's Monaco Grand Prix and Electronic Arts' Sports Car GT (both PlayStation), and Take 2's Railroad Tycoon 2 for the Mac. Next week, gamers can look forward to Havas Interactive's Warcraft II and Gremlin's Wild Metal Country (both PC), plus Micro Machines Turbo 64 from Codemasters (Nintendo 64). Former Atari owners with very long memories and new GameBoy Colour handhelds can also look forward to two titles from Take 2 Software: Centipede and Frogger.
The amount of electronic business conducted on the Internet will rise from 10 per cent in 1997 to around 90 per cent in 2003, according to a report by the Butler Group of Hull. But how many UK companies are preparing for this revolution?Most people still think of Internet business as buying books and consumer products through the likes of Amazon.com. Big though it is, that's only the retail end of the market. The big corporate thing that is happening is not so much e-commerce, but e-business. That means the application of the Internet's benefits to the whole chain of manufacturing and supply so producers and suppliers are linked together in giant "extranets" to enable them to respond on-line to changes in the market place and reduce inventories to the minimum level possible.Butler's E-Business, 1999 Report states that e-business will be worth $350 billion in revenues by 2003. It believes that the formulation of an e-business strategy could be the "single most important piece of planning that an enterprise should undertake if they are to minimise the chance of business failure in the future".Fortunately, companies are being deluged with advice as everyone tries to climb on the bandwagon - including Bill Gates, boss of Microsoft. His new book, Business at the Speed of Thought (Penguin, £18.99) has been dismissed by some as a manual to drum up more business from Microsoft's customers, from whom nearly all the examples have been taken. It certainly is that. The appendix - surprise, surprise - outlines a PC and Windows-based methodology for building what Gates has called a digital nervous system for your company.But it is much, much more. No one reading it could fail to be impressed by the speed at which business is changing and the need to adapt or die. To learn about what is happening in the US is a wake-up call in itself. For instance, General Electric is building an extranet that will allow 40,000 trading partners to view and edit the same electronic documents live over the Internet.Companies like Wal-Mart are already sharing sales data with suppliers like Procter and Gamble, so that the suppliers help to manage the inventory and distribution while the retailers concentrate on sales. Better stock control helped Wal-Mart to reduce its expenses by $2 billion in 1997. This lets the company offer keener prices to its customers, thereby accelerating the downward pressure on prices that the digital economy is bringing about as middlemen are cut out and inefficiencies arising from passing on bits of paper are eliminated.Since profit margins in retailing are rarely more than 5 to 6 per cent (and often half that) companies that don't maintain their competitive advantage by embracing change will put their whole business at risk. Goldman Sachs reckons that if 10 to 20 per cent of sales shifted from the high street to the Internet, it would eliminate most retailers' profit margins.Michael de Kare-Silver reminds us in another book e-shock, (Macmillan Business, £25), that stores have been pioneers of technological change with innovations like self-service, bar codes and on-line payments. But whether they can survive a revolution which often cuts out inter-
mediaries in the supply chain remains to be seen. The American pundit who coined the phrase "Banks are dead, long live banking" in response to the move to do transactions on-line (rather than in bank buildings) might have a similar warning for retailers. Shopping will go on forever but how much will be conducted in shops is another matter.Top managers in British companies are still slow to adopt even the most basic tools of the digital age like using e-mail which cuts through hierarchies and ensures that news, especially bad news, travels fast. Gates says that he sometimes thinks his most important job as chief executive officer is to listen for bad news in order to avoid the giant corporate mistakes of the past. These include IBM's failure, as a mainframe manufacturer, to understand the PC revolution and Ford's failure to see the technical improvements that smaller rivals like General Motors were making in the 1930s.E-mail played a role when Microsoft avoided a similar mega mistake itself. It is sobering to be reminded that Microsoft's own wake-up call - when it realised the implications of the Internet - came only five years ago, on April 6, 1994 when Gates famously e-mailed his staff to say: "We're going to make a big bet on the Internet." Since then the speed at which the company has changed direction to move into the Internet has been extremely impressive as well as controversial.The unanswered question is whether America's almost total domination of the Internet will be expanded yet further as e-business comes into its own. Britain has a chance to catapult herself into the race if the right steps are speedily taken. Some companies, like Marks &amp; Spencer, are already doing impressive things (not that it is appreciated by the stock markets) but mostly we are lagging behind. Meanwhile, the US economy has been expanding at almost 
4 per cent for several years. Internet-related activity is now the driving force of US expansion. Could it ever be 
the same here?
Is the PC era over? IBM bossLou Gerstnerhas said so, but that was before people started reading the small print in IBM's latest financial report. It turns out that IBM's PC division lost almost $1 billion last year, a loss that would have remained unknown except for a change in America's reporting regulations. So did Gerstner really mean the PC era was over, or just over for IBM?The market turned toCompaq, the world leader in PC sales, for confirmation. Compaq said it would report profits that were only half what Wall Street expected, but it wasn't IBM's fault for selling PCs at a loss. There was a price war going on, and users were buying cheaper (low-margin) PCs. Or maybe they were buying from direct suppliers likeGatewayandDell.As a financial analyst from Gerard Klauer Mattison put it, in highly-technical language: "The direct guys are starting to really stick it to the indirect guys." Meanwhile some were wondering if the era ofDOS/Windowswas over as well. It was supposed to be replaced by Windows CE at the low end and Windows NT at the high end. But last week Microsoft's hard-core marketing man, Steve Ballmer, gave it a new lease on life. Windows 98 SE (Second Edition) - the old version with bug fixes and added Internet Expolorer 5 - will be followed by a rewritten version that's easier to use. And, said Ballmer, that would also be used in low-end devices previously reserved for CE. The old dog may have had its decade, but the prospect of millions more sales is hard to refuse.By the way, many of theseEasy PCswill, in style, shape or colouring, look a lot like Apple's iMac. So what's new? Everybody copied Apple before, in 1977, when it pioneered beige
Last autumn, the American Automobile Association complained that Hollywood wasn't setting a good enough example as far as the wearing of seat belts was concerned. Too many movies advocate the James Bond school of crash survival, it said, while in the real world, seat belts save lives. So it might come as something of a shock to the AAA to learn that habitual seat belt-wearers tend to drive more dangerously than their unbelted counterparts.That, at least, is the conclusion of Dr Tony Reinhardt-Rutland of the University of Ulster, who presented his findings yesterday at the British Psychological Society's annual conference in Belfast. And the reason, he says, is that seat belts eradicate an effect known as 'looming'.Looming is what happens to you when, unrestrained by a belt, you slam your foot on the brake to avoid hitting something. You are thrown forward and the world - the dashboard, the windscreen, and the scene beyond it - rushes up to meet you. That visual expansion is frightening and, not surprisingly, acts as an incentive to drive more cautiously.'Looming is a primitive response and creatures, including man, find it very uncomfortable,' says Dr Reinhardt-Rutland. 'It's something that will have an effect on their behaviour. They will learn from it.' Consequently, in the absence of looming, people tend to drive less cautiously: they don't leave as much space behind the car in front, they overtake in trickier conditions. And that, says Reinhardt-Rutland, is why seat belts save fewer lives than they should.Wearing a belt in the front seat of a car became compulsory in Britain in 1983. Since then there have been additions to the legislation and, as far as cars are concerned, the law now requires you, as an adult, to wear a belt if one is available, front or back. The early eighties saw a reduction in road accident casualties, with the number of deaths in Britain dropping from 6010 in 1980 to 5165 in 1985 - not bad considering that the volume of traffic increased by 14 per cent over the same period. And in 1985, a triumphant Department of Transport survey concluded that seat belts were indeed effective.But that survey might have been premature. By 1986, the number of deaths had stopped falling and had begun to level off. According to Dr Reinhardt-Rutland, people had forgotten how scary it is to be loomed at and had adapted their behaviour accordingly. They were driving less carefully and faster. Since seat belts came in, he says, the average speed of cars in built-up areas has increased from about 28mph to 33mph. As a result, cars pose a greater threat to other road users. In 1989, for instance, the number of cyclists killed on the road had, following a dip, risen back to its 1982 level of 294.That people are driving faster is not in dispute. But an investigation carried out in 1996 by Dr Graham Grayson of the Transport Research Laboratory in Berkshire concluded that there was 'no real evidence of any behavioural change' in response to the introduction of seat belts. And Dr Frank McKenna, an expert on driving behaviour at the University of Reading, says that the problem goes far deeper. At the same time that we were getting used to seat belts, he points out, car design was becoming more sophisticated. In his opinion, bad driving habits have less to do with looming than with the fact that, in a modern car, there's no draught.It makes sense if you think about it. Human beings are designed to move, at the fastest, at around 20mph. Even at a more modest six, you know you're on the move because your heart rate increases, you feel the air moving across your skin, and your eyes and ears tell you that things are passing you by. Ask a group of people to run and close their eyes at the same time, and very few will comply, because the sense of motion through an unseen environment is too terrifying. And yet a man cruising in his Ford Mondeo at a blistering (in human terms) 70 mph will happily turn his head to converse with a back seat passenger for seconds at a time.'When you're moving in a car, nothing tells you that you're moving,' says Dr McKenna, 'You're actually stationary. You have a nice comfortable seat, there's hardly any vibration, and we have aerodynamically streamed the car so that you get no wind effect.' Generally speaking, the more expensive the car, the less engine noise there is, and his research indicates that people use engine noise as a cue to guide their choice of speed. In fact, the driver of a modern car must rely entirely on his eyes to tell him how fast he is going, and even then - when you consider how few landmarks there are along the average stretch of motorway - information is scarce.'We need to face up to the fact that we have systematically taken away these cues to speed,' says Dr McKenna. 'The acceleration characteristics of modern cars are much greater, the top speeds are much greater, and at the same time people are being denied the information that tells them they're involved in movement. It's hardly surprising that we've got a speed problem in this country and virtually every other.' The solution, he says, is to give back to drivers that contact with the environment through which they're moving. In early motor cars, you bumped along with the wind in your hair and you had a pretty good idea of how fast you were going, without glancing at the speedo. And some modern sports cars, with their rigid suspensions, are going the same way. Alternatively, says Dr McKenna, you can maintain the smooth ride and bring the external environment into the car. Some road safety experts have suggested, semi-seriously, that the next generation of cars should be transparent, or at least glass-bottomed. Failing that, some kind of head-up display, as pioneered by the aviation industry, might do the trick. 'One of the most common errors on the road is that we drive too close to the vehicle in front,' he says. But if your following distance was flashed up on a windscreen display, perhaps you would be less likely to tailgate.Dr McKenna admits that it is hard to single out any one factor as being most influential as far as driver behaviour is concerned. Since 1983, not only has the law on seat belts changed, but so has drink-driving legislation. Cars have become more crashworthy, the volume of traffic of the roads has increased, and people think less of driving from London to Manchester and back in a day. But whether the fact that people are still being killed on the roads is down to subtle changes in our braking behaviour, or to the malign influence of the movies, one thing is certain: when it comes to evolution, the motor car is advancing far faster than we are.
One man went to mowBrad Hunter, 34, of Chicago is driving across the States from Atlanta to Los Angeles on his lawn mower - obviously doesn't have anything better to do.Quote of the week'You're stuck in a traffic jam behind a large bus which is pumping neat cancer straight into the cockpit. An hour later, looking like Lenny Henry, you get to the motorway and head for the outside lane where what amounts to a hurricane will give you the sort of hairdo people get in the electric chair. And then, just as you go past a sign saying 'services 400 miles', it starts to rain.'Jeremy Clarkson on open-top driving, in The Sun33% of women can't what?The UK's biggest cycle show, Bike '99 opened at NEC in Birmingham on Friday... so now's an ideal time for some key bike facts:1 Ten per cent of men and 33 per cent of women can't ride a bike.2 More journeys are still made by bike than by rail and the London Underground combined.3 British cyclists are five times less likely to travel by bicycle than Swiss or Danish people.4 Kirkpatrick Macmillan, known as Mad Pete, invented the 'boneshaker', the first bike with pedals.5 The record for cycling the 874 miles from Land's End to John O'Groats was set in 1990 by Andy Wilkinson, who took 45 hours, two minutes and 18 seconds. Pauline Strong holds the women's with 54 hours, 49 minutes and 45 seconds.6 More bikes than cars were stolen in 1993: 595,000 bikes compared with 541,000 cars.7 Australian Neville Patten covered 4.1 metres on a bike with wheels 1.9cm in diameter.8 John Prescott has a bike (and a brace of Jaguars). He nearly came off it on Friday when an angry environmentalist went for him as he was launching a cycle route from Middlesbrough.
Mobile phones do not seem to harm the habitual user, research published today indicated. Far from cooking the brain or scrambling the memory, a 30-minute handheld conversation might speed up reaction times.A team led by Alan Preece of the University of Bristol reports in the International Journal of Radiation Biology that tests on volunteers showed no effect on short-term memory or attention after exposures to microwave radiation of up to 30 minutes.'But there was one noticeable effect: the subjects reacted faster in one test involving a visual choice after the transmissions,' he said. 'This effect could be a slight warming of the brain leading to increased blood flow.'Dr Preece and colleagues, in tests at the Bristol oncology centre and Bristol royal infirmary, chose places where the signal was good (and the microwave dose light) and places where it was poor (and the dose much greater).The volunteers were tested for recall and mental alertness when exposed to microwaves typical of analogue phones, digital phones or no phones at all. They had no way of knowing what they were exposed to. Any heating of the brain from using a microwave phone would be small compared with that from running or dancing.But there might be evidence of 'heat shock proteins' produced as a natural response to stress, and the Bristol team want to see more research into the long-term effects of mobile phone use.One person in four in Britain is believed to have a mobile phone. Worldwide, there could be half a billion phones in use.The World Health Organisation is proposing a $6 million study to see whether cellphone users might be more susceptible to cancer, after repeated claims that microwave radiation from such phones could lead to memory loss or brain tumours. This has not been proved.But two experiments, one at Nottingham University and the other at the University of Washington, Seattle, have suggested that microwaves could produce stress in animals.
Whether OR not they are 
serious, the creators of the"The Force is a Tool of Satan"website,
index.html, have taken one of the more unusual approaches to film criticism. You might have thought that the Star Wars series was an amusing  if simplistic rendering of the age-old good guys v bad guys theme, but Darth Vader would be delighted to know that, apparently, the films are actually the work of Satan. "The Force makes people behave like Demons," argue the site creators. "Luke is taught by the grimy, wizened, midget stand-in for God, Yoda, to make things fly in the air with TELEKENISIS (sic). That’s what Demons do!" Yoda does vaguely resemble a hairless gremlin but, stand-in God or not, he seems pretty harmless. If you still succumb to that pre-pubescent urge to draw horns and moustaches on pictures of famous people, you’ll also appreciate the accompanying images from the Star Wars films - poor 
R2-D2 is given horns and the number of The Beast. If the site truly appals you, you’re invited to send hate mail.Now THAT Melissa has done her dirty work across computer networks everywhere, find out more about her and the strange world of computer viruses at the Data FellowsVirus Information Centrewhich claims to have been the first online source of information on viruses. Another useful site isSymantec’s Anti-Virus Research Centre.
It includes a virus encyclopedia and a good section on virus hoaxes.You might have thought that Rock Paper Scissors was a stupid game that loses all 
fascination after you reach the age of six. If so, reprogramme yourself at theOfficial Rock Paper Scissors Strategy Guidewhich explains the exact positioning of the hand for these complicated manoeuvres. Besides finding out how to use the technique of "cloaking" to best effect, you can also play against the world’s only online RPS solo trainer.A major brouhaha involving half-page ads in San Francisco’s main newspapers erupted recently when the city’s gay roller-skating "nuns", the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, received permission to close off part of Castro Street for their 20th anniversary celebration last Sunday. The only problem was that the city’s Catholic hierarchy objected to the group staging, on Easter Sunday, their own special versions of religious rites, which admittedly are not always in the best possible taste. The Sisters can be found in full rainbow colours atwww.thesisters.org.Linus Torvalds, impish 
creator of the operating system Linux, apparently announced last week that he was going against all the guiding 
principles of Linux - its source code is "open and freely 
available, and the OS itself can be downloaded off the Net gratis" - and setting up 
LinuxSoft, "a new company that will specialise in selling ‘enhanced’ proprietary 
versions of Linux". According to an article in MagazineSalon, "The free software model has served its purpose," said the Finnish coder,  "but now I’ve got to think about putting my daughters through college." Please note the piece was published on April 1.If you can’t get enough of those twangy guitars in the theme song or want to get the Connery inflection just right for your "Bond. James Bond" impression, visit ,The Definitive James Bond Sounds Pagewhich offers Bond fans more than 300 sound clips.The Light on the Net art project, you to turn an array of 49 lightbulbs in Japan’s Gifu Softopia Centre on and off to make different patterns. Then you can look at a video shot of your work of (fairly basic) art. Simple and useless, but somewhat addictive.
A typical week in the hi-tech industry: a few hundred people became millionaires, at least on paper, and a somewhat larger number lost their jobs. By far the biggest deal was Yahoo's $5.7 billion take-over ofBroadcast.com, the Net's version of a radio or television company like NBC. America OnLine - another of the major players in the "portal wars" - picked up calendar companyWhen.comto balance Yahoo's WebCal.On the darker side, Netscape lost 850 staff last week, due to lay-offs following its take-over by America Online. Worse than that, it lost one member of staff, its alpha geek, and some might say, its soul. Jamie Zawinsky has resigned. In fact, the man known as jwz not only resigned, he posted a moratorium about the problems with Netscape andMozilla, Netscape's "open source" project.Still, at least Zawinksky - the Unix hacker hired to replace Netscape co- founder Marc Andreessen in coding the Navigator browser - will no longer have to suffer friends saying "jwz@aol.com" and laughing uncontrollably...Another company shedding staff last week was PointCast, one of the pioneers of "push".  Like Netscape, it was hyped by a mostly-ignorant press as the Next Big Thing, and like Netscape it paid the price when the reality turned out otherwise. We builds 'em up, we knocks 'em down: both ways it's a "good story".
Most right-thinking people hear about Melissa the virus and shudder. But a few politically incorrect marketers are marvelling at her ability to reach the masses overnight. Imagine attaching your marketing message to such a virus.In fact, that's what marketers are already trying to do. When this works so well that it clogs e-mail systems, it's called a virus, but when it happens with the active involvement of the human carriers, it's called viral marketing.The best viral marketing is not just word-of-mouth, as some people carelessly assume. Nor is it multi-level marketing, where Juan sells to Alice and then gets a cut of whatever Alice sells to Fred. It is when users actively recruit other users, not for pay, but because they benefit from a larger user pool, just as virus DNA 
benefits from the spread of a virus.As with any new concept, anyone can define the term. Steve Jurvetson and Tim Draper of Silicon Valley venture capitalists Draper, Fisher, Jurvetson, are the foremost proponents of the technique. They have even posted an essay about it on theirwebsite, mostly describing their success withHotmail, one of their best investments, sold to Microsoft last year for upwards of $300 million. Each Hotmail user, who signs up for free, markets the service to others because of the sig file attached to each Hotmail message: "Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com."Each time the user uses the product/service, he's promoting it to others. You could almost say that any campaign that gets the customers to flaunt a brand name is viral marketing.But getting people to wear your T-shirt is not viral marketing. Viral marketing, as I define it, is where the original user gets a benefit from the spread of whatever is being marketed. That is, it concerns products or services that benefit from so-called "network effects" - those same disproportional returns to early entrants that are the subject of so much discussion concerning Microsoft.That is why Hotmail can be viral in some cases, but not in others. In the wired world, where everyone has e-mail, Hotmail user Alice doesn't particularly benefit from Juan's using Hotmail, because she can reach him as easily at Demon or on AOL. In the less wired world, where most people don't have e-mail accounts of any kind, Hotmail can spread, well, like a virus.As Jurvetson and Draper say: "The Hotmail adoption pattern is that of a virus - with spatial and network locality. People typically send e-mails to their associates and friends; many of them are geographically close, and others are scattered around with clusters in areas of high Internet connectivity. We would notice the first user from a university town or from India, and then the number of subscribers from that region would rapidly proliferate. The beauty of it is that none of this required any marketing dollars. Customers do the selling."There's a delicate balance between ownership and reach: the ideal viral marketing product is semi-proprietary. That is, it needs to be generic enough for its use to spread quickly, but people shouldn't be able to interact with imitations. At first, Internet telephony didn't spread, because the proprietary systems meant you could talk only with a small group of people using the same provider. When Internet telephony meant you could talk with anyone who had a phone, it became much more useful, but the few who had it had less incentive to push a particular brand onto others. The current rage in viral marketing is relationship or networking tools - Six Degrees or PeopleLink. A couple of times a week I get e-mails from someone wanting me to join one so that I can make new friends. Do I need new friends and contacts? Maybe, maybe not, but enough people do that these services are spreading rapidly.The business model here is advertising. Of course, sometimes the marketer forgets about the business model: the goal is simply to sign up users, and then let someone else figure out what to do with them. That's what Mirabilis did with its ICQ instant messaging service. It acquired 12 million users before it sold out to AOL for $300 million.The best current example of viral marketing is the new range of Gizmoz fromZapa Digital Arts.
Gizmoz enable you to build your own identity and then have other people link to it. Instead of static business cards such as Versit's (which simply sit in someone's "card" file and are sent to other people), Gizmoz work as live links. You send someone a link to your Gizmo; then, each time they look at it, they link back to the original (either at your site or at Zapa's) and get the current version. What's the benefit to Zapa? Well, in order to update your Gizmo - which could be kinds of biscuits you're offering for sale or of your need for a lift from Cambridge to London next Friday - you will want to go back to Zapa for new and improved graphics.This isn't viral marketing just for Zapa: it's viral marketing for Zapa's users, because it lets them spread their messages to others. In principle, you can "own" your own gizmo, but you can also share it. That keeps you and other users coming back to each other - and to Zapa for new shareable Gizmo components.
So what's to keep everyone from using viral 
marketing? The backlash is already in sight as some vendors start moving towards multi-level marketing for products where there's no benefit to the redistributor other than a commission. But just as the difference between e-mail and spam is a delicate social matter, so is the difference between gifts that delight both giver and receiver, and using friends in a marketing scheme.So what is the value that Zapa is giving to its 
customers? In exchange for their attention, it is selling them the ability to get attention from other people. Marketers want attention so they can sell ads to people who sell products. People want attention because, well, they're human. They don't want marketers' attention, which they know is conditioned upon their eventually purchasing something. They want the attention of other human beings. Good on them!
But I have to add: in the past, getting attention required nice clothes. Now, it requires nice Gizmos. Is that progress? Or is it just human nature, reinvented? Or am I just too cynical, and are Gizmos actually a tool for creative users to express themselves with?©Esther Dyson, 1999
Silicon Valley may be the future but today's commercial giants still depend on the average American buying a car and driving to the local Wal-Mart store. Fortune's 45th annual list of America's 500 largest corporations is still headed by car giants General Motors and Ford, with petrol company Exxon in fourth place. And plane maker Boeing remains the biggest company in Seattle, by annual sales. A local rival called Microsoft didn't even make the top 100. Still, there were four computer firms in the top 40, and others are showing impressive progress. For example, Intel is now bigger than Disney, Dell is almost as big as Coca-Cola, Sun is bigger than Nike, and Gateway is the same size as Campbell Soup. Apple's sales have almost halved but it's still bigger than pet-food purveyor Ralston Purina.The largest online firm, America OnLine, only managed 535th place, with $2.6 billion in annual sales, but we can give an honourable mention to the $3.3 billion Hormel Foods. As every geek knows, Hormel is the source of the original Spam.From the Fortune 5001General Motors $161bn2Ford Motor $144bn3Wal-Mart Stores $139bn4Exxon $100bn5General Electric $100bn6IBM $82bn7Citigroup $76bn8Philip Morris $58bn9Boeing $56bn10AT&amp;T $54bn14Hewlett-Packard $47bn28Compaq Computer $31bn40Intel $26bn78Dell Computer $18bn90EDS $17bn108Time Warner $15bn109Microsoft $14bn134McDonald's $12bn151Toys R Us $11bn164Sun $9.8bn187Monsanto $8.7bn192Cisco Systems $8.5bn223Gateway 2000 $7.5bn231Unisys $7.2bn258NCR $6.5bn273Apple $5.9bn470Silicon Graphics $3.1bn
Is it conceivable that the answers to life, the 
universe and everything are within our grasp? After all, science as we know it is barely three centuries old.Some leading scientists clearly think so. In Washington next week, top physicists, cosmologists and philosophers will deliberate how the universe came to exist, our place within it, and a selection of cosmic destinies. Nobody will claim they know the answers to these Big Questions yet, but discussing them is now almost commonplace in 
scientific circles.Cosmologists are convinced the universe began with a big bang, and think they know more or less how it happened. They are pretty sure of the fine details after the first trillionth of a second or so. Meanwhile physicists believe they are on the verge of a "theory of everything", that will link all of the 
fundamental forces and particles of nature within a consistent mathematical framework.
Some key topics are still deeply mysterious.The 
origin of life and the nature of consciousness remain 
problematic. Nor can the experts agree on whether we are the only beings reflecting on the meaning of it all, or whether the 
universe is teeming with sentient life forms asking the same questions. But 
the outline of a grand cosmic scheme is discernible, and those working at the cutting edge of research are unashamedly exhilarated 
by it.Recent dramatic events, like the discovery of planets orbiting other star systems, have provided a sense of immediacy to the quest. Beneath these heady 
developments, however, lies a profound philosophical puzzle. How are we able to make such progress? Why can humble Homo sapiens, a chance product of blind 
evolution, unravel the secrets of nature so spectacularly well?
Most people take the 
success of science for granted. They assume that so long as the budget is big enough, it can answer all questions. But science is a very strange activity, unlike anything else. If it hadn't been for certain historical accidents, human beings may never have stumbled across it at all.The founding tenet of 
science is that nature is both ordered and intelligible. But the order isn't apparent at a glance. Revealing the underlying laws demands arcane 
procedures such as mathematical analysis and contrived experimentation. But why must the world be this way? Early scientists such as Galileo and Newton, steeped in the Christian religion, believed that God ordered the physical world according to a rational plan. By studying nature, the scientist might unveil the 
creator's handiwork. Since man was made in God's image, and therefore shared his rationality, humans could glimpse the mind of God in the mathematical architecture of the cosmos.Today few scientists would describe their work in such stark theological terms. But they all share, perhaps unwittingly, a belief that the universe conforms to a coherent rational scheme.Even if the rational order is accepted, we are left with the riddle of its intelligibility. Evolution has equipped us to solve certain practical problems, like spotting patterns and catching falling apples.Some philosophers argue that science is just an extension of these skills. The problem is, the mathematical order found in the fundamental laws of physics is of a highly abstract and subtle form. The laws are uncovered only after intense intellectual and investigative effort. The order within the subatomic realm, for example, bears no relation to the patterns found in daily experience. When you catch a falling apple, your brain doesn't apply the laws of Newtonian mechanics to compute a trajectory. Rather, it compares the immediate situation with past experience and makes a best-fit prediction. The fact that we can come to know the physical world not only phenomenologically (as in perceiving of falling apples), but also theoretically (by understanding the laws of motion), suggests that our minds are tuned to the deep structure of nature in an unreasonably effective way.How far can this "cosmic resonance" take us? Do we have the power to grasp the answers to all the big questions of existence? Physicist Steven Weinberg called his most recent  book Dreams of a Final Theory. He is one of many theoreticians who fervently hope that physics, at least, is a programme that can be completed. Like Stephen Hawking, 
Weinberg envisages a 
simple and elegant mathematical formula that encompasses everything at the subatomic level. If it were known, it would in principle predict all the properties of matter, force, space and time. It would also tell us what happened at the start of the universe, the fate of an object that falls into a black hole, and much else.The prospect of deducing such a formula is spurring much of the euphoria behind meetings like that in Washington. But could the triumphalism turn out to 
be little more than a touch of millennium madness? Perhaps physicists simply got lucky in the 20th century, and cleaned up a lot of problems that were unusually easy for the human mind to handle. There is no guarantee that this trend will continue. When the next level of structure within the atom is probed we may encounter principles at work that are utterly beyond our ken. Phenomena such as consciousness may lie forever beyond the scope of human understanding.It would be depressing if fundamental science just petered out in a fog of incomprehensibility. Nevertheless, there is no known reason why our minds should be built for the task of answering the big questions. We may be deluding ourselves to suppose that humans can be privy to the basic rules on which the universe runs.
Einstein once said that God is subtle, but not malicious. He meant that we can expect to work hard to quarry nuggets of truth using science, but the laws of nature will never prove to be so obscure or fiendishly complex that we couldn't eventually discern them. It is an inspiring belief, and one that drives the engine of science in its restless search for truth. But it remains an article of pure faith.• Paul Davies is 
Visiting Professor of Physics at Imperial College London, and author of The Mind of God. His latest book is The Fifth Miracle: the search for the origin of life. Cosmic Questions is the title of a conference at the Smithsonian in Washington DC, which opens 
on April 14
David Cronenberg's new film about a futuristic video game contains the kind of outrageous visions you would expect from the director responsible for Videodrome and Crash. His shock tactics include gristle guns made of animal bones using human teeth as bullets, "live" games consoles that connect directly to players' minds via artificial jacks in their spines, and fundamentalist fanatics out to save reality from the pollution of computer simulations.But the most outrageous thing about the film - which stars Jennifer Jason Leigh and is out at the end of the month - is its central premise: that in the future, video games developers will be seen as artists, virtual visionaries whose work can stand alongside Joyce, Picasso and Beethoven.Cronenberg presents a future world in which games tap directly into a player's subconscious fears and fantasies, in which they simulate reality so effectively that the boundaries between game and life become hopelessly blurred and the gaming experience becomes as emotionally and intellectually involving as any work of high art. It's a long way from the current state of play. And looking at the legions of adolescents fixated on Lara Croft's bottom, traditionalists might feel that 
Cronenberg's film is silly 
science fiction that will never happen.Many younger artists feel differently. They are beginning to see high-adrenaline games like Tomb Raider as interesting spaces in which to play. This shouldn't be surprising. Games have become a big business, capturing as much about the zeitgeist as pop music and Hollywood films. Beyond that, games fascinate artists because they seem to offer a new kind of aesthetic experience, encouraging a 
sort of obsession on the part of the player that few other media offer."There are lots of reasons to be interested in gaming," says Anne-Marie Schleiner, curator of Cracking the Maze - Game Patches and Plug-ins as Hacker Art, an online exhibition of artist-created game patches (bits of code created to modify existing games) which will open in June. "While some new media artists had their heads in the clouds of virtual reality during the early nineties, tough and dirty game-worlds developed under their noses which offered virtual and often networked worlds to a mass public."Schleiner's exhibition will showcase work by the kind of new media artists you'd expect to take an interest in games. But even big names from 
traditional galleries want to play. Jake and Dinos Chapman, two of the more controversial members of the generation boosted by Charles Saatchi, are developing an idea for a computer game. Given the concerns of their past work (their best known pieces feature genetically-mutated Nike-wearing child mannequins with sexual organs where their mouths and noses should be), it's surprising they haven't already had a go at pushing the buttons of the PlayStation 
generation.The Chapmans are reluctant to talk in detail about their idea. But it seems clear that they would like to introduce a greater level of realism to games, that they would like to make the violence in games count in a way that doesn't involve the empty number-crunching of high scores, that they would like to make players live with the consequences of what they do in the game world. "I like the idea that the games are growing up with the games players, rather than continually aiming at 14-year-olds," says Dinos Chapman. "It's quite a tempting idea to get adults to join in." So how would they do that? "If you developed a game that didn't have any elements of fantasy - normal bars, normal streets where you knock people over - that would be a far superior game. There's always a get-out clause with every game: that it's not reality."He points out that the recent spate of animal hunting games inspired by GT Interactive's Deer Hunter are interesting because they make the violence more real. "Games don't really impinge on your reality at all. It would take a very brave games developer to make a game that was about a serial killer, where you are the serial killer. Games at the moment are like Hammer Horror films where good and evil are clearly defined - that's a bit of a fault. "The feeling seems to be that you have to be conservative to make money. But I suspect the opposite is true - that the market is ripe for a bit of poo in the swimming pool."Though both Chapman brothers are games fans, neither has programming skills. So without links to the games business, their game will remain a piece of art-world vapourware. If more artful, controversial games are to appear, they will probably be developed by a younger generation of more independent, technically skilled artist-engineers.But the artist-made patches that will be showcased at Cracking the Maze provide another way forward. Patches enable artists to piggyback on the programming labour of big companies, tweaking the graphics to create alternative sorts of gameplay, explains Anne-Marie Schleiner. She thinks changing the visuals can alter the psychological effect of the gameplay, such as inserting female characters into game worlds. There are plenty of examples, but Schleiner was disappointed to find that they weren't created by feminist artists but "bearded geeks", who weren't making a "political intervention" so much as playing out more predictable fantasies.Schleiner turned to the Net to request submissions for Cracking the Maze, and has been pleasantly surprised by the level of response. Her show will feature games created by new media artists using patching software donated by Bungie, a games developer. American artist Benjamin Eakins's Ada_Lovelace vs. DonkeyKong will apparently offer "a deconstructed game space where the player interacts with the code itself." 
Mongrel, the British techno-art crew, will turn the tables with BlackLash, in which players will be able to "annihilate Klu-Klux Klan blobs in a geometric spacewar game space".The exhibition will also feature patches created by ordinary players and circulated on the Net. Schleiner says that her favourites include Barney and his Minions, a patch for Doom (the classic first person shoot-'em up) which features the purple dinosaur and his chums rather than marines and monsters; and Jason Huddy's Los Disneys, a patch for Marathon, the popular Mac shoot-'em-up. Here, the player has to battle Disney's plans to take over America, something that involves shooting down Mickey, Donald and crowds of camera-toting tourists, amongst other things.Some games developers are suspicious of the artistic interventions Schleiner plans to showcase, dismissing them as patronising gestures from people who don't appreciate the real skill that goes into a good game. They would probably be more comfortable with William Latham, a computer artist whose interest in games has led him to give up on the art world and reinvent himself as a game developer.Latham is probably best known for his "virtual sculptures", strange 3D entities that blur the boundaries between the technological and the organic and were not so much created as "bred" using genetic algorithms. Over the past two years, Computer Artworks - the company he set up with programmer Mark Atkinson - has been applying the same techniques to Evolva, a PC shoot-'em-up due to be published by Virgin in the autumn. In the game, the player takes on the role of the Evolva, "master of genetic engineering and ultimate 
warrior"."The interesting thing is that the players can mutate and customise their in-game character," explains Latham. Though they start out human-like, they end up looking outrageous, their bodies morphed into post-human amalgams of futuristic weapons and flesh. "By the end of the game a player's in-game character is unique to them," he says. By choosing to mutate their characters in different ways, players "can put their personality into the game they're playing," then save their mutated selves and send them to friends via the Net.A cynic might suggest that Latham's status as an artist has more to do with marketing than vision, that his involvement is a way of giving an arty sheen to a standard shoot-'em-up and hence making it stand out from the competition. 
That would be unfair. With its mutating central 
character, Evolva does seem to be trying out an idea that other companies might 
have dismissed as too risky.That said, computer games still have a long way to go before they could be described as art, let alone come close to the kind of reality-warping intensity of the computer-generated entertainment imagined in David Cronenberg's eXistenZ. But it may turn out that, if they are prepared to immerse themselves fully in the game world, artists may start to move computer games in the right direction.• For information aboutEvolva and Computer ArtworksCracking the MazeLos Disneys
Darwin's theory of evolution tells you that everything must be related, but not why everything is different. It doesn't tell you why one group has backbones and the rest do not."It is not telling you anything about how form is actually made," says Dr Per Ahlberg of the Natural History Museum in London. "It is all very well saying birds evolved from dinosaurs, they developed feathers and their forelimbs turned into wings. But how do you make a wing? And what is different about making a wing compared with making an arm? Unless you can answer those questions, you really have not got anywhere."About 180 scientists from 20 countries will gather at the Natural History Museum today to look for new ways to confront once-impossible questions. Some will be field palaeontologists, of the sort who disinter dinosaur bones from rocks. Some will be 
molecular biologists, who stare at DNA and try to connect the chemistry of the genes with the growth and shape of the finished creature. In the course of the encounter, they will launch a new kind of science called evolutionary developmental biology.According to Ahlberg, two 19th century sciences which had grown apart are now joining forces to answer some of creation's great puzzles. It's tempting, from the sequence of fossils, to imagine evolution as a leap from adult to adult, but it doesn't happen like that. Developmental biologists can help the fossil scientists because they have spent a 
century or so trying to map the growth of a creature from embryo. And answers travel the other way as well."Developmental biology can look at how bird wing develops and how a lizard or crocodile develops and that will tell them a certain amount," he says. "But the palaeo side can show the earliest wings, which already had feathers but still had fingers and claws. That helps them to make sense of the developmental patterning they are seeing. So suddenly they are very important to each other."In fact most of the discussion will be about backbones rather than wings. According to Henry Gee, palaeontologist and one of the editors of the journal Nature, the spine is one of biology's stiffer questions."We have skulls, we have backbones and eyes and ears and limbs. You can tell what a vertebrate is. But vertebrates are so different from anything else that no one has any idea how they are related to the rest of creation. It's as if we just fell into another world," he says."Now there are all these funny squashy sea creatures, things called sea squirts or tunicates, and a thing called amphioxus which is a funny thing like a fish but it doesn't have any limbs or head. It looks like an animated anchovy fillet."Tunicates were thought to be molluscs and so was amphioxus. A 19th century Russian noticed they had notochords, stiffening rods, basically, like backbones. People looked further and noticed by looking at very early embryos, that echinoderms - starfish and their allies - are quite closely related to this bigger group called the chordates, which is vertebrates and the other creatures," Gee says.The problem is how one group is connected to another. Life as we know it, life with complex creatures, exploded in the Cambrian period 600 million years ago, but most of it was soft-bodied, leaving no fossils. The first creatures with bony, fishlike bits appeared as if from nowhere. Nobody knew why. But new understanding of DNA - that molecular blueprint  handed down to all living things from some common ancestry - means that the molecular biologists might be able to winkle out why the whelk differs from the elk, the ox from amphioxus and the tunicate from the tuna.• Major events in early vertebrate evolution: palaeontology, phylogeny and development, is at the Natural History Museum, London today and tomorrow (April 8/9)
Energies: An Illustrated Guide To The Biosphere And Civilisation 
Vaclav SmilMIT Press (0171 306 0603) 
£15.95Desert sands can receive up to 1,000 watts per square metre of solar radiation. A desert-dwelling mammal has a basal metabolism of about 5 watts per square metre: that is, it has a bit of warmth to get rid of too. A watt isn't much - it is about one fifth of a burning candle, about what a humming bird spends in three minutes. So staying cool in the desert is a big problem, because the usual cooling agency is in short supply, and sweating and panting are wasteful of water.So many desert 
animals make do with food in the form of crisps: stuff already pre-dried by the sun and air. Their urine is highly concentrated and the small ones spend a lot of time hiding in burrows.This is not an option for camels. These testy beasts don't seem to mind dry foliage; they can survive very long periods without water, and can tolerate a loss of up to 40 per cent of their body mass. When they do get to an oasis, they rehydrate by drinking the equivalent of 30 per cent of their own weight in water in between 10 and 20 minutes.The term horsepower could be a slight misnomer: well-fed draught beasts could, for short periods, deliver the equivalent of three horsepower. But  a healthy half-ton horse delivers useful work at the rate of about 750 watts, which is indeed one horsepower. This output has its costs: the more effective the horse's achievement, the higher its energy requirements. Grass is not enough.So the horses that drew the ploughs that tamed the American plains were fed four or five kilograms of oats every day. According to Vaclav Smil, by 1910 at least one fifth of US farmland had to be devoted to the cultivation of horse feed. One well-fed horse in effect took the bread and beans that would have fed about six humans. But a horse could deliver a work rate higher than that of 10 people, so it was, until the tractor arrived, a bargain.Tractors required no land to feed them: they depended, however, on a fuel with a high energy density. With Smil's stunning book to hand, you can see for yourself why gasoline goes further than grain, why big electric power generators are more energy efficient than muscles.There are science writers with poets' gifts and stories of astonishing beauty to tell, but they are, in the end, telling stories. The reader's role is to gape, and applaud. Books like Smil's have a more splendid purpose: they aim to lay clear the rules by which the world works, and equip you with the ammunition to understand it for yourself, maybe even work it out for yourself.With a book like this, you can work out the energy cost of tapping a keyboard and understand why a thunderstorm should indeed be frightening (a good one has 50 times the latent heat of the bomb that destroyed Hiroshima). With a book like this, you begin to understand why it is natural to break into a run, rather than walk even faster once you accelerate to two metres a second: at that speed, running requires less energy than walking.Energy is the currency in which we pay for our brief lives. Smil's book covers it all, from the radiation of a star to the energy economics of jet aircraft: there is salutary stuff in every paragraph.Tim RadfordSoftwareSimCity for Psion 5Atelier (0171 387 7777) £49.95
Psion 5On the train to Waterloo 
the man in a suit is hunched over his Psion 5 desperately trying to balance the books. The fate of an entire city hangs on his ability to reconcile a budget that is spiralling out of control with the needs of sensible town planning. But the transport system is crumbling, crime is rife and the citizens are screaming about the taxes.A member of the new 
London authority on his way to a crunch meeting? No, just 
a SimCity fanatic feeding his addiction on the move.
The British palmtop has stolen a march over rivals with its version of the classic simulation game. It suffers from 
all the restrictions you would expect from a Psion 5: the graphics are a little primitive but serviceable and the small screen means a lot of scrolling. But it also has the advantages: installing and running the game requires just over 1.5 megabytes of free space so it does not intrude too much on the "real work" you bought your Psion for.And that real work can continue even while you're playing. In mid-game you can flip to Data to get an address, or to Sheet or Word. Pre-set alarms will go off while you're playing to remind you to get off the train and go home (and you can just turn the power off, pop your city into your pocket and turn the power on again and pick up where you left off).The temptation to take out your Psion and start playing again at every opportunity can be overwhelming and I am beginning to feel great sympathy with the user who had to wipe it from his Psion so he could get on with life.JELive Wire!SCI/Bionic Digital 
(01753 653456) £29.99 (PlayStation)/£19.99 (PC)
Sony PlayStation
PC: Windows 95; Pentium 133MHz; 16Mb RamThis is a 3-D puzzle that has you spinning round and round from the word go. The idea of the game is to claim tiles on a grid by following "live wires" round the four sides that make up a tile. When you do, that tile becomes yours and either flips over to become your colour or gives you a secret weapon to use against your opponent. Confused? I was when I first started playing. Compete against up to four different coloured opponents to claim as many tiles as you can, stealing their tiles by fair means or foul. Your opponents may be the computer or your mates (who may not be your friends by the time you finish playing). There are five grids to visit: space, spooky, fun fair, wild west and oceanic. While confusing at first, the game can quickly become addictive. It can also leave your eyes spinning round and your mind boggled for a while once you turn off your machine.ABThe Rocky Interactive 
Horror ShowPC CD Rom £29.99 
On-line Entertainment 
01235 851 616Transvestism, semi-clad women, bizarre sexual antics - I thought for one moment I'd been sent a CD-Rom of the last Conservative Party conference. But no, this is The Rocky Interactive Horror Show, spawn of the 25-year-old kitsch-fest movie that prompted people to turn up at cinemas throughout the world clad in naught but basques, suspenders and more make-up than Barbara Cartland. And that was just the boys!This attempt to drag the phenomenon screaming into the cyber-age falls more than a little flat however. In these days of Quake and Unreal, we gamers are expecting (if not demanding) more from the word "interactive" than ever before.Sadly the graphics and the game-playing here are pretty one-dimensional - the premise being that you choose either Brad or Janet then you search the house for clues as to where the other character has been taken to. I assume that the vast appeal of the original movie was the pace and communal p-a-r-t-i-c-i-pation of it all, both of which the game lack.That said, there is an online playing option but, even with a full complement of the original characters (Riff-Raff, Magenta and Frank are all here) and narration from Gothic stalwart Christopher Lee, this fails to rise above its mundane platform. File under Strictly for Fans.HM
Digital versatile disks - compact disks' more powerful brothers - look like being the first successful entertainment medium since their siblings' appearance in the 1980s. 
"DVD is the fastest-growing packaged media format in history," says Screen Digest executive editor Ben Keen. The medium reached Europe in mid-1998 after being launched in Japan in autumn 1996 and in the US in early 1997.Keen says it had a quicker take-up in its first year than audio CDs and will overtake the growth of video cassette recorders in its second year.Sales of DVDs in the first quarter of 1999 surpassed those for the whole of last year. Some 5.4 million DVD drives are in homes already, predicted to jump to 16 million this year and 88 million by 2001, according to Californian industry analysts Dataquest.
During last week's three-day DVD European Summit Conference in Dublin (the first was in Versailles last year), 200 of the faithful heard this litany of achievements promulgated.The disks do hold great promise. With up to 8.5 gigabytes of storage per side, they have at least seven times the capacity of the familiar 650 megabyte CD-Rom. They come in three types: DVD-Rom, used for software titles; DVD-Video, which holds film; and three recordable formats, DVD-R (recordable), DVD-Ram, and DVD-RW (rewriteable).Because of the disks' increased capacity and higher specifications, the format has superb sound and video quality - it stores Mpeg 2 video - and has achieved some success as an alternative, digitally-pristine film medium to VHS tape.Multimedia developers see the format as the possible saviour of a new media industry which never really took off once consumers decided most titles were answers to questions that no one except computer gamers had asked."One of the big complaints about CD-Rom is you couldn't get full-screen, full-motion video," says David Mercer, service director with UK analysts Strategy Analytics. "DVD gives us the opportunity to do that."Keynote speaker Bernie Luskin, the man who helped bring the interactive compact disk, or CD-i, to fruition and now teaches business at the University of Southern California, is particularly bullish. "DVD is now the low-hanging fruit on the CD tree," he says.The industry believes this will be the year the format takes off, mainly because of cheaper DVD players, particularly in Europe. According to Keen, the typical European DVD player cost $825 (£515), while Americans could buy one for $399 (£250) or less. Now, he says, a £249 Samsung player is on offer in Comet, Woolworths and MVC in the UK, and Asda says it will sell a £159 player soon.However, the format still faces some formidable hurdles. A vicious battle over standards for the young medium has been slightly dampened rather than resolved. As Keen points out, in 1998 16 hardware brands launched 34 models of DVD player; this year will see a further four hardware brands enter the market and another 17 models.Many of those are incompatible, particularly the hardware technologies used to create and play rewriteable disks. This situation has led eMedia Professional contributing editor Dana Parker to collectively describe DVD-R, DVD-Ram and DVD-RW as "DVD-Regrettable". Some players won't run older format DVDs.Even if DVD players become standard in PCs, there's no promise that the format will have general appeal. After years of citing the the burgeoning base of CD-Rom drives in home PCs, multimedia developers found that consumers often barely looked at the CD-Roms bundled with their machines. Except for games, most had no interest in buying further titles.DVD is also under threat from the explosion of the 
sub-$1,000 (£625) PC market. Few computers in that range have the more expensive DVD-Rom drives, and if lower-priced PCs continue to pull customers, industry analysts acknowledge they may need to revise their estimates for the growth of the DVD platform. As it is, the European installed base is only 250,000 players.Lack of DVD titles makes consumers reluctant to invest in a player, but without a perceivable audience, developers are not willing to create them. Only 135 titles were available for general European release in 1998; in the US, there are 2,500 titles, but that's minute compared with the range of titles on CD-Rom, CD audio, or VHS.That may change with the launch of the much-anticipated Sony PlayStation II in March next year. The player, which Sony seems to be pitching as a broad-based consumer entertainment platform, will be DVD-compatible and may provide the foot in the consumer door that title developers want.Delegates acknowledge that VHS tapes and CDs will remain tough competitors to DVD. Consumers don't necessarily care about the superior quality of DVD, says Mercer: "VHS does a perfectly good job in terms of image  DVD is not going to be a universal system any time soon." And CDs are inexpensive and compatible with a wide range of CD-Rom and CD audio players. As Parker concedes, "The fact is that the compact disk is a hard act to follow."
Capital childrenIT'S TRUE, if we all stop having CHILDREN there will be more space, less queueing, and generally MORE of everything for Lucy Ellmann to consume herself. For those of us who aren't so career MOTIVATED (or selfish) as Lucy, having children is the single most rewarding and creative thing we are ever likely to do. No one needs to justify or rationalise the reasons why they have children. If anything needs explaining, it's why Lucy Ellman keeps using CAPITAL LETTERS.Raymond DunthorneLondon EC1ReGARDING Lucy Ellmann - to determine the value of her work, just ask four questions about the capitalisation:1Is it relevant?2Does it add to content?3Is it easier to read?4Is there any other merit?The answers are no, no, no, yes. The "yes" is because she wants to be noticed, and succeeds. If Lucy Ellmann could write then she wouldn't need such affectations.
The conclusion must be that it's simply appearance at the expense of content (much like your perennial teenager, Julie Burchill, who still hasn't outgrown the belief that rude words are controversial). I challenge Ms Ellmann: 
justify its use.Steve Day,SalisburyIf Fay Godwin does give Lucy Ellmann her iMac, 
perhaps she could remove the CapsLock key first.Andy Pedleyandy@pedleys.freeserveAlways good to see the past rise up to smite the 
forgetful present.
The Futurists and Dada-ists who more than 70 years ago used such techniques as random capitalisations of words to disrupt and reawaken jaded awareness would be very pleased, I imagine, to know they can still enrage the computer bourgeoisie so easily (Paul Blisset, Feedback, March 26).Steve SneydHuddersfieldCable alternativeBob Kane in "To pay or not to pay" (April 1, page 11) makes no mention of a cable company as an ISP (Internet Service Provider). I live in Glasgow and use NTL. As 
I have an NTL cable phone 
I get very low phone charges.  For example, at the week-end, this is only 30p per hour, rising to 50p per hour in the evening off-peak period.
It is worth paying the £5 per month charge to have this cheap service.I also get 5 megabytes of Web space.Joe LathamJ.Latham@socsci.gla.ac.ukFollowing David Williams' experience with 
X-Stream's free service, I signed up to see whether this may be a better service to my current pay-ISP (CompuServe). Of course, it wasn't. 
I did manage to log-on during one of the free weekends. But each one took around half to three-quarters of an hour of re-dialling.
Once on line, it is much slower than CompuServe. I  still use it for an alternative e-mail address and to cut down on my large CompuServe bill, but I couldn't recommend it as the sole ISP for a serious user - yet.Cameron CrookPrestonAdressinge-mailonline@guardian.co.ukfax: 0171-713 4154post:OnLine, The Guardian,119 Farringdon Rd, London EC1R 3ERTelephone: 0171-278 2332• Please include a full postal address and 
a contact telephone number.
Short letters stand a better chance of being published unedited.
• Dick Tracy may have had a communicator decades ago, but South Korea's Samsung Electronics is only just beginning to make it a reality with its first watch phone (right) due to go on sale this month. The catchily-named SPH-WP10 - which measures 67 by 58 by 20mm and weighs just 50g including battery - combines a digital watch with a standard (CDMA-based) mobile phone. Samsung reckons the watch-phone will not be as easy to lose as a conventional model, and you don't have to be a contortionist to use it: it has voice activated dialling and comes with an earpiece/microphone. However, there's no news on when Samsung might do a version for use in the UK.• LG Electronics, another South Korean manufacturer, has launched a flat-screen 17in monitor that's not as sexy as a watch phone but could make more people happy. The Flatron SW795FT+ uses a Sony Trinitron-style tension mask, but stretched so tight it doesn't need any wires to hold it in place. The Flatron handles resolutions up to 1600 by 1200 at 75Hz, and also includes a USB hub with one input and four output ports for peripherals. The street price should be under £300 plus VAT. See http://flatron.lge.co.kr• Microsoft has sent the next version of its Office suite to manufacturing, and finished copies should hit the streets around June 8. Office 2000 is being produced in five versions: Professional, Premium, Small Business, Developer and Standard. The biggest is the Premium edition: it includes Word (word processing), Excel (spreadsheet), Powerpoint (presentations), Access (database), Outlook (personal information manager), Publisher (desktop publishing), FrontPage (Web site creation), PhotoDraw (business graphics), Internet Explorer 5.0 (Web browser) and Microsoft's Small Business Tools. Sales of Microsoft Office bring in about $6 billion a year. Meanwhile Microsoft UK has slashed £20 or £30 off most of its Encarta range of encyclopedias, bringing the Standard British Edition of Encarta 99 down to only £29.99. It has also launched a DVD of the Encarta Reference Suite, which includes the Deluxe encyclopedia, World Atlas, Bookshelf 99 and some extra multimedia files on a single disk for £79.99.• Gwyneth Paltrow and/or Michael Douglas fans will soon be able to see the "sinister" ending to A Perfect Murder, the thriller inspired by Alfred Hitchcock's Dial M for Murder. The director's original ending was changed for the cinema and VHS video releases of the film: preview audiences didn't find it upbeat enough. Warner Home Video has included it - along with commentaries by director Andrew Davis and others involved with the film - as an option on the £15.99 DVD of the movie released on April 19.• The chip market declined by 8.4 per cent to $134.8 billion last year because overcapacity led to falling prices, according to Dataquest, a computer industry research company based in California. Intel, also based in California, remained the market leader with $22.8 billion in sales and a 16.9 per cent share of the world market. Japan's NEC was second with chip sales worth $8.1 billion, while America's Motorola was third with sales worth $7 billion.• Magellan reckons its new handheld navigator - which tells you where you are using global positioning satellites (GPS) - will appeal to landlubbers as well as sailors. The £394 MAP 410 receiver has a built-in base map that includes cities, lakes, rivers, railways and motorways, not just fixed buoys and lighthouses. The device can exchange data with a PC, and includes an altimeter and a thermometer.MELISSA could turn out to have a beneficial effect on the Internet. So far this Microsoft Word 97 (and Word 2000) virus, which appeared almost two weeks ago, has done much less damage than the press hysteria about it. Melissa may have affected a million personal computers, but that's only 0.3 per cent of the total. Far more e-mails have clogged the Net with warnings about Melissa than Melissa has managed to send out from Microsoft Outlook address books. However, long-term benefits could emerge from the association of Melissa-style viruses with 
e-mail attachments. If fear of viruses makes people delete attachments unread, there's a slim chance that users could start to send e-mail as plain text instead. And since plain text messages are about a tenth of the size of Word files, that would free up masses of Internet bandwidth and lighten the load on everybody's mailboxes. Online would certainly prefer to receive a hundred 4K files a day, instead of attachments with multicoloured company logos that can take up 500K or a megabyte each.• How to avoid Melissa and similar macro viruses in Microsoft Word 97: go to Tools on the menu bar and select Options. Click the tab marked General, put a tick in the box for Macro Virus Protection, and press OK. Time taken: five seconds. Then whenever you get a document that includes macro commands, open it with the macros disabled, and Melissa won't be able to infect your software, even if someone sends it to you. Just following these instructions could save millions of tonnes of newsprint.• This week, thousands of PC manufacturers will be thinking of catching a bus. WinHEC, the annual Windows Hardware Engineering Conference) is being held in the Los Angeles Convention Center, so manufacturers will be deciding the future of "Wintel" PCs driven by Microsoft Windows and Intel or compatible processors. This year, expansion buses are a hot topic. Manufacturers have already decided to kill off the slow 1984-vintage ISA (Industry Standard Architecture) bus, which messes up the automatic installation of add-ons under the Plug &amp; Play scheme. However, it's not clear how much support there will be for three new buses. These are: PCI-X, an extended version of today's standard PCI bus, Intel's NGIO (Next Generation Input/Output) bus, and a Mini PCI bus designed for mobile devices. Such matters have to be decided well in advance so that Microsoft can add software support to Windows. This always takes longer than anyone thinks, even though everyone starts by assuming it will take longer than anyone thinks.
Are computers important? for you?... for the world?I could easily get by without mine, but can't imagine living in a world without one.What about the Internet? Does it threaten or enhance individual freedom?Both. Every time I log on and there's unsolicited junk mail from some weirdo called Saucy Slutty or Yummy Bunny or something I get the shivers as to where this thing just might lead without some kind of regulation.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC... or something different?Apple Mac.What do you use the machine for?Writing scripts. 
Writing letters. E-mailing my children. Messing around with graphics for far too many hours.Any particular favourite software?Adobe Photoshop.Any favourite Web sites or newsgroups on UseNet?www.arsenal.comDo you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?No. I find all that "chat room" stuff a bit creepy. I seem to spend my life avoiding people, so tapping out my opinions on whether Clinton is a sleazeball or not to a complete stranger called Chuck is anathema to me.Do you use your own name when surfing?No.Spend long at the terminal?Too long - until I remind myself to get a life.Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?I'm not, but my assistant JJ, in Los Angeles, undoubtedly is a geek. He's about five years further ahead in computer literacy than anyone I've met this side of the pond. He's part of the Californian generation that invented all this weird-speak computer stuff that we once scoffed at but now we're all addicted to.On a desert island, a human or a computer for 
company?Close call, but I think I'd still choose a human. Unless there was a really good colour scanner and printer 
available.Are you worried by the Y2K Millennium Bug?Very... What is it?What do you see in the future for computers?Hal in 2001, now that Stanley's gone.Professionally, what's taking up your time? Iget a lot of questionnaires....
No names, but some car journalists have a term they like to use whenever a hi-mpg, lo-smog car is launched. They call it a 'Guardian reader's car'. The same journalists are baffled when I tell them I test petrol-drinking cars for said paper - after all, the readership just ride bikes and swerve to avoid worms, do they not? The worm-swerving I accept (and even admit to practising), but the Guardian's marketing ferrets will quickly point out that an unusually high proportion of this broadsheet's readers spends big money on cars - at least more so than among the nation's aristos, many of whom run 1957 Bentleys and use the Telegraph's motoring supplement as a cheap alternative to central heating.If this seems mildly defensive, it's because it's not every week that we test drive Porsche's latest hardware. But for all those hundreds of readers who are thinking of buying the new 911 Carrera 4, I can report that their conscience is safe. It might not look like it, but this is, on the quiet, a bit of a Guardian reader's car.A smattering of history and geometry will aid your appreciation. First of all, it's important to remember that the 911 badge goes back to 1963 and the distinctive rear-engine, rear-drive mould, still further, to 1948. As debts to heritage go, this means that the new Carrera has lots of automotive baggage to pack in. Its history is also that of a crab - not because it likes to go sideways (which can happen) but because every time it sheds its old shell, it emerges a bit bigger - and a bit more powerful. So the current car has 300 brake horsepower, goes from zero to sixty in less than five-and-a-half seconds and has a top speed of 163mph. Or did, until this new four-wheel drive model came along. It is a shade faster still and will see you happily to 174mph. Which is where the geometry comes in. Just to save your postage, we'll state here that no car can be very powerful AND very safe, but the all-wheel drive 911 does go some way towards curbing the car's inherent instability. Driving a normal Carrera round a very bendy corner is best likened to attempting to throw a lump hammer handle-first; because the engine and drive are all pushing like hell from the boot, the front can, in over-enthusiastic hands, suddenly become the back. Whereupon relaxed and pleasant motoring, possibly along with you, go out of the window.Not so the Carrera 4. In truth, it's a cheat's 911. Within its innards, a viscous coupling system monitors progress. If needs be, it can transfer up to 40 per cent of the torque to the front wheels. On top of that, a button marked PSM (Porsche stability management) invokes technology recently banned in Grand Prix racing. If the system senses serious slide from one wheel, it brakes it individually, bringing the entire car back into line. Behind this artillery, there's also ABS, ASR (anti-spin differential) and ABD, (automatic brake differential). For technical authority, no car has so many letters after its name.On the road and in the hands of a wet-eared novice like me, this means that progress is very stable and solid, even when the inevitable temptation of overtaking a limping milkfloat becomes too much. It's not all fun though. Most drivers, it must be said, dislike Porsche owners. So in heavy traffic, no one wants to let you in, or out. And while a new Ford might elicit admiring glances, a T-reg Porsche assumes a strange invisible quality. Still, it's no price to pay for the pleasure of temporary, free, ownership.The latest 911 is noisy at speed, grates your buttocks through potholes and, in manual, has a gear and clutch change so heavy that the left side of your body begins to resemble Popeye. But on an open road, it shrinks round you like a Kawasaki, does exactly what you ask and makes you feel spoilt rotten. Should Guardian readers buy it? Those with £67,850 to spare will find no better precision instrument for the road. And if their conscience weighs heavily, they might like to remember What Car? magazine's most recent emissions test to find 'Britain's Filthiest Cars'. The 911 came out squeaky green, sharing a ranking with Toyota's 1.6-litre Corolla. Which means that despite the near-sexual frisson, it's all good clean fun.
Everybody knows it's always the other guy's fault if your motor is hit from behind. This small comfort, however, was not uppermost in the mind of Amber Scott as she rattled along rail tracks for nearly four miles, her car snagged under a freight train.Instead, in no particular order, she thought of her mom and the Lord. One of these she could reach on her mobile phone; the other saved her life, if you believe in miracles. If you don't, maybe her T-shirt should take the credit.It was 7am and Amber was driving to college from her home in Anderson, Indiana, when she stopped for the red lights at a level crossing. The 19-year-old student at Ball State university, Muncie, had something on her mind as she waited for green and it was not Billy Strayhorn's Take The A Train. A more apposite cultural reference point might have been more the early Steven Speilberg movie, Duel, in which a motorist is terrorized by a malevolent truck driver.What was actually bothering her was this: 'It was weird because I was thinking 'What if someone hit me? I'd go straight into the train.' Then, in my rear-view mirror, I saw this truck coming up behind me. He had to be going 60 mph and he didn't look like he was stopping.' Indeed he was not.'In the instant before I was hit, I gripped the wheel, closed my eyes and prayed. I felt the truck hit me and when I opened my eyes all I saw was the train. It was so loud.' By this time the pick-up truck had ploughed into her 1989 Pontiac Grand-Am in dense fog and shunted her into the middle of the train, the bonnet wedged under the 33rd wagon. The driver of the train was oblivious as she was dragged along at right angles for more than three-and-a-half miles, sparks flying. Amber was making her small contribution to the great American tradition of hopping freight trains.At this point Amber did what anyone equipped for life on the edge of a new century would do. She dug out her mobile phone and called home. Had she been anywhere other than trapped under a moving train and anything other than panic-stricken, she might have been able to predict what would happen next.'I just knew I couldn't sit there and be scared. I knew I had to do something. I called my mom first but I got the answering machine.' Patricia Scott was drying her hair at the time. 'Then I called her back and managed to speak to her but I got cut off.' Patricia, more accustomed to calls about the humdrum events of the daily grind, was confused. For one thing, the phone's battery was on the blink. 'She could hear the noise of the train but just could not work out what it was.' Patricia said: 'All I heard was 'Mom, Mom! I've been hit'.' Then the line went dead. So Amber, well into her involuntary detour, called the police. The force is not geared up to deal with abduction by loco and this time she did not even make contact with a human being.'I couldn't hear them at all,' she said. 'All I could hear was a squeak at the other end and I just couldn't hear any words at all.' The tape at the emergency 911 call centre recorded Amber screaming: 'Some guy has hit me and I'm being dragged by a train. Oh, please help, please help me.' There was also this conversation with the squeak (actually an unidentified 911 dispatcher).Amber: 'I need help.' 911 man: 'Where you at?' Amber: 'I can't hardly hear you.' 911 man: 'Where are you?' Amber: 'Car.' 911 man: 'Where are you?' It was just as well that Amber had hedged her bets and relied not only on technology but also on the spirit of the Lord. After seven minutes she was knocked clear of the train by a sign beside the track, nursing cuts, bruises and a sore back.Among the first to arrive on the scene were Mike Imel and James Thompson, two of her old school-friends from Frankton High, who had heard the racket and followed a trail of debris along the track. 'I don't remember getting out of the car and I don't know how long I stood there before Mike and James showed up.' Not everyone is enchanted when they clap eyes on someone with whom they have shared a classroom, but Amber said: 'It was good to see someone I knew. They hugged me but I just thank God I'm all right. When I stopped there was a feeling of great relief knowing that I was alive.' Thompson cast his 17-year-old eyes over the former Grand-Am, the roof caved in, the bonnet crumpled and the rear end promoted to the rear seat and said: 'It looked like the person that was in it should have been dead. She was kinda not really all there.' Mom considered the possibility of divine intervention: 'You know there had to be arms around her. There has to be a plan.' It is the birthright of every American to drive on a highway; a close second is the constitutional requirement, for which they are conditioned from birth, to appear on television. Amber was therefore well-placed to designate her survival as a miracle: she was worried about missing a week at college; she was not going to take life for granted any more; she thanked the Lord; she was a fighter; she was wearing a Lucky Brand T-shirt inscribed with the slogan Too Tough To Die.All that was missing was Amber saying that she felt no bitterness towards the man in the pick-up truck. 'I haven't heard from the driver who hit me and I don't think I really want to.' In the event, the certainty that the other driver is to blame and that his insurance company must pay up is of little use to Amber. Twenty-five-year-old Ross Schroeder has been charged with driving without insurance.
What are you driving?It's an old Escort. Basically, it's a group N rally car. That means it's more or less standard, except that you have a quickshift gearbox, upgraded brakes and a roll cage.And you drive this on the street?I do, yeah. It's quite a mean machine. It does get a few looks. It's definitely not quiet.Wouldn't you rather go unnoticed?I don't mind. I'll drive anything. I don't care. It was just one of those things. We get time enough to drive for pleasure.What state is it in, inside and out?It's always dirty. Forget valets. The floor has all sorts on it. But mainly car park tickets - I don't eat much.What do you think your car says about you?It depends which one you're talking about. I have about seven.What about the rally car then?That I don't give a bollocks.Anything more specific?I'm a carefree man. It's old and dirty. It has a bit of spike under the hood, but, hey, I don't let on about that.So what other cars do you have?I've got a truck as well, a bigfoot pickup. It's the biggest you can legally drive on the roads in Europe.Aren't seven cars a bit unnecessary? You can't drive them all.Nah. I have a four-wheel drive, a Porsche 911 and two BMWs. I've left one out. I have two coupes as well. That's eight. I prefer the Porsche. The truck's a project, a customised vehicle. I learnt to be a mechanic after I'd left school at 15. I stopped when I was about 17.If Boyzone were a car, what would they be?A proper 911.And Take That?I'm sure they'd be a 911 as well. For one, Boyzone have never slagged off another band, and we're never going to. So I can't answer that question.What do you listen to in the car?Capital Radio, actually.Ever experienced road rage?Not a problem. If somebody wants to cut me up, I couldn't care less. In all my years of driving, I don't think I've ever biffed someone up.Not even when you're rally driving?Nah, it's all fun. People often take a pop at me when they realise who I am. People being ignorant towards life. But then again, I couldn't give a shite. You know what I mean?Have you ever had sex in a car?No. That's my private life really, and nobody else's business. All right?Shane Lynch is in Boyzone and they have an album out in May
'Melissa' has been a brief and nasty taste of how vulnerable the Internet is to viruses. Named after a topless Florida dancer or perhaps after Bill Gates's wife, it has set a record as the world's fastest-spreading computer virus. It was uploaded on Friday, March 26 and within a few days, it had spread to millions of computers all over the world. By the end of last week, companies including Microsoft, ICL and Intel, were being forced to close down their e-mail systems. Melissa spawned other viruses such as Papa and Mad Cow, and together they were held responsible for crippling Allied Communications in the Balkans as the US Army and Air Force had to take their e-mail servers across the world out of action to disinfect them. Targeted at users of Microsoft products, Melissa appeared as an e-mail. Inside was attached a document containing a list of pornographic sites. Opening the document, triggered a programme which promptly copied the same e-mail to the first 50 names in your e-mail address book.The one crumb of comfort is that the creator of Melissa was tracked down so quickly; by last Thursday, David L Smith, had been charged and was facing a possible $480,000 fine and a maximum prison sentence of 40 years. But that will do little to allay alarm at the scale of the damage Melissa, a relatively harmless virus, caused. Melissa was trouble because of the sheer volume of e-mail but it was not much more than a nuisance compared to the Chernobyl virus, expected by many observers to hit the Net on April 26. Set to strike on the 13th anniversary of the Ukrainian nuclear catastrophe, it overwrites the computer's hard disk, eliminating all data and disables the chip that allows the computer to be started. This is no longer the realm of the sci-fi fantasy, nor is it only an issue for Net-techies. Every Net user's privacy is vulnerable - this time your e-mail address book, next time your bank details? -and there will be a painful learning curve as computer novices learn how they have to protect themselves.
The first official investigation into the health risks of mobile phones has discovered they do affect brain activity.The study, due to be released this week, was masterminded by Dr Alan Preece, a medical engineer based at Bristol Royal Infirmary, and examined the impact of mobile phone use on memory. It found that volunteers were able to think faster while using the phones and performed better in a memory test immediately after using them.But other leading scientists in the field warn that any evidence of interference with normal brain functions by signals from handsets would be very worrying - even if that evidence showed short-term benefits to memory.Dr Henry Lai, the American scientist whose work on low-intensity radiation given off by mobile phones showed damage to DNA in rats, said: 'Any disturbance to the function of the brain is alarming. The consequence of functional changes in the brain is behavioural changes. Under certain circumstances, a change in certain behaviour could be beneficial. But in another situation, the same change could be detrimental.'The Bristol-based research is expected to report that a 10-minute period on a mobile phone improved users' ability to memorise lists of words they were shown immediately afterwards.Preece, who kept the results of his research a tightly guarded secret, refused to comment on 'speculation' about the results, but denied 'in the strongest possible terms' earlier reports that he had evidence of mobile phones damaging short-term memory.The study is important because the British regulatory body responsible for setting standards on all kinds of radiation, the National Radiological Protection Board, has rebuffed public fears about mobile-phone use.The NRPB position is that there is insufficient quality research to prove whether the phones - used by 13.5 million people in this country alone - are safe or not.Concern is also growing among parents worried about the health risks posed by radiation from mobile phone base stations springing up on schools across the country. They fear that the NRPB is ignoring key studies by American and Swedish scientists which seem to demonstrate health problems. Some councils, such as Liverpool, want the Government to adopt precautionary policies until the masts are proved safe. Some scientists want mobile phones to carry health warning labels.Preece's study focuses only on memory loss, which is currently the key issue in a handful of court cases being brought by former telecoms engineers. It will not deal with the suspected links to the tumours experienced by some engineers and, most famously, by the prominent businessman-friend of Richard Branson, Michael Von Clemm, who died as a result of a tumour which developed behind his 'phone ear'.At a speech given recently in Bristol, Preece described the methods he used in his experiments, provoking criticisms that he failed to replicate real-life phone usage.A source close to the experiment said the test used a cell phone with an aerial longer and thinner than standard models. Experiments by scientists in Switzerland have shown that such an aerial would reduce the level of absorption into the brain by as much as 60 per cent.The study also tested only the left side of the brain, involved in vision and speech functions.The NRPB is monitoring the progress of a further study of hundreds of telecommunications engineers, expected to run for three years.
Malaysia is claiming to be at the leading edge of cyber-legislation as it introduces a law today to regulate anything on screen, be it a personal computer or television. But opposition groups say that the government's aim is to silence them.The Communications and Multimedia Act is believed to be the first law in the world that attempts to impose blanket control over the broadcasting, information technology and telecommunications industries. Malaysia hopes the legislation will become a model for other countries.'Blurring of borders between telecommunications, broadcasting and computing has challenged the old legislative and regulatory infrastructure,' said the minister of energy, communications and multimedia, Dati Leo Moggie, at a recent industry workshop.But the opposition fears the new law will be used to restrict freedom of speech: under the legislation anyone providing offensive or false material can be jailed for up to a year.'They must be thinking of ways to restrict and limit the free use of the Internet,' said the parliamentary opposition leader, Lim Kit Siang.He says the Internet has become an important medium for the opposition, despite there being only about 480,000 subscribers - a figure that has been rising fast since the political crisis prompted by the sacking of the country's deputy prime minister, Anwar Ibrahim, in September.In the past six months more than 50 web sites have sprung up announcing the dates and venues of demonstrations in support of political reform, and offering a forum for political discussion not available in the local media.Mr Lim says the Anwar trial has brought about 'an explosion of Internet use'. The government itself predicts the number of subscribers will multiply 20-fold in the next 15 years, with business and social life centred on the Internet and portable multimedia gadgets.The prime minister's vision of the wired society of the future is partly responsible: a multimedia 'super corridor' project aims to attract to Malaysia every computer company that matters. But the government says laws covering computer crimes, banking fraud and copyright are needed first.Under the new law, a communications and multimedia commission will establish a watchdog to regulate material including 'unsuitable content' and 'the representation of Malaysian culture and national identity'.The commission's chairman, Syed Hussein Mohammed, says the regulation of content is needed because in Malaysia's multiracial society, it is important 'that people do not use the media to incite people'.In a recent speech he said: 'Nobody should be overtly concerned except perhaps those who have immoral and illegal things in mind.' Already opposition activists armed with computers are finding ways to avoid being traced, bypassing the country's Internet service providers. One expert said: 'It's very easy to avoid getting caught - just don't use Malaysian accounts or Malaysian services. You can get away with it.'
Remember  what it was like in the early days of the World Wide Web? When sites did not look the same, and half the features didn't work, and standards were in a state of flux? Online calendar sites are like that now, but they 
are developing fast. In fact, online calendars and addressbooks may well prove to be the next battleground for the major "portals", the giant sites that act as gateways to the Web.New calendar sites are being launched every few weeks, and the big players are buying or signing deals with them. Yahoo! was first off the mark, and took over WebCal last summer, and in the autumn, the Amazon.com bookshop bought PlanetAll. In January, Netscape's Netcenter started offering 
a calendar service from When.com, and in February, the Lycos search engine introduced a similar service from MyTime. Microsoft is now looking for a service for its MSN portal, and it would be surprising if it didn't consider Jump! or SuperCalendar - both launched in January - or Anyday.com, which started 
a pre-release (beta) test last month.The idea is to enable users to put schedules and appointments on the Web. This may not sound very attractive, but it does have some advantages over keeping them on a PC, or even on a personal organiser.First, because the Web is accessible from any device with a browser, users can get at their appointments from anywhere, at any time. This is particularly useful when several people need access to the same calendar - a boss and her secretary, for example, or mobile workers who work as part of a team, or even the members of a family. An online calendar is like a fridge door in cyberspace, as one site, Efridge, suggests.Second, online calendars provide a simple way to integrate external events. For example, your favourite football team or concert hall could publish its events listing as a calendar, and if you subscribed, selected events could be added to your schedule automatically. Clicking on one such event would fire up a message that would make it easy to buy tickets. Many companies and organisations would find that sort of feature attractive.Montrese Etienne, a spokesman for the Jump! calendar site, thinks the real power comes from the ability to plan schedules while also using the Web to read timetables, check weather reports, book plane tickets and so on. "Currently Jump! incorporates TV Guide data, Reuter's news feeds, Accunet Weather and Horoscope information," she says, "and they'll be announcing an entire slew of content partners" when the site is launched.There are, of course, drawbacks. Calendars don't appear out of thin air: appointments must be tediously typed in, and no one who pays for phone calls wants to do that online. Today's calendar sites are generally pretty clunky, and it's not much fun connecting just to see if an appointment is at noon or 1pm.But calendar sites can simplify those problems by providing software that allows people to upload the contents of their personal information manager (PIM) software - Microsoft Outlook or Lotus Organizer or Symantec's ACT! or whatever - and then to synchronise or "synch" it with other machines. That way users can have the same schedule on the PC at home and the one in the office, and on their Palm Pilot or notebook PC or Windows CE system as well.Unfortunately, moving data between different PIMs is fraught with problems, even when it's done on a single computer, because they don't all have the same data fields in the same places. For virtual business cards, the vCard standard offers a solution - it's supported by Microsoft, Lotus and Netscape - but the related vCalendar standard has not been widely implemented. And while some sites are planning to follow Anyday.com in implementing vCalendar - Calendars.net, Jump! and SuperCalendar, for example - the Internet Engineering Task Force is developing a new standard called 
RFC 2445 or iCalendar.Frank Dawson, a consulting engineer with Lotus Development Corporation and co-author of the 36,000-word RFC 2445 "memo", reckons the calendar portal vendors will have to enable users to upload data in iCalendar 
format and synchronise machines or they will be "dead on arrival". Some of the sites I contacted weren't even sure what iCalendar was, and only Art Gehring, Anyday.com's director of marketing, said straight out that "we will support both the advanced object store and the interoperability of iCal for drag and drop and group scheduling". At the moment, the calendar sites implementing synching are looking to commercial software. For example, Yahoo! has adopted Starfish's TrueSync Plus, Jump! will offer Puma's Intellisync, and Anyday.com plans to introduce Randsoft Harmony 99. But without synch software that works seamlessly, calendar sites face an uphill struggle.Indeed, Etienne reckons just offering an online calendar is not enough, and users want systems like Jump!, that integrate calendaring with other features. Gehring admits "there's not a lot of individual usage going on. We're really still at the 'early adopter' phase - people who are on their computer all the time - and we need a 'critical mass' with these things. The challenge is going to be who can get it to the mainstream."Anyday.comAppoint.NetCalendars.netDaily DrillEasyDiaryEfridgeJoint PlanningJump!Lycos Mytimeorhttp://mytime.lycos.comMy Global AssistantNetscape Netcenter (When.com)PlanetAllSchedule OnlineSuperCalendarVistoWebAdressBookorwww.webab.comWhen.comYahoo
There are now only about two weeks left in which to conceive that Millennium Baby you always dreamed of. Supermarkets are overflowing with folic acid and pregnancy kits, the pro-family Budget's on your side. But what rewards are in store for the parents of the first kid born in 2000? A prize? A year's supply of nappies? Some kind of GENIUS? A new Christ perhaps? Or just a good PARTY PERSON.It's not going to be easy getting one though. Male infertility's on the rise and everybody's all bent out of shape about it. "Nick was infertile. If he was a bull he'd have been turned into hamburger," wrote somebody in the Telegraph Magazine a few weeks ago. You can't even get DONATED sperm these days. There are only four accredited donors in the whole of Bristol, one in Glasgow. Men are becoming stingy with their essence. Maybe it's for ETHICAL reasons: they want to save the planet! Birds stop reproducing when things get too crowded. Why not us? Who are we trying to kid anyway? The British don't like children! They're famous for it. First they're sent to grim little schools and then, before you know it, they're forced to get jobs. Not allowed in pubs, rebuffed by cinemas, always getting run over, the young languish in their pushchairs, unwieldy and unloved.The fact is, we don't need so many of them. Whatever happened to the idea of zero population growth? The problem isn't with children themselves, all of whom understand at the age of TEN that the planet can't support any more people. It's at 30 or 40 that people seem to forget themselves and suddenly buy a huge family van. You know what's coming: six kids in a row. They've got to fill that bus!Where is the conscience in all this fertility? People are full of justifications for having children but they never ring true because there is not, never was and can never be any moral purpose in depositing somebody into the world. The only explanation is that people are either at the mercy (despite birth control) of their genitals or hormones, they mistakenly believe their children might be willing to take them on in old age, or they want heirs. But this inheritance stuff is just habit. You'd get as much satisfaction out of leaving your pennies to a pet, a charity, or someone you just met on the street. What's so poignant about leaving it to someone who LOOKS vaguely like you?But you're on dangerous ground when you start hectoring people about having too many children. Some truly believe that it would be NICE to have some and resent the prospect of being deprived. They don't realise parenthood largely means TROUBLE. First the 24-hour-a-day anxiety about the infant, then toilet-training, hair-brushing, squabbles with other parents about your kid's alleged misdemeanours, compulsory attendance of nativity plays, the tyranny of GCSEs and the fury and worry of adolescence. All of which is accompanied by incredible financial, emotional and CULINARY demands, and 20 years of hiding the PORN. Thankless! If the kid turns out OK, it's indecent of you to claim any credit. It they don't, it's all your fault. (Especially if you're a Single Mother.)Just think of all a person NEEDS. All the books, the envelopes, the batteries, the water, air, heating, olive oil, sex, music, jazz record requests, education, TV, designer labels, cars, bicycles, gardening facilities. Just the number of shoes and socks, the toothbrushes, the loads of laundry, the loo rolls, the electricity, the SNACKS. Think of the fruit that ripens for you, the ice cubes that will melt for you, the toast that's burnt for you (100 slices a year?), the vitamins, antibiotics, aspirin, lip salves and other medicaments you'll be persuaded to try during your lifetime. The Q-Tip swabs that will be mysteriously manufactured for you, the condoms, the Kleenex. The TRASH you will create, the keys you'll have cut, the Xeroxing, the taxes, the goops you'll vote for, the idiots you'll have to talk to, the SHADOW YOU WILL CAST UPON THE EARTH!You love your children dearly, you can't help it. There's no one you want to protect as much from the battle life is, the battle YOU landed them in. But, whether they're born on January 5, December 29 or even further off the mark, they will often wish they were dead, or someone else. They will long to be loved, and bemoan the fact that they are not (enough). How many people will they offend or betray? How many of these Millennium Babies will end up ORTHODONTISTS, bent coppers, rapists, spies, landlords? How many will hunt a species into extinction, drink the last bottle of some rare wine, fail to pay their TV licence? How many will crash their cars or play darts or annoy their neighbours? It's just so WASTEFUL and DESTRUCTIVE being alive, so unecological, so selfish!What do you want with children after all, when there are puppies, hobbies, cheap flights to Newark? It must be a craving for RISK. There's nothing as perilous to your well-being as having a kid, each one so perfectly designed to make its parent despair. DON'T DO IT. There's no way of knowing just what these Millennium Babies will be capable of, but they're sure to get in our way.© Lucy Ellmann, 1999• Lucy Ellmann's latest novel, Man or Mango? published by Headline/Review, is now available in paperback (£6.99)
Y2K or just Armageddon?"So what should the world's greatest defense department in the world's greatest superpower be doing? In an ideal world, it should scan every chip and every line of 
computer code it owns for dates that, although often hidden, are nonetheless 
critical to all sorts of functions - sorting 
data, processing records, performing 
mathematical calculations and so on. But 
it is not an ideal world."Michael Kraig, research fellow of the British American Security Information Council. Bulletin of the Atomic ScientistsOut there, forever?"Like a hall of mirrors, the apparently 
endless universe might be deluding us. 
The cosmos could, in fact, be finite. The illusion of infinity would come about as light wrapped all the way around space, perhaps more than once - creating multiple images 
of each galaxy . . . bizarrely, the skies 
might even contain facsimiles of the 
Earth at some earlier era."Jean-Pierre Luminet, Glenn Starkman and Jeffrey Week. Scientific American
Easterland just goes to show what Easter is all about: shopping at Dixons online, or at Thorntons, or browsing the virtual mall. Still, you can always send someone a virtual egg or 
play the atRunrabbit game(which needs Shockwave) before moving on to roll some virtual eggs at Scotland Online's less-commercialEaster site. Even American presidents do it, and real eggs will be rolled on the White House lawn on Easter Monday, according to the tradition captured online atwww.whitehouse.govYou can even buy a White House egg! However, for a comprehensive guide to Easter and other holiday sites on the Net, trywww.holidays.net/easterThe BBC plans to give the nation free "crash courses" on how to use the Internet, in a campaign that will start on April 26. The six-week 
WebWise campaign will be backed by numerous TV and radio programmes, a CD-Rom, a free help-line (0800 100 900), and a Web site atwww.bbc.co.uk/webwiseThe muddies  will be awarded to the world's ugliest Web sites later this month, in an annual event that provides 
a useful counterweight to competitions like the Webby Awards. Links to some truly awful sites have been posted on the site atwww.muddies. comalong with disparaging comments from a selection of independent judges.There's no shortage of Web sites that look as though they were programmed by dogs, but so far only one has been opened by a sheepdog. The paw-to-mouse ceremony was performed by Pip, a border collie, who launched a tourist site for theNorth of England Farm Tourism Initiative.The space bastards, based at games development house Smoking Gun Productions, have launched the 
inaugural 1999 Golden Bastard Awards. Visitors to theirWeb sitecan vote for the best games development house, the worst game ever made, the most gratuitous use of FMV (full-motion video), the worst game sequel (eg Tomb Raider 3) and several other accolades.Iponts have joinedBeenzas a form of Internet "currency". Users will be able to collect ipoints at a range of sites and redeem them online at the Web site atwww.ipoints.co.ukLoyalty Plus has started the scheme and ipoints are being offered to people who buy books atwww.amazon.co.uk, for example, or insurance atwww.screentrade.co.ukIntellectual Matchmaker is designed to help people find  organisations, individuals and Web sites that share their views. Fill in the atquestionnaireand the new service builds you a personal Web page with appropriate links. The site is run by The Henry Hazlitt Foundation, a non-profit corporation based in Chicago.Sun Hill police station, where ITV's The Bill is filmed, has now been photographed using Interactive Pictures' Ipix system, which produces "panospheric" (360 degree) images. You don't need a 
rubber neck to get a good look around but an Ipix plug-in is needed to 
display the pictures.Had enough  of those 
dancing hamsters? Tom Fulp has borrowed the graphics 
and soundtrack and added some vicious Shockwave code to produce a page that is truly a blast. And when you've beensatedthere are lots of other targets on the home page. Tastelessness guaranteed.Bored with the "look and feel" of Microsoft Windows running the Internet Explorer (version 4 or 5) Web browser? WebOS can change it, at least temporarily. The site atwww.webos.comis a clever piece of programming by Fredrik Malmer, an 18-year-old Swede, even if it doesn't do anything useful.Quokka plans to cover the 14th Marathon des Sables - a seven-day, 150-mile race in the Sahara region of Morocco - which starts on Sunday. About 500 runners from more than 20 countries are expected to take part. Competitors have to carry their own food, sleeping bag, snake-bite kit, medical supplies, a compass and other useful gear. The Quokka Sports Immersion (QSI) site is atwww.quokka.comPlay Patsy or Edina and you can shop till you drop in an online game based on the 
Ab Fab characters. Well, you'll probably give up long before you run out of money, but some of the graphics are very entertaining. TheWeb sitehas been produced by Comedy Central, which handles the show in the US. The site also promotes Comedy Central's South Park cartoon series, of course, and some lesser known TV shows.Mr Methane farts for a 
living. What's claimed to be the world's windiest Web site - certainly Macclesfield's - is also an outlet for Mr Methane's record, and offers a selection of links to other fart sites. Go towww.mrmethane.comEmailfile is a free service that delivers Internet files to your electronic mail box, and the advantage of that is that
e-mail probably downloads quicker from your local server than files that have to be fetched across an overcrowded Web. The drawback withwww.emailfile.comis that the file size is limited to 3 megabytes, but there are lots of files smaller than that
Apple sourceWhile Jack Schofield's bias and inaccuracy when talking about anything Apple is legendary around these parts, he really should check his facts occasionally. The "news" about Apple's open source effort contains a number of glaring errors:1.Apple's open source (codenamed "Darwin") is not the same thing as Mac OS X Server. The latter is a shipping commercial product that is partially built from source code common to Darwin. The confusion between the two is Schofield's essential mistake, which leads him to draw a number of false conclusions.2.Apple's source code is free, not $499 as stated. Mac OS X Server, on the other hand, is $499.3.Darwin is not the same as Rhapsody. Rhapsody was the old codename for Mac OS X Consumer, which is scheduled to be released towards the end of this year. Mac OS X Server (available now) is not the same thing as Mac OS X Consumer.4.While Mac OS X server can only be installed on Macintosh hardware, the Darwin source code can be compiled and run on a wide variety of platforms, including i386, Alpha, most Unix boxes, PowerPC, etc. GNU/Linux has no particular advantages in this respect, contrary to what was stated.5.The terms of the Darwin distribution meet the definition of open source as laid down by the Open Source 
Initiative, so it can hardly be said to be jumping on the open source bandwagon just for marketing's sake.I don't speak for or represent Apple, though I am an Apple developer. Unlike some, I don't view Apple uncritically, and goodness knows, have suffered from their past mistakes as much as anyone. I have no idea why Apple are making their code available as open source, except that it seems to be an excellent model for creating very reliable software. Could it be that, contrary to Jack Schofield's assumptions, Apple is actually doing this uncynically in an effort to address the issue of software quality?The recent debate in your pages about the gulf between what users expect when they buy a computer and what the industry peddles to them demonstrates that something has to change - maybe Apple is, once again, showing the way forward?Graham CoxHigh WycombeI just received Online of 
March 18 by mail. I too have had iMac problems, but an invaluable source of help has been the iMacDiscussion forumor trywww.everymac.comThe iMac, like other Macs, is a delight to use -when it isn't freezing!Philip Bowlerfrogball@hotmail.comI love LucyHello, I read and enjoy anything written by Lucy 
Ellmann whenever I get the chance. I admit that her style 
is more noticeable against the earnestness of the almost 100 per cent input from guys who write to and for Online. Until gals are given a discount for this gender imbalance, whingeing about Lucy must not be allowed.Mary WildeSurbitonCould you not prevail on Fay Godwin to give Lucy Ellmann her iMac?Alan BellBathI feel slightly embarrassed about this As one of the detractors of Lucy Ellmann's work when it first appeared some time ago, I felt quite pleased when the article two weeks ago appeared. It was well written, the style wasn't intrinsically annoying, and it was about something that Online could feel justified in presenting (the way that people object to the artificial but then strive to make themselves better in totally artificial ways). 
"Better," I thought. I didn't expect everyone else to have a backlash without me. My commiserations to Miss Ellmann. 
If she has more (short) articles that are pertinent to Online, I say publish and be damned (or, at the very least, flamed).SamaelSamael@dial.pipex.comUnengagingIn recent advertisements, X-Stream loudly claims "Free 0800 Internet calls!" For whom? I signed up and dialled last weekend many times from 9am to 11.30pm and got permanent engaged tones.
I even left it on permanent redial for an hour and never got past the engaged tone.
However there was no problem dialling up on their local call line!
I wonder how many other frustrated readers you had, or was mine an unusual problem?David WilliamsCirencesterForests and floodsThe article in today's Online pointing out that reforestation doesn't prevent flooding is absolutely right. But then environmentalists have been saying this for years. However, preserving old growth forest does help prevent floods.Millennia of trees growing, falling and decaying creates your large natural sponge out of the forest floor. I don't think the article emphasised just how different old growth forest and second growth forest ecosystems are, especially considering that here in Britain the only kind of forests we have are the latter. I hope the article hasn't given people another reason to not bother with forest preservation.Robert Alsteadmaed35@dial.pipex.com
