Microsoft's geek blogger, Robert Scoble, says he's leaving Microsoft andsets the record straightabout his position. (He's joiningPodTech.net, which involves a move from Seattle to Silicon Valley.)Blogging wasn't Scoble's job -- he did it unofficially -- and as he says: "I'm not the only blogger at Microsoft. There are about 3,000 of them here. They are not having the plug pulled on them. They changed the world. I just was the cheerleader."True, but there aren't any Microsoft bloggers on the geek A-list, with either Scoble's name recognition nor his ability to direct lots of traffic to Microsoft team blogs and Channel 9.
At Search Engine Watch, Danny Sullivan hasunthreaded the Google China story-- useful reading for reporters in particular ;-)
Audi RS4 Quattro&pound;49,980Zero to 125mph:16.4 secsSeats:5Good for:MargauxBad for:Pinot grigioThe customer in front of me has a body shape which can best be described as 'Teletubby' - thick arms and legs protrude from a potato torso, his abdomen wraps round him like a fleshy duvet. He's clutching boxes containing hundreds of cigarettes. I estimate he is about to buy 3,200 fags. He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a wad of crumpled fivers. I idly wonder how long it would take to smoke 3,200 cigarettes. It would make a good GCSE maths question: 'A man can smoke one cigarette in five minutes. How long will it take to puff through 3,200?' In case there is any doubt about whether they are for 'personal consumption', Tinky Winky lets rip a barking cough.Anyone who has been to France by boat in the past few years will have seen people like this returning to England in ancient Transits so weighed down with booze that sparks fly as the rear axle drags over speed bumps. The only deterrent to these thirsty Europhiles used to be that their vehicle could be impounded - hence the worthless vans. Last year, customs impounded 90,000 of them. But now bootleggers needn't worry. A decision by the EC states that impounding is too harsh and is a 'block on the free movement of goods'. The generous limit of 90 litres of wine, 10 litres of spirits, 110 litres of beer, 3,200 cigarettes, 200 cigars and 3kg of tobacco still stands, but if you're suspected of smuggling now you simply pay the duty and a fine - and get to keep your van.To help 'free the movement of goods', two beery football friends and I decided to take a day trip to France to load up with the provisions necessary to get us through the rest of the World Cup. (Another good GCSE question: 'If a fan drinks four pints of beer in 90 minutes, how many will he drink during the tournament?') Of course, with the threat of impounding now lifted, we chose to board the plushly revamped SeaFrance ferry not in a white van rescued from the knacker's yard but in something more in keeping with the lucrative life of the modern bootlegger - a &pound;50,000 Audi RS4 Quattro.Stuffed under the bonnet of this commonplace mid-size saloon is an engine that no other road car has ever seen. In fact, it's only a few tweaks short of the one that powers the multiple Le Mans-winning Audi R8. It's a 4.2-litre monster which produces 414bhp - the sort of over-specification in a family car you might experience if Jonah Lomu took up baby massage. But Audi is not in the business of putting drivers into road missiles without providing the means to manage them. Everything from the seats to the brakes to the unthreatening exterior ensures the RS4 is as easy to control as a muzzled rabbit.Disembarking after our short hop, the lure of France's open roads proved impossible to resist and we spent our wine-tasting time tasting the car's prodigious acceleration. Once back on board, we stocked up with World Cup booty from the ferry's shop, before sailing through customs without a backward look. But then we were 70 litres of beer short of our personal limit.&#183;SeaFrance day crossings cost &pound;30 for a car and up to five passengers (www.seafrance.com; 08705 711 711)
To review the past week's posts on a single page, clickhere.Highlights include:Bye, Apple; Hello, UbuntuHello mobile, bye bye ticketsGoogle announces spreadsheetIs anybody out there using allTunes?Will Blu-ray be one last flop?Windows Vista now available -- free!
An addiction centre is opening Europe's first detox clinic for video-game addicts. Amsterdam-based Smith &amp; Jones Addiction Consultants has already treated 20 video game addicts aged 13 to 30 since January, and seen addicts as young as eight. The detox programme focuses on efforts to build patients' interests in alternative activities. Director Keith Bakker said: "We have kids who don't know how to communicate with people face to face because they've spent the last three years talking to somebody in Korea through a computer. Their social network has completely disappeared."
Hitman: Blood MoneyPC, PS2, XBOX, XBOX 360Eidos, &pound;40With his shaved head and prominent cranial barcode, Hitman's Agent 47 cuts an imposing figure: something of a professional hazard given his constant need to use disguises to infiltrate secure areas. You need to keep an eye on your "notoriety", a system that rewards sloppy hits and dropped evidence with growing infamy, making your job trickier. That means it's easier to get rid of witnesses by killing absolutely everybody, than it is to play the game by stealth and subterfuge, which is a shame because when played "properly", Blood Money becomes an inventive and unusually open-ended set of puzzles, rather than a clunky third person shooter. Upgradeable weapons and bribing officials to reduce your notoriety are nice ideas that make scant difference to the game, although reading statistically accurate news reports of your hits afterwards adds black comedy.Chibi-Robo!GAMECUBENintendo, &pound;40Marketing a game to children is all too often an excuse to trot out soulless nonsense that grown-ups would never dream of buying for themselves, which makes it all the more heartening when gems like Chibi-Robo! appear. Playing as a miniature robot designed to make people happy, your job is to cheer up the family that bought you by tidying, cleaning and helping around the house. Its gentle difficulty level is offset by rewarding exploration mixed with a masterful blend of seemingly mundane tasks that somehow never lose their character and purpose. It also has a dark humour that in no way makes it less of a family game, but adds a depth of subtlety absent in children's software. Warm, engaging and beautifully designed, this will prove a draw even to gamers old enough to know better.Dreamfall: The Longest JourneyPC, XBOXEmpire, &pound;40Dreamfall is an adventure joyously bereft of the magic elves and amulets of power that conspire to make most role-playing games unappealing to all but owners of Gandalf costumes. It's also very easy, leading players by the nose through its decently told story, taking in just a hint of magical silliness to parallel its slightly futuristic game world. The voice acting is really bad, its (mercifully rare) fight sequences are a farce of appalling controls and camera, but it still manages to exert a strange compulsion. If adventures on the epic scale of Xbox 360's Oblivion make you want to cry, or this is a genre you haven't tried before, Dreamfall provides a pleasing few hours' mellow exposition.
MondayC'mon, get happy!Metallers rock with Guitar Hero at Download FestivalTuesdayControversial lawyer links murders to videogamesLooking backwardsGaming addicts treated in Amsterdam, but "addict" definition misses the markOverlord seeks tabloid wrathWednesdayLCD insanityRetro machines still getting playEets available onlineThursdayGam3r 7h30rySony CEO in Freudian Xbox slipJust looking: are games the future of TV?FridayDS to be a touch-screen for WiiAdvertising to avatarsSex in games conference coverage
It only comes once every four years, but even as a football fan I'm almost fed up of the World Cup already. Scratch that - I'm fed up of the build-up to the World Cup. Give me matches!This afternoon, in a momentary flight of fancy, I began comparing international football teams to technology companies (stick with me on this). Microsoft? Well, who else could they be but the Germans? Doughty, resilient, unpopular with many, a bit boring but hugely successful.But then, I'll admit, I got stuck looking for more analogies.To kick myself out of this slump, I started thinking about individuals... Is Tim Berners-Lee perhaps the Johan Cruyff of the internet (changed so much, but never really won anything)? And I can't help the nagging feeling that if Microsoft is like Germany, then Bill Gates is a Lothar Matthaus - monstrously successful in the 90s by crushing all his rivals.OK, OK, I'm struggling. So help me out with today'sFriday Afternoon Question:If technologists were footballers, who would they be - and why?
"Each month portrays a different killer and includes a selection of their quotes. This calendar is printed on quality high gloss paper and each comes individually shrink wrapped," saysthe official site.There'sa Reuters storyabout the calendar, which includes a quote from Massachusetts state Rep. Peter J Koutoujian: "This is an area of free speech and commerce, and you can't legislate taste or integrity."The calendar has been printed in a limited edition of 3,000 at $25 each. They are being sold in "specialty retailers such as horror shops and tattoo parlors" as well as on the Web.
The firstSex in Gamesconference is in full force in Northen California at the minute and, as Wired reports, anyone who's anyone in the adult-oriented interactive game industry is there discussing all things serious and saucy.Daniel Terdiman gives his overviewhere. From the article:...because the conference is an opportunity for many in the industry to learn how to market their games in the post-"Hot Coffee" era--meaning after the 2005 scandal in which the popular game "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas" was discovered to contain hidden sexual content, despite its being rated for ages 17 and up rather than for adults only--many on hand were interested in talking about what it will take to get the growing number of adult-oriented games off the ground.Great links.
Microsoft's Security Response Center Blog has confirmedthe answer I gave a week ago (June 1)with regard to Windows 98, 98SE and Me, the DOS-based versions of Windows. On the blog,Christopher Budd says:First, support for Windows 98, Windows 98 Second Edition, and Windows Millennium Edition (Me) ends on July 11, 2006, which is the July 2006 Monthly Bulletin Release date. This means Microsoft will end public and technical support on July 11, 2006. This also includes security updates.These versions have too many vulnerabilities that can't be fixed without significant, and expensive, re-engineering.Budd adds: As an advance reminder,Windows XP SP1 will also reach a similar end of support date on October 10, 2006.We've become used to having two completely different Windows architectures with around eight or nine (if you count NT4) variations. From next year, that should rapidly reduce to two: XP SP2 and Vista.
"Government consumer protection agencies in Norway and Sweden want Apple to remove restrictions that prevent customers from playing music they bought through iTunes on devices made by other companies. And in Britain, one of the largest digital music markets, the British recording industry's trade association, known as BPI, told a Parliamentary committee on Tuesday that iTunes music should be made compatible with other portable music devices. It was the first time the group had taken a public stance on the issue," reports theInternational Herald Tribune.Bjorn Erik Thon, director of the consumers ombudsman's office in Norway, said that he himself had bought a large number of songs from iTunes for about 1 euro apiece, and now wanted to transfer them to his new Nokia N80 cellular phone, but could not."I just cannot imagine an argument in favor of stopping someone from using a song they purchased," he said.He dismissed the claim Apple has often made that its policy helps combat copyright violation. "They are not protecting against piracy, but instead encouraging it," Mr Thon said. "When consumers cannot copy an iTunes song onto their mobile phone, they will get a download of it free from Napster."Comment:Napsteris now a paid-for service, of course, but you know what he means. But it's not clear how you could give consumers the facility to run any music file on any device without interoperable digital rights management (DRM). In other words, transcoding a track from something like AAC/FairPlay to wma will also have to retain the DRM or replace it with something equivalent -- and the process will need to be virtually automatic.Otherwise, Mr Thon could have said: "Hey, it's usually easy to move tunes to your phone: you just burn a CD and rip that to MP3 or whatever. Gets rid of that pesky DRM, too!"
There are a couple of interesting facts in a San Jose Mercury article,Start-ups find new ways to move huge data files over Internet:The overload problem is growing as more people use broadband to download movies, stream TV broadcasts or share amateur videos on sites like YouTube. San Mateo-based YouTube is moving 200 terabytes a day alone -- more than eBay, the world's largest online auction company, eBay.And Major League Baseball games are hogging about half of the bandwidth of Akamai, which works with content providers, and says it delivers up to 20% of all Web traffic.Be interesting to see if World Cup webcasting makes an impact.....
"First there was podcasting, and now there isbodcasting. Sign up for the Playboy Bodcast and get 30 days of downloadable Playboy videos." It's $5.99 a month and you get a "topless joke of the day".Thanks toDave Winerfor the link....There's alsogodcasting,sodcasting(podcasting for the grass roots -- joke), and probably a few more....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
The year of the avatar is upon us. If you don't believe me, then let's look at the numbers. According toHarvard Business Review, there are 7 millionYahoo avatars. There are 40 million Habbo Hotel accounts. Over 5 million people play World of Warcraft worldwide. Sure, while there may be crossover, we're still talking about a significant number of people who have basic knowledge of what an avatar is and what it could potentially be. Hello cash cow. Enter the marketing people.As Federated Media's Chas Edwards notes,And as we know from Hollywood, the NBA or the World Wrestling Federation, entertainment products that capture the undivided attention of large, upscale audiences are big business for advertisers and media companies -- even if they need to invent a new currency to cut their deals.Much like those who are targetting the offline selves of players by advertising pizza and automobiles in console products, money folks keen to tap into a growing market of people who want to use their avatars to influence their social positions in world view gamespaces as hotbeds of engaged minds. When we as consumers are situated in them, we're not passive. We look, we interact and we engage with it all. That means we process influential messages.But there is a significant difference between targetting the avatar and the person who's controlling the avatar. From HBR:the real-world human controls the real-world wallet. The avatar, though, arguably represents a distinctly different "shadow" consumer, one able to influence its creator's purchase of real-world products and conceivably make its own real-world purchases in the virtual world. At the least, it may offer insights into its creator's hidden tastes.To date, virtual advertising in online worlds has been the product of the consumers themselves. In virtual space Second Life (you knew I'd get there in the end), business owners are creating moving image to advertise their in-world products, likethese machinima videosfor virtual cameras and camcorders. Some offline companies, likeRivers Run Red, have taken offline products into virtuality in order to make them must-have items in the space. They're not the only ones.But the intrigue of marketing at avatars is that these digital people somewhow tap into the users' hopes, dreams and desires. From the HBR article:Advertising has always targeted a powerful consumer alter ego: that hip, attractive, incredibly popular person just waiting to emerge (with the help of the advertised product) from an all-too-normal self. Now that, in virtual worlds, consumers are taking the initiative and adopting alter egos that are anything but under wraps, marketers can segment, reach, and influence them directly. Indeed, it's important for companies to think about more than the potentially rich market of the virtual world and consider the potential customer--the avatar.Their digital nature also means that their actions, choices and interactions can be captured more effectively than real-world market research. The ethical consequences of this approach is staggering. It studdenly stops being fun and games.If the divide between avatars and real-life consumers interests you, the whole HBR article is worth reading. What's most exciting is the futurethink, of how the rise of the avatars could change internet interaction - consumer and non - forever.
Last month, Nintendo deity Shigeru Miyamoto apparentlyspoke to US games blog, Kotakuabout a popular piece of speculation - that the company was working on ways to exploit the connectivity between DS and Wii. One of the ideas mentioned was for the DS to act as a touch-screen controller for the next-gen console.Now President Saturo Iwata has confirmed that DS will indeed be a touchy-feely extension for Wii - at leastaccording to Newlaunches.com. Allegedly, the comments were made at a 'management policy meeting' in Tokyo.Presumably, the DS microphone will also be useable for Wii games. It would be great if this feature could be used in a two-player co-op game, one person on the standard controller, one doing the touching, talking an probably blowing on the other. If anyone can think of a game design to exploit this unlikely scenario it's Nintendo.Via Digg
In today's newspaper,I wrote about Microsoft's 5000th patent- a new Spectator Mode which the company is hoping all Xbox 360 developers will build into their games. The idea is to create sports event-style broadcasts based around key games and allowing fans to tune into live tournaments. Microsoft also envisages dedicated portals where players can check out the most popular tournaments or plan their viewing pleasure via a schedule feature. You can get more details from the company'spress release.Anyway, this afternoon I was contacted by the satellite sports channelExtremewho told me they're about to make what they believe to be the first live transmission of a videogame tournament - at least in the UK. They'll be showing five hours of theXbox Cup, Microsoft's footie sim showdown taking place in Germany on July 1. The station's PR person, Stuart Clapp, told me:"What we'll be showing is five and a half hours of video gaming live on Extreme, from 10:30am until 4pm on July 1st during World Cup quarter final weekend. We're broadcasting an exclusive feed from the Adidas world of football stadium in Berlin. It's a purpose built 8000 seated stadium which is directly in front of the Reichstag.Our coverage as you mentioned in your article will use spectator mode on the Xbox as well as interlinking with the gamers, presenters and shots of the crowd. Xbox have 96 gamers attending from the 32 countries taking part with 3 players representing their country."Apparently, the show will be presented by Dave Berry, the face of MTV's Total Request Live and now one of those two new ones on CD:UK. Well, its a step up from Dominic Diamond."Pro Video gaming have never been broadcast live on TV like this before. We're treating the Xbox Cup as a proper live sporting event," said Extreme Head of Production James DuBern. "This tournament mark Pro Video gaming's coming of age and the start of something big on Extreme." Indeed, Extreme is planning three futher videogame events before the end of the year.So what do you think? Can you picture yourself watching a videogame tournament on TV? In my article I've argued that the dawn of high-def visuals, super realistic animation and incredible physics is leading to games that people actuallycanwatch and enjoy as spectator experiences. Of course, they're already watching LAN tournaments on TV in the Far East. So is that the future for us?
"The Internet experienced its strongest site growth ever last month, powered by a surge in blogs and free web sites. In the June 2006 survey we received responses from 85,541,228 sites, a gain of 3.96 million sites from the May report. This is the largest one-month increase in sites in the history of the Netcraft survey, surpassing a gain of 3.3 million in March 2003, although the 2003 gain was larger in percentage terms (8.5%, compared to 4.7% this month)," according to theNetcraft survey for June 2007."Microsoft continues to gain share in the web server market, chipping away at Apache's commanding lead. The number of hostnames on Windows servers grew by 4.5 million, giving Microsoft 29.7% market share, a gain of 4.25% for the month. Apache had a decline of 429K hostnames, and loses 3.5% to 61.25%."The commentary points out that GoDaddy was a major influence, "with over 1.6M hostnames moving from Apache to IIS this month". However, "Windows also saw solid growth in active sites".Although Apache's market share fell, there was still an increase in the number of Apache sites, as the graph shows.Note: Like most hosting companies, GoDaddy offers users a choice of Linux or Windows, and in this case, they are the same price. It's only theparkeddomains it is moving, which doesn't really change anything except the Netcraft numbrs.
Microsoft has put the beta 2 release ofWindows Vista up for free downloadin three languages (English, German, and Japanese) and in both 32-bit and 64-bit editions. The drawback: it's a 3.5GB download, though you can order it on DVD. Also it comes with the usual beta warning:Note: This is beta code and should not be used in a production environment or on a main machine in the home. Beta 2 is intended for developers, IT professionals and technology experts to continue or begin their testing of Windows Vista. Before you decide to use Beta 2, you should feel comfortable with installing operating systems, updating drivers, and general PC troubleshooting. Some risks of using beta operating systems include hardware and software incompatibility and system instability. If you have concerns about installing this beta software on your computer, we encourage you to obtain the final release version of Windows Vista when it is available in 2007.Basically, you get to use Vista free for a year, before it expires. After that, you have to buy a copy.You can install Vista as an upgrade to Windows XP, but there is no uninstallation procedure. If you install it, that's it. The only way out is to do a clean installation of XP. For this reason, it's better to install it on a different disk partition.
You probably don't, though the news that Google is trialling one has predictably sent the world of tech commentary into a tizz.The spreadsheet completes Google's supposed triumvirate of Microsoft Office "killers", along with the word processing programme Writely, which it acquired in March, and webmail service Gmail. There's no PowerPoint online substitute yet, but surely that's just a matter of time?However, it's unlikely Google will replace Microsoft on our desktops - virtual or otherwise - any time soon. And Google probably knows it.Some think it's cool to have the integrated package with Gmail and Writely, but consumers are generally not interested in spreadsheets; those that do will want to be able to access it when offline as well as online. You can't with Google's product.Privacy matters, too. It is not necessarily wise to entrust your personal data to a big corporation, especially one that is being ordered to hand over some customer data to the US government.Furthermore, the spreadsheet does not offer the functionality of the market leader, Microsoft's Excel. Google's has 200 functions, including data sorting and the ability to search cells for certain information, but doesn't offer Excel functions such as charts or macros (small programs that automatically complete tasks).However, the new spreadsheet application does offer one killer feature: you can share access to the spreadsheet among several approved users (as you can with Writely documents). Perhaps it is not particularly useful for consumers, but it is a dream for businesses: spreadsheets are one of the key drivers of the modern enterprise, and although theoretically you can share spreadsheets across a network, the most common method is to email them as attachments. That leads to nightmares keeping different versions synchronised.But the biggest problem with Google's offering is security. What self-respecting IT manager would entrust sensitive corporate information to a Google server? Would corporate governance laws even allow it, given that spreadsheets often contain proprietary data and algorithms? This is of particular concern to organisations such as banks, but privacy and security matter to every business.Perhaps none of this is the point, though. David Card, an analyst at Jupiter Research, believes it is all a case of distraction tactics."OK, this is just silly," he writes on his blog at Jupiterresearch.com. "Google is just playing with Microsoft's (hive) mind. Scaring the troops. Sleight-of-handing the managers."Does a spreadsheet fit into Google's "core competency"? Is it something it can use to gain market share? Card thinks not: on a score of one to three, where one is a competitive disadvantage and three is core competency and leverage, Card rates this a zero in three categories (how close it is to search, whether you'd use it habitually, and whether it can use Google's existing market position), and a one in just one category - its "platform potential". Leading, he says, to "a net Google focus of: zero".We're pretty sure he didn't need a spreadsheet to work that one out.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Just in case you've missed this amusing little story from the states... In a recent interview with the Wall Street Journal, Sony CEO Howard Stringer was asked about the success of the Sony Pictures movie, Da Vinci Code. Stringer proudly replied that it, "beat Xbox 3 in Europe in its second weekend...". The interviewer prompted that he perhaps meant X-Men3. Luckily everyone saw the funny side.Keen not to miss an opportunity to 'big up' PS3, Stringer went on to comment:"... look it's got more bells and whistles than a 747. ... That Cell processor is extraordinarily powerful and you have nine hours of high definition on the Blu-ray disks alone...The reason it's expensive [is that] instead of concentrating on just the games player, which would have been done in the past, PlayStation 3 is designed to go somewhere else, where it's the center of the living room ... It's part of the new digital strategy to try and create a new software mentality in Tokyo because it's quite clear that we've been an analog company migrating to digital with some difficulty."Apart from that awkward opening analogy, which has a touch of the post-match footie manager soundbite about it, this is all hype-by-numbers stuff. What his little Xbox slip does reveal, and what the paragraph above enforces, is just how enormously important PS3 is to Sony - not just to Sony Computer Entertainment, but the whole darn company. Sony has been struggling in the consumer electronics sector for a while - in stark contrast to the fly-away success of the company's console series. The whole living room server/Blu-ray movie player angle is a chance to inject a bit of that PlayStation magic into other areas of Sony's business.No wonder he's obsessed.viaGameDaily Biz
I have had problems with my Time PC, and have formatted the hard drive, then reinstalled Windows 98. Everything works fine now, except that the graphics mode is in 16 colours, and 800 x 600. Lara TaylorThis is a common problem, which can usually be solved by installing the correct graphics driver. There should be a suitable driver on your system disc, if you have one, but you can probably get a more recent driver online. Go to the Control Panel and run the System applet to find the Device Manager (on XP, it's under Hardware). Open the section for display adaptors, which should tell you what hardware you have, and enable you to install a new driver.The best sources for new drivers are usually the PC manufacturer's site (except Time has gone bust), the graphics card company (eg nVidia) or the motherboard manufacturer. Some popular drivers are provided via Windows Update. Alternatively, theDriveragent.comwebsite reckons it can scan your PC and update your drivers using TouchStone's Driver Agent.Driverguide.comis another source, though the site now makes you sign up for a free account.If you have problems finding out what kind of graphics hardware your PC uses, do a web search for Aida32, a free diagnostics utility written by Tamas Miklos. It doesn't need a manual but there is a users' guide athttp://www.aumha.org/downloads/aida32_guide.zip.Finally, PC Pitstop will identify all the important parts of your PC, and the software you are running, test its performance, and recommend improvements. Go towww.pcpitstop.com/pcpitstop/.
I recently installed Google Desktop on my PC, but it is not searching my emails, which are on AOL. Mick GoldI was going to suggest switching toAOL Desktop Search 2.0but apparently not even AOL can search AOL mail. Your best option is probably to start using a standard mail program to collect your mail from AOL. Google Desktop will search email in Microsoft Outlook, Outlook Express, and Thunderbird (http://www.mozilla.com/thunderbird/), the companion program to Firefox. Why not try that?The mail server addresses areimap.uk.aol.comfor incoming mail andsmtp.uk.aol.comfor outgoing mail.
The Daily Telegraph is to delay the publication of print articles on its website until later in the day in a bid to encourage more internet users to buy the newspaper.This decision sets the newspaper moving in the opposite direction to the Guardian, which has become the first British national newspaper to offer a "web first" service by putting its foreign and City stories online before they appear in the paper.The Telegraph Group new media director, Annelies van den Belt, said the move to hold back newspaper content from the website could increase sales of the title, "as long as we give them added value and relevance online and in the paper".Ms van den Belt said it would be for individual Telegraph section editors to decide what time content from the paper was posted online."We hope that a new content management system will allow us to [decide the] time for content to go up online, at the moment our system doesn't allow us to do that automatically," she explained.A joint presentation by Ms van den Belt and the Telegraph marketing director, Katie Vanneck, to the World Newspaper Congress in Moscow revealed the company had 10.5 million readers across all its print and online outlets, but only 1.3 million people read both the print and online versions of the newspaper.The average age of all its readers and online users was 45. The average age of its 8 million newspaper readers was 56, while the average age of its 3.4 million online readers was 38.Digital revenue accounts for 5% of the company's total income, similar to its competitors.A study of European newspaper consumers, commissioned by the Telegraph Group, found that readers in the US, UK and France trusted national titles as a source of news more than any other source. In Denmark, newspapers were second to television as the most trusted news source.In the UK, 59% of consumers surveyed trusted paid national newspapers for news, compared with 31% for Google and 18% for Yahoo!. Only 5% trusted blogs for news.Ms van den Belt and Ms Vanneck said the Telegraph.co.uk website had been profitable for the past two years and that 90% of revenues came from advertising.The fastest growing area of revenue was commercial microsites, which offered advertising solutions on different platforms to companies and charged for it.Ms Vanneck said the Telegraph website had shown online users would pay for content, citing its online Fantasy Football game as proof."You can get consumers to pay for content that is particularly relevant to them. Three hundred thousand young men each pay &#163;6 - that's &#163;1.8m of revenue which is not insignificant," she said.The Guardian's strategy of moving towards "internet first" publishing is a departure from the established routine of newspaper publishing where stories are held for "once-a-day" publication in print.The newspaper is aiming to widen its coverage online to benefit its expanding global readership.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Gone are the days when an author self-exiles in a room for 48 days with a drip of black coffee and a mountain of filtered cigarettes, to emerge at the end with the next work of potential literary genius clutched in hand. Nowadays the writing process is transparent and collaborative - almost (gasp) social in nature.Computer gaming, that other supposed bastion of solitude, has also changed phenomenally, withreportsindicating that at least 1/4 of game industry revenue comes from subscriptions for the inherently social online products like World of Warcraft.And so, from the marriage between the modern writing paradigm and the newfound community spirit of computer gaming comes a new in-progress book calledGAM3R 7H30RY.GAM3R 7H30RYisinterested in two questions.1. can we explore games as allegories for the world we live in?2. can there be a critical theory of games?AuthorMackenzie Warkcontinues:I thought it would be interesting to share the book in its draft state to see if these questions are something other people might have ideas on or might want to pursue.It's an experiment withThe Future of The Book, in which Wark, author ofA Hacker Manifesto, produces 25 paragraphs on nine subject chapters. Readers are invited to comment and discuss.In it, he discusses The Sims, The Cave, Katamari Damacy, Civilization III, Rez, Vice City, State of Emergency (in a chapter entitled "Boredom" - I couldn't agree more), Deus Ex and SimEarth. As the chapters are only 25 paragraphs long, it's hard to get into depth, but for a bit of intellectual contemplation it's nice to dip into. If you're a social animal and are interested in the process of authorship and/or the critical contributions of computer gaming, head over and submit your two penneth.
In 1966, England's World Cup prospects were jeopardised by an injury to star striker Jimmy Greaves. This was terrible news for companies such as Philips, which was struggling to convince the British public they needed its new black-and-white TVs. The rest is hysteria. England won the World Cup, and celebrated its sporting prowess by becoming a nation of couch potatoes.Forty years on, England has a new injured teenager, and marketing people are still trying to persuade us to buy a device to watch the games on. Only these days they're called 3G mobile handsets, and it's operators such as T-Mobile, Hutchison and Vodafone that need a decent England showing, because high-profit items such as roaming charges and ringtones are under pressure, the former from cheaper rivals and the latter from consumer distrust.Consumers are proving reluctant to subscribe to the services available through 3G networks. Figures from analysts Informa Telecom show that the mobile operator 3 has 3.5 million registered users, but suggest that only a small fraction actively use the 3G elements. A more accurate gauge is probably O2's declared figure of 400,000 with 3G-compatible handsets, from a UK customer base of more than 16m.In trouble"3G has been a disaster," said Henk Potts, equity market strategist for Barclays stockbrokers. "That's why Vodafone is in the trouble it's in. [The operators] desperately need new revenue streams."The handsome profits from roaming charges are being eroded by competitors such as Voipfone, Go Sim and England Calling, which offer savings of up to 80% on international mobile calls. The vast profits made by the ringtone industry - shared by the operators - may also be ending. "The image of the industry suffered as a result of ringtone scams. Something has to close the book on the ringtone, and the World Cup will do that," says Andrew Bud, vice chair of the Mobile Entertainment Forum.The operators really need a better class of customer, but too many people have painful memories of buying new services on a mobile phone. If they haven't been stung by a ringtone scam, they'll know someone who paid &pound;20 the first time they tried sending or receiving some video."The phone industry is still a fashion industry," says Jim Brooks, associate mobile consultant to Cap Gemini. And if Vodafone wants to avoid more "streamlining", then it needs more subscribers who want to watch videos, or publish their own, via their mobile phones.This is why operators have invested an estimated &pound;50m on World Cup-related marketing. T-Mobile is the official sponsor, and in its native Germany plans to beam live TV footage to anyone who's interested. Operators say users will want to download action replays; T-Mobile is charging UK customers &pound;5 a month for the privilege, while 3 is giving them away.But, as Rob Bamforth, an analyst at Quocirca, points out, this might not prove a good long-term advert for mobile data. "Why would you want to squint at a credit card-sized screen when the game will be on giant screens everywhere?"The information services such as news, travel updates and so on could be viewed more on a PC or TV screen. Besides, most of the streaming video content can be viewed on 2G (GPRS) networks.However, if we don't watch their videos, the operators hope we'll distribute our own. Ownership of video-enabled phones doubled in 2005 - 40% of Britons now own a handset that can make videos, according to JD Power and Associates 2006 UK Mobile Telephone Customer Satisfaction Study. The trouble is, no one is sending videos via the networks. For months the Sun Online has invited readers to send in their video rants, but is yet to publish one. "We hardly ever get any," one staff member said, "and when we do, they're not very good."There's a lack of trust, according to the mobile management company SmartTrust. "Ninety per cent of people won't send images by phones because they don't know how much they will cost," says Tim De Luca Smith, communications manager at SmartTrust. Of the 10% willing to risk it, 20% are stymied by technical difficulties.Voice calls and text messages remain the operators' only reliable sources of revenue. JD Power's study found that the average number of calls made on a mobile per week has risen from from 11 to 14, and text messaging is growing at the same rate."On days when England play, [mobile phone revenues] will treble," says Anil Malhotra, vice-president of alliances at Bango, a mobile billing specialist. "So you're looking at &pound;6m [in extra revenue] for each of those days."If England progress, expect those revenue surges to gain momentum, so that even on non-match days the excitement will generate extra phone calls, text messages and even video messages. If England get to the final, Malhotra suggests a possible &pound;100m revenue boost for operators. But as soon as England go out, the extra money will stop gushing in. No wonder Wayne Rooney is under so much pressure to play.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..When did we last see your data?We trust banks far more than the government to protect our personal data, so plans to share files across departments should ring alarm bells. SA Mathieson reports.Free Our Data:Make it work for us, Ms TulloEasing crown copyright would allow the public to use government data freely, but some officials want the information traded, writes Heather Brooke.Microsoft culls PDF support in Office under pressure from AdobeMicrosoft has abruptly withdrawn a long-promised feature from the next version of its Office suite - the ability to save files in Adobe's PDF portable document format.Jack Schofield: Watch out, Adobe: Microsoft wants to reformat your filesExplaining the row between the two over PDF support in OfficeFreedom fighter with a guilty conscienceLawrence Lessig explains his mission to limit the cultural damage caused by copyright law. By Glyn Moody.Mobiles await a kick startThe World Cup could give operators a much-needed boost, but a lot hangs on England's performance. Report by Nick Booth.Newly Asked QuestionsHow many MPs does it take to guard our digital rights?Quite a few, working for some months - and even then you can't be sure anyone will notice.Why on earth would I want an online spreadsheet?You probably don't, though the news that Google is trialling one has predictably sent the world of tech commentary into a tizz.GadgetsKodak EasyShare V610Over the past few years Kodak has made giant strides in digital cameras, pioneering among other things wireless transfer of images and compact dual lens models.KG800 Chocolate phoneOne of the most talked about and heavily advertised mobiles is finally on sale in the UK. In case you missed the hype, it is a small, flip-open fashion phone that LG hopes will appeal to those who might otherwise have bought a Motorola Razr.Samsung YP-U2While mini Flash-based MP3 players sound great in theory, many of them are actually a nightmare to use. Not so Samsung's YP-U2, which is available in 512MB (£49) 1GB (£69) and 2GB (£99) versions.Gamesblog:Gamers get their chance to play to the crowdKeith Stuart: PC gamers have been enjoying spectator modes for several years. But with the Xbox360 spectator mode, viewers get a TV-style viewing package where they're able to watch real-time footage, replays and highlights.BlackBerrys are not the only fruitVictor Keegan: In the world of mobile communications, it is the battle of the heavyweights. Nokia, the world leader in mobile phones is taking on BlackBerry, which has a near-monopoly of the secure corporate email market, with 5 million users.TechnobileWendy Grossman: The music they play on the phone while you're waiting sometimes makes you want to destroy civilisation.Ask JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesSmart Alpha | It's only a game | New balls, please | Spy on your kids | Just a second | Up for the cup | Start 'em young | Alarming newsLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
Quite a few, working for some months - and even then you can't be sure anyone will notice. The all-party parliamentary internet group (Apig) reported this week on the problems that digital rights management pose, and the views content-makers and buyers have of what copying is and isn't permitted. But did the papers write about it? Did they hell.The MPs prefer to call the systems used to prevent copying "technology protection measures" (TPMs), and Apig's report (available athttp://tinyurl.com/zuok2- 200KB PDF) says that digital content should specify how easy or difficult it will be to copy from one device to another and then make it play.Record labels may gasp at some suggestions - such as "we believe that all CDs should in future come with a prominent label saying, 'you are not permitted to make any copies of this CD for any reason' ... [and] add, when appropriate, 'and if you try to make a copy, you should note that we have tried very hard to ensure that you will fail'." The MPs add that the "prominent label" would also need to say "this CD may not play in all devices" and even "if your current player device breaks or is stolen this content may become inaccessible"; and "moving this content to a new device will not be possible if we cease supporting this platform or go out of business". Now that's honesty in advertising.Apig also said the Office of Fair Trading should investigate online music stores' pricing schemes: iTunes, in particular, has different prices for different EU countries - &euro;0.99 (68p) on the continent and 79p in the UK, which "seems to us ... at odds with the notion of the 'single market'".There's plenty to applaud in the report's recommendations - that the government should not make DRM systems mandatory; that Ofcom should warn that, used in the UK, "rootkit" systems like that deployed by Sony on some CDs in the US would amount to a criminal offence; that academics should be given greater exemption from TPM used on research; and that more efforts should be made to create TPM workarounds so the disabled can more easily access digital content. Let's hope more people notice them.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Problems with touching databaseYou have partly identified the problem with government IT procurement in citing constant policy change and the difficulty in IT systems keeping pace (Government must resist temptation ..., June 1). Another significant factor is the lack of coordination of information needs. Within the Home Office, for example, there are a number of "sections", each collecting data in a different format - with the likelihood that details of some people appear on several databases.This leads back to the question of civil liberties, data protection and the thorny issue of ID cards. Through a combination of national insurance numbers, and Inland Revenue and Works and Pensions records, the government already has pretty much what it needs. The problem is not having a common approach through which to access the information.Andrew HodsonNorthumberlandA game too far?Aleks Krotoski (Gamesblog, June 1) defends Super Columbine Massacre claiming it "challenges users to understand the choices that were made, and the consequences of those actions", by choosing whether or not to use the same weapons as the actual killers. As the real victims were unarmed, what are the possibilities of a player "losing" this game?I enjoy a game of Doom (or similar) as much as anyone, but the knee-jerk defence of exploitative rubbish does nothing for Krotoski's standing as a commentator on the social implications of gaming.Martin PalmerDidsbury, ManchesterIll chosen wordsIn "Do you suffer from Ringxiety" (June 1), you say: "The result, say experts, is the telecommunications equivalent of phantom limb syndrome, where amputees still feel the sensations of a limb that isn't there any more." I don't know who the "experts" were, but to compare the trivial thought that your phone might be ringing to what is a serious pain-management issue diminishes the experience of severely injured people. I have no problem with the identification of another illness for the worried well to concern themselves with, but when you belittle people who suffer from a genuine problem that is wrong.More care needs to be taken by journalists and editors so that offensive and hurtful material is not published. Even if an expert made this dubious claim, it should not have been published.Martin BrideStawell, Victoria, AustraliaPain of WindowsIn "Vista visions" (June 1), you said: "Microsoft has certainly been through a bad patch, but the worst may be over." The worst isn't over; Vista hasn't even shipped yet. You should have whipped up public outrage over Windows (how many viruses are we up to, 30,000? 50,000? 100,000?). Now Microsoft is charging for OneCare to secure an operating system that should be secure out of the box (Apple's OS X has been for five years). As long as the masses are duped into using Windows, and as long as you stay silent, the worst most certainly is not over.Nigel AshtonAtlanta, GeorgiaSounds goodThere's a lot to be learned by leveraging social communities online (No escape ..., June 1). My latest adventure takes me back into Last.fm, where it feels as though there are 3 million fellow listeners. It was much more popular around the campus of Northern Arizona University, which I visited recently. It handles 10m songs a day - many more than the Yahoo service that launches when I go online with Yahoo Messenger.http://irish.typepad.com/irisheyes/Copy controlI offer another motivation for buggy software: it makes the consumer register software, which can reduce illegal copying (Why we all sell code with bugs, May 25). If a consumer knows - or even suspects - that there might be bugs in purchased software, they are more likely to "register" so that they can immediately download all updates that fix any bugs.Lou BirdsongHouston, Texas
Smart AlphaSony is launching its first advanced SLR cameras, after taking over the Minolta range. It's starting with the 10-megapixel DSLR-A100, which works with 20 years worth of Minolta A-mount lenses.It's only a gameThe World Cup Skiving site has been launched to help office workers get home in time for World Cup games (www.thecareerbreaksite.com/world-cup). Columba Systems has produced a sports event diary to help employers spot when "staffing problems" are likely (www.columbasystems.com/ontheball).New balls, pleaseFor the first time, the BBC offers live broadband streaming of Wimbledon to UK users, free.www.bbc.co.uk/wimbledonSpy on your kidsBritish publisher SoftwareXpress has launched The Internet Babysitter "to protect children from unwanted contact over the internet". It is boxed and retails for &pound;19.99.Just a secondThe latest traffic analysis from Hitwise reveals that, in the UK search market, Yahoo and Microsoft MSN Search are neck and neck on 7% each. Google UK has 77%.Up for the cupNot its usual approach, but Dell has launched a Football Fever game with real prizes atwww.dell.co.uk/game.Start 'em youngWeb-hosting company 123-reg is offering a free site name and InstantSite website to all babies born during the World Cup (June 9 to July 9, 2007). Parents can apply.Alarming newsThe new ZoneAlarm 6.5 security suite aims to defend against identity theft, block the transmission of data such as credit card numbers, and alert you if your numbers are offered for sale on the net.www.zonelabs.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It may be a modern version of squaring the circle. According to the director of the Office of Public Sector Information (Opsi), Carol Tullo, it is feasible to open up the government's stores of data, uphold copyright and charge the public for official information. Speaking recently at a conference of freedom of information officers from government, she said: "Why should we be gatekeepers? We have enough to do in our day jobs than to worry about what the local economy may find interesting."The default position of government should be to trade in information, Tullo said, adding that transparency and openness benefits government in many ways. She cited the non-political website TheyWorkForYou.com - which repurposes data from Hansard online to let users find out about MPs' voting records, attendance and even register of interests - as an example of how making government information available can benefit society."The people at TheyWorkForYou.com have said to me, 'we shouldn't be providing this [site]. This is something government should have been providing.' Actually, no. This is a perfect example of entrepreneurial private-sector activity," Tullo said.So does the example of that site mean the Free Our Data campaign - which aims to get government to make available at no cost the non-personal data it collects, such as mapping and environmental information - is misguided? Is the problem simply with the private sector?Unsurprisingly, no. The creators of TheyWorkForYou risked prosecution to build the site, because parliament (and through it, Opsi, which regulates crown copyright) initially refused to grant permission for them to re-use the Hansard data that was freely available online. It's just another indication of how the system of assigning "copyright" and "value" to government data stifles wider innovation.The site's creators find Tullo's claims surprising. "We had to take the risk of publishing without a licence because we believe everyone has a right to reproduce what their MP has been saying in parliament," says developer Francis Irving. "Parliament ... did eventually give us a licence, but one shouldn't have to rely on their kindness. It should be every citizen's right to reproduce that information without having to ask permission."Julian Todd, an IT developer and co-creator of the site, adds: "As far as I know, we have had zero cooperation from the Opsi. It's also bonkers ... to call us 'private sector'. We're activists, without a business plan, and without respect for things like 'parliamentary copyright' if it can be perceived as an obstruction to democracy."So will the government abolish these types of copyright, which are seen by entrepreneurs and activists as restrictive? "Why should government abolish and not respect copyright?" Tullo responded. "We're very keen to see any form of copyright acknowledgement giving clarity to the user."Yet crown copyright remains the method used by the government to maintain its control of official information. The view of the Free Our Data campaign, that official information belongs to the public and should therefore be freely available, is a "philosophical point of view", Tullo said - one she does not seem to share.Ministers might reconsider whether to charge if they could be persuaded of the wider economic benefits, she said, "but so far, there has not been a single study clearly showing how providing this information freely would benefit the information economy". (The Guardian will send her links to the paper by Peter Weiss athttp://tinyurl.com/cby55which does precisely that, and to the recent OECD meeting on the effects of open data.) As noted here on May 4 ("Should government charge ... and how much?"), in 2000 the Treasury said this would be a worthwhile topic for research - yet has done nothing.Tullo's office is awaiting the results of a study by the Office of Fair Trading into crown copyright that would analyse whether a non-restrictive copyright system, such as that found in the US, would be more economically beneficial, she said.But Todd points out that Tullo misinterpreted the point about the need for the site: "The ... project breaks down into two parts," he explains. "There is the parser, which converts all their online Hansard into properly structured data suitable for a database. And then there's the front end, which uses this database to generate webpages, email alerts, voting stats, and so on."We should not need to write the parser; the data should be supplied in structured format by the government in the first place, which is what they use internally. ... Then anyone else could put together whatever front ends they liked to provide different services relatively easily ... It's the same if they were to supply geodata ... We need the original mapping database ... to process it into whatever form we like."The team recently did precisely that in a project for the Department for Transport looking at travel times across the UK between different destinations. The results (seewww.mysociety.org/2006/travel-time-maps/) end with the note: "This work was funded by the Department for Transport, who also made it possible for us to use Ordnance Survey maps and data through their licence; without this assistance we would have had to pay expensive fees to use the underlying mapping data or to produce maps with no landmarks, which would be almost incomprehensible ..."Although the journey planning services and software we used were publicly accessible, almost none of the other data is available unless you pay for it ... very little of this work could be cheaply reproduced or extended without assistance from a government department." Perhaps Tullo will begin to take note of that.&#183;See the campaign blog atwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft has abruptly withdrawn a long-promised feature from the next version of its Office suite - the ability to save files in Adobe's PDF portable document format. Microsoft's top lawyer, Brad Smith, told the Wall Street Journal the decision was the result of pressure from Adobe, which he said was threatening anti-trust action in Europe.Reporting on weeks of negotiations behind closed doors, Smith said Adobe wants Microsoft to remove the PDF feature, and offer it separately for a fee. Microsoft has agreed to remove the feature - but is unwilling to charge for it. Later, a member of the Office team, Brian Jones, blogged that it would be offered as a free download. Either option would mean far fewer people will use it - and risks PDF's future with some of the world's biggest clients in government.While PDF is proprietary, in the sense that Adobe owns it, the company has gone to great lengths to establish it as an open standard. It has published the specification, so that other companies can develop software that can read and write PDF files. (Apple's OS X can do so system-wide.) The main PDF formats are being standardised by the ISO international standards organisation.In October, when Microsoft formally announced PDF support, Steve Sinofsky, the senior vice president in charge of Office, said Microsoft used the ISO standards "to guide development of the PDF technology in Office [2007]. We're happy to take advantage of the openness of the PDF format to include this in Office [2007] for our customers." (See:http://tinyurl.com/a4k84.)Microsoft generally does not support others' file formats, and has been ignoring requests for PDF support for years. Rival suites such as OpenOffice and Corel Office support PDF, free of charge. Jones said Microsoft was doing the same thing.Some have speculated that enabling Office programs to save PDF files could hurt Adobe's sales of high-priced software; Acrobat prices go up to about &pound;850. However Adobe's boss, Bruce Chizen, rejected that argument last year in an interview with the Wharton Business School's online journal, Knowledge@Wharton. (Seehttp://tinyurl.com/mh3ca- registration required.)"We had anticipated for many years that the revenue we achieve around PDF creation would, at some point, go away," said Chizen. "It's an open standard! There are many clones ... that create PDF and compete with Acrobat."Chizen said more than 99% of Adobe's PDF revenues come from more advanced products, including server software. "With more PDFs being created from Microsoft Office, it gives us an opportunity to take those PDFs and do more with them, like building mission-critical workflows around them." Chizen's US examples include "everything from IRS tax forms to FDA drug regulatory submission documents to US court electronic briefings".This makes the spat with Microsoft risky for Adobe. US government bodies will be put off PDF if Adobe's actions suggest it's not as open as they thought. That could kill PDF as an archival format.It therefore seems much more likely that Adobe is, as Microsoft's attorney suggested, about to play the monopoly card.In a 2004 Knowledge@Wharton interview, Chizen tipped his hand when he said Adobe's strategy was to partner with Microsoft's enemies, and that Microsoft "has lots of enemies, including the US government, many of the state governments and the European commission - among others." (Seehttp://tinyurl.com/gx725.)Ronald Cass, a former vice-chairman of the US International Trade Commission, and dean emeritus of Boston University School of Law, has condemned Adobe's approach as "anti-trust tourism" in a commentary in the Wall Street Journal. Instead of negotiating the case on its merits, he says, Adobe is "using the threat of [European commission] action as leverage". (Seehttp://tinyurl.com/ksmtr.)"The commission has been extremely sensitive to complaints of firms that are losing in the marketplace, and has wielded a heavy hammer to coerce [Microsoft's] compliance with its vision of how products should be designed, priced and marketed," Cass claims. "The EC's commitment to pursue a case changes the game. The EC has become the forum of choice for disgruntled American firms to complain about their American rivals."Complaints, however, hold little sway with the market. Microsoft created a version of Windows XP with no Media Player following an EC ruling. It has not dented its lead in the media player market.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
While mini Flash-based MP3 players sound great in theory, many of them are actually a nightmare to use. Not so Samsung's YP-U2, which is available in 512MB (&pound;49) 1GB (&pound;69) and 2GB (&pound;99) versions. One of the most sophisticated models around - it features a four line LCD display but has no fewer than eight buttons - it is quite simple to use.It is certainly easy to load, because you can drag and drop files via its built-in USB. It will play back MP3, WMA and, unusually in this price bracket, Ogg files. It can also moonlight as a Flash data drive and has voice-recording facilities. Sound quality is a little disappointing, largely because the bundled earphones are poor quality. It fared better with a more upmarket headset but still lacks the bass oomph and clarity of some of its rivals.If your budget is tight, the YP-U2 is a worthy purchase. If not, the Sony NW-E003 - with its FM tuner, better battery life (20 hours as - opposed to this player's 13) - and Samsung's superb nano clone, the YP-Z5, are better options. Seewww.samsung.co.ukfor more details.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft and Adobe may have just fallen out, but the two companies have been on a collision course for years. Joe Wilcox, an analyst with Jupiter Research, called attention to it in November. On Microsoft Monitor, Jupiter's blog, he wrote: "I swear that Microsoft executives have painted a giant bullseye on Adobe."Long ago, I cautioned that Adobe and Microsoft were on a collision course ... It's hard to find a major Microsoft product or technology in the late 2005-06 release cycle that doesn't go after an Adobe line of business." (http://tinyurl.com/rltwh.)That release cycle turned into late 2006-07, but it still applies. Microsoft Office includes InfoPath for forms processing, workflow features and an Open XML file format that can be used to challenge Adobe's corporate products. Windows Vista is based on the new Windows Presentation Foundation and includes an XML Paper Specification (XPS) that could be a direct replacement for Adobe's low-end portable document format (PDF).XPS is basically a printing system, but it also provides a new picture format, Windows Media Photo, that can handle lossless or high-quality compressed images. Microsoft claims better image quality than JPeg files at around half the file size.It's not clear whether Microsoft has a real chance of making it as ubiquitous as WMA and WMV, but it is probably talking to camera, mobile phone and other device manufacturers about adopting it. The results will depend partly on what happens to the JPeg format, over which Texas-based Forgent Networks has claimed licensing rights. Forgent is suing about 30 companies, including Apple, Eastman Kodak and Microsoft.Microsoft describes XPS as "an open, cross-platform document format that allows customers to effortlessly create, share, print and archive paginated documents". If you sign up for the photo development kit, you even get the source code - though this openness may not last. Either way, Microsoft will position its file formats as being more open than Adobe's, which bases its approach on establishing published market standards.Adobe's ambitious chief executive, Bruce Chizen, has justified his "open - but not open standards" approach by saying: "Once something becomes a standard driven by a standards body, it moves at a glacial pace. And innovation slows down significantly, because you have to get everybody to agree, and there's lots of compromise. If you make it totally open source, you don't get a return on investment." (http://tinyurl.com/gx725.)Microsoft seems willing to take the risk. Office Open XML is going through the Ecma standards process, with a committee that includes representatives from Apple, BP, the British Library, Intel, Microsoft, NextPage and Toshiba, among others.But whatever the arguments about how open it might be, Office Open XML is vastly more open than what it replaces. Microsoft has reversed its strategy, and now sees today's closed binary formats, such as .doc files, as the enemy of progress (and of Office upgrade sales). When Office 2007 ships, Microsoft will campaign to get companies to convert all their old records to Open XML.The new strategy sees Office as the front end software for driving the business (http://tinyurl.com/evtmu) so Microsoft needs formats where the file's contents can be processed independently by a range of servers. That's impossible with .doc files. The Open XML formats therefore comprise a bundle of files zipped together - as does the OpenDocument format used in OpenOffice. The difference is that Microsoft is rapidly expanding its range of server programs, and OpenOffice.org isn't.But this is much too big a deal to be about OpenOffice or Adobe or even IBM. Microsoft isn't doing a U-turn and making a huge bet on XML in response to a single product or company. It's doing it because the information processing business is where the money is. That's why Adobe is targeting exactly the same space.Of course, the two approaches are not the same. Microsoft still sees the world in terms of "Windows Everywhere" - a slogan from the early 90s. In Adobe's cross-platform vision of PDF and Flash Everywhere, the hardware and operating system are irrelevant. Under the circumstances, Microsoft's attempt to get Adobe to support Open XML, XPS and Windows Media Photo could be one of the most interesting negotiations of the year.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the most talked about and heavily advertised mobiles is finally on sale in the UK. In case you missed the hype, it is a small, flip-open fashion phone that LG hopes will appeal to those who might otherwise have bought a Motorola Razr. The design is superb, as are the menu controls, which are touch-screen and light up when the phone is opened. The only drawback is that you can accidentally start up the features when you put the phone to your ear to take a call. The price is dependent on the network.The handset has adequate facilities, including a reasonable 1.3 megapixel camera, a quality video camera and Bluetooth. Where it really scores, though, is with its MP3 performance, which is very good for a mobile - and the Chocolate delivers an excellent sound through its speakers. The fact that you can also use your MP3s as ringtones and team the handset with any earphones are bonuses. The remote control sports a standards 3.5mm jack. It's a shame that the Chocolate has no memory-card facility, just internal storage of a rather paltry 128MB. Overall, LG has probably compromised a little too much on the features list, but nevertheless this is still a very stylish phone. Seewww.lge.co.ukfor more details.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Colour shortageI have had problems with my Time PC, and have formatted the hard drive, then reinstalled Windows 98. Everything works fine now, except that the graphics mode is in 16 colours, and 800 x 600.Lara TaylorJack Schofield replies:This is a common problem, which can usually be solved by installing the correct graphics driver. There should be a suitable driver on your system disc, if you have one, but you can probably get a more recent driver online. Go to the Control Panel and run the System applet to find the Device Manager (on XP, it's under Hardware). Open the section for display adaptors, which should tell you what hardware you have, and enable you to install a new driver.The best sources for new drivers are usually the PC manufacturer's site (except Time has gone bust), the graphics card company (eg nVidia) or the motherboard manufacturer. Some popular drivers are provided via Windows Update. Alternatively, the Driveragent.com website reckons it can scan your PC and update your drivers using TouchStone's Driver Agent. Driverguide.com is another source, though the site now makes you sign up for a free account.If you have problems finding out what kind of graphics hardware your PC uses, do a web search for Aida32, a free diagnostics utility written by Tamas Miklos. It doesn't need a manual but there is a users' guide at http://tinyurl.com/m78af. Finally, PC Pitstop will identify all the important parts of your PC, and the software you are running, test its performance, and recommend improvements. Go towww.pcpitstop.com/pcpitstop/.Search AOL mailI recently installed Google Desktop on my PC, but it is not searching my emails, which are on AOL.Mick GoldJS:I was going to suggest switching to AOL Desktop Search 2.0 (http://tinyurl.com/qhgbo) but apparently not even AOL can search AOL mail. Your best option is probably to start using a standard mail program to collect your mail from AOL. Google Desktop will search email in Microsoft Outlook, Outlook Express, and Thunderbird (http://tinyurl.com/a7gso), the companion program to Firefox. Why not try that? The mail server addresses are imap.uk.aol.com for incoming mail and smtp.uk.aol.com for outgoing mail.Backchat&#183;Microsoft's website is telling some legitimate users that they have a counterfeit copy of Windows XP. Jack Grahl reports that it stopped after he removed a malware program called WinFixer. See:http://tinyurl.com/7wxum.&#183;Deirdre Jason-Smith wanted to learn more about using her PC. Don Macdonald of North West London OnLine says the most important service helping beginners learn IT is 6,000 UK Online centres (www.ufi.com/ukol) - small centres where the friendly atmosphere and small groups encourages learners. "Our network of 12 centres runs IT courses six days a week, with staff and volunteers who speak 13 languages."
Over the past few years Kodak has made giant strides in digital cameras, pioneering among other things wireless transfer of images and compact dual lens models. The &pound;380 V610 is its second model to feature a dual lens system - and Kodak is billing it as the smallest 10x optical zoom camera. For a camera with its capabilities, the V610 is incredibly skinny. It comes packed with features, including 22 programmable exposure modes and Bluetooth for sending images to mobile phones, PCs or printers. The V610 also takes good quality VGA video images at 30 frames per second. The images are the equal of any six megapixel compact camera. As for close ups, we noted some image noise and shake. But these are minor quibbles. This is a delightful camera, and worth considering if you want to get close to your subjects. Seewww.kodak.co.ukfor more details.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This year, Microsoft announced it had been granted its 5,000th US patent. Happily, this landmark wasn't achieved with something mundane like a piece of code to make the new Vista operating system work, but for a new Xbox360 spectator mode, to allow large audiences to watch online games as well as play them.PC gamers have been enjoying spectator modes for several years. Most online shooters allow recently fragged participants to remain in the game world as inactive viewers. But with the Xbox360 spectator mode, viewers get a TV-style viewing package where they're able to watch real-time footage, replays and highlights. Microsoft's patent also has provisions for dedicated spectator portals, which will offer viewing times for key tournaments and audience figures so you know what's worth watching.A trendsetter in this area is the Xbox360 racer Project Gotham 3. The game's Gotham TV mode offers six channels of in-game highlights. Apparently, Gotham TV can handle up to 30,000 viewers - which probably compares favourably to most sports channel audience figures.So what do we get out of watching rather than playing games? Spectator mode can fulfil two roles. One is pure enjoyment: with today's richly detailed environments, million-polygon 3D models and painstakingly accurate crash physics, videogames are actually worth watching.The other use of spectator mode is tactical. PC gamers already exploit the system to watch experienced players and learn cool new moves, but Xbox Live is getting more personal. For example, Rockstar's Table Tennis title features a TV-style Table Tennis Network mode, where online gamers can specifically seek out and watch forthcoming opponents to learn their signature shots.Elsewhere, developers are adding their own twists. Capcom's forthcoming beat-'em-up Street Fighter II' Hyper Fighting features a "Quarter Mode", in which spectators will be able to gather round high-profile online bouts, shouting comments through their headsets. The idea is to simulate the atmosphere of a crowded arcade.As the concept of the entertainment server catches on, and more people allow their TVs to merge with their PCs, the demarcations between TV programmes and videogame footage will fade away. One day you will have a choice - watch the real World Cup on Sky Sports or a worldwide videogame football tournament on Electronic Arts' dedicated channel. You may scoff, but at least England have a chance of winning the latter: most football sims offer the opportunity to turn penalty shootouts off ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Lawrence Lessig is the quintessential American academic superstar. He's the author of three acclaimed books on cyber law, and has held chairs at Chicago, Harvard and Stanford Universities. He was poised to play a pivotal role in probably the most important US court battle in the hi-tech arena in recent years - the anti-trust case against Microsoft, until being thrown off the case at its insistence, in part because of his radical legal ideas.Europe played a key role in shaping the man. It was during three years' philosophy study at Trinity College, Cambridge, in the mid-80s that the young graduate from Pennsylvania University found his "rightwing lunatic Republican" ideas challenged and replaced with a more nuanced libertarianism. And it was from wandering around eastern Europe as the Soviet empire faltered that he gained insights into the nature of constitutionalism, his chosen field.But it was the law of cyberspace where Lessig made his name. What sent him down this path was a 1993 Village Voice feature by Julian Dibbell about a virtual rape in cyberspace. Dibbell had written that even though the text-based virtual world and sexual violence were merely words, those words had caused significant harm.Lessig recalls thinking it was amazing that the Village Voice didn't realise it was parroting Catharine MacKinnon - the radical feminist lawyer whose views on pornography were generally antithetical to those of the Voice. "As a teacher, this was perfect for me," says Lessig. "If I could raise questions in the context of cyberspace, where people don't know what their political leanings should be, then I can get them to think about them."Meaningless lawsIn the course of teaching students the law of this new world, he says, "I had a recognition that linked what I was doing in cyberspace to what I had been doing in studying constitutionalism in eastern Europe. They had legislatures and courts ... but what it meant to be a court was different, and that was the social understanding. In the context of cyberspace, you could have whatever laws you liked, but unless the architecture supports or enables them then they're meaningless."This insight - that computer code (the "architecture") can function as a kind of law in the online world - lies at the heart of Lessig's first book, Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace. As he soon realised, "the most interesting context for that was intellectual property", because there were examples of code trumping law - notably digital rights management.There was another reason why Lessig focused on this area. "It wasn't a fair fight: all the great lawyers were on the side of IP maximalism [the view that intellectual property (IP) should be protected forever] because they were all hired by Hollywood. So I kind of felt like a lawyer with a guilty conscience, and just got into it to try to see if there was a way to balance it."There was also a specific problem: the extension by Congress in 1998 of the term of copyright from "life of the author plus 50 years" to "life plus 70 years" (as in the UK). The practical result is that nothing new will enter the public domain in the US until 2019, and that art, which is built on the work of others, will be deprived of millions of sources of inspiration.In 2002, Lessig succeeded in getting the US supreme court to consider the issue. His case drew on the US constitution, which said copyright was for "limited times" and "to promote the progress of science and useful arts". He argued that by continually extending copyright - 11 times in the past 40 years - Congress had effectively made it unlimited; furthermore, the retrospective extension was not "promoting" progress, since many of the authors it applied to were dead.To Lessig's chagrin, the court was not persuaded. But he drew an important lesson. "The key insight I felt I got was that you were never going to win this until you got recognition in the public." His book Free Culture was an attempt to explain to people what was at stake. Its message is summed up in the subtitle: "How big media uses technology and the law to lock down culture and control creativity."Lessig has made the book freely available online (http://free-culture.org/freecontent/), using a licence drawn up by his Creative Commons project, set up in 2001 as another response to the extension of copyright. Through these licences, which hand back to users some rights granted by copyright to creators - such as those to make copies or derivative works - Lessig hopes to provide a legal framework in which free culture can bloom.The analogy with Richard Stallman's GNU General Public Licence is evident: "I think of the free culture movement as inspired by the free software movement," Lessig says. "I think it's going to be a more significant movement than the free software movement because whatever the importance of the freedom of coders, coders will still be just a tiny proportion of the public, but culture is ... much broader."Copyright triggerLessig would like to see copyright reduced to 14 years, renewable to 28, as laid down by the 1710 Statute of Anne, the basis of all subsequent legislation in the UK and many countries. He also wants the emphasis on copying as the trigger for copyright to be removed. "In a digital age, copying is as natural as breathing" - every web page you view is technically a copy - "and the idea that the law should be invoked every time there's a trigger of copying is totally inefficient." He suggests a different approach: "[If] you're distributing something publicly for commercial purposes then that's the appropriate thing to be taxing with the copyright act."More realistically, Lessig is trying to limit the damage that copyright extensions cause to culture by requiring people to register for them, rather than receiving them automatically. "The vast majority would never request the extension, and so most stuff would pass into the public domain and the cost of perpetually extending copyrights would disappear."So what drives this superstar lawyer with a guilty conscience to maintain such a punishing pace? "I really do at the core believe in the law," he explains. "I believe in this space where it is reason that is supposed to be directing power, as opposed to just power directing power."&#183; Curriculum vitaeAge:45Education1980-1983University of Pennsylvania, BA economics, BS management;1983-1986Trinity College, Cambridge, MA philosophy;1986-1987University of Chicago, law;1987- 1989University of Yale, juris doctorCareer1989-1990Clerk to Judge Richard Posner, US court of appeals;1990-1991Clerk to Justice Antonin Scalia, US supreme court;1991-1997Assistant professor, then professor of law, Chicago University;1997-2000Professor of law, Harvard University;2000-Professor of law, Stanford University;2001-Chairman, Creative CommonsFamily:Married to the human-rights lawyer Bettina Neuefeind, who investigated Kosovo war crimes. They have one son, Willem.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In the world of mobile communications, it is the battle of the heavyweights. Nokia, the world leader in mobile phones is taking on BlackBerry, which has a near-monopoly of the secure corporate email market, with 5 million users. Both have just released impressive new devices. It is easy to tell them apart: the Nokia E61 looks like a BlackBerry and BlackBerry's 7130g looks more like a Nokia. Confused? So is everyone else as phones become more like personal digital assistants and PDAs take on more of the functions of phones (not least making clearer telephone calls).No product since the personal computer has changed corporate life as the BlackBerry has. Like it or hate it, most business users ruefully admit that they can't work without it. It has undoubtedly altered the work-life balance: sometimes favourably, as when it allows people to work from home or to take a holiday knowing that they can keep in touch remotely; sometimes unfavourably, such as when staff feel compelled to monitor email on weekends at home and on holidays ... just in case.But BlackBerrys are not the only fruit. There is now resurgent competition from much-improved Treos, the Nokia clamshell Communicator, and Windows Mobile devices - most of which are incorporating "push email" software, the "killer-app" of the BlackBerry that enables new emails to pop up on your screen without pressing any buttons.Nokia's new E61 "BlackBerry killer" looks so much like a BlackBerry (apart from its sleek silver exterior) that I found myself repeatedly feeling for the signature scroll wheels on the right-hand side. I was knocked out by the first BlackBerry I reviewed five years ago and have been a very contented user since acquiring an office one. But Nokia's rival device - which may be too late an arrival to dent Blackberry's hold on the corporate market - is much nicer looking and more versatile, with its four-way mini joystick for navigation (against the BlackBerry's up and down scroller), speedy Wi-Fi access to the web and facility for internet telephony (VoIP).It was easy to set it up to receive Pop3 email (once I had dug out the name of the incoming server) though for some reason, doubtless user error, it didn't link with Google Mail. It does push-mail but you hardly need it since a single click refreshes your mailbox anyway.If mobile search is the big attraction after push email, then both score highly, taking you straight to Google's search box once it has been bookmarked (though it takes several more clicks to get the cursor into the box). In Wi-Fi mode, the E61 gets to websites quicker than the BlackBerry 7130g's GPRS route -though only by a second or two - and both access photo storage sites admirably in full colour.The 7130g, with its much-improved functionality over previous candy-bar models (faster processor, better looks, better web access and telephone reception), is still an attractive buy for BlackBerry addicts fed up with the pancake look of its standard model and its awkwardness as a phone.There were teething problems with the 7130g (available from O2 starting at &pound;12.77 a month). I could get Flickr, but when signing in it said "server certificate could not be verified". When I tried to set up my email (on the web through my computer) with a Firefox browser, it warned that it wouldn't work properly. But with Explorer I got an error message on pressing "add account" so I went back to Firefox, which worked fine after all. The phone has a big screen with good resolution that is great for looking at photos or (pre-installed) Google Maps complete with satellite photos.I'd be happy with either of these but for one factor. What makes them so attractive to corporations is that neither has a camera, which might be used to photograph confidential documents. Maybe that is why the Nokia does incoming but not outgoing video calls. Neither is good for people wanting one device. But that doesn't mean there won't be big demand from the corporate sector.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The absolute, very first thing I bought when I moved to this country was a speakerphone. In those days, your call was placed in a queue, and you sat and listened to it ring until someone answered. Twenty, 40, 160 rings ... who's counting? The speakerphone untethered me during the wait.Since then, this nation has embraced telephone answering systems as improbably and ecstatically as it has embraced bottled water. And life is much, much worse. Because, you see, people are convinced that if they leave the phone line silent you will think it's gone dead and hang up. So the systems make noise at you so you'll know they're still there.There are three kinds of music people play on hold. One: music you love. Two: music you hate. Three: music that makes you want to destroy the civilisation that made it. Music you love is painful: you can't lie back and enjoy it because at any moment the person you called may commit musicus interruptus. Music you hate sounds much, much worse when it's played intimately into your ear. Music of the third kind is, for me, that horrible, bland noise they play in a fatal attempt to come up with something that won't offend anyone.The worst, though, is not music at all, but those loops that some systems go into where a phone rings for a while and then a voice interrupts and says something like, "Thank you for calling Vodafone. All our agents are busy at present. Please hold while we try to connect you." This is lethal - because every single time that voice starts up you think it's someone about to talk to you and you drop whatever you were doing to grab the phone before they hang up on you. It is the most distracting thing imaginable.Do these people have no idea that those phoning their companies might have their own choice of music playing? Does it not occur to them that oh, wait, customers might find it unpleasant to have all these clashing sounds, and that maybe they should shut the hell up for a while? Have they never phoned anyone themselves? In every small and large business throughout the land is there nowhere, ever, anyone who both specifies a telephone system and occasionally, just once in a while, has to wait on hold? Does no one test the systems they buy to see what it's like for callers?What should it be, then, I hear you cry? Talk radio. Very quiet talk radio. Weather reports. Traffic reports. Like that. Talk radio is perfectly designed for a few minutes' listen now and then, and a quiet murmur can be easily blotted out until the main event starts.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Many indie scene watchers are already calling this the game of the year. The oddly-namedEets: Hunger. It's Emotionalis a beautifully designed puzzle game, combining Lemmings and cult PC classic,The Incredible Machine. The aim is to get a cute little creature from one side of the screen to the other, using different gadgets and food stuffs to overcome obstacles.Developed by Vancouver-basedKlei EntertainmentEets was once intended for the PSP and DS, but after meeting with several publishers the company was unable to secure a deal. CEO Jamie Cheng talks about this process in an interesting developmentPost-Mortemon Gamasutra:"...after some initial interest, we were turned down, mostly during the marketing review stage. The consensus was that we had a great game, but the staff had no idea how to market it to the general public."Ah yes, that'll be the exciting, risk-taking and innovative western videogame industry on top form then.After a brief dalliance with Valve's Steam system, the team decided to go it alone with online distribution. They've worked hard to build community elements into the dedicated site and the game itself, which features a level editor so that players can create their own challenges and then post them online.Perhaps this'll start a tenuous new trend for puzzlers based around merged early-Nineties classics. In which case, Cannon Fodder meets The Settlers anyone?
A year ago, there seemed to be almost 100% certainty that Blu-ray and the PlayStation 3 would sweep all before it and dominate their respective industries -- even though that was always a fundamentally silly view to take. Today, the pendulum is rapidly swinging the other way, following various Sony missteps and cockups, including the PS3's $600 price tag. The question now iswhether Blu-ray is the next Betamax, which is the gist of a piece in The Phladelphia Enquirer."Over the years, Sony met with other format failures: the Mini-Disc in 1991 and the Memory Stick in 1998. Neither was as costly as the Betamax disaster, but both were born of the same mania for proprietary formats," says the article.Obsessed with owning proprietary formats, Sony keeps picking fights. It keeps losing. And yet it keeps coming back for more, convinced that all it needs to do is push a bigger stack of chips to the center of the table. If Blu-ray fails, it will be the biggest home-electronics failure since Betamax. If it drags PlayStation 3 down with it, it will be one of the biggest corporate blunders of our time.Actually, of course, Blu-ray has the backing of a large consortium, theBDA(Blu-ray Disc Association). But there's no doubt that it is seen as a Sony product. That's great when it works, but can be a bit of a disaster when it doesn't.Since Blu-ray has yet to hit the market, we don't know which way the pendulum will go. The market will decide.(Charles Arthur adds:) There's a long profile of Sir Howard ("Call me Howard") Stringer, head of Sony, in the New Yorker in May. (It's not online.)David Card of Jupiter Research offers his analysis; but the meat of the profile is that Sony has devolved into "silos" which produce products and don't talk to each other. Stringer is trying to change that, starting with the Cell processor - which seems to us to be starting at the wrong end. Stringer defends Blu-Ray, as you'd expect, but can't produce any single compelling USP (unique selling point) vs HD-DVD.The risk, surely, is that even the fact that Blu-ray is being mentioned in the same sentence, the same breath, as Betamax makes it more likely to fail.Extra: the always-interestingJames Surowiecki wrote about Sonyin April 2005. Not much has changed since then - if anything.
While everyone wastalkingabout Google's new spreadsheet service, Sergey Brin was out causing a different kind of commotion.Speaking to reporters in Washington - where he was campaigning fornet neutrality- Brin admitted that the search engine had compromised its principles by creating a censored version of the index for China, and (more interestingly) that Google might be considering reversing that decision.TheAssociated Pressgot the main part of the story:"We felt that perhaps we could compromise our principles but provide ultimately more information for the Chinese and be a more effective service and perhaps make more of a difference," Brin said. [...]Google's China-approved Web service omits politically sensitive information that might be retrieved during Internet searches, such as details about the 1989 suppression of political unrest in Tiananmen Square. Its agreement with China has provoked considerable criticism from human rights groups."Perhaps now the principled approach makes more sense," Brin said.This has, understandably, caused quite a lot consternation and conversation around those who watch the company and/or are interested in the Chinese puzzle. Danny Sullivan at SearchEngineWatch wonderswhether the Chinese government has caused the change, while John Battellethinksit could herald a serious about-face.I spoke to Google just a moment ago, who said that this wasn't an official statement of intent from the company --- but of course in many ways whatever Larry and Sergey says goes at the Googleplex.Do you think it is a signal of change - an admission that the decision to censor was wrong - or merely an attempt to bring the doubters behind a company that is in danger of throwing away its goodwill?
The internet search engine Google has admitted compromising its principles by accepting censorship in China and raised the possibility of pulling out of the country.In a meeting with reporters yesterday, the Google co-founder Sergey Brin said the company had agreed to censorship demands only after Chinese authorities blocked its service.Google's rivals agreed to the same demands, which Mr Brin described as "a set of rules that we weren't comfortable with"."We felt that perhaps we could compromise our principles but provide ultimately more information for the Chinese and be a more effective service and perhaps make more of a difference," he said.Google's China-approved web service omits politically sensitive information that could be retrieved during searches, such as details of the June 1989 suppression of political unrest in Tiananmen Square.The company's agreement with China has provoked considerable criticism from human rights groups."Perhaps now the principled approach makes more sense," Mr Brin said.The Paris-based group Reporters Without Borders said Tuesday that Google'smain sitewas no longer accessible in most Chinese provinces due to censorship, and was completely inaccessible throughout China on May 31.Mr Brin said Google was trying to improve its censored search service, Google.cn, before deciding whether to reverse course. He said virtually all the company's customers in China used the uncensored service."It's perfectly reasonable to do something different, to say: 'Look, we're going to stand by the principle against censorship, and we won't actually operate there.' That's an alternate path," Mr Brin said."It's not where we chose to go right now, but I can sort of see how people came to different conclusions about doing the right thing."
The supertechnobods here at Guardian Towers have informed us that later today our network of blogs will be receiving a variety of vaccinations and other lovely improvements.The upshot is that we won't be able to post - and you won't be able to comment - between 6 and 6.30pm BST.Looks like we'll have to leave that fascinating "Microsoft v Apple XXIX: this time it's war (reprise)" argument until a bit later, then.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Who says smaller is better in the on-the-go world of laptop computing? Clearly not some of the world's top PC makers, who are testing the waters for super-sized laptop computers that look more like briefcases than notebooks. The trend is being driven as much by technology as demand, fueled by 19- and 20-inch liquid crystal display (LCD) monitors now starting to enter the market, upping the ante on the previous biggest models at 17 inches," reportsReutersfrom this week's Computex trade show in Taipei."Dell Inc, the world's top PC maker, along with Taiwan's Acer Inc and South Korea's Samsung Electronics, have all announced plans for or begun selling mega-laptops with screens of 19- and 20-inches."The Dell shown above has a "a slew of bells and whistles, including eight speakers plus subwoofer, detachable wireless keyboard and a gyroscope-enabled remote," says the report.
