The Met's latest poster campaign urges Londoners who spot "unusual" activity to ring the police and let them know. Examples include someone taking pictures of CCTV cameras or acting out of the ordinary. After all, these are dangerous times, and we all must be vigilant.Contrast this for a moment with an earlier dangerous time: the Blitz. Bombs rained down upon London on a near-daily basis, killing, maiming and laying waste to whole neighbourhoods (one American friend recently described a trip around east London where his hosts pointed to every car park and said, "Of course, that was bombed in the Blitz" – and came away with the impression that Hitler had dropped car parks on Hackney).Back then, the government's message to the people wasn't "Take your shoes off" or "place your liquids in this bag". Instead, King George's printer stuck up millions of royal red posters bearing the legend "KEEP CALM AND CARRY ON."The approaches are markedly different - eternal (even fearful) vigilance, versus a reassured, Zen-like calm. Which one makes us more secure?There's the rub. Verifying the security of a system is a tricky business. Even during the second world war, when secrecy over codes was paramount, Alan Turing's team at Bletchley Park broke the German cipher and began listening to practically every Nazi communiqué. How did they outsmart the German mathematicians who designed Enigma? Bletchley spotted a mistake and used it to crack the system wide open.Mistakes happen all the time in mathematical ventures, which is why science relies on peer review. As Bruce Schneier says, "Anyone can design a security system so smart that he can't outsmart it". Until security is subjected to peer review, you can't know whether it's proof against the whole world, or just the people who are dumber than you are.Even though our lives increasingly defined by security measures, we can't know whether they are working without public peer review.Unfortunately, today's security cheerleaders have regressed to a more superstitious era, a time from before Bletchley Park's wizards won the second world war. The public isn't supposed to take photographs of CCTV cameras in case this knowledge can be used against them (despite the fact that surely terrorists can memorise their locations).We can't mention terrorist attacks at the airport while we're being subjected to systematic anti-dignity depredations; your bank won't let you open an account with a passport – you need to supply a laser-printed utility bill as well ("to prevent money laundering" … you can just hear Osama's chief forgers gnashing their teeth for lack of a piece of A4).The superstitions that grip airport checkpoints and banks are themselves a threat to security, because the security that does not admit of examination and discussion is no security at all.If terrorists are a danger to London, then the only way to be safe is to talk about real threats and real countermeasures, to question the security around us and shut down the systems that don't work.If you're worried about money-laundering, your bank should have real anti-laundering systems in place. If you're worried about bombings, you need a security system that works even when the locations of the CCTV cameras are public. If you're worried about identity theft, then the government had better have a bloody good plan for "revoking" your fingerprints and retinas should a bad guy figure out how to copy them.If you want your plane to be safe in the sky, you'd better know what new security you gain by removing your shoes and shedding your liquids while still taking to the sky with your highly explosive laptop battery and a huge bottle of duty free whiskey.We live in a world of threats that transcend our instincts and intuitions. Staying safe in the face of phishing attacks, viruses, identity theft, RFID skimming, and yes, even terrorists, requires that the public itself be security conscious.We can't rely on the authorities to defend us against attacks that outstrip their capacity to adapt to them. Remember, the same police force that's plastering London with signs exhorting us to "let experienced officers decide what action to take" is the same police force that gunned down a Brazilian for wearing an overcoat, and shut down Soho when a Thai restaurant burned its chilli sauce, releasing spicy smoke.Security literacy can only be acquired through continuous practice and evaluation. The more our society punishes those who question security, the less secure we all become.
FromWonderland, an announcement of a game design competition from Drew Crecente (brother of Kotaku Editor-in-Chief Brian Crecente) in memory of his daughter Jennifer. The challenge is to create a game that deals with teen violence, but is not itself violent. A difficult task, but certainly possible. Take, for example, the gameMadrid.If the good cause or the challenge doesn't pique your interest, there's another sweetner: the winner takes home a cool $1000.All entries should be submitted by 15 April 2008. The game should be playable in Flash 9. More rules and conditions here, atJenniferAnn.org.
If you have just blown the budget on a new high-definition TV, look away now. Japanese broadcasters and the BBC are working on a system 33 times more detailed than the best sets on the market.The BBC plans to use the technology, named Super Hi-Vision by its Japanese makers, to screen coverage of the 2012 Olympics on big screens in city centres across Britain.Today's high-definition television is still in its embryonic stages in the UK. But most of the larger, flat screens sets on sale today are HD-ready and the BBC has launched a permanent high-definition channel available on cable and satellite.Satellite TV giant Sky and cable operator Virgin offer high-definition services to subscribers with the requisite set-top boxes and compatible televisions. But researchers in Tokyo and Surrey are already working on better, sharper pictures.Within seven years, the Japanese public broadcaster NHK hopes to begin test broadcasts of its Super Hi-Vision system, with full-time public broadcasts scheduled for 2025.Some doubt whether the enhancements of ultra-high definition are discernible, but Nobuyuki Hiruma, associate director at NHK's laboratories in Tokyo, is sure they are. "Super Hi-Vision TV is necessary to cover the ability of human vision. It is based on research into human vision."At present, Super Hi-Vision exists only at NHK's Broadcasting Centre in Tokyo, where it is projected on to a 10 metre by 5.5 metre screen, accompanied by 22 multi-layered speakers capable of replicating the sound of a concert hall.Only 20 minutes of footage can be recorded at any one time and it has to be edited frame by frame. Even then, making a back-up takes the engineers an entire night, and after a week they have only enough material for one hour of Super Hi-Vision TV.Sitting just three metres from a 450-inch screen, viewers often have an instant reaction to the picture. "Sometimes we suffer motion sickness," says Masaru Kanazawa, research engineer on the SHV project. These large screens would not fit in most living rooms, but Kanazawa thinks they soon might.Hiroyuki Ohira, general manager of Pioneer's plasma development centre in Yamanashi, is in charge of the same team that, in the 1990s, invented the first high-definition plasma screens. "We are trying to develop a Super Hi-Vision panel to help NHK realise its broadcast plans," he said.The two broadcasters often collaborate on programme production, most recently on the David Attenborough-narrated documentary Planet Earth which was filmed in high definition and introduced a number of new techniques.Last November NHK had its high definition television cameras strapped to a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency lunar probe to film an "Earth rise" over the moon in stunning detail.The problem of how to transmit huge amounts of data remains. But NHK is using Dirac video compression technology for its Super Hi-Vision testing - a technology invented by the BBC.Through Participate, an EU-funded project promoting public interaction with new technology, BBC engineers are getting involved in events using large outdoor screens. "Super Hi-Vision feeds nicely into that and it's definitely a long-term ambition," said Andy Bower, interim controller of the BBC Research and Innovation Centre.Big in JapanMobile phonesHandsets provide mobile TV, and 50% of Japan's best-selling books were first serialised as mobile downloads.Music playersThe Vonia sports headband, a music player for gym bunnies, uses the bones of your skull to conduct sound straight to your inner ear.RoboticsA new generation of inexpensive "amenity robots" does simple household chores.GadgetsCyber-goggles could be the next generation in eyeware. They recognise objects in your field of vision and pop information about them up on the glass.
br/&gt;Does this interest you? I think it goes againstthe whole pointof the GTA experience which is inherently narcissistic in its appeal. In the Grand Theft Auto games, the player - thesingleplayer - takes an escalating position of power within a universe that effectively revolves around their actions. Every other character in the game is a puppet of your narrative journey - it feels good, it's fun; it's Brian De Palma re-filming Scarface around you as you blast down sun-drenched boulevards idly selecting your next victims, a Nietzschean Übermensch, devoid of pity, suffering or tolerance for the weak.Now imagine a GTA with thousands of people all trying to live the same dream. It would be a nightmare - the streets filled with joyriding maniacs, smashing Dodge Chargers through shop windows, machine gunning everyone in sight. Total anarchy. Sure, thatsoundslike perfect GTA fodder, but then the beauty of the games is often the thrill of subverting an otherwise functioning urban environment - where's the fun in riding motorcycles into the ocean if everyone else is doing it? And beyond the free-roaming sandbox layout, there's always a strong story to add shape and purpose - it's a story about one character. One. Do you want to be in a whole guild of Armani-clad, PCP-snorting gangsta numbskulls? Think about it. No, I mean really think about it.Of course, an MMOG that takes place in a similar sort of crime universe as the GTA gamescouldwork, but it wouldn't be GTA as we know it - it would be a faintly recognisable brand extension. Plus, asCVG points out, isn't this concept already covered by Realtime Worlds' forthcomingAPB?Houser apparently calls the prospect of a subscription-based massively multiplayer GTA, the 'Holy Grail'. He doesn't mean that in terms of gameplay experience, though, he means it in a financial sense. By 'Holy Grail', he means 'unbelievable cash cow'.Look at WoW. Ten million players. Imagine all of 'em in Liberty City, trying to out gang each other. Imagine farming coke for days on end to buy a shotgun. Imagine the endless, pointless gun battles. Imagine... wait don't go glassy-eyed on me, this isnota good idea!
Oh the jealousy - theSouth by Southwest Interactivefestival is happening at the moment and, whileJemimadescribes the weather as 'biblical' (just like ours, then), it'd still be awfully nice to be surrounded by so many game geeks in the BBQ capital of the world.And this year, there's a sense that games have come into their own. The festival committee chose wisely in 2008, challenging the community to choose the best panels for the gaming track, and in a rare example of the masses choosing wisely, they've come up with a cracker of a schedule.Daniel Terdiman at cNet has providedextensive coverageof the many gaming events, including a great feature onthe first keynoteof the event by game-friendly media types Stephen Johnson (Everything Bad Is Good For You) and Henry Jenkins (MIT Media Lab) and coverage of the panel, 'Professional video gaming is the sport of the digital age'.Meanwhile, over on Clickable Culture, Tony Walsh does the lifeblogging duties during the ARG panel,Stories, Games and Your Brand.Dan Hon from Six to Start, does his recording on a subject close to several gamesbloggers' hearts,Edit Me! How gamers are adopting the Wiki way.Head toScreenBurnfor updates and many many amusing images.
An email we've seen with the name of Charles Dunstone, head of Carphone Warehouse (and of course of TalkTalk) quotes him agreeing to the statement that "as far as TalkTalk is concerned, the Phorm system is never enabled until a user explictly decides to 'opt in'."A PR for TalkTalk says that "It's certainly the case that Carphone has the policy that any of its customers who want to use Phorm have to positively opt-in. Their belief is that customers should not get the service by default and that reception towards these type of services is always better if customers understand them and the benefit to them and want it - not if they found that, without their consent, data relating to their telecoms usage - however secure and anonymous - was being shared with others".So that leaves BT and Virgin Media, so far, without a clear policy - but with the indication that they will go for an opt-out, not opt-in, policy. The suggestion is that there's lots of money - perhaps £87m per year - in it for BT if it gets enough people using it. But is the TalkTalk move going to torpedo efforts to get millions of people using it?In vaguely related news, we'll have the full podcast interview with Kent Ertegrul, chief executive of Phorm, up soon (promise) with a link; and in trading on the London Stock Exchange's AIM, Phorm's stock is.. hmm,down 11%. That can't be good. (Then again, it's up by 2.5x over the past year.) Who's been selling, then?
The New York Times website has apiecetoday on forthcoming DS game, Imagination is the Only Escape, which follows a French boy who escapes into a fantasy world in order to survive the brutality of the Nazi occupation. Published by small UK companyAltern8, it's the latest dark interactive tale from designer Luc Bernard, previously responsible for hand drawn-style DS adventure Eternity's Child.The NYT article quotes from a Nintendo of America statement, which claims that the company has 'no plans' to release the title in the US. Just as censorship theories began circulating across the web, Bernard pointed out onhis blogthat Nintendo has not actually seen the game and that its 'no plans' stance was merely the company's default position on unannounced titles.Bernard clearly feels he has walked into the eye of a particularly nasty hurricane here. His blogmakes referencesto press reports describing the project as a Nazi Torture game, while on hisMyspace pagehe links to a sickening thread on a Neo Nazi forum."This game was NOT create to be controversial, it was created to show that games can be educational," claims Bernard on his blog. Curiously, both clauses of that sentence seem disingenuous. Games dealing with highly emotive real-life subject matter have always caused controversy - just look at the ruckus surrounding JFK Reloaded, Super Columbine Massacre RPG andKuma/War. And surely even the most committed of technophobes have now conceded the basic tenet that games can have educational value? Or is itmethat's being naive here?And is this really a controversy? A newspaper gets its facts wrong about a game - this will not cause the Earth to spin off its axis. Certainly, at the moment, it's mostly game sites reporting on the incident.One thing's for sure - a very small publishing company and a lone game designerhaveearned a bit of pre-publicity for an education app. They will need to tread carefully from here on - more carefully, perhaps, than Roberto Benigni, who dealt with a similar concept in his movie, Life Is Beautiful. Some attacked the work as a crass over-simplification of a horrendous subject, but it still won dozens of awards - the project was accepted as an artistic endeavour. Game makers do not have the same cultural sanctions as film directors - it was bizarre to think they did.
Time to ask your boss for a 24inch screen. A Wall Street Journal blog has just reported thatBigger Computer Monitors = More Productivity.OK, most of us probably knew that already, but could we prove it? The WSJ story is based on a University of Utah study thattested how quickly people performed tasks like editing a document and copying numbers between spreadsheets while using different computer configurations: one with an 18-inch monitor, one with a 24-inch monitor and with two 20-inch monitors. Their finding: People using the 24-inch screen completed the tasks 52% faster than people who used the 18-inch monitor; people who used the two 20-inch monitors were 44% faster than those with the 18-inch ones. There is an upper limit, however: Productivity dropped off again when people used a 26-inch screen. (The order of the tasks and the order of computer configurations were assigned randomly.)In theory, the bigger screen "could save 2.5 hours a day".What's particularly interesting is that your screen can be too big, which I hadn't thought about, never having had that big a screen.I also note that having two screens means taking a productivity hit compared with using one. This isn't a surprise. However, if you already have one screen then there are clear benefits to adding another, even if they are not quite as big as junking it and buying a bigger one.The study was sponsored by NEC, but Utah professorJames Anderson"doesn't care who businesses buy their monitors from - he just wants businesses to realize that the right monitor can make someone more productive."NEC's press releasesays:Conducted throughout March and April 2003, the Productivity and Multi-Screen Displays study is based on the responses of one hundred and eight university and non university personnel, who participated in this comparison of single monitor, multi-monitor configurations.
Got a Mac? Got antivirus software running on it? I'd wager that the proportion of people who answer "yes" to both is in the region of 1%. For Windows users, it would be closer to 99%. Even this company-owned Mac on which I'm typing doesn't have any antivirus running, which either indicates mad optimism by the company, or base pragmatism: that there's no malware for the Mac that can do any (significant) harm to a machine from a non-admin account.So how, you might wonder, can Symantec justify its latest Norton release? Here's the press release excerpt:"Symantec Corp. (Nasdaq: SYMC), makers of Norton security software, today announced the new Norton AntiVirus™ Dual Protection for Mac®, featuring vulnerability protection technology and antivirus for Mac users running Boot Camp or Windows virtualisation software -- programs that allow users to run both Mac OS X Leopard and Windows operating systems. This solution provides comprehensive protection from both Mac and Windows-based vulnerabilities and viruses. With this dual protection functionality, Mac users benefit by receiving both the number one selling Mac antivirus solution – Norton AntiVirus 11 for Mac – and the award-winning antivirus and vulnerability protection of Norton AntiVirus 2008 for Windows."So it's Windows protection, for Windows. Except it's also got the number one selling AV solution for the Mac (I think there's a free one - which I bet gets more downloads). How many people need that, then?Back to Symantec:"As the popularity of parallel operating systems increases, Mac users are at increased risk of vulnerabilities and viruses from threats targeted at both Macs and PCs. This is why an extra layer of security is needed – to ensure users are protected against both sets of threats," said Con Mallon, Director of Product Marketing, Symantec Corp. "Norton AntiVirus with dual protection gives Mac users peace-of-mind as it silently protects them from both Leopard and Window's-based attacks" stated Con.Look, it may just be me, but I've been making it apredictionfor the year head for some years that "there won't be a self-propagating worm forOSXOS X" and not been wrong once. The only risky Mac malware I know of is theDNS Changer, for which you have to install some "codecs" in order (you're told) to see some pr0n. (That's what's on offer at the forums onMacvirus.org- no, don't go there - and which Alex Eckelberry hasblogged about. [Thanks, gollygoshgolly.])That aside, not much really to worry about. Does Symantec know something I don't? Do you?
The Xbox 360 price cut has been confirmed. This Friday (14th March) the standard 360 (20GB hard drive) will be 199.99UKP (down from 249.99). The Elite (120GB hard drive) will be 249.99UKP (down from 299.99) while the pointless one without the hard drive - aka Xbox 360 Arcade - will be 159.99UKP (down from 199.99). Will the cuts help the console - which, let's face it, has the best selection of "next-gen" games currently available - battle the assault from the casual (Wii) and film buff (PS3) markets? It's too early to say but when you consider that you need to spend around 60UKP for a wireless adapter and 40UKP per year to play online (on the admittedly excellent Xbox Live service) and compare that to the price of a PS3 (around 300UKP, complete with wi-fi and online play) you can see why the cuts needed to happen.
If you want to know what Facebook-founder Mark Zuckerberg said in his SXSW interview then our Jemima Kiss has a report on thePDA blog, whileValleywagprovided a minute-by-minute blog.Unfortunately, interviewer Sarah Lacy has become the focus of the discussion (as CNet put it,Journalist becomes the story at Mark Zuckerberg SXSWi keynote), withWiredobserving: "They came expecting a civilized, one-on-one discussion, but they got what some attendees described as 'a train wreck'."I blame Twitter. You can often sit quietly through something dire (I wasn't there) not knowing how the rest of the audience feels. But the twitterati were exchanging views during the event, leading to what sounds like a revolt. AsValleywagnoted: "The dozens and dozens of negative tweets started coming in shortly after the keynote started, and have only gotten harsher since then." It says:Lacy herself responded on Twitter, saying "seriously screw all you guys. I did my best to ask a range of things."Sure, but as journalism professor/BuzzMachine blogger/Guardian columnist Jeff Jarvis points out inZuckerberg interview: What went wrong, you weren't asking what the audience wanted to know. He adds:When it became obvious that the audience was hostile to her -- cheering Zuckergerg when he told her to ask a question -- she acted hurt, as if this hour was about her. Worse, she told us how tough her job was. It wasn't tough. It was a privilege and she was blowing it. And at the end, when she said that people should send her an email telling her what went wrong, she was so 1994; she didn't understand that the people in the crowd were already coalescing in Twitter and blogs into an instant consensus. Oh, if only there'd been a back-channel chat projected on the screen beside her. Then, she could have seen.Austin 360 has aclipfrom the interview, and its Digital SavantOmar Gallagainterviewed the BusinessWeek journalist to get her response, below:
You can hardly open a newspaper at the moment without some garish ad popping up trying to sell you mobile broadband. The idea's simple: you buy a gizmo that plugs into your laptop - it's called a "dongle", and works like your computer's very own tiny mobile phone. The result? You can hook up to the internet anywhere you can get a mobile signal.It's not a complete replacement for Wi-Fi internet access (it's rarely as fast, and you'll still have to deal with reception black spots), but with phone companies falling over themselves to get customers, there are options for bargain hunters.Finding out which package suits you best hinges on how much you're willing to pay and how often you will use it. Vodafone's option is the cheapest - just &pound;7.50 a month - but you only get 120MB of downloads for your money (that's not many web pages).For heavier users, 3 dishes out contracts from &pound;10 a month with a data allowance that's 25 times larger at 3GB, while T-Mobile's Web'n'Walk package offers 3GB for &pound;20 - although you get the added bonus of unlimited access to the company's thousands of Wi-Fi hotspots for downloading big files.At the higher end, power users might want to look at Orange's Business Anywhere calling plan: it's at least &pound;25, but comes with unlimited downloads and 250 minutes of Wi-Fi access included.It sounds good for netheads, but there is - of course - an ulterior motive to this generosity. After years spent trying - and failing - to get people using 3G phones (the licences alone cost the phone companies a toe-curling &pound;21bn), the mobile operators think they've cracked it. Video calling and multimedia messaging might have flopped, but offer people the chance to surf Facebook from the train and you're on to a winner.
EA's collaboration with Steven Spielberg has been unveiled. CalledBoom Blox, the Wii game features "brain twisting challenges" and "thirty wacky characters". Oh, and an apparently easy to use in-game editor. Not quite theClose Encountersmusic title I'd personally hoped for but it does sound amusing enough, especially for parents. Spielberg seems keen. "From the initial concept to what the game is today, it's always been built around the innovations the Wii brings to playing games. Boom Blox plays on the enjoyment of building and knocking down blocks, something that can appeal innately to kids and adults of all ages."I'm convinced the parents-playing-games-with-their-kids market is set to become huge. Back in the 80s games, generally, were designed solely for kids. Parents at the time had little or no experience with gaming - anyone else tell their dad that the C64 would be "good for homework"? Things have obviously changed over the last 20 years and most new parents now - and certainly in the near future - are likely to have had at least some gaming experience. A Wii game that involves moving blocks seems a perfect fit for this audience. So yes, bring on Alan Wake, Fallout 3 and the other triple AAA's but don't discount the potential impact of the likes of Boom Blox.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
In a time of blogs with their ethic of transparency, how long can journalists continue to hide their opinions? I'm a believer in the British newspaper model, in which print journalists join a tribe, Guardian left or Telegraph right, and then invite the public to judge them not on their hidden agendas, but on the quality of their journalism. British broadcast and all US news organisations, by contrast, expect us to believe journalists are devoid of opinions: half-human hacks, roboreporters.That fiction is falling apart in the US presidential campaign, where news media have failed to cover one of the essential stories of the event: media's own love affair with Barack Obama.The story has begun to attract attention, with comedy show Saturday Night Live twice skewering the press's roughing up of Hillary Clinton and fawning over Obama. In one skit, the show's faux Clinton complains: "Maybe it's just me, but once again it seems as if a) I'm getting the tougher questions and b) with me, the overall tone is more hostile."The real Clinton picked up the punchline at the next debate and said: "If anybody saw Saturday Night Live, maybe we should ask Barack if he's comfortable and needs another pillow." Some believe this played a role in her victories last week.In the other skit, a reporter gushes to "Obama": "I just really, really, really, really want you to be the next president." And the Fauxbama responds that journalists are "tired of being told, 'You journalists have to stay neutral, you can't take sides in a political campaign'. And they're saying, 'Yes, we can. Yes, we can take sides. Yes, we can.'"So why don't they? The question of journalistic objectivity is the stuff of endless journalism-school seminars. But what's different this year is that the journalists' opinions are related to the quality of coverage of the campaign.I've seen reporters complain Clinton doesn't give them access or is aloof; I've seen journalists quoted (anonymously) saying that they don't much like her. Of course, that shouldn't affect their coverage - since when do we see crime reporters whine that murderers are mean to them? - but it does. Obama is on an endless press honeymoon. He breathes rhetorical cumulus clouds - "Change we can believe in", "Yes, we can", "We are one" - without reporters challenging him or his supporters to define what they mean. I'll wager that if a pollster asked 1,000 Obama fans what "change" means, there'd be 100 different answers.There's another new factor in the objectivity debate: weblogs. Reporters are now writing them. And they're learning that if a weblog is successful, it is a conversation held at a human level. That conversation demands frank interaction and openness. As one online executive puts it: blogs are a cocktail party. I'll add that if you talk to friends at a party and refuse to give your opinion while demanding theirs, someone will soon throw a drink at you, as I have been wanting to do to many a TV pundit lately.I've heard TV news executives say that to have on-air personalities writing blogs might present a conflict because, after all, TV people are impartial. But they already live with that conflict by presenting TV journalists as personalities and then cutting off that part of the personality that enables opinion. If these people want to join the discussion on the net and reap its benefits, they have to give something of themselves.The more journalists tell us about their sources, influences and perspectives, the better we can judge what they say. So I should tell you I voted for Clinton. You probably could have guessed that. But now you don't have to.&#183;Jeff Jarvis is a journalism professor at the City University of New York who blogs atbuzzmachine.com
If you went to school withAmy Winehouseor Britney Spears, then you probably have some idea what they are doing now, whether you're interested or not.But most people don't get even 15 minutes of fame. If you want to know what happened to your former school friends, without hiring a private detective, there is no simple way of finding out. However, websites such asFriends Reunitedcan sometimes help.Friends Reunited is a powerfully simple idea. You join the site and register which schools you went to, with dates. Ideally, you should also fill out a profile giving a brief rundown of your life, and upload a few photos.All the other members of the site will now be able to look you up, either by searching for your name and age or, more likely, scanning a list of people who went to the same school.The site was launched in the UK in 2000 by Steve and Julie Pankhurst. Like most of us, Julie wondered what had happened to her old school friends, and Steve was looking for a good idea for a website.It started to take off in 2001, which is when I joined, and had about 15 million members by the end of 2005. It was bought by ITV for £120m.Friends Reunited has extended its scope over the years. As well as schools and colleges, it now covers workplaces, teams, clubs and even streets. As well as the UK, coverage extends to Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Malaysia. (The US hasClassmates.com.)It has also spawned companion sites such as Genes Reunited, for people tracing their family tree, Friends Reunited Connections (message boards), Friends Reunited Dating, and Friends Reunited Jobs.But the success of Friends Reunited has proved somewhat limited. It would be brilliant if everybody joined and participated to the full. But most people can't be bothered.My old secondary school, for example, seems to have about a quarter of the names I'd hope for, and includes a lot of girls. This is odd, because I went to a boys' school. You may have better luck, of course.It's even harder to find people from university because they are not tagged by department.And if you do find someone that you remember fondly, you run into the site's major drawback: money. Friends Reunited will let you write them a message, but won't deliver it unless you upgrade your membership for £7.50. The site makes money from subscriptions, but I suspect that many potential contacts are never sought or rapidly abandoned.Charging might not matter much if the site had no competition. However, it now has to compete with MySpace and Facebook, and both have generated much more buzz than Friends Reunited over the past couple of years.Not everybody uses MySpace or Facebook either, but they clearly have plenty of enthusiastic users. And they let you find and get in touch with old friends for free.
We7, a free, advertising-supported online music service backed by Peter Gabriel, has become the first to claim the support of a major label, after Sony BMG, home to Mark Ronson, Bruce Springsteen and the Hoosiers, pledged to license its catalogue of more than 250,000 tracks to the company's new online music streaming service.The news comes as digital media group 24-7 Entertainment, which has built more than 40 online and mobile music services including Tesco's download site and a music portal for 3, prepares to launch an innovative unlimited music download service for a Nordic mobile and broadband provider, rumoured to be Denmark's TDC. It is also understood to be in talks with a number of UK internet service and mobile phone providers about a similar service.Meanwhile mobile phone operator O2, owned by Spain's Telef&oacute;nica, will this week announce a deal with online music pioneer Napster. Vodafone is also understood to be in talks with the outfit.These moves making it easier for consumers to listen to and legally download music are the latest steps towards persuading consumers to stop illegally sharing and downloading tracks. They come as governments in Britain and France have warned that they will introduce legislation that demands internet service providers (ISPs) monitor what their users are doing if the tide of illegal file-sharing cannot be turned.The new service developed by 24-7, expected to launch next month, is a big step towards helping ISPs produce legal music services attractive enough for consumers that they will not resort to peer-to-peer sharing networks.The service, developed under the codename UMAP or unlimited music across all portals, will allow all mobile and broadband customers of the company unlimited access to music for no extra cost. They will not have to pay any subscription or fee above what they are already paying for their mobile or broadband service.Consumers will be able to download as many tracks as they want to their computers or mobile phones and keep them for as long as they remain a customer. The tracks are protected by digital rights management (DRM) technology, so they cannot be copied on to a CD or transferred to a standalone music device such as an iPod.The service will have well over a million tracks at launch, with 24-7 understood to have signed up EMI. Other major labels, including Universal and Warner, are also in talks with the company."It will allow every customer of this company from day one to access music without any extra cost, whether they are a mobile or online customer," explained Frank Taubert, chief executive of 24-7 Entertainment. "It will be a major shift for the industry."The music market is still looking at illegal downloads and peer-to-peer sharing and we all have to think about how we are going to shift these people over to legal services," he added. "Why would anyone want to download illegal tracks again if they can get everything for free legitimately?"For the company offering the service it provides another way of increasing customer loyalty and the amount it saves in consumer acquisition costs can be used to subsidise the "free" element of the service. The music companies get paid every time one of their tracks is downloaded.The industry will be watching, however, to see whether offering music at no extra cost to the consumer hits sales of digital downloads. The hope is that people who have up until now heard tracks they liked on the radio, downloaded them illegally, listened to them a few times and then moved on, will instead use the free service to download them legitimately. It remains to be seen, however, whether when these consumers decide that they like a track and want to keep it, they will return to using illegal sharing networks or pay for the track.Rather than rely upon an ISP or mobile company that already makes money from consumers to subsidise a free service, other digital music companies are looking to advertising to fund music.We7 already offers free music downloads. It attaches targeted adverts to a song for 30 days before they are removed by DRM software. The tracks provided to We7 by Sony BMG will be made available through a new streaming service that will allow users to build up playlists of songs they want to hear while they remain online. The label hopes people will sample new music before clicking through to a download store to buy it.Sony BMG UK chief executive Ged Doherty did not rule out also contributing tracks to We7's own download service but said the streaming service was a logical first step. The download service, which has deals with several independent labels, appends a short ad to the beginning of each song that remains in place when it is downloaded and transferred to a portable player.Acknowledging that the troubled music industry had previously been too slow to experiment with new revenue models, Doherty said the move was part of its "do and build" strategy. Sony BMG is in talks with a range of other ad-funded services, he added.We7, which launched last year, will initially offer the service to its existing members before rolling it out to new ones. It will pay royalties to Sony BMG for each song listened to.Gabriel, who has consistently been in the vanguard of the digital music business and previously had a hand in launching early download business OD2, said: "The digital revolution has produced exciting and extraordinary opportunities in the music business, even though it has been largely written off by many. We7 is a model that will supply free music to the consumer and still provide a stream of revenue to musicians and content owners."Chief executive Steve Purdham said the move was "a significant leap forward for We7 and the industry as a whole" and confirmed it was in talks with the other major labels. He dismissed concerns that an infinite jukebox of the kind envisaged by We7 would devalue music, saying it would become just one of several means of distributing music while ensuring artists and labels got paid.Doherty added: "What appealed to us about We7 is that they've quietly got on with business rather than making big promises. It's easy and user-friendly."A new model army: download and streaming devicesThough Apple's iTunes hogs the headlines, the music industry is working with a host of online and mobile companies to try and persuade consumers to stop stealing music by offering a range of download and streaming services.All five of the UK's mobile phone networks have their own download stores and Vodafone has also signed up with UK-based MusicStation for an all-you-can-download subscription service, which costs &pound;1.99 a week. Nokia has announced plans for a service called Comes With Music, to be launched this year, which will give users access to an unlimited number of music tracks that they get to keep forever, although only on their Nokia phones, according to reports.A host of retailers are selling track and album downloads - from online brands such as Play.com and Amazon to "bricks and mortar" players such as Tesco and HMV. Some of these stores recently started offering tracks in the open MP3 format, so they can be played on any device.Services such as Napster and Rhapsody, meanwhile, helped pioneer the subscription music model on the internet and Last.fm, which was snapped up last year by CBS, helped popularise streaming music services. Last.fm has agreed deals with the major labels to offer three free streams of any track before consumers have to buy it and US social-networking site Imeem also offers free streaming of any track.We7 is one of several attempts to launch advertising-funded download services, but many of its rivals are still battling through the rights-clearance process. SpiralFrog has launched in the US, with major label Universal on board, but Qtrax, which this year promised 25m tracks via a legal peer-to-peer service, has still to launch its download offering.
'O-ba-ma! O-ba-ma! O-ba-ma!" Such is the sound of Hillary Clinton's nightmares, and it's the voice track to the latest "viral" pro-Barack video clip, authored by will.i.am - William J Adams Jr - of the hip-hop ensemble the Black Eyed Peas. It has so far been viewed over 750,000 times on YouTube.Titled We Are the Ones in honour of Obama's campaign line "We are the ones we've been waiting for", it stars actor Ryan Phillippe, Macy Gray, Lenny Kravitz's daughter Zoe, and the Bangles' Susanna Hoffs. Among the choicer lines is "I want to live in a world without fear", which may lead to what politicians call an Expectations Problem, but let's not come over too cynical.Adams' previous pro-Obama clip - which got nearly 6m hits - was directed by Bob Dylan's son Jesse and, like the sequel, was shot in the crisp monochrome of a Gap ad. "Yes we can" finds a similar array of supportive creative types reciting Obama's elegant oratory in sync with the man himself: they include the rapper and actor Common, jazz veteran Herbie Hancock and the ubiquitous Scarlett Johansson.By way of competition, Clinton's celeb endorsers haven't come up with much - but then the ex-first lady is trying to characterise the battle for the Democratic nomination as a matter of empty sophistry versus earnest experience, which surely entails an avoidance of this kind of stuff. That said, there's at least one pro-Clinton celeb short knocking around, in which clips from Jack Nicholson movies are recontextualised to make pro-Hillary points, climaxing with a line from A Few Good Men: "There is nothing on this earth sexier than a woman you have to salute in the morning." It comes with Jack's official approval, but so far it's amassed a lowly 251,000 hits, which may jangle the Clinton camp's nerves about the coming primaries - or perhaps not.There's not much John McCain-wise, but the endorsement of Mike Huckabee's failed bid by faded action star Chuck Norris left behind a viral plague: type their names into YouTube, and you get 313 videos, the greatest of which is "HuckChuckFacts" (1m hits). Huckabee, we learn, is "a lifelong hunter". At one point, "Huck" looks to camera and says, "There's no chin behind Chuck Norris's beard, just another fist." Pardon?Anyway, viewed soon after Scarlett, Ryan, Common et al, it rather brings to mind another Obama soundbite: "We are one people; we are one nation." Who's he kidding?
Jeff Atwood atCoding Horrorhas posted a "hair-raising tale Dustin Brooks sent me via email". He'd usedG-Archiver, a Gmail back-up program, and says:I used Reflector to take a peek at the source code. What I came across was quite shocking. John Terry, the apparent creator, hard coded his username and password to his gmail account in source code. All right, not the smartest thing in the world to do, but then I noticed that every time a user adds their account to the program to back up their data, it sends and email with their username and password to his personal email box! Having just entered my own information I became concerned.Dustin Brooks says he was able to log on to the account and view 1,777 emails with addresses and passwords....I don't suppose any Tech blog readers have used G-Archiver, but if you have, you should obviously change your password, pronto.Meanwhile, I'm relieved I didn't suggest the program in Ask Jack (use Thunderbird!), and I'm trying to remember if I've used any applications that might have done something similar, without me noticing....
Blogging might be good business for mini-media moguls likeNick Denton, but not everyone's having it so good: the Telegraph'sreported thatThe Friday Project- a small British publisher which made a niche out of taking popular bloggers and getting them to write books - has gone under.Among the titles the company published were Rachel "North"'s misery memoirOut of the Tunneland Blood, Sweat and Tea by ambulance workerTom Reynolds.According to my sources, The Friday Project has always operated a fairly predatory approach to the web; offering most of their writers fairly desultory rewards for their work, especially compared to the deals offeredsome other bloggers). Still, any penny pinching didn't appear to help the bottom line much... the company's accounts look rough, with losses of £705,713 last year.What next? Well, the Telegraph says Harper Collins - a book publishing arm of Darth Murdoch's NewsCorp Death Star - is buying the company. But what becomes of the bloggers and their books? Not clear - directorsScott PackandClare Christianboth say they can't comment on the situation.
Today's Observer has an interesting interview withNick Denton-- a Brit building a blogging empire in the US -- by his old mate Jay Rayner.Although hiscompanyhas successful blogs such as Gawker, Gizmodo and Lifehacker, it has increased in prominence this year by carring a video that "features Tom Cruise extolling the virtues of Scientology and is both compulsive viewing and buttock-clenchingly embarrassing".The Observer also has a feature onThe world's 50 most powerful blogs, as Bobbie Johnson has posted over at ourPDA blog.
It's important to remember that whether users can get value out of Google's software is a different issue from whether investors -- or speculators -- can make a buck from its shares. Still, while Google's market share has been growing, its shares have been slumping from a high of $747, and Barron's has posed the question:Google's Next Stop: Below 350?(paid sub required).Henry Blodget has posted his own analysis atSilicon Alley Insider, and prompted some interesting comments.Basically, the enterprise is being valued according to its free cash flow, which is currently at a multiple of about 31. Blodget points out that: "$350 would be about a 24X EV/FCF multiple."The good news: We're approaching hair-splitting territory. Google's 40X-50X FCF multiple of five months ago was extreme, but unless Google really falls apart, 25X-30X is a reasonable multiple range. A 20X-25X multiple, meanwhile, should provide some real valuation support. Google's long-term future is just too promising for investors to completely throw in the towel.Google is spending heavily on hiring staff, launching new products, and extending its data centres to grab market share in a booming market. If the market turns sour, at some point it would probably want to cut back on theseexpencesexpenses. Or else it could, of course, increase the number of things for which it charges.....
In July 2004, US cinema advertisements for Halo 2, the science fiction computer game, briefly carried the address for a website -ilovebees.com- which appeared to belong to a beekeeper who had mysteriously disappeared. Her honey-based recipes had been replaced by an apparently random list of numbers. Over four months 600,000 people joined in solving the mystery of what the numbers meant. What unfolded was a striking display of 'We Think': structured, mass collaborative creativity and intelligence.People set up blogs and bulletin boards, websites and instant message groups. One 4,000-strong group, the Beekeepers, became the community's core, and discovered that the numbers were 210 sets of global positioning co-ordinates around the world and at each there was a public payphone.The game's designers at 42 Entertainment in Los Angeles set the players a series of complex tasks and on the final day started calling 1,000 payphones on the East Coast of America. Whoever answered had to provide five words of intimate information, such as the name of their first girlfriend. The caller would then call another phone within the hour and expect to be told the five words. In the last of 12 challenges that day, the players had just 15 seconds to get the five words. They never once failed.If ingenious games designers can inspire thousands of people to collaborate to solve a puzzle, could we do something similar to tackle global warming, keep communities safe, provide support for the elderly, help disaster victims, lend and borrow money, conduct political and policy debates, teach and learn, design and make physical products?We are just starting to explore how we can organise ourselves without the trappings of traditional organisations. Watching 'I Love Bees' unfold is a bit like being in Detroit in 1905 when Henry Ford was still experimenting with mass production. A new organisational possibility is unfolding before our eyes. Where might We Think culture take us?Political 'flash mobs' have already swung elections in Spain, the Philippines twice and South Korea. New political actors are emerging, from Move On in the US to the colour revolutions in Ukraine, Georgia and Kyrgyzstan. The web is lowering the costs of mobilisation, even if it is only slowly improving the quality of democratic debate.In China, set this year to become the largest internet society, middle-class protest groups are using mobile flash mobs to stage campaigns, despite the presence of 54,000 cyber police. The web is providing a new space in which democratic dissidents will gather. In Vietnam, the opposition People's Democratic Party was founded on the internet in 2005 and is organised online, partly using voice over internet phones.The US is spending hundreds of billions of dollars on a war to bring democracy to Iraq. Yet only 4 per cent of people in the Arab world have broadband access. The most potent way to promote democracy in the Middle East would be to get that figure above 50 per cent.Perhaps the most famous - and unfairly maligned - example of We Think is Wikipedia, the free, volunteer-created encyclopaedia which now has more than six million articles in more than 250 languages. Complaints about minor inaccuracies in Wikipedia miss the point: this is just the first experiment in creating a global knowledge resource that is free to anyone on the planet. There is much more to come.Two weeks ago the first 30,000 pages of the Encyclopedia of Life, covering the Earth's 1.8 million species, were put online. Jonathan Fanton, director of the MacArthur Foundation, one of the project's core funders, says it will be a 'global knowledge resource created by all, maintained by all and with benefit to all'. The British Library is planning to do something very similar.The Encyclopedia of Life is part of a worldwide movement towards open-access science communities on the web. The research damning Prozac was published in the Public Library of Science Medicine, one of the leading online, open-access journals. The reader can click through to see the underlying data and join a growing conversation by leaving their own comment.Open access publishing makes scientific research freely available on a global basis. That spreads knowledge further, faster to more people and so accelerates how theories are tested and improved. The research community becomes more productive through mass collaboration.The US National Institutes of Health, which spends $28bn a year on research, has announced that from April it will require its 10,000-plus researchers to make research results available online. Harvard is to do likewise.Most of the computer world did not notice in September 1991 when Linus Torvalds, a computer science student in Helsinki, released the first version of a program he had written called Linux. Torvalds put the program online with its source code, its basic recipe. Open source is software that nobody owns, everyone can use and anyone can improve.The Linux community is the most impressive example of sustained We Think. A version of Linux released in June 2005 had 229 million lines in its source code that would have taken 60,000 man-years to develop at a cost of perhaps $8bn. Every day most people who use the web rely on open source: Google's servers run on Linux; most websites rely on servers running the open-source Apache program. Open source could in time provide a model for other areas of life, for example turning We Think into We Make.Recently Procter and Gamble, the consumer goods giant, was visited by a grandmother who had designed her own nappy, sent a digital design to a manufacturer in China and shipped 2,500 samples into Britain. In Japan, the Elephant Design website involves consumers in advising companies how to make better products: it claims that six out of 10 of one leading Japanese retailer's top-selling products have been developed through the site.The Open Architecture Network allows the public to download 400 designs contributed by 6,000 architects. Designs include a solar-powered water harvester, an electricity generator and a composting toilet.Open Prosthetics, created by an engineer who lost an arm in the Iraq war, allows people with artificial limbs to share the adaptations and includes a section called Pimp My Arm. Charles Collis, a research engineer at Dyson, is hoping to create 'an internet of physical objects' - a public library of component designs that can be shared, amended and passed around as easily as music files.In time even top-down public services will feel the power of We Think. Just launched in the UK is the School of Everything, which aims to be an eBay for stuff that does not get taught in school. Someone who wants to learn how to use the Garageband music program will be able to find someone who will provide a couple of hours of tuition.In  schools, children still learn from a teacher and a book. Yet in the 85 per cent of their time children spend outside school they learn from one another, often through social networks and computer games.A prime example of this participative culture is World of Warcraft, which in four years has become one of the most successful  games ever, with more than eight million players. Part of what makes it so attractive - critics would say addictive - is its social structure. There are 10 races, nine classes and two warring factions.Many tasks are too complex to be undertaken alone, putting a premium on complementary abilities. Soon after the game was launched, guilds started to form. Some, like the one founded by the Japanese internet venture capitalist Joi Ito, have thousands of members.In such games it's the players who create the content. A computer game with a million players only needs 1 per cent of them to create content for other players to use and the game has an unpaid development team of 10,000.If we could persuade 1 per cent of Britain's pupils to be player-developers for education, that would be 70,000 new sources of learning. But that would require us to see learning as something more like a computer game, something that is done peer-to-peer, without a traditional teacher.We are just at the start of exploring how we can be organised without the hierarchy of top-down organisations. There will be many false turns and failures. But there is also huge potential to create new stores of knowledge to the benefit of all, innovate more effectively, strengthen democracy and give more people the opportunity to make the most of their creativity.The motto of the generation growing up with the collaborative logic of the web is not the solitary 'I think, therefore I am', it is be the social 'We think, therefore we are'.&#183;We Think: Mass Innovation, Not Mass Production, by Charles Leadbeater, is published by Profile. Charles Leadbeater will discuss the book at the British Library on 26 March.
The deluge of email flooding workers' inboxes every day has become so overwhelming that it is now a 'broken business tool' in urgent need of fixing, companies have been warned.The average employee spends an estimated 90 minutes to two hours a day wading through hundreds of messages, suffering interruptions and distractions with every ping from their PC or BlackBerry. Worldwide email traffic has now hit 196 billion messages a day, according to the research firm the Radicati Group, and is predicted to reach 374 billion per day by 2011.Some organisations, such as worldwide accountancy consultants Deloitte and the publisher Cedar, have held 'No email days' to encourage staff to use the phone or talk to each other instead. But these are only stopgap measures.'Email is a broken business tool,' said Jason Preston, new media manager at the Parnassus Group, a social media consultancy. 'There's been no innovation to separate the junk letters from the real ones.'Tom Jackson, a senior lecturer in the information science department at Loughborough University, has devised a 'desktop PA' program which can prioritise relevant messages into a 'fast lane'.Jackson, who has provided email training to clients including the Danwood Group and Leicestershire police, has also designed a program which can name and shame bad emailers within an organisation. 'It will go through all the emails you've sent and give you a score. It looks at how many people you sent it to, did you "reply to all", how big your subject line is, whether the message is well written. It gives a ranking of good and bad emailers, which can be a shock and make people reconsider what they're doing.'Spam, the electronic equivalent of junk mail, has been estimated as making up nine in 10 of all emails sent. Although corporate spam filters can stop them, workers still find themselves blitzed by messages known as 'Bacn'  because 'it's like spam but a little bit tastier'.
An Australian expat once told me she didn't consider she'd properly lived in a country until she'd sacked her first internet service provider. By that standard, I've only recently started living in this house because, although we've been here for years, I've only just got round to dumping BT Broadband.The new service isn't online yet, so for the moment I'm having to cadge Wi-Fi off the neighbours' connection. (They've given me the password.) There are several boring aspects to this. The main one is that they are a few houses away and the connection is a) patchy and b) doesn't reach my study, so to get the signal I have to sit on one particular spot about two-thirds of the way up the stairs. It's boring and uncomfortable, and net access is slow, so I can't do anything interesting on the web — can't properly check Metafilter and Digg and my various Netvibes feeds — so I tend to pick up my email, look up whatever things I need to look up for work, and get back to my desk. The results are chastening: I've got masses of work done, far more than usual.All this is proof, not that it was needed, that wireless broadband is a terrible time-suck; much worse than fixed broadband, because you can faff hours away anywhere in the house. But it's my favourite technology, not only because it's so useful when it's useful, but because it still feels so close to magic: information everywhere, all the time, invisibly.I often wonder whether my sons will grow up unable to remember a world in which wires were important, and how big a deal that shift will seem. Cloud computing, wireless technology and ubiquitous near-free silicon chips are going to produce ... well, I don't know what. Most visions of the computing future aren't too exciting, just versions of the present with tiny tweaks in the direction of small, pointless conveniences. Fridges that order food for you: who cares? But I don't think increased consumer amenity will be the whole story of a wirelessly connected planet.One thing my sore bum and I notice on the stairs is just how much the quality of the connection varies in the day. When I had it installed in 2001, ours was the only signal the wireless card would pick up: at the moment, on a good day, I can pick up 14. The connections are contended — shared — so when they are all online at the same time, the speed of the connection zooms downwards. The theoretical speed is "up to" eight megabits per second, which would enable me to watch live TV; in practice, I'm lucky to get anything over 1Mb, which is barely enough to watch YouTube. In fact, it isn't enough to watch YouTube after about 3pm, when the Americans go online and the servers start to slow down — I assume that's what's responsible for the crawl-through-molasses post-prandial speeds. Either that, or there is a roomful of boffins somewhere saying, "Let's make it buffer a bit more, and then a bit more, and then play for about three seconds, and then buffer some more, then hang up altogether, and see if he goes mad."Right now it's Sunday morning and I can barely get online at all the connection is so slow. But I'm cadging, so I can't complain. Mind you, even with the notional 8Mbps, the connection is sometimes so creaky that the browser will hang up without loading a page at all. Sunday morning is an especially bad time. The mind wonders just what people are doing. When it gets quite so slow, you have to assume they're downloading stuff. Debbie Does Dallas? The new The Feeling album? Or are they all having a 16-player Halo deathmatch, to which I haven't been invited?None of this would be a problem if the public weren't paying for access speeds that we simply aren't getting. But an 8Mbps connection that, 80% of the time, won't let you watch YouTube without constantly sticking is not right. ISPs should be allowed to advertise only average speeds, not largely fictitious "up tos". Even better would be contractually guaranteed minimum speeds: 2Mbps or your money back.&#183;Stephen Fry is away
A memory card from my husband's Nokia phone has short videos of our son: how do I get them on to a DVD?First you need a card reader to let your computer grab the files from your memory card - high street shops should stock a reliable model for less than &pound;20 (but check it works with the type of card you've got). Then use a program such as the freeAny Video Converterto turn it from a phone-friendly file into something that's compatible with DVDs. Then use Windows DVD Maker or Apple's iDVD (which should be built into your machine) to burn the files on to a disc, before watching them on TV or sending to relatives.Can you please tell me how I can record listen-again radio programmes on to audiotape, to play in the car?There are complicated ways you could go about this, but the easiest method is to buy a cassette adaptor: a tape-shaped gizmo that connects to the headphone jack on your music player and slides into your car's cassette deck. This means that you can download podcasts, transfer them on to an MP3 player and then play them back while driving. Popular Belkin and Sony models cost around &pound;7.
The chief executive of Phorm, Kent Ertegrul, came into the Guardian offices on Friday for an interview to be broadcast in the podcast next week (and we'll also put up a longer version before that). We tried to ask as many of your questions as made sense. Plus a few of our own.But one remark that he made in the interview was that Phorm - previously known as 121Media - had been working on its ad-targeting technology for "years". Although most people have only recently heard of it, a project as large as this can't be put together in a few months. So yes, "years" would make sense. (If you need to get up to speed on Phorm, here's themain article.)And here's some confirmation: an article from Citywire from April 2006, just after Carphone Warehouse announced its "free" broadband service. (Well, the broadbandisfree, but you have to switch to its phone service.)Citywire has the press release:The article begins:One company that rejoiced at Carphone Warehouse's recent free broadband launch is 121Media, a recently AIM-listed company that reckons it has the revenue model ISPs will now need to survive.121Media has developed a piece of technology that sits on the server of an internet service provider (ISP) and enables usage data to be collected and analysed on the fly for every one of the ISP's customers. The data is anonymous, but tells the system exactly which web pages the user has viewed and what they have done on those pages, so that an advert can be served to them as they wait for the next page to load, which is precisely targeted to their usage patterns.Fascinating. I guess we all weren't paying enough attention, eh?Slightly over-optimistic though was the prediction that[Ertegrul] said revenues should start coming in from this new business model in the second half of this year.That would be 2006. We might not see the results until the second half of this year - 2008.Then again, theNew York Times articlelast month quoted analysts at Investec Securities who said "the Open Internet Exchange could generate £85 million, or $167 million, in annual revenue for BT alone by 2009."Those are big numbers. Multiply by about 3, if Virgin Media and Carphone Warehouse are on board. That's big money.Strangely though Ertegrul said "There is a precedent for this advertising model, and that is television". To be honest, TV advertising is so inaccurate that that's really not a precise analogy. What Phorm's planning is something targeted topreciselyyour web viewing. TV it's not.
The notebook PC market grew by 41 % to 33 million units in the fourth quarter of 2007, and by 14% quarter-on-quarter, according to DisplaySearch, reportsDigiTimesin Taiwan. It says:Of particular note is that Acer, which had been a distant third to Dell, dramatically narrowed the gap to its rival excluding its acquisitions of Gateway and Packard Bell and overtook Dell when these acquisitions are included.Also, it reckons brands that sell via retail are usually doing better than ones that sell direct:DisplaySearch analysis indicates that the increasing transition of consumers from desktop PCs to notebook PCs is having a direct impact on brands' growth and market share. Brands with established enterprise and retail presences have had the most success in growing market share in the past several quarters. This helps to explain the faster than average growth for HP and Acer.However, this doesn't seem to hold true for Toshiba, which sells mainly via retail channels.Asustek's 50% growth would seem to reflect the success of the Asus Eee PC.Bloombergalso reported the story.Dell, of course, has now moved into retail -- its outlets include Tesco, in the UK, and Wal-Mart Stores, Best Buy and Staples in the US. However, if results are positive, they could take a while to make a difference.
MondayKojima drops hype bombSpiderwick Chronicles and LostTuesdayTalk via PSPDropsum and the cult of mathsWednesdayAussie TV introduces viewer-sourced gamingThe Lost RingTaunting in PESXbox 360 price cut?Goodbye Gary GygaxThursdayDamnation - vertical shootingFridayTurning Point interviewApple's touch screen games
Blogger Rafael Rivera asks Ballmer to show some loveAt Microsoft's Mix08 event in Las Vegas, chief executive Steve Ballmer did a Q&amp;A live on stage with MacBook Air-toting entrepreneur, blogger and former Apple evangelistGuy Kawasaki. There's about an hour of it if you want to watch thevideo. A much quicker approach would be to scan the Seattle Times report,Microsoft's Ballmer dances, jokes and tackles all the subjects in onstage interview. The paper also hasExtended coverageof some parts of the talk.Ballmer seemed to stick pretty close to the PR line, but louder and larger than life, as usual.
Just in case youdon'tobsessively follow every word that Steve Jobs speaks (as if), the Apple CEO unveiled a software development kit for the iPhone yesterday, allowing game developers to create new titles for the popular handset. EA and Sega are already onboard, with versions of Spore and Super Monkey Ball on the way, the latter set to use the phone's accelerometer to provide tilt-based gameplay.Apple has also announced its own internally developed iPhone title, Touch Fighter, a space shooter which,according to MCV, the team knocked up in two weeks. They're clearly taking the mobile games market seriously then.So Apple is pushing two of its latest platforms - iPhone and iPod Touch - as leading new arenas for touch screen gaming. But Apple is not alone in this market - most other phone manufacturers have their own touch screen handsets. Indeed, I met with Glu mobile today who were telling me that Vodafone expects 50% of its new handsets to be touch screen-based.And let's face it, touch screen technology is what mobile gaming has been crying out for. The mobile keypad has proved itself resolutely awful as a game controller, but a touch screen/stylus combo could work wonders for accessibility, especially with strategy and puzzle games. Glu showed me several of their forthcoming titles, most of which support touchy phones - I'll talk more about those next week, but there was a really nice Picross-esque puzzler and sequels to the excellent Diner Dash and Brain Genius titles, all very much improved by the touch interface.Touch is the future for small games - Steve Jobs says so.
Users of Apple's iPhone and iPod touch will now be able to watch BBC shows on the go, the corporation has announced.Although millions of people are already catching up on BBC shows through theiPlayer broadband TV website, those using phones and iPods have so far been left out because mobile web browsers are not compatible with the Flash technology used by iPlayer.After behind-the-scenes work, however, viewers can now log on through their iPods and watch BBC programmes whenever they are connected to a Wi-Fi hotspot.Anthony Rose, the BBC's head of digital media technologies, said that the iPhone was just the first mobile device to get iPlayer compatibility, and that more are on the way — including "another device" by the end of this month."We started with the iPhone because it is the device most optimised for high quality video. It displays the BBC iPlayer site and BBC programmes nicely," he said in a post on the corporation'sinternet blog. "We're working on making BBC iPlayer available on many more browser-enabled devices over the coming months."When using the iPlayer's web service, programmes are not downloaded to an iPod or iPhone, merely streamed directly over the internet. Some BBC programmes are, however,now available to purchasethrough Apple's iTunes store.The announcement came just a few hours after Apple confirmed that it was releasing a software development kit to allow third party developers to build their own official iPhone applications. Until now, developers have had to create unsupported programs, forcing owners to invalidate their warranties in order to install new software.The iPlayer, which launched last year after a protracted delay and at the cost of several million pounds, has expanded rapidly in recent months. At Christmas the BBC officially launched its new streaming service — which lets surfers view shows directly through their web browser, similar to YouTube — and programmes were viewedmore than 17m timesbetween December 25 and mid-February.Rose also said that the iPlayer website would be relaunched in the coming months, adding extra functionality such as the ability to remind viewers to download programmes which they have been following.
The Evening Standard splash (as journalists call it; front-page lead as most other folks do) today is "MACCA'S £200m iTUNES PAYDAY" which is remarkable for two things: first, they bothered to put the 'i' of iTunes into lower-case; second, that according to the spokesperson forApple Corps, which still retains publishing rights to the Beatles' back catalogue, its suggestion that the songs will go online later this year is wrong.The story says that McCartney "is to release the Beatles back catalogue online - helping pay for his multi-million pound divorce from Heather Mills." Later it says thatThe catalogue's online release has been hampered by legal wrangles that have now been settled. The divorce is thought to be the final obstacle. A source close to the musician told the Evening Standard today: "I reckon the Beatles catalogue will go on this year."OK, well, that would certainly be nice - I've been ringing up Apple Corps since about 2003 asking when the Beatles' catalogue would join pretty much the rest of the world by going online. No date was ever given.And that remains true, according the Apple Corps spokesperson who I spoke to after seeing the story. "There's no date set," she said. "The story isn't correct. I can't tell you if it's this year or next year or when." (The Standard did call Apple Corps for a response before publishing its story, and decided to go with its own sources.)So what then are the obstacles to the Beatles catalogue, which would be enormously valuable, and would (as the Standard suggests) probably dominate the download charts for months if not weeks (might they become the first band to have No.1s four decades apart)?Well, look to the publishing rights. The publishing rights to the Beatles songs are owned jointly by Sony, EMI Publishing and Apple Corps.Sony has songs online. EMI Publishing has songs online and would love to have more. Apple Corps.. doesn't. It is owned by, among others, Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr. Its chief executive since April 2007 isJeff Jones; he replaced Neil Aspinall - who fought against the Beatles' music being on CD until there was a higher royalty, and wouldn't allow it onto compilation albums.Jonessounded excitedabout the job when he took it up:The multiple opportunities to reach music lovers, both new and old, with the Beatles' spectacular body of work makes this position incredibly challenging and exciting.Well, OK, excite us then, Mr Jones. It's been kinda lacking just lately. But is it me, or is there no very visible reason for the holdout? And what Beatles tracks (or albums) would you definitely buy that you don't already have?Update:I put three questions to Apple Corps's PR: 1) Can you confirm if this [the songs going online this year] will happen? 2) Any details on dates? 3) Which online stores? Will it be all of them, or will any be excluded?And the answer? "No comment." There. Clear as mud, eh?
Another day another first person shooter, butTurning Pointlooks a little different. Influenced by the book "What If" by Robert Cowley, Turning Point is set in an alternate 1953 where the Nazi's have invaded the US after previously conquering Europe and the Soviet Union. No space marines comparing muscle tone here then. I recently spoke about the game with David Brickley, executive producer at Codemasters.The Xbox 360 is chock full of shooters - how do you make yours stand out from a genre dominated by heavyweights like Halo and Call of Duty?I think FPS has moved beyond being thought of as a single genre - Halo is Sci Fi, CoD has gone modern and so is up against the Tom Clancy titles now. Not every shooter fan plays every type of shooter because there are elements of each that may turn people off. With Turning Point: Fall of Liberty, you have a team that's had experience going all the way back to the PS1 of making WWII FPS now taking that detailed knowledge to imagine an authentic 'what if' scenario that, pretty amazingly really, hasn't been done before as an FPS. And whereas Halo and CoD are fantastic titles, there's an almost instinctive appeal in wanting to see New York fall, or how Washington DC could have become a ghetto, that neither they nor anyone else can offer.Do you think the market for WW2 first person shooters is saturated, hence the twist you have added?Arguably yes, but then Turning Point isn't a WW2 shooter, because in our scenario it never happened the way we know it did. You're not in Europe, or the Pacific. You're not an heroic soldier - you are essentially an ordinary man who becomes a terrorist in his own country. As I said earlier, there's an authenticity which owes a debt to our historical knowledge of our own timeline in terms of vehicle or weapon design and believability, but that was to keep the game away from going sci fi. Turning Point only works if you believe it could happen, and from what Hitler planned to America's own dubious presence on the world stage today, we think the game encapsulates many themes people haven't explored before.Are you worried that players may fail to appreciate or notice the storyline and just feel like they are just shooting Nazis yet again?No, I don't think so, because it's obvious at all times that the Nazis have the upper hand - you're the one falling back, not them. How is one guy going to take on an Occupation? Throughout the game there are evocative visual reminders. Whether it's combat blimps mowing down fleeing civilians, recruitment posters for the Hitler Youth or Capitol Hill draped in the Swastika they all ground the player in a different world from one they've seen in games before. Even the score by Michael Giacchino is devoid of the usual brass fanfare you'd expect in a military shooter.Story and setting aside does Turning Point offer anything new to the FPS genre?We're really happy with the third person combat (grapple) which allows you to take on anyone hand to hand and kill them quickly. You can use them as a human shield to move from cover to cover or even kill them according to the environment - chuck them off a bridge, drown them in a toilet. It reinforced the desperate, guerrilla tactics your character has to employ.What made you choose the Churchill taxi driver accident as the game's titular 'turning point', and were there any other historical WWII turning points considered for Fall of Liberty?We chose the Churchill scenario because the idea that history can turn on one person is a compelling concept. The taxi incident is interesting because it was a seemingly minor occurrence that could have changed the entire world. Automobile accidents happen every day, and any time someone is killed tragically the effects will ripple out, but it's hard to imagine that one person's absence could touch hundreds of millions of lives. We considered other scenarios, like what if Hitler had controlled the oil rich regions of the Middle-East before invading Russia, but strategic 'what ifs' seemed too theoretical. We wanted the turning point to actually be a point, a single moment in time, a single person that changed everything.Did you draft in any experts to create the timeline for Turning Point's pseudo history?We didn't, but there's a core group of people at Spark that have been making WWII games back to the first Medal of Honor on the PS1. Over the past ten years of making these games, all kinds of experts have been involved in the process, from veterans to military historians to weapons experts. At this point, there's an amazing backlog of WWII knowledge within the studio as well as over $20,000 dollars worth of research materials: books, films, stock, footage, period weapons and uniforms, and so on. Some people have joked that we could open a pretty good WWII museum around here.What inspired the Nazi weapon and armour designs for Turning Point?Nazi technology pushed the boundaries of science fiction in reality, so when we were asked to do an alternate reality game with the Nazis we had deep well to draw from. The challenge was to make the player feel that this could have happened and that it felt "real" to them, now. They were designing flying saucers, guns with flexible barrels that could shoot around corners, death rays, and flying tanks. Some of there tech is still too fantastic to feel real. But they were also designing weapons that are common to today's militaries, ahead of their time, rockets launching from submarines, jet bombers and fighters, and of course the Nuclear Bomb. We decided to do a 30% "crazy fantastic", 70 % "believable/plausible" split with our designs for weapons, vehicles, and technology.What piece of developer-designed Nazi weapon/armour are you most proud of and why?The infantry weapons were really fun to design, after doing so many WW2 games I feel this was a chance to be a bit fresh. I liked the Vampir gear the best. When you are down in the bombed out subways and sewers trying to get out of New York, you see some faintly glowing eyes in the dark. It's a frightening feeling being hunted in the dark by a predator you can't see. The Nazi's here will hunt you with the "Vampir" night vision technology. It is an active infrared night gear system. This differs from modern night vision systems in that you have to cast an infrared beam of light and you can only see what is illuminated by your IR Lamp. It functions much like a flash light, but you can't see the beam without the goggles or scope. The scope and lamp assembly for sniper rifles was massive in size. The power to generate a usable beam was generated from a future/steam punk looking wind up back pack. The great looking weapon system coupled with the Vampir mask and slightly glowing goggles create a creepy, predatory feel to the enemies that use them.The Xbox Live demo elicited a lot of feedback - how important is this to the creative process and how does it affect the final stages of development?It's more that the timings for magazines and the like force a situation where you're making a demo before you've finished the product. It's nothing new in game development. We were happy enough to release the demo we did in that the setting and spectacle got a generally good reaction from the audience and helped raise awareness ahead of launch, so it achieved its goal in that respect.Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is released for PS3, 360 and PC on the 14th March.
Friday's Chatterbox
"Internet Explorer 8 Beta 1 is a developer preview for web designers and developers to help prepare their websites for the launch of Internet Explorer 8. Some of the new features designed for developers include a developer toolbar and improved interoperability and compatibility," says Microsoft. You can download ithere.As wealready know, "Internet Explorer 8 is designed to work in standard mode out of this box." This reverses the decision made earlier -- which was supported by Jeffrey Zeldman, publisher of A List Apart (below), but not many others -- to work like IE7ourout of the box, and in "standard mode" if sites requested that.
"Digg has been working with influential investment bank Allen &amp; Co (the ones that recently got Slide a half billion dollar valuation) for a few months now, and pitching big tech and media companies on a sale," says Michael Arrington atTechCrunch.We hear from a source very close to the deal that four companies are in heavy due diligence with Digg -- two media/news companies, and two big Internet companies -- Google and Microsoft. And Google and Microsoft are on the verge of making their bids.It's probably a good bet that one of the "media/news companies" is Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, which owns MySpace. But what's the other one?The site could fetch $200-225 million.
The Pentagon has banned Google's mapping teams from making detailed street-level video maps of US military bases after images of one camp's internal layout ended up on the internet.A message sent to all bases and installations around the country late last week told officials not to allow the mapping web site from taking panoramic views inside the facilities.Google said the incident was a mistake and that the footage of Fort Sam Houston in Texas was removed from its site within 24 hours.Air Force General Gene Renuart said the decision to issue a formal ban was made after at least one Google crew was permitted access to the base. He was concerned the 360-degree, street-level view would make sensitive information – such as guard hut locations and building entries and exits - available to the country's enemies.Renuart stressed it was not an attack against the internet giant, but more a concern about the secondary effects of a positive technology.He said: "Google was very appreciative of us letting them know that we had a concern. They understand the security implications, and they have given us no indication that they would not be helpful to us if we asked."Google spokesman Larry Yu said a map-making crew mistakenly asked for access to a base and officials agreed. "It is against our policy to request access to military bases for the purpose of capturing imagery in Street View," he said.Street View is a feature on the Google Maps pages allowing viewers to click on a location and see a panoramic view of that spot.
The father of role-playing games, Gary Gygax, who has died aged 69 after being diagnosed with an abdominal aortic aneurysm, was one of America's most talented writers and game designers. Best known for his role in creating gaming history's most popular fantasy role-playing game, Dungeons &amp; Dragons (D&amp;D), first published in 1974, Gygax also founded the publishing company Tactical Studies Rules (TSR).Still active in the gaming community until his death, Gygax wrote a series of fantasy novels, periodicals and short stories throughout his life and inspired generations of gamers worldwide to follow a career in the industry, taking his ideas forward into the era of personal computers. In 1966 he helped to create the International Federation of Wargamers, an organisation made up of different war-gaming clubs which promoted medieval interests and served as a meeting ground for international wargamers to share ideas.Gygax began his career by bringing 20 people together in the basement of his home in 1967. Later to be known as Gen Con 0, this meeting gave birth to what is now the world's largest annual hobby-game gathering, the Gen Con Gaming Convention - last year 26,000 people attended. At the original event, Gygax encountered Brian Blume and designer Dave Arneson, who later helped him create and work on D&amp;D. In 1971 Gygax created his own miniature war game called Chainmail, which would later serve as the blueprint for D&amp;D.Gygax was born in Chicago, Illinois. His father was a Swiss immigrant. At the age of five, Gygax began playing pinochle (a bezique-related card game) and chess with a dedicated passion, which led to his discovery of science fiction.In 1953 Gygax began playing miniature war games with longtime friend Don Kaye, who would later help him start TSR. At that stage, Gygax became particularly interested in the game Gettysburg, which he ordered from an Avalon Hill company. He then began ordering blank hexagon mapping sheets so that he could create his own games, and soon was looking for innovative ways to do so - he introduced the use of dice of all five platonic solid shapes in addition to the common dice.Gygax and Kaye founded TSR in 1973 and published the first version of D&amp;D the following year. Gygax drew on the work of fantasy authors Robert E Howard, L Sprague de Camp and Fritz Leiber when creating the game. Not dependent on a board, it captured players' imaginations by introducing a dimension of dragons, wizards, trolls, dwarves, goblins and elves to quests in search of treasure or to defeat the forces of evil. All this was achieved with just graph paper, pencils, the polygonal dice and a set of complex rules.Often there was no obvious winner to the open-ended, and highly sociable, activity. While Gygax accepted the inevitability of the later electronic and online versions, he felt that computer graphics dulled the experience. "Your imagination is not there the same way it is when you're actually together with a group of people."The first hand-assembled print run of 1,000 copies sold out within the first nine months and, in the same year, Gygax hired Tim Kask to assist in the transition of the magazine the Strategic Review into the fantasy periodical, the Dragon, with Gygax as author and later columnist. But Gygax's history with TSR was not altogether a happy one.After Kaye's death in 1976, his widow sold her shares to Gygax, who was now in control of the whole company and created TSR Hobbies Inc. Gygax soon found himself in financial difficulties and was forced to sell it to Blume and his brother Kevin, who would own two-thirds of the company by late 1976.In 1977 a new version of D&amp;D was created, Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons, a game whose rules were not compatible with those of the original and, as a result, new product lines and expansions at TSR took place. Gygax left the company in 1985, citing his increased concern at being sidelined from running the business. He began work on a CBS cartoon series version of D&amp;D.In 1995 Gygax started developing a new role-playing game, originally intended for computers: it was released in 1999 as Lejendary Adventure. A key goal of its design was to keep the gaming rules as simple as possible. Gygax felt that role-playing games were becoming discouragingly complex to new users.In 2005, he returned to work on D&amp;D with his involvement in the creation of Castles &amp; Crusades with Troll Lord Games. Gygax became an icon to gamers, making several television appearances as himself in episodes of Futurama and Code Monkeys and participating in discussions on role-playing-related message boards.From the age of eight until his death, he lived in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin. In 1987, he married his second wife, Gail Carpenter. She survives him, as do three sons and three daughters.&#183;Ernest Gary Gygax, writer and game designer, born July 27 1938; died March 4 2008
What's your favourite piece of technology?A tiny silverSony VaioTR1MP laptop. I misread its name at first: I went into the store and asked, "Do you have a trimp?" The sales assistant replied imperiously, "Does Madam mean the TR1MP?" They've never brought out the TR4MP, so I guess they didn't want people asking for tramps.How has it improved your life?Improved it? It's saved it! As Gore Vidal once declared, "Whenever a friend succeeds, a little something in me dies." He should have added, "Whenever a friend gets a Sony Vaio TR1MP, the rest of me dies too."When was the last time you used it, and what for?I use it so much for writing, I should probably be sectioned. All the letters have been cruelly rubbed off the keys, which are now naked and ashamed.What additional features would you add if you could?Giant hairy man-arms to hold me tight on lonely nights. Not too tight, mind. Not like a python or anything.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No. It will live forever and learn how to fly.What one tip would you give to non-Vaio users?Vaio vaio vy don't they have one?Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm so nerdy, I make Stephen Hawking look like Snoop Dogg.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Come round and burgle me! Come on. No, really, I'll leave the door open and everything. I have a very large hammer, but don't let that put you off.Mac or PC?That's more flammable than "Israel or Palestine?" Let's stir it up even more: they're both lamer than a one-legged goat with syphilis. Bring back theBBC Acorn!What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?I can't tell you, or you won't like me any more.Will robots rule the world?Of course. Look at Abu Hamza: he's already started replacing bits of his body with metal. Gordon Brown has a glass eye, and George Bush had a wire. It's only a matter of time.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The Sony Vaio VGN-CR31Z/N. The website describes it as "Gorgeous, Rich, Premium", which all sounds impossibly decadent to someone sitting here in stained pyjamas eating peanut butter out of a jar with their finger. Maybe I should ask for the tramp after all.Ariane Sherineis a funny word entertainer. She's written for TV shows including My Family, Countdown and Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps
Bill Gates is probably chuffed: he never liked being the world's richest man, and now he's down to third place behind his friend Warren Buffett and Mexican telecom tycoon Carlos Slim Helú, according toForbes magazine's latest list of billionaires.Forbes says Gates "would have been perhaps as rich -- or richer -- than Buffett had Microsoft not made an unsolicited bid for Yahoo! at the beginning of February. Microsoft shares fell 15% between Jan. 31, the day before the company announced its bid for the search engine giant, and Feb. 11, the day we locked in stock prices for the 2008 World's Billionaires list."It's a win-win for Gates because Buffett is giving away most of his money via the Gates Foundation.TheTop 25shows only four American billionaires and seven Russians. Oracle's Larry Ellison is 14th ($25.0bn) just ahead of Roman Abramovich ($23.5bn).Google co-founders Sergey Brin ($18.7bn) and Larry Page ($18.6bn) are in 32nd and 33rd places, ahead of Michael Dell ($16.4), Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen ($16.0bn) and Steven Ballmer ($15bn) on thesecond pageof results. There are 45 pages in all.Other notable figures include:109 Rupert Murdoch ($8.3bn) -- The Sun, New York Post, Fox etc 110 Jeffrey Bezos ($8.2bn) -- Amazon 120 Pierre Omidyar ($7.7bn) -- eBay 142 Eric Schmidt ($6.6bn) -- Google 149 Hiroshi Yamauchi ($6.4bn) -- Nintendo 189 Steven Jobs ($5.4bn) -- Apple, Pixar 214 Patrick McGovern ($4.7bn) -- IDG 236 Richard Branson ($4.4bn) -- Virgin 288 Gordon Moore ($3.7bn) -- Intel 462 David Filo ($2.5bn) -- Yahoo 524 Jerry Yang ($2.3bn) -- Yahoo 605 Andreas von Bechtolsheim ($2.0bn) -- Sun Microsystems, Google 785 Theodore Waitt ($1.5bn) -- Gateway 843 James Clark ($1.4bn) -- Silicon Graphics, Netscape 1062= Joanne (JK) Rowling ($1.0bn) -- Harry PotterAt this level, "wealth" can change dramatically with share prices and exchange rates. Bear that in mind before you start sending out begging letters....Update: The Guardian covered the story yesterday, without the tech angle, inAfter 13 years of Gates, enter the new richest man in the world: The Sage. Which I didn't see because I was on a plane....
As expected, Apple has announced an SDK (Software Development Kit) along withiPhone 2.0 software. It has alsolicensed ActiveSync from Microsoftso that corporate iPhone users will be able to get email from an Exchange server, including "push" email. (Nokia, Palm and Symbian are already licensees.)Apple is retaining control of the apps market in the sense that it will host, distribute and collect the money for iPhone apps via its iTunes Store. However, developers will get to set their own prices, and they will get 70% of the revenue, with Apple handling things like credit card charges. Happily, Apple will distribute free apps for free. Of course, if your "app" unlocks an iPhone or breaks DRM or whatever, you can forget about getting Apple to distribute it. "Porn, malicious apps, ones that invade privacy" are also out.An alternative scheme will be introduced so that companies can distribute apps to their own staff.The SDK is a free download but developers also pay a nominal $99 for a certificate to sign apps if they want their apps distributed. They will also need a Mac and copy ofXcode. (Indeed, it seems Apple has extended Xcode to support the iPhone in much the same way that Microsoft extended Visual Studio to generate apps for Windows Mobile phones.)It looks as though one of the fruits of the SDK will be the availability of some decent games. EA demonstrated Spore at the event, while Sega showed Super Monkey Ball. Presumably this will also increase the number of decent games available on Mac OS X....iPhone apps should also run on the iPod Touch, but "there will be a nominal charge for the touch," says Jobs.The ActiveSync connection also synchronises calendars, tasks, and contacts with Exchange Server, not just email.Engadget's Ryan Blockblogged the eventlive.
Our art critic Adrian Searle hasa long review of the Barbican's latest exhibitionin today's Guardian. "Eh?" I hear you cry, spitting diet coke all over your keyboard: "ART? What's he on about?"Well, quite. This is a blog about technology, after all. But theMartian Museum of Terrestrial Artis an exhibition with a twist: it's curated as if by aliens examining human culture.Martians, as everyone knows, are a virulent green colour, matching the cover of the exhibition catalogue, which itself pretends to be Volume VIII of the Encyclopedia of Terrestrial Life. Further volumes, we are told, deal with Belief Systems, Power Relations and - inexplicably - Philately. Some of the texts inside have been translated into a goofy typeface that pretends to be Martian.All this heavily signposted spoofery is as exhausting as a long weekend on the asteroid belt, and after a while even the most space-smitten kid would tire of it. Thankfully, the gallery invigilators have not been asked to dress in costume or adopt alien voices, although there is a droll Acoustaguide delivered by someone pretending to be Martian.Well, it got me reading. I can't help loving the idea - even if, in its execution, it's really one gag drawn out beyond its proper lifespan.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday March 10 2008In the article below we were wrong to say that Unisys gives staff a monthly allowance to buy their own computers and software; they are, however, considering this model.The days of the corporate IT department dictating what kit you use at work, what software you run and what websites you can visit may be over.Driven by a shift in the expectations of the new generation of workers and the increasing use of casual and short-term staff across industry, companies are both allowing and in many cases actively encouraging people who work for them to buy and manage their own hardware.Peter Cochrane, futurist and IT guru, identifies the kind of companies that are embracing the trend. "It's modern companies," he told a conference organised by Unisys, the IT services group. "They have a democratic environment, with little or no hierarchy." He points to companies such as Google as an illustration, adding: "The young and the young-minded are going to change everything."The point, Cochrane says, is that younger staff are used to working in a "cloud of connectivity". And the traditional corporate IT department is the antithesis of that. The baby boomer generation, which now leads many businesses, he says, is "conservative, controllist, sceptical and security and privacy-conscious".Smell the coffeeSo how does a business respond to this change? And is it appropriate for every company? In some businesses strict management of IT is not only desirable but vitally necessary, points out Janet Day, director of technology and infrastructure services at City law firm Berwin Leighton Paisner. Her unbending approach to the hardware being used by the 1,300 staff in the firm's offices in London, Paris, Singapore and Brussels is: "If it's plugged into the wall and it doesn't make coffee, it's mine." There's no such thing as "personal" computers for the staff.Her concern is compliance, and the need to keep all data for future reference. She explains with an example: "We were dealing with a complaint from a large organisation that had had a planning appeal turned down. The local authority came to us, saying 'we'd like copies of mailboxes, PST [Outlook data] files, etc, because we don't back up our email'." Her firm, however, because of its strict approach to IT, had all the required information.Day also raises another concern, that of health and safety. She warns that if random people are adding random bits of kit, that could pose a risk. "Who's responsible if a user trips over the cable of their machine? The probability is that it's you - because they wouldn't have put that cable there if they were not working for you."A further concern for businesses, says Day, is unlicensed software. If a user has installed a dodgy copy of an application, the business could be liable for fines. There is also the concern that a user might be accessing illegal material, such as certain types of pornography: "The police do swoop," Day says. So, she says, her firm only allows hardware it provides, and it regularly audits software: "Don't put software on our machines," she warns.Is that approach necessary in all businesses? BP, the oil major, doesn't think so. Ian Julien, infrastructure and operations manager at BP, says that businesses "have to accommodate different people". While a law firm is generally made up of permanent staff, other sectors prefer contractors and other short-term workers. Julien manages an IT operation that spans 1,700 sites in more than 100 countries, with a corporate culture that leans heavily towards outsourcing. In his own department, of 40 people who work for him, just five are BP staffers.BP is trialling an approach that gives users $1,000 (&pound;512) a year to spend on IT. Users have to use BP's email system and security protocols and buy kit to a minimum agreed standard. In return, users can buy what they think best suits their purposes. And, says Julien, part of the deal is that they can't ring the BP help desk, "which is bloody marvellous".For BP, the move to consumerisation started with a desire to reduce costs. Indeed, remarks Alex Stewart of Unisys, "the move to employee asset ownership reduces capital spend and corporate liability - it takes resources off the balance sheet". But the results of the trial period already show benefits beyond simply keeping the spend down. Users love it, says Julien, with one reporting that it "feels like I just got out of IT prison".Online, offsiteA similar model is being considered at Unisys, where the user gets a monthly allowance to buy their own computers and software. "The individual knows what's best for them," Stewart says. Part of the approach at Unisys could be to centralise its main applications and provide them to users via the internet - using readily available technology such as virtual private networks (VPNs).The approach, Stewart says , "releases the IT department to focus on its core business mission". It also means that the company does not have responsibility for keeping the asset - ie, the hardware - working; that is shifted to the employee. He adds that because workers will also use their hardware for personal stuff such as photographs, they are more inclined to take care of the hardware than if it were a PC issued by the IT department.Moving in this direction requires companies to think very differently, says Brian Gammage, a research fellow at analysts Gartner. "Consumerisation is an attitude," he says. "It is a reflection of the aspirations of a generation." Dan Rasmus, director of information work vision at Microsoft, defines that generation as "millennials"."Millennials don't believe in boundaries," he says. "So they have the expectation that no boundaries will apply when they go to work - things like downloading a TV show illegally doesn't bother them." Such people, he says, tend not to trust large corporations and instead focus on their personal success. The millennial workplace is a place of high turnover and with little commitment to the employer.This attitude stems from cold hard economic facts, he says. Industry is embracing outsourcing, which means not much security for individuals. In this world of work, it should come as little surprise that companies are keen to outsource their IT departments and get users to assume some of those responsibilities. It looks as though consumerisation can only be on the increase.
OK, so TechCrunch has avideo interviewwith Kent Ertegrul, chief executive of Phorm. (Thanks alphaxion in comments elsewhere.)We are meeting him on Friday at 1230. Your questions please that you'd like us to ask on his behalf. We'll try to put as many of them as makes sense. Note of course that he answers a number of questions in the interview linked above with Mike Butcher.You might also find it interesting to peruse thediagrams obtained by The Registershowing how the Phorm system would (allegedly) work.He answers a hacking question: if someone breaks into their database, they'd have a list of random numbers, some categories assigned to them such as "swimming" and timestamps. That, he says, doesn't identify you.(Note that the best questions aim to extract new information from people, rather than stuff you already know. So "this is evil, isn't it?" works less well than, for example, "Shouldn't users decide whether this is opt-in rather than opt-out?")Update:Simon Davies of Privacy International has got in touch to point out that PI "DOES NOT endorse Phorm, though we do applaud a number of developments in its process." (His capitals.) "The system does appear to mitigate a number of core privacy problems in profiling, retention and tracking... [but] we won't as PI support any system that works on an opt-out basis."He adds: "Any claim that PI has "endorsed" Phorm is incorrect. This is not because we don't believe the Phorm technology has some benefits. It does. It's because PI simply doesn't conduct that type of endorsement."He clarifies that Privacy International *as a whole* did not evaluate Phorm, but that he and Gus Hosein, a senior fellow at PI, did under the aegis of their privacy startup 80/20 Thinking "assess the Phorm technology and processes" to provide a Privacy Impact Statement."We were impressed with the effort that had been put into minimising the collection of personal information, and were particularly impressed with the idea that such a system could be established without the need for IP's, retention or profile building.""We did notify Phorm of a number of danger areas, particularly the notification and consent conditions applied by its ISP partners, however we felt the Phorm process itself warranted praise at a number of key levels. In comparison to, say, the potential of the Google/Doubleclick process, Phorm deserves credit for attempting to create a stronger privacy and anonymisation focus."OK, so back to the questions for Kent Ertregrul now...Update:OK, the interview's done. We'll aim to have it up later today (Fri). So no more questions, please..
I found this quite interesting, even though I completely misunderstood the press release first time round. Codemasters has officially announced that it'll be publishing a new third-person shooter namedDamnation, from US developer Blue Omega. They're describing it as a 'shooter gone vertical' - and at first I just thought they meant a 2D scrolling shooter in the style of, say, 1942 or Commando. They didn't.What they mean is a shooter with incredibly tall levels, designed so that players can climb walls and leap from building to building while blasting at each other - sort of like parkour with semi-automatic weapons. The game also includes vehicles able to zoom along vertical surfaces, recalling the scene in Day Watch where the car drives along the side of a concave office block.I quite like the idea of an overtly acrobatic shooter - it's something that Max Payne and Stranglehold both toyed with, of course, although this was more through character movement than interaction with the environment. Having to clamber up walls while spinning round and shooting at baddies is going to take one hell of a control system, but its an intriguing concept.Damnation is out later this year on PS3, Xbox 360 and PC.
In print we have the full read about Phorm, ISPs and the privacy row (on which more imminently..); how a clever technique is turning black-and-white recordings of old BBC series back into colour; the challenge of falling Flash prices for Microsoft's business model (because it makes machines like the Asus EEE PC feasible - and they need less memory than Windows); and how some companies are letting their users "out of IT prison".In games, we review Lost - Via Domus, Flatout Head On, and Lost Odyssey. Click through for the full listing..Phorm fires privacy row for ISPsWeb users are up in arms over what they see as an invasion of privacy by a company that will track surfing patterns to serve targeted ads, says Charles ArthurIn politics, being determined counts more than being onlineSeth Finkelstein: The role of intellectuals in politics is an age-old issueGame review: Flatout Head OnBoy racers should love itNews bytesSlum interactive | Robot wars | Google Sites | Goggle eyes | Gender swappers | Rocking future | Wink control | Encyclopaedia of LifeGame review: Lost - Via DomusBased on the TV series, Lost: Via Domus captures the spirit of the show but fails to create a decent gameWhy are there no spam or trolls on Twitter?Kate Bevan: Twitter is remarkable for being largely idiot- and spam-freeGame review: Lost OdysseyThe fighting system has depth, the storyline is excellent and the whole experience is very meatyPutting colour back in the Doctor's cheeksA new colour recovery process is reviving old BBC programmes, such as Doctor Who, that only survive in black and white. By Charles NortonCameron pledge on council data makes move for moral high groundConservative leader David Cameron has turned to free data to boost his party's campaign in the local government electionsHow gaming made it into mainstream thinkingAleks Krotoski: Since 2001, games have undergone a transformationTechnology videos we loveDon't call me you-know-who | Don't call me you-know-who | We're robots, singing to youTechnophileSpeakers for your MP3 player are never going to be both portable and able to pump out great soundLetters and blogsTransports of delightAsk JackPDF editor | Eudora for Vista? | Recording in VistaWhy falling Flash prices threaten MicrosoftThe surprise success of the Asus Eee could mark a change in how people view open source — and cause problems for WindowsIt pays to think big with digital camera sensorsJack Schofield: A camera's megapixel rating can be misleading because it stops people thinking about sensor sizeWhy a worker says 'it feels like I just got out of IT prison'Giving staff an allowance to buy and look after their own kit is working well for some businesses
Plastic bags are much in the news. Gordon Brown announced he'll back a move to charge people for them, so that we'll use fewer. Clearly, nobody has pointed out to him that they're made from naphtha, a byproduct of oil refining for which no other use has been found. If nobody makes plastic bags any more, it'll get burnt off - generating more carbon dioxide. Well done, Gordon, and Paul Dacre of the Daily Mail! You've boosted climate change!There's much rubbish spouted about biofuels; it turns out they displace crops that could be used for food. But it's all about the climate, isn't it?Now, imagine that some enterprising company invented a system to trap all the carbon dioxide output from the UK's power stations and compress it into a condensate for disposal. This material would be lethal: fill a room with carbon dioxide and you'll die very quickly. If it escaped, the effect on the climate would be woeful.Obviously, it would be a popular technology that could be sold abroad, but taking care of that waste - in 2005, UK power stations emitted 173m tonnes of CO2 (tinyurl.com/2m4ow3) - would be hard. You'd need confidence it was being kept safe.Of course, it wouldn't solve the problem of rising oil, gas and coal prices. You thought last winter's rises were unpleasant? Wait for oil to reach $200 (&pound;100) per barrel (and gas and coal prices to stay roughly in line) in the coming years, while the UK's dependence on imported energy keeps growing. (In 2006, the UK ceased being an oil exporter.)Alternatively, rather than trying to dream up new technologies to capture carbon dioxide, use a technology we've already got: nuclear power. It's just like our CO2 capture scenario: the output is very toxic, and needs careful marshalling. But it's well-understood. The fuel is plentiful, and unlike oil and coal, doesn't contribute to climate change.Sure, backing nuclear power is an unusual stance to take in this paper. But renewables - wind, wave, sun - cannot ever meet our growing electricity demand, which is rising by 1% annually. And while fossil fuels constitute the majority of our electricity generation, your electricity bill will rise relentlessly. Green groups don't like nuclear power because of the waste issue. But the waste from burning oil is far more potent.Going totally nuclear means we can rely on energy generated within the UK, and meet our requirements to cut CO2 emissions by 2020. Sure, disposing of nuclear waste is difficult and has to be done for the long term. The only difference from CO2 is that it's easier to see nuclear waste. They're both, in the end, deadly; at least the nuclear waste is concentrated.Every generation faces a huge challenge that it must overcome; in the 20th century there was the rise of fascism, and then the threat of global destruction by nuclear weapons. Now it's climate change. The irony is that the technology involved in all three is the same. Once again it needs to be applied to assure a future peace.It's time for the government to stop frittering with irrelevancies like low-energy light bulbs and urging us to switch off standby equipment. It's fiddling at the edge of a vast, but not intractable, problem. If you like your lifestyle, realise that preserving it in the future will demand a lot of nuclear generating capacity. Yes, it's expensive. But so was that bank the government is now spending billions propping up.If the government were truly serious about the environment, Gordon Brown wouldn't have bothered with the Daily Mail's plastic bags initiative. He'd have announced a Northern Rock-sized investment in new nuclear power stations to provide 100% of the UK's forecast energy needs by 2020. If a bank holds all our futures so much that it needs government support, doesn't energy?charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk
It seems that the &pound;200 ultraportable Asus Eee PC can do no wrong. The size of a paperback, weighing less than a kilogram, with built-in Wi-Fi and using Flash memory instead of a hard drive for storage, the Eee PC has been winning positive comments not just from hyperventilating hardware reviewers, but also from ordinary people who have actually bought it.According to an (admittedly biased, because it was self-selecting) online survey of 1,000 users on the independent Eee PC siteeeeuser.com, around 4% were dissatisfied with their purchase, 33% found the system pretty much what they expected and 62% thought it was even better than they had hoped.Looking through the thousands of postings in eeeuser.com's user forums, the same comments keep coming up: it's so small, the build quality is high, it boots up quickly, it just works. In fact, it's hard to find many negative points. Most are about the placing of the right-hand shift key, the small size of the keyboard, the limited battery life and the slightly awkward mousepad. One thing that is almost never mentioned as a problem is the fact that the Eee PC is running not Windows, but a variant of GNU/Linux.Better in storeUntil now, the received wisdom has been that GNU/Linux will never take off with general users because it's too complicated. One of the signal achievements of the Asus Eee PC is that it has come up with a front end that hides the richness of the underlying GNU/Linux. It divides programs up into a few basic categories - Internet, Work, Learn, Play - and then provides large, self-explanatory icons for the main programs within each group. The result is that anyone can use the system without training or even handholding.This combination of good functionality and out-of-the box ease of use with a price so low that it's almost at the impulse-buy level could prove problematic for Microsoft. Until now, there has been no obvious advantage for the average user in choosing GNU/Linux over Windows on the desktop, and plenty of disadvantages.The price differential has been slight, and there has always been the problem of learning new ways of working. The Asus Eee PC changes all that. Because the form factor is so different, people don't seem to make direct comparisons with the desktop PC, and therefore don't expect the user experience to be identical.The price differential between the basic Eee PC running GNU/Linux and one running Windows XP is now significant as a proportion of the total cost. One of the main suppliers of the Asus Eee PC, RM, sells the GNU/Linux version with 4Gb of storage and 512Mb of RAM for &pound;199. The cheapest machine running Windows XP costs &pound;259, 30% more, not least because Microsoft's operating system needs more storage and memory - 8GB and 1GB respectively. It is that difference, far more than any cost of licensing Windows, which means that Linux-based machines can remain consistently cheaper.That disparity seems likely to increase when Microsoft phases out Windows XP at the end of June. Vista costs more than Windows XP and it requires a minimum of 15GB of storage for installation of even the most basic version. In order to run Vista on the Eee PC, users will need to buy models - currently non-existent - with much more Flash memory.At least Moore's Law should mean that the price of memory chips will continue to plummet. For example, in 2001 $8 (&pound;4)would have bought you around 8MB of Flash memory, whereas in 2011 it will buy you 8GB, according to projections by Gartner. As a result, Alan Brown, Gartner's research director for semiconductors, says the price of ultraportables like the Eee PC "could decline about 15% within three years to between &pound;160 and &pound;170".The UK company Elonex has already set an even lower price point: it has just announced its own ultraportable, called The One, which offers most of the features of the Eee PC for &pound;100. Other companies that have launched, or announced, similar machines running GNU/Linux include Acer, Everex, and the Australian company Pioneer Computers; even HP seems to have one on the way. At least one manufacturer of traditional portables is worried by the downward trend in prices. According to Cnet, Sony's Mike Abrams commented: "If [the Eee PC from] Asus starts to do well, we are all in trouble. That's just a race to the bottom."This makes the relative cost of systems running Microsoft's products greater. The argument that its software is "worth more" because it has more features is unlikely to cut much ice as users discover that functionality of the kind offered by Firefox andOpenOffice.orgis fine for most everyday uses - the target market for these new small devices. Moreover, the rise of free browser-based online services such as Gmail and the Google Docs office suite means you can get by with just Firefox.The situation in developing countries is even worse. Not only must Microsoft and its partners compete with new low-cost portable GNU/Linux systems specifically designed for these markets, like the XO-1 from the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project or Intel's Classmate PC, but they must also sell against unauthorised copies of Microsoft's products, which are routinely available on the streets for a few dollars. To combat this, Microsoft has started selling copies of Windows for around $3 in these markets.Size does matterAlthough this kind of bargain basement pricing helps make its products competitive with low-cost alternatives like open source or unauthorised copies, Microsoft's profit margin is cut close to zero. That's not necessarily a disaster for a company with huge cash reserves, but it could be dire for one planning to take on billions of dollars of debt - as Microsoft has said it will need to do in order to finance the acquisition of Yahoo. What if it is forced to extend this kind of pricing to western markets in order to match the cheap GNU/Linux systems in this "race to the bottom"?The first effects may already be being felt. Notably, last week Microsoft cut the cost of retail copies of Vista, apparently because people don't see it as a necessary upgrade at the prices charged. While the vast majority of Windows "upgrades" will still come through people buying new PCs, as corporate customers hold back, the erosion of Microsoft's ability to set prices for its operating system - and perhaps more importantly its hugely profitable Office suite - could spread deep into its product suite.And if people don't think that the extra features of Vista are worth the price, at least at retail, it makes the argument that Windows is "worth more" than Linux harder to sustain. It's an interesting - and, for Microsoft, critical - question just how low the price of these "basic but good enough" portables can go.The original target price of the OLPC machine was around $100, but its designer, Mary-Lou Jepsen, already thinks she can do better. She says that a $75 system is "within reach," and she set up a new company, Pixel Qi, to help realise that vision.In the process, she hopes to spawn an entirely new generation of computers. "We'll have decent, highly portable, rugged, multi-use computers everywhere. That poses constraints on the circumstances of use - the input aspects and the screens, the networking and the software, all will have to evolve." If they're to be cheap enough for many people in developing countries to buy, these systems will almost certainly be using open source, but Jepsen doesn't see the zero price tag as its main advantage: "The true and large value of free [software] is the ability to change and customise it."In other words, Microsoft could give away its software, and it still couldn't compete with the truly open, customisable nature of free code. It seems that the only way Microsoft can hope to get people using its software on this new class of low-cost, ultraportable machines is by going fully open source itself.&#183;Glyn Moody writes about open source atopendotdotdot.blogspot.com
