How are the mighty fallen. Shares in Xerox, the copier giant, are in free fall. Last week they were knocking around under $5, giving the company a market cap of only $8 billion. If it weren't for the fact that it has something like $18 billion of debt, the predators would already be circling for the kill.At one level, it's just another tale from the capitalist jungle. But there is a delicious irony in the story, for Xerox ought to have been the most valuable company the world has ever seen - as big as Microsoft, Intel, IBM, 3COM and Hewlett-Packard combined. Why? Because there was a time, in the early Seventies, when Xerox owned almost every key ingredient of personal computer technology, but spectacularly failed to recognise the fact. When company executives eventually realised what magic their research scientists had unleashed, they were too late and too clumsy in bringing the technology to market. Someone later wrote a book about this. Its title -  Fumbling the Future - said it all.The Xerox story is one of the defining legends of the computer business. In 1969, in a rare fit of inspiration, the company decided to set up a high-powered research lab in California in order to find out what the 'paperless office' hype was all about. The Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) turned out to be an inspired bet. The director of its Computer Science Lab was Bob Taylor, the guy who had commissioned and funded the Arpanet. Taylor recruited a cohort of formidable computer scientists and gave them unlimited research funds and an open brief. In four years they repaid his trust by inventing most of the computing technology we use today - high-resolution, bit-mapped screens, windowing interfaces, template-based word-processing, the laser printer and ethernet local area networking.The first laser printer was invented by Gary Starkweather and was working in November 1971. In April 1974 Chuck Thacker switched on the Alto, the first computer that looked and worked like a modern PC or Macintosh. (Its first task was to display an animated image of  Sesame Street's Cookie Monster.) The following   month, Bob Metcalfe wrote a patent application for ethernet networking. By August, software for displaying overlapping, resizable windows and pop-up menus was working. By October 1974 Charles Simonyi and others had finished 'Bravo' - the world's first user-friendly, general-purpose word processing program (and the precursor of Microsoft Word).Xerox executives were bemused by all this stuff. They couldn't figure out a business model for exploiting the technology. Eventually they marketed it as a clunky, expensive, large-scale, integrated 'office system'. But in the meantime, the techies had demonstrated their stuff to Steve Jobs and Bill Gates.Jobs famously asked them if they had any plans to exploit it. They shrugged - that was up to the suits. So Jobs decided that he would bring the technology to the mass market if Xerox wouldn't. The Apple Macintosh - and, later, Microsoft Windows - were the results of this heist. Afterwards, Jobs quoted Picasso's celebrated aphorism: 'Minor artists borrow; great artists steal.'All of which is no consolation to Xerox's current bosses as they wriggle to save the company. Last week, in a poignant gesture, they spun off a small company, Gyricon Media, to exploit technology recently developed by PARC - a flexible, paper-thin material that can be used to display computer-generated text.The first applications will be in creating changeable signs for retail stores. For example, during the day, when housewives are shopping, displays might feature families using a product. When office workers start filing in at night, the store manager could hit a button and change the display to show men in suits. Or Xerox executives, looking lost.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Ask anyone about the spectrum, and you might get vague references to rubber keyboards or games on cassette tapes. Clive Sinclair's ZX Spectrum, the pioneering home computer, is so low-tech that it's become a collector's item.The value of the radio spectrum, however, is driven by more straightforward economics and reached its apotheosis with this year's &#163;22 billion third-generation mobile phone auction.The unexpectedly high take from the 3G auctions in the UK and Germany (where the auction garnered &#163;31bn) has led to a reappraisal of the value of all slivers of the radio spectrum. Indeed in some European countries there has been a scramble to ape the UK experience, mainly without success.Similarly, the inflated cost of one section suddenly changes the economics of the rest of the spectrum. Does the technology and capacity of 3G licences justify &#163;22 billion when the entire UK digital radio spectrum was snapped   up for &#163;50,000? Digital radio, for example, will allow text and even pictures to be downloaded at transmission speeds comparable to today's home internet experience.With such a disparity in the cost of different segments, and given the way the media are converging, businesses could pay billions to mine every technological nook and cranny of the spectrum for alternatives and still make money.And can governments justify auctioning mobile licences to make the 'efficient' price, while handing out licences to run TV services for practically nothing?The Communications White Paper, expected on Tuesday, will treat the spectrum as a continuum of services from radio and TV to mobile telephony and wireless internet access.There are five main factors to consider in assessing its value. Bandwidth capability, range, the necessity for 'line of sight', existing usage, and how that section of spectrum relates to international standards. The first three relate to the physics of the airwaves. The final two relate to government regulation.The spectrum starts at low frequencies and increases: from short-wave radio to FM radio, then TV through to mobile phones, eventually reaching visible light. Higher-frequency waves are of higher energy and, broadly speaking,   can carry more information. Until the Eighties no one thought existing mobile phone frequencies were usable.'Over the past 20 years technology has allowed the exploitation of frequencies over 1GHz, as high as 40GHz,' says Stephen Pentland a partner at Spectrum Strategy Consultants. 'It's a bit like discovering a new oil field.'But the increased capacity is traded off against the reach of signals. The lower the frequency the wider the reach of a signal. So, for example, because the frequency used for 3G is higher than for mobile phones, its reach is shorter, so more mobile phone masts will need to be built.The last scientific consideration is the necessity for 'line of sight'. At frequencies above about 3GHz, signals can be received only if in a direct line from the transmitter. This is no good for mobile telephones, but works for receiving large amounts of data in a fixed place. Infra-red is of very high frequency, but requires perfect line of sight   with no obstructions. Bluetooth, the successor technology, is of lower frequency and can transmit the same data around corners.However, science is only part of the story. Existing regulations allocate existing parts of the spectrum to specific uses such as broadcasting. The division is considerably more detailed than depicted above. At the lower end, maritime frequencies are interspersed with low broadcast frequencies. At the high end, astronomers use many frequencies for radio telescopes. The entire spectrum is peppered with frequencies used by the military.Under new Treasury accounting rules, Ministry of Defence budgets will be charged the annual cost of owning these frequencies. Together with a strategic review of military-owned spectrum, the signs point to a massive rationalisation of these frequencies.Attractive slivers of demand are created by governments and by agreements reached by supranational organisations such as the International Telecoms Union and the EU. Indeed it was the Department of Trade and Industry that led the push for adopting the standard that has helped propel Europe to the forefront of mobile technologies.Future technologies run hand in hand with these technological standards. In today's volatile markets investment is forthcoming only for technology that will achieve clear economies of scale by being suitable for a global market. 3G will be a global standard enabling, for example, European phones to be used in the US.NTL, which carries a quarter of the UK's mobile traffic,   85 per cent of emergency services signals, and has been running fixed wireless services for four years, believes more spectrum should be freed up. 'In metropolitan areas a lot of this radio spectrum is full up,' says Garth Sumpter, Marketing manager at NTL Business. 'There is interference and congestion, especially at the lower end for simple everyday stuff.'Extra bandwidth would allow taxi companies to transmit the address of a cab's next fare to a dashboard screen, or ambulance operators to transmit a patient's medical records to paramedics, says Sumpter.The MoD rationalisation may make extra bandwidth available. The switch-off of the analogue TV signal is the other key event. This will free up a slice of spectrum double the size of that sold off in the 3G auction.Can government keep up with this pace of technological change? If it can't, one answer would involve part-privatisation of the airwaves. For example, the spectrum could be allocated to private organisations, which could 'sublet' specific ranges. It would be a logistical nightmare to introduce, but may mark the endpoint of a process that begins with Tuesday's White Paper.
An influential Wall Street analyst downgraded Microsoft yesterday, citing renewed evidence that consumers were buying fewer personal computers.Shares in the world's most highly valued software company fell by $3.81 -about 8% - to $52.88 after Rick Sherlund of Goldman Sachs, which handled Microsoft's initial public offering in 1986, trimmed his earnings and sales estimates for the next six months.Mr Sherlund described the revision as "relatively moderate" and based on the "preponderance of evidence of sluggish retail PC demand". Apple Computer underlined the slowdown in consumer spending this week when it issued a profits warning.Goldman Sachs trimmed both earnings and sales estimates for Microsoft, cutting $125m from the revenue forecast to $6.7bn-$6.8bn. The Apple warning also helped prompt a Microsoft downgrade at rival Merrill Lynch, where analyst Chris Shilakes predicted weakening demand for software upgrades.In a note to investors, Goldman tried to lessen the impact of its downgrade by saying retail PC purchases account for only 10% of Microsoft revenues.Mr Sherlund also suggested that much of the downgrade had already been digested by the market. Shares in Microsoft have more than halved since the beginning of a year in which it has fallen foul of the courts for abusing its monopoly position.
Whenever I feel jaded and disillusioned with politics, I have a certain, surefire tonic. I fire up the internet and log on towww.political.co.uk/annwiddecombe, or the Widdy Web as it is known to its creator and thousands of admirers.This is not politics as most of us experience it. Here there are no insults shrieked across the chamber, no skulduggery in the division lobbies, no plotting, no scheming, no backstabbing or twisted, thwarted ambition. The Widdy Web is a magical island of calm, as re-assuring and gentle as Five Acre wood, or the riverbank in the Wind in the Willows where Ratty and Mole are enjoying an endless summer picnic.In particular, when you reach the Widdy Web home page, you should click on "Junior", admire the picture of Ann hugging a giant Pooh bear even bigger than she is, and then select "My cottage". Up comes a picture of our heroine looking, it must be said, somewhat morose as she stands in front of a newly glazed front door.Perhaps she knows that under Jack Straw's stewardship almost everyone who goes outdoors is mugged within 10 minutes, because she looks a lot happier in the snap taken inside the humble cot.She explains to the kiddies that she needed to spend time in Maidstone, "so I bought a little cottage ... soon I will be adding more pictures of my cottage to this site. It is very pretty in summer, with lupins all up the front garden and clematis all around the walls. I do hope you like my cottage."Like it? I love it. In summer, when the floods recede and some trains start running again, I'll be there in shorts and a t-shirt, a bag of sausage rolls and wine gums in one hand, and a stone bottle of ginger pop in the other! Then we'll spread one of Ms Widdecombe's tartan jackets on the grass and have a lovely, lovely time together!But the section I like best of all is entitled "My Cats". This is genuinely affecting because it's clear that she truly loves her pets. They have been central to her life. She can remember all of them - from Jimmy, who she used to chase as a little girl, through Tibby, Monty, Blacky, Sooty, Sweep and now Pugwash, a handsome black cat who was "sadly dumped by his owners, who bought him as a Christmas present but then didn't love him properly".There is, perhaps, slightly more information here than the most enthusiastic young felixophile could require. "Our next cat was Mitten-the-Kitten. He was a black cat with a white shirt and white paws and we bought him from Herman-the-German for 50p."Mitten had a good life, and used to like fresh liver, though he didn't like it if any splashes arrived on his white shirt when he would move very disdainfully away from the dish and solemnly wash it off before returning to finish his meal. Mitten lived to the grand old age of 14, when sadly he died of kidney failure."And they say that people are no longer bothering to surf the internet!Yet, and yet, I found myself rather moved. Miss Widdecombe pretending to be horrified by something Jack Straw has said is much sillier than her thoughts about her cats, which at least are sincere and passionately felt.I popped into the chamber to see John Bercow (or "Bercow-the-Berk" as Ms Widdecombe's family would no doubt have called him) raging against the Nice summit, just as it was getting under way. He was banging on about "our right freely to chart our destiny as a nation ... the inalienable rights of free-born Englishmen are not to be sold for a mess of pottage..."Give me Ann Widdecombe's cats any day. And they would have loved a mess of pottage, which was simply a sloppy meat stew.
The dot.com economy is supposed to have left behind trade unions and collective negotiation. But initial skirmishes between managers and union organisers at the internet giant Amazon.com in recent weeks suggest the workings of the new economy may turn out to be more familiar than previously imagined.In the electronic retailer's home base of Seattle, union organisers from the Communication Workers of America have been busy signing up Amazon customer service reps, while across the US the United Food and Commercial Workers Union is drumming up support among the thousands who parcel up and send out the books and CDs   ordered from Amazon on the internet.Parallel recruitment drives have also been taking place among Amazon employees in Germany, France and Britain, where workers at the company's warehouse near Milton Keynes complain of low pay and gruelling shift patterns. "Amazon is a beacon of the new economy, with the wages and conditions of an old economy sweatshop," declares Greg Denier of the Washington-based UFCWU.The company - whose 36-year-old founder Jeff Bezos made $20m from selling Amazon shares this year - is fighting back with resolutely traditional union-busting tactics.Since news of the drive for unionisation leaked out prematurely, Amazon man agers in the US have called workers in for group and one-to-one sessions to lay out the company's case against unions - claiming, according to an internal corporate website, that they "foster distrust towards supervisors" and "create an unco-operative attitude".Steve Frazier, Amazon's UK managing director, insists the firm is not anti-union, but "pro-customer, pro-employee and pro-shareholder - we don't currently believe that having our employees represented by a union would best allow us to achieve those three goals." He adds that Amazon's basic British wage rates of around &#163;5 an hour are part of a "competitive package" including health cover, pension contributions and share options.The sharp fall in dot.com share prices is, according to Peter Skyte of the British technical staff union MSF, one factor behind a new receptiveness to trade unions among new economy workers, who have in the past been prepared to tolerate poor pay and conditions in return for potentially lucrative shares."With the law guaranteeing employees the right to individual union representation since September, there are now no no-go areas for   unions in the new economy. Our IT membership is growing by 10% a year and internet service providers in particular are ripe for the taking. The companies may be virtual, but the issues faced by staff are very real."The main grievances centre around lack of job security and poor conditions, according to Skyte, who this autumn negotiated the first major union recognition agreement in the sector, with US-owned IT services company, CSC, covering all 7,000 of the company's UK-based employees.The deal was a new economy breakthrough for British unions. But the traditional dot.com start-ups - a handful of nerds working in a trendy inner city loft - are likely to remain an uphill   struggle for union organisers, who complain of an "anti-union culture".Richer pickings are to be had in the internet spinoffs and extensions of long-established businesses, in finance or the media, where unions are well-established and dot.com union agreements have already been signed. The other main areas targeted for unionisation are those where, as in the Amazon case, a traditional service is being delivered online, backed up by armies of staff in warehouses and call centres. "We've got our hands full," one organiser remarks.
Father Christmas isn't noted for being particularly gadget-savvy. He's obviously well up on the socks and underpants market, but not so hot on MP3 players and digital cameras.To help you point him in the right direction we have created our very own virtual stocking crammed with hi-tech toys.It includes what we believe to be the year's best gadgets. Some are great value products that will last years. Others will be gathering dust in your loft by this time next year. But however you use them, they are guaranteed to give you much more fun this Christmas than another bottle of dodgy after-shave.Mobile phonesThroughout 2000, the major phone companies paraded futuristic-looking concept mobiles designed to make the most of the forthcoming super-fast 3G networks.Arguably a more honest glimpse of the future was provided by an actual product launched in late Summer. Ericsson's &#163;300 R-380 smart phone married the Symbian operating system to a clever touch-screen and at a stroke made many of its rivals seem a tad old fashioned. For once a phone that promised simple to operate email, web browsing and PDA functionality lived up to its billing.Next year Nokia will attempt to re-capture lost   ground with the latest version of its Communicator phones. The 9210 keeps its predecessor's keyboard, but adds a colour screen, Symbian's Epoc operating system, and, if you are using the Orange network's High Speed Circuit Switch Data (HSCSD) system, faster download times than standard GSM.2000 was also the year that the Japanese finally made good their promise to take a serious crack at the world's mobile phone market. Sony   unveiled two innovative and stylish models, one of which, the &#163;30 CMD-J5, is arguably the most sensibly designed out of the basic Wap models. However, Panasonic's GD-93 phone is our Wap model of the year. It is stylish, sports a large screen, and has a fun selection of ring-tones (you can also record your own). Best of all, it lets you access your existing email account rather than be lumbered with a new one offered by your network. Motorola's newly launched &#163;100 Timeport Ti250 and Philips' &#163;100 Xenium 9@9 Wap, which uses voice activation to fire up its web browser, also merit further attention.MP32000 was the year that MP3 personal audio players went from being the preserve of PC geeks to a serious option for any discerning music fan.This year's best-sounding model was undoubtedly the long-awaited Sony Memory Stick Walkman, the &#163;300 NW-MS7. However, its daft copyright protection software, which almost makes you feel as though you are committing a minor crime every time you use it, prevents it from receiving a warmer recommendation. Our favourite player is the &#163;230 Samsung YP-Neu 64, a dinky little number wrapped in an I-Mac-style translucent finish which paired a quality performance with 64MB of embedded memory. Other models worth listening to include the   &#163;220 Philips Rush, LG's &#163;180 MF-PD360 and the &#163;160 Rio 600.Next year look out for units with MP3 encoders like the &#163;300 Aiwa MM-FX500 that can record directly from CDs with no need to use a PC.Personal audioSince the summer, the UK has been flooded with personal audio players touting mini hard disks that promise to store half of your CD collection in one brick-like box. Some, like the &#163;350 Neo 25 which boasts an enormous 12 gigabyte hard drive, work reasonably well. Others are so flaky that getting them to play back any kind of music seems like a major achievement.An easier and cheaper solution is to invest in a personal CD player that also plays CD-Roms with MP3 files, such as the &#163;200 eXpanium from Philips. You can burn up to 850MB of music (over 200 average length tunes on MP3) on one &#163;1.50 CD-R disc. Even the Argos-friendly Goodmans has got in on the act. Its CDMP-350 plays MP3-loaded CD-roms yet retails for around &#163;80.Digital camerasThe digital camera world appears to be splintering between serious mega-pixel fixated photographers and gadget-fans out to impress their more gullible friends. However, both groups gave an enormous thumbs up to the &#163;600 Canon Digital Ixus which, in spite of its lovely chrome finish and pocketable size, is actually capable of high resolution images.Almost as sexy is Fuji's &#163;700 Finepix 4700 Zoom, which integrated an excellent quality camera into the kind of gadget you'd imagine James Bond touting in the 60s.Serious camera enthusiasts will probably prefer the &#163;800 Olympus C-3030Z - a digital model with the look, feel and many of the features of an analogue SLR.2000 was also the year the digital camera crashed through the &#163;100 price barrier with companies such as Jenoptik, Kodak and Agfa unveiling web-friendly budget models. Samung's &#163;250 SDC-80 is another camera sure to feature on many Christmas wishlists. It may only be modestly specified, but with its funky translucent orange finish it sure is cute.Consumer electronicsIn the CE world 2000 will be remembered as the year that the TiVo personal video recorder arrived in the UK. Yet despite the amazing tricks, including a highly intelligent programme guide which among other things guesses what you want to watch and records it for you, the TiVo system has not exactly had people queuing in the rain outside Dixons.Perhaps its &#163;600 price tag has something to do with it.Don't expect the hard disk/personal video system technology to go away though. Next year Pace will launch a Sky Digital decoder which offers both an intelligent hard disk recording system and two tuners (for watching one channel while recording another).JVC is also set to bring its hard disk/S-VHS combi recorder to the UK, while home cinema fans dream of the day Toshiba's hard   disk/DVD-ram recorder lands on these shores.DVDUndoubtedly this year's success story, sales of both players and discs have gone stratospheric - apparently the DVD movie of Gladiator sold more last week than the number one CD single by Destiny's Child.Among our favourites is the &#163;400 Toshiba SD-200E courtesy of an excellent performance, a comprehensive roll call of facilities, and a very sensible price.If you are feeling naughty, consider the Chinese-made &#163;180 Mico DVD-A980 fromwww.unbeatable.co.uk. Not only will it play back imported American "Region Two" discs as well as standard European ones, it can also spin MP3-laden CD-roms.The hi-fi fraternity has been   drooling over the performance of the &#163;800 British-made Arcam DV88, while for gadget-fans there's little to rival the DVD personal and mini screen of the &#163;800 Sony DVP-FX1.Gadgets2000 was tipped as being the year of the watch with companies promising mobile phones, personal organisers and even music players integrated into a timepiece. The one company that delivered was Casio, whose amazing MP3 watch (the &#163;280 WMP-1 ) and digital camera watch (the &#163;200 WQV-1) were among the year's grooviest gadgets.Even more fun than the camera watch was the Spypen, an &#163;80 ballpoint-shaped digital camera fromPlawa, which is sure to get a great deal of use in the next few weeks capturing Christmas parties shenanigans.Two internet-friendly gadgets also caught the eye. Ricoh's &#163;1,000 RDC-1700, a top-end digital camera with a cool 70s styling that allows you to peruse web pages via its 3.5inch LCD screen and instantly email images, would be a must were it not so pricey. More of a bargain is Bush's Net TV, which at &#163;180 a set is sure to bring the wonders of the web to many new homes this Christmas.
The first retail service to sell direct to customers through mobile phone text messages was launched in Britain yesterday.With every high street jammed full in the run-up to Christmas, the German-based 12snap claims it can give 98% of mobile phone users the chance to duck out of the crowds and enjoy wireless shopping.The company hopes to have 700,000 shoppers buying through its SMS messaging services by December of next year.Each day, 12snap offers around 90 items - including concert tickets, travel and consumer electronics - for auction, with a text message alerting registered customers to specific deals according to their personal interests.Managing director Anne de Kerckhove insisted that the company would not send out unsolicited junk mail. "The future of our business relies on the trust we develop with our customers," she said. "It would not be in our interest to send out unwanted messages."She said that the service, which already has more than 400,000 users in Germany, will be targeted at 18 to 35 year-olds as a "young, dynamic and irreverent brand".Mobile bidding, which can also be done through wap and the internet, will operate in much the same way as many internet auctions, with many of the items for sale being from stock that has not performed well at a fixed price on the high street. Around 65% of the items will be sold by auction, with the rest offered at a fixed price.12snap recently raised &euro;37m (&#163;22m) from venture capitalists which its said would sustain the business until it broke even at the beginning of 2002.Company founder Michael Birkel said the European market for mobile phone shopping was expected to be worth &euro;23.6bn by 2003.
Last weekend my boyfriend and I took a wrong turning in a major department store and found ourselves in the toy department - for about five seconds. We couldn't get out of there fast enough.Children were screaming, shouting, and waving toys around. The adults weren't much better. My boyfriend has now vowed to do all his Christmas shopping online. And this set me thinking, can you celebrate Christmas on the internet without having to go out and face the crowds, or indeed unwanted relatives?The answer, happily, is yes. You will never have to elbow your way to the front of the queue again, or sit next to the man who is tone deaf during a carol service.Shopping is the first hurdle to get over. According to a new survey from BlueCarrots, three quarters of internet users will shop online this Christmas, compared with a third last year. The difference, apparently, is that we're no longer scared of someone making off with our Barclaycard number and running up a huge bill with it.So where do you go for Christmas goodies? Father Christmas of course. Atwww.santa.claus.comyou'll find six floors of gifts, toys, games,   sweets and decorations. These include stocking fillers such as gold, frankincense and myrrh or essential oils for &#163;12.99, through to a fake white Colorado Christmas tree for &#163;19.99 and a five-piece Santa suit for &#163;24.99.Atwww.christmas.co.uk, you can email Santa asking him to phone your child with a special Christmas message, just for &#163;5. Or, if you want to be particularly mean, Santa can be recruited to play Scrooge, placing an unseasonal call to your boss. If you've had a hard year at work, this may seem like &#163;5 well spent.While in a Lapland frame of mind, book a sleigh ride (though obviously, you'll have to leave the house for the real thing).www.sleighrides.comprovides a 40-minute sleigh ride with a stop for hot chocolate for about &#163;53 per person. If your taste runs to something a tad speedier than a reindeer, then you could try a four-hour snowmobile ride (including lunch)   for around &#163;110. However, to take advantage of this offer you will first have to get to the Adirondack mountains in New York State.Back indoors, it's time to decorate your house. Atwww.sun-sentinel.com, the Bossack Family will sell you the dream Christmas tree and deliver it to your home. A 6ft Douglas fir will set you back &#163;63.Atwww.hillier.hants.gov.uk, you can check out Christmas decoration and wreath making workshops over the next fortnight, costing &#163;27.50.And of course, there's endless scope for Christmas kitsch. My particular favourites come fromwww.bronners.com, which sells a 14 inch fibre optic angel for &#163;40 and a fibre optic red poinsettia, which is unbelievably nasty, for &#163;34.What about Christmas lunch? My boyfriend tells me that he likes a slow-cooked giant ham and roast beef. The thought of stinking the house out with these is too much. So, I turn towww.balduccis.com, which will bring Christmas dinner to the door. You get the full works for a family of four (except the Christmas pudding) for &#163;85. This is excellent for meat eaters, but there is no vegetarian option.Does the internet provide an opportunity to go to church without having to enter a cold, dimly-lit building? From this week it does, in the shape ofwww.church.co.uk, founded by TV vicar, Steve Chalke.The site, shaped like a house (the house of God, get it?) currently includes Bible readings, prayers, a talk about how to cope with the stress of   Christmas, a post-Christmas work out with Rosemary Conley, and even advice on how to stuff a turkey.And according to Chalke, events are being planned around the UK for web lovers to attend Christmas celebrations "in pubs and clubs". Online events are also planned for the festive season. And all of the cyber vicar's sermons are up for debate by those visiting the site, which is less embarrassing than picking an argument with a priest in a pulpit.Chalke says: "www.church.co.ukis for people who are searching spiritually, but they don't think that the church down the road has the answers, though they will explore the net."It helps people because they are anonymous. No one will want to invite you for tea in a cracked cup and shake your hand."There's nobody under 30 who doesn't think in terms of spirituality. We are not human beings having a spiritual experience, we are spiritual beings having a human experience."So that's my Christmas fixed up. At least it would have been if I hadn't already bought most of my presents and been invited out for several meals. Next year I'll have my Christmas on the net.
As large parts of Britain face heavy rain and warnings this weekend of a repeat of November's floods, the environment agency today for the first time publishes maps of the flood plains of England and Wales.Most of central London, including the houses of parliament, Downing Street and the   Isle of Dogs are in a flood plain and have a greater than 1% annual chance of being flooded, according to the agency.Internet users will be able to enter their postcode or place name and see whether their property is at risk from river or sea flooding.Some fear that putting the maps on the internet will make property harder to sell and insurance hard to come by. The agency believes that   people should be warned of the risks, and wants to discourage local authorities from further building in the areas.The countryside minister, Elliot Morley, said: "People need to know if they are at risk, indeed they have a right to know, so I commend the agency for making the maps available."The agency said the maps indicated a greater than 1% chance of being flooded by a   river and 0.5% chance of being flooded by the sea. The agency's floodline received more than 500,000 calls during October and last month when the floods were worst.There were 40 flood warnings in operation yesterday and one severe flood warning   on the River Wye after heavy rain in Wales. Over the next 24 hours this is expected to increase as western England and Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales are likely to be hit by severe gales, heavy rain and flooding as a vigorous depression moves in off the Atlantic.Storm force winds of more than 80mph are expected in some areas as the depression moves north, with structural damage possible. This week end's weather could be a repeat of the storm on October 30 when tornadoes hit the south coast of England."Some parts of western Britain will get around 2 inches of rain which will cause problems for rivers already on alert," said a forecaster.The depression is forecast to strike south-western England and Wales this evening.The Floodline number is 0845 9881188
For fax sakeFaxYourMP.comis one of the simplest ideas for a website and one of the best. Go to the site, type in your postcode and it tells you who your MP   is and provides a form in which you type in your letter, add your name, address and email address.The system emails you, just to check that you are who you claim and that you want to send a fax to your MP. Once you have given the OK, the fax is sent automatically. The service is free.Do we need to send faxes in the age of the internet? Unfortunately, yes. Many MPs have been slow to embrace e-government, but also a fax is harder to ignore than electronic mail.Want to send a fax to someone other than an MP?    Go towww.Contactbox.com(which is also free) andwww1.fax4free.com(which no longer is).PardonOne of the experts in France's Yahoo/Nazi memorabilia trial has felt the need to clarify the position he gave to the French court. Ben Laurie has posted an apology of sorts atwww.apache-ssl.org/apology.html.Paid-for-viewFancy getting paid for voicing your opinions on computer hardware or mobilephones? Go towww.uk.ciao.com, a new consumer service that believes the best judge of hardware is people like you. The site pays   50p just for writing your first opinion, 10p for every opinion published, and a further 2p every time another user reads it (You will have to wait until you have earned &#163;10 before Ciao pays anything).  The site especially needs material on products in the Christmas market.I spyJournalismnet.comis a US journalism portal that should interest more than just hacks. It contains everything from world newspapers to subject-specific experts and personal data. It is stuffed with tips on how to get the most from search engines (it defaults to Google). And it even has a course in online espionagewww.journalismnet.com/spy.Dance onMaybe it is because it is operating out of old Shoreditch train station thatPuredm.comsees itself as the most underground dance music website.The site, which launched last week, features an e-zine, chat rooms, a notable net radio station that, oddly, switches off at 10pm, and an online record label.Ministryofsound.comhas relaunched its clubbers' site with a breaking news service and improved radio station.Go nuclearThe cyberactivists who brought uswww.oilcompanies.orgare now hosting a new site about nuclear testing, and waste dumping, by their old adversaries Shell. The site atwww.nuclear-crimes.compulls few punches, which is why Shell has responded with a flurry of solicitors' letters.Shell says that the website contains a number of false and defamatory allegations, including an assertion that it operated a nuclear reactor in the 1960s at its Thornton research centre, and that the demolition of this fictitious reactor represented a serious hazard to public safety.Centre pointThe Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London has finally launched a website for its New Media Centre atwww.newmediacentre.com.  The site contains a variety of material on the Centre's projects as well as a comprehensive set of net art links and a free screensaver.The ICA has also been hosting a monthly "networking and social event for the new media community": seewww.cybersalon.org. Other information and listings for the ICA can still be found atwww.ica.org.uk.The right stuffTheDroplift Projectis an anti-copyright site that "borrows' bits of television, movies, music, or other recordings and re-uses them to create works of parody, critical commentary and new art. The site is full of obscure ideas and notes on subversive activity, but some of the audio is sublime. The site is worth it for the "hour of slack" alone.Not part of the project but of equal interest is the site atwww.monsantos.com.Pssst!Although it is meant to be a site for art buyers, the new site atArtRumour.comhas such a pithy take on the contemporary art world that it is just as valid for the average punter. Steer clear of the lousy flash version, but do enrol for the excellent weekly newsletter.New &amp; noted&#149;  Michael Portillo has a flash enhanced website atwww.michaelportillo.co.uk- just check out the animated timeline.&#149; Need advice on where to drink? Seewww.liquid-life.com, a new bar portal.&#149;www.uproar.co.ukis a new online entertainment site that specialises in online gaming.&#149; There is a new site for Flash developers athttp://exchange.macromedia.comSix of the bestDigital museumsThe early webwww.dejavu.orgConsole scrapyardwww.emulationworld.deCentral repositorywww.archive.orgComputer Museum of Americawww.computer-museum.orgBletchley Parkwww.cranfield.ac.uk/ccc/bparkApple historywww.apple-history.com
Every decade has its own interpretation of the future, just as it has its own interpretation of the past. As surely as we are not living in a 50s future of finned hover-vehicles and silver housework robots, we are unlikely to end up in a 90s future, where the only journeys we make are on an internet search engine and our shopping is done by personalised agents linked to the fridge.The 90s future saw personal computers and the internet as the end-point of a revolution in manipulating information, rather than the beginning. We need to update our vision of the future to begin to see the possibilities emerging today.We need to see computing as pervasive in the objects around us, not restricted to a special box in the corner. And to see the vast scope for connecting new kinds of things together to make powerful new kinds of networks.Many of the technological building blocks of this future are already familiar: more powerful microchips embedded in an ever-widening range of consumer goods; always-on 3G (up to 2Mbps) and 4G (up to 156 Mbps) wireless networks; short-range Bluetooth, Home RF and HAVi networks, linking products from companies as diverse as Sony, Ericsson, Toyota and TDK. What we can only begin to imagine are the uses that will be found for them and their place in our lives.In this future, the objects become more flexible, through their ability to draw on resources from a host of other networks. Whole new industries will spring up to service them: interactive furniture design, film channels for the flexible screens woven into clothing, intelligent electronic cash that tracks its own transactions and can't be used by ethically or ecologically unsound companies.This will present a change as dramatic as the shift to mass production and distribution of goods during the Industrial Revolution.Companies like Philips and Nokia understand this future, and that it is driven by people's needs and desires, not by technology. They also   appreciate their dependence on broadcasters, publishers and content developers.Britain, with its creative industries and university centres of excellence in computing and networking technologies, is well placed to take advantage of these opportunities.However, as with Britain's first Industrial Revolution, the forces of tradition are once more throwing up barriers to the inventors and innovators. Take the mobile network operators as an example. Their networks could be a backbone for new kinds of pervasive networks, a stimulus for the industries of tomorrow. But they're not.Imagine if, at the start of Britain's Industrial Revolution, the companies building the new roads and railways had insisted that only their own goods could be carried. Or, belatedly, that they would carry other producers' goods to market, but only if those producers gave away their products free to the road and track operators. The revolution in manufacturing would pretty soon have ground to a halt as the young workshops found themselves unable to distribute or profit from their new products.Yet this approach has been taken by the majority of UK telcos. Instead of working with producers to distribute innovative products and services, they have deprived producers of a route to market and stifle innovation. Their lumbering bureaucracies remain fixated on voice communication, despite its imminent demise as a revenue stream as always-on networks such as GPRS come onstream. They have also displayed a startling lack of imagination and strategy about potential services, markets and revenue models.Of course, network operators need to make a profit. But a short-termist refusal to invest in innovative products   for their networks will rebound. A road or railway is only as useful as what travels down it. If there's nothing at the end, or the tolls are too high, people won't use it.Why does the I-Mode mobile phone service have almost 15m subscribers in Japan, while Wap is struggling? It's not the technology: Wap and I-Mode are very similar. Nor is it the public: 1bn SMS messages are sent each month in Europe. The answer is simply that Japanese companies clubbed together to put a lot of extremely useful and engaging services onto I-Mode, whereas the UK phone companies have failed in the main to put any remotely interesting content on their Wap portals.If the UK network operators invested even a tiny percentage of the &#163;22.5 bn they paid for 3G licences in innovative applications and content for today's networks, there would be an opportunity to create a huge market extending far beyond mobile phones that would benefit everyone. If they don't, the public appetite for new kinds of networked services will be switched off before it's even started, and the telcos will have no chance at all of repaying their 3G licence debts.The time has come for everyone - telcos, consultants, investors and the stock market - to move on from their 90s vision of the future; to stop using platitudes about unproven revenue models (what new industry ever had a proven revenue model?) as an excuse for inaction; to stop trying to compensate for coming late to the web by vying to apply"brands-not-content" business models inappropriately. And, above all, to move beyond a paralysing reluctance to back innovation for fear that the post dot.com stock market won't get it.Otherwise, today's possibilities will be frittered away, and the world will be a poorer place for it.catherine@supedo.co.uk
It was the biggest webcast the net had ever seen: Madonna's first UK concert in seven years broadcast to the world from a small, shabby venue in south London.According to Microsoft, an estimated nine million viewers logged on to the star's gig at London's Brixton Academy last week. And - claims the company - millions more are expected to view the archive before the site is dismantled on December 12. MSN (Microsoft Network), which hosted the concert, says the webcast easily eclipsed Paul McCartney's concert from Liverpool's Cavern Club last year, which attracted three million viewers. Madonna's concert might have lasted only 29 minutes and contained some six songs (five of them off her new album), but it generated as much fuss as the Nasdaq crash.It all started about four months ago when Madonna first approached MSN with the idea of producing a small webcast to promote her new album, Music. Initially the  plan was to do two or three songs on a small stage using no more than three of four cameras - something akin to McCartney's Cavern gig. But MSN realised it could be the biggest event so far on the internet.MSN.co.uk, the UK arm of the Microsoft Network, hosted the event. MSN claims that no money changed hands for the gig, despite rumours that both Apple and AOL offered Madonna &#163;2m for the rights to the concert. One week after the event, official figures are still to be released, but MSN says it is expecting nearly 20 million visits by the time the site is taken down.The event was produced by Done and Dusted, a two-year-old company that specialises in televising large concerts and festivals. The Madonna gig is by far the biggest audience it has attempted to reach. Done and Dusted arrived in Brixton four days before to prepare for the 2 3/4 hour show. Done and Dusted employed a crew of 120, including 20 camera operators and 25 sound technicians - roughly the same as for a Robbie Williams gig it produced in Slaine Castle in Dublin. Although that time the audience pushed 100,000 - more than 30 times the number who were at the Academy last Tuesday night.Paul Morrison, managing director of Done and Dusted, says: "The majority of people will have watched the concert on a 56k modem at home. But what we have realised is that the audience for this medium is not my generation leaning back on the couch with a beer, but a younger generation leaning into their PCs saying 'engage with me'."In the past, people have been negative about web broadcasting because of the quality of the picture," explains Morrison. "But the whole point is that it is   not TV. Television comes in just one direction. The web is all about creating communities and opening up a two-way dialogue."MSN launched a huge scale promotional campaign to support the event. In its biggest ever net promotion for any artist, the gig was promoted to the 75 million users of MSN Hotmail in 17 languages and homepage promotions on more than 30 sites worldwide.Throughout the event the MSN sites worldwide stayed online and claim that they were more than able to handle the enormous amount of internet traffic. However, many users in the UK and abroad experienced delays and some were even shut out midway through the gig. MSN says that this was because of the sheer weight of demand coupled with pressure from local ISPs. And anyway, such is the nature of the webcasting beast."We streamed at very high bandwidths, and because the concert happened during the day in the US, which we didn't anticipate, this meant that a   lot of people were still in the office and had access to high-speed connections," says Kathleen Flinn, MSN's website producer of the concert. "Not that that is a bad thing, but we will have to take it into account in the future."Other users may also have experienced temporary delays - or buffering - as they queued to access the video and audio streams. This is because most dial-up connections cannot download the images fast enough. So the Media Player stores up screen information (or buffers) so that the picture remains constant. However, this can cause the screen to freeze for anything up to 30 seconds.But by the time Madonna went live shortly after 10pm, MSN claims it was able to re-route the majority of its troubled users to different servers around the world where demand was less intense - such as Australia where most of its users were asleep."No one has ever attempted anything on this scale before," says Tracy Blacher, marketing manager at MSN. "We gave people the chance to see and hear Madonna's fantastic return to the stage and witness the first online live performance for free."The MSN website itself, the very hub of the night's events, was situated on the top deck of a double decker bus parked just outside the Academy. Here, a small team updated the website, tested the streams, and communicated   with their partners around the world. And the concert was also seen on six massive screens in cities - including New York and Paris and at a special party in London's Brick Lane.Done and Dusted's future plans for webcasts include allowing users to select not only which camera angle to watch, but also to let them become virtual camera operators. The company will be filming The Corrs for Sky TV later this month and wants to offer the same interactive TV technology used for Premiership football. At next year's T in the Park in Glasgow, it plans to have cameras that people can direct themselves from their own PC.So after months of preparation, with a crew of 120, &#163;1m was spent on transforming Brixton Academy into a Wild West bonanza courtesy of Dolce and Gabbana, and a legion of stars to rival the best Oscar night party or the Douglas-Zeta Jones wedding turned out for the occasion.The connection to the internet was operated by Mediawave. It encoded the pictures provided by Done and Dusted into a digital format suitable for the Windows Media Player needed to view the concert. And also - crucially - uploading the footage to the internet backbone via ISDN and satellite.Oddly, the responsibility of reaching millions in 33 different countries boiled down to just three people in the back of a transit van. Hats off to them.Three stout men and a slim Fatboy add their weight to the world of webcastsOnline entertainment in the US is already worth $1bn a year, (according to CyberAtlas US online entertainment will increase in value next year by 64% from $1.1bn to $1.8bn). And the UK is not far behind. In the first three months of 2000, more than half of the UK internet population      (now standing at over 10m) visited online entertainment sites, and spent on average half an hour on them. Here is a taste of what is being broadcast on the internet in the run up to Christmas.The Three TenorsMSN's next big webcast will be footage of a concert recorded in Konzeithaus, the famous Viennese Opera house, last Christmas. The concert - in association withOnlineClassics.com- will be available on MSN until January 6.Fatboy SlimBritain's favourite DJ has five different webcasts for his fans to savour this Christmas. Admittedly, not a lot happens in any of them; the Fatboy puts on a few records and waves his arms in the air a lot. But at least you won't have to worry about the degraded picture.The Third TestCricInfo.com has teamed up with CNN.com to bring you live audio coverage of the third England v Pakistan test match. Online commentators include Jack Bannister, Shehzad Humayun and Derek Pringle.Virtual ChristmasA solar eclipse that graces North America on Christmas Eve. Don't worry if you can't afford the flight to New York or Montreal, it's all available on the web, and there will not be the same truggle for bandwidth that we saw when Madonna hit the web last week.Digital parliamentThe Parliament Channel from Westminster Digital has been broadcasting the proceedings of the House of Commons live on the internet since June 1999. Log on to the Parliament Channel for PMQs, ministerial statements and debates from the floor of the house. All live and uncut and as it happens.
'T he car is the next big platform in the evolution of the internet," says Ken Enders, the vice president of marketing at Mercedes Benz USA. He is looking forward to a world where ad hoc networks let you chat with or play games against people in other cars, in "communities of like-minded commuters who happen to be stuck in the same traffic jam." And of course, when you drive by a supermarket, the car will tell you what you need. "If your refrigerator knows you're out of milk, your car could know that too," he says.The internet is just one of the technologies being adapted for four wheels. Others include global positioning satellite (GPS) systems, vehicle tracking, mobile telephony, voice-activated controls, radar, and a wide range of entertainment systems from MP3 players to back-seat DVD movie theatres.People have stopped talking about "in car computing" - a hot topic a couple of years ago - and now refer to telematics, which covers everything from "fly by wire" steering systems to "virtual companions" such asMecel's McMate, which will tell jokes and reel off DYKs (Did You Know...?).All this is starting to happen now. Pat Kerrigan, marketing manager of Intel's US-based in-car group, has been saying for years that "it's not if but when? But it's not a question   of when any more. Ford and General Motors will have telematics in all their cars by 2004-5, and by 2008 it will be in the rest of the world", he says.In mainland Europe, you can already buy a Citroen fitted with an AutoPC. It looks like an audio CD player, is voice controlled, and can read out your SMS messages and email.In the UK and elsewhere you can buy a Jaguar with Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC): this lets the driver set the speed and distance from the car in front, so if someone pulls out in front of you, the car slows down all by itself. A similar radar-controlled system is fitted to some Mercedes-Benz cars, and the company already has a   prototype that allows "hands free" autobahn driving.In the US, General Motors sells cars with the OnStar system, which puts a human operator on call, and is adding internet access to more than half its models. Ford and Qualcomm, a mobile phone company, are developing a rival service provisionally called Wingcast. If you lose your way in a car park, Wingcast will let you call the car on your mobile and honk the horn. And if the airbags inflate, Wingcast will assume you have been involved in an accident, call the emergency services, and tell them where you are.In Finland, tyre-maker Nokian Renkaat is developing "smart tyres" that use chips in   each wheel to monitor pressure, temperature, wear and so on. If something goes wrong, they will be able to call the driver's Bluetooth-enabled mobile phone to report the problem.Last year when Ford unveiled its 24.7 concept car, which has an entirely "soft" (user-definable) dashboard, chief executive Jacques Nasser said: "This is where the market is headed. It wasn't that we woke up one morning and said, 'Let's do this'. It's because that's where customers are headed."Facilities people have at home and in offices, they now want in their cars.Hardly anyone is promoting the idea of accessing websites on the move. "It's not to do with using the internet per se," says Kerrigan, "it's about the services you can render, whether it's information, or entertainment, or security and peace of mind."Jeremy Schwarz of US-based Forrester Research, who has just produced a report called Cars Get Wired, says safety is the number one concern for US consumers. The key services, he believes, are roadside assistance, stolen vehicle tracking, remote door unlocking, and emergency calls when airbags inflate. He expects the number of new cars fitted with security systems to grow from 800,000 today to a cumulative 30.4 million in 2005.The key entertainment features, says Schwarz, are computer games and movies on DVD for the family in the   rear seats, plus internet and satellite radio and music downloads for everyone. He expects the number of cars fitted with these entertainment systems to grow from 200,000 today to a cumulative 28 million in 2005, with about half being supplied with new cars and half being fitted later.The number of cars with navigation systems will grow to 25.1 million by 2005, and the number with information systems to 16.1 million, with the majority being bought on the after-market in both cases. Schwarz says the key features include turn-by-turn navigation, real-time traffic rerouting, tourist information and location-based advertising, ticket reservations and restaurant bookings, email, news, share prices, weather reports, and diary functions.These features vary in their attractiveness. In an online survey, Forrester Research found that   52% of potential buyers were interested in navigation systems but only 9% in email. The most popular feature, at 58%, was a hands-free mobile phone.Ken Hale from Ford says hands-free telephony will be offered in the Ford Focus in the next 12 months, along with GPS navigation and a Traveller Assist service.Ken McConomy from Jaguar says voice activation is already available in the F type, "so you can say 'phone home' or tell the radio 'volume up' or 'volume down'." Julian Leyton from Citroen was enthusiastic about the AutoPC fitted to a Xsara prototype that he drove for a month. "With voice control you can adjust all the controls   for the CD and radio, and it can read out your SMS messages. After a few days I was besotted with it."Leyton thinks this kind of thing is going to catch on, like central locking. "Even if customers are not saying 'I must have this technology', once they've lived with it for a few weeks, they're not going to want to do without it."Safety features also have good sales prospects. When Enders explains how Mercedes-Benz customers are trusting the company with their lives, and how seriously that trust is taken, you can easily forget he's also flogging you a very expensive car. Another advantage of this sales pitch is that the cost is   inseparable from the price of the car: it is not an option.But less important services may be harder to sell, which may be unfortunate for the many companies hoping to make money out of them.The car manufacturers are attracted to the idea of information and entertainment services because they could provide a regular income. OnStar users, for example, pay from $200 to $400 a year. However, as Schwarz points out, content providers, wireless network providers and hardware vendors also want a slice of the pie. He thinks most consumers are unlikely to pay for much beyond basic navigation services, so the rest will have to be financed on a pay-per-use model or by advertising.The prospects for this depend on usage, which is vast in the US. America has 135 million registered vehicles - "more cars and trucks than homes," says Enders - and people typically spend 90 minutes a day in their cars. Indeed, rather than trying to escape from their little tin boxes, Americans also use drive-in restaurants, banks and cinemas. If they won't buy in-car services, who will?There is another side to the story, which is that drivers may be exposing more of their lifestyles than they would like. The advantages of a sophisticated GPS-based information system could mean a reduction in traffic jams (because drivers will be routed away from them), and a better chance of finding a parking space (because cars can be directed only to areas where car parks have room for them).But it also allows a car's movements to be monitored, and will certainly make road charging schemes easier to implement.Smart cars that learn their driver's habits and preferences may also enable their driving habits to be analysed - and for the analysis to have a direct effect on their insurance premiums.And radar-based safety systems that prevent cars from running into one another could eventually take over most of the driving, though researchers on the Path (Partners for Advanced Transit and Highways) project at the University of California at Berkeley suggest that is still a decade away.The idea behind Path is to enable cars to talk to one another so that they can synchronise their movements. This will lead to more even speeds, a reduction in emissions, fewer traffic jams, and better use of existing roads. According to the University of California's Centre for Advanced Transportation, a road that can carry 2,000 vehicles an hour would be able to handle 2,927 if half of them were smart cars, and 5,455 an hour if all of them were smart.Although drivers can be expected to resist loss of control, some have already taken the first step. The adaptive cruise control systems fitted to some Jaguar and Mercedes-Benz cars speed up and slow down without the driver's intervention, replacing for the first time the eye-to-foot reflex with a computer-based controller.Leyton says: "The technology exists to run cars electronically locked together down the fast lane of the motorway. Even I might be quite apprehensive about that, but if you look at the space saved, something like that does make sense."And once drivers start down that road, there is no turning back.
'Ubi Soft employees don't have any means to make their voices heard. This situation is unbearable."These few words changed J&eacute;r&eacute;mie Lefebvre's life. It was two years ago and J&eacute;r&eacute;mie was a 26-year-old designer at Ubi Soft in Montreuil, close to Paris. He was like any of the 400 young employees of the ambitious French video games producer which launched Rayman in 1996.Until, that is, he got fed up. Exasperated with his working conditions, he and a few colleagues set up the first "virtual trade union", Ubi Free. He tells this story in his first novel, The Consolation Society. Ubi Free was a website aimed at Ubi Soft   employees and at the French media, to inform the staff and to put pressure on the management, led by the five Guillemot brothers."There are 1,120 employees and no human resources department, no works council, no representative of the staff and, of course, no trade union," stated Ubi Free. At the same time the union denounced unpaid overtime, the lack of a wage scale, of an organisation chart and of information, criterias for recruitment, the multiplicity of short-term working periods and inequality between men and women.Lefebvre imagined a Ubi Soft employee creed: "I am under 26. I am single. I loved high school. I enjoy working   60 hours a week. I get bored during holidays. I am grateful to Ubi Soft to give me a job. I forgot the meaning of protest. I love to agree.""At the time," says Lefebvre, "we had no choice but use devious means to defend our working conditions. We had to put pressure on the company image. But it does not always work, because the media cannot always echo our claims."The French media widely covered the Ubi Soft conflict, attracted by the concept of a virtual trade union.Says Lefebvre: "It is appalling to be forced to create a trade union on the internet. We had to be clever. Those who had started to talk with the management, had never come back to the table."Every day, Ubi Free received 30 to 40 messages. But not from Ubi Soft employees. "They did not react," says Lefebvre. "We were not really surprised, but disappointed. People were saying we were right, and that's all. They would not do anything. To me, they were bewitched."He believes this passivity springs from a youth spent in   front of childish TV shows and violent video games. "This education makes us the ideal population to be led like a flock of sheep, unable to oppose anything. But the paradox is that we are convinced we should not be fooled by the system."After 106 days, Ubi Free closed its website. Ubi Soft had organised staff representative elections in which no one competed. Messages from Ubi Soft employees were scarce. Lefebvre, who had remained anonymous, had resigned a few weeks earlier. "With hindsight, I would have done exactly the same thing," he comments. "I wish we could have been able to throw off the mask. But it was not possible. Myself, I took time   to go public." Today, Ubi Soft, with 1,700 employees worldwide and 500 in France, still does not have staff representatives, nor trade unions. There is no human resources department and an intranet forum is supposed to regulate the staff mood."Trade unions are not compulsory," says a Ubi Soft spokesperson. Two years ago, Ubi Soft tried to explain that "representing the staff in a company is normal. It is the law. It is not a calamity. It is not a war declaration between the staff and the management."It looks as though that message has still to sink in.Ubi Free website is archived atwww.multimania.com/ubifree
The British state has long lacked a decent portal to the myriad sites put up by Whitehall, councils, the NHS, quangos and agencies and the launch this week ofwww.Ukonline.gov.ukis a stab in the right direction.It is a lot more user-friendly than the existing Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency (CCTA) sitewww.open.gov.uk, which is little more than an alphabetical listing of departments and agencies. But if you no longer need a degree in public administration to make sense of government online, you probably still need a GCSE in politics and a diploma in civics to make much   sense of the information offered.The new site is being presented as a test version. Ian McCartney, the Cabinet Office e-minister, said it was iterative - civil servants would monitor the way it will be used and improve it accordingly. It offers links to 1,000 or more other public sector sites. An effort has been made to organise its home page intuitively For example a bunch of links have been pulled together under the label "life episodes". This turns out to cover "going away", "dealing with crime", "having a baby" and so on.The trouble is that a lot of the information accessed via these links is text based - imagine a frightened 16 year old having to plough through pages detailing NHS policy   when what she really wants is specific information about doctors and clinics. Some sort of "Ask Jeeves" system for inquiries about public service is needed.UKOnline is interactive. Four clicks under the crime rubric and you get to a page allowing you to report any internet site you have found offensive or potentially illegal. You can get information on how to report a crime or where to go for victim support.This is useful but if you have to work hard to get solid information, especially data on local areas and services. Like most government websites, Ukonline persists with a hard and fast division between "central" and "local" government, assuming people know which services belong in which category, which they often do not.Ukonline has been born with a handicap, which is that a private ISP had already bagged the title UKOnline atwww.ukonline.co.uk
SSXSony PlayStation 2	&#163;44.99 Electronic Arts	****Don't ignore this game just because you think snowboarding is silly. If you enjoyed playing WipEout, Road Rash and Tony Hawk's Skateboarding, you will probably love this because it has elements of all three.The tracks in SSX (short for Snowboard Supercross) are immensely long, imaginatively designed and full of beautiful detail. You may not appreciate it when your head bounces off iron rails, or you crash through plate glass walls (not the kind of hazard the Olympic committees add to tracks, unfortunately), or go completely off track, but WipEout is rigid in comparison.The Tony Hawk's element comes from the ability to do stunts, which increase your adrenaline, which increases your speed. (Crashing slows you down, of course.) And if other snowboarders get too close, you can exchange punches, as in the old Road Rash bike racer.This game will last you a long time, because it gets hard fast. You have to earn each new track by coming in   the top three in each challenge, which involves three races. You can usually win the first one easily, but winning the third gets progressively difficult. The catch is that if you finish out of the points, you have to repeat the first two races as well. It's very annoying but it does add tension to the final race.Winning also provides access to better boards, and the chance to improve the capabilities of your character.If you complete the game or get stuck, there's still lots to do. For example, you can try the Showoff mode, where you do stunts for points, or switch to two-player mode and race a friend.The game graphics are smooth and usually sharp. The best aspects are that they don't slow down in high-speed action, and there are no pop-ups, with scenery appearing out of nowhere. The music tracks are also good, though perhaps not up with the best of WipEout. The commentary is amusing at first but quickly becomes wearing - don't they all?It must be admitted that, after Cool Boarders and 1080, snowboarding games have become somewhat tiresome. However, SSX really has very little to do with snowboarding: that's just the peg for a very fine racing game. And it is one of the best games you can get for the PS2.  (JS)Super RunaboutDreamcast	&#163;39.99 Climax Entertainment/ Interplay	***Ah, this takes me back. Back to the scorching summer of 1968, when Steve McQueen's Mustang defied the laws of gravity in the sloping streets of San Francisco. Back to late 1987, when Richard McCracken passed his driving test and celebrated by writing off his dad's Volvo and three parked cars. But most of all it takes me way back to December 1999, when Crazy Taxi came out.Sure, so the city is real this time (a worryingly accurate reconstruction of the aforementioned San Fran). You can also choose from several vehicles, everything from a   phut-phutting moped to a tank. Everything you see is destructible: shop windows, rubbish bins, other vehicles. And your missions are, nominally at least, more complex. Instead of taking passengers from A to B, you now have to collect things as varied as bombs and ingredients for a hot dog.But in terms of look, feel and substance, Super Runabout is Crazy Taxi with a paint job - and a dodgy one at that. The variety in the missions is superficial: it's still basically a matter of driving from one place to another, as fast as possible, without crashing. Then there are the clipping errors, the Dali-esque physics, the mediocre soundtrack and the banal, overarching story.None of this is to say that Super Runabout is not fun. Its 16 levels are challenging, nice-looking, and ultimately more than capable of pumping life back into those adrenaline glands. But the niggles, coupled with the fact that we've been down this road too many times before (CT, Driver, Grand Theft Auto), leave Super Runabout some way down the starting grid.  (AB)Escape From Monkey IslandPC	&#163;39.99 LucasArts 	****Back in 1990, Gazza and Maggie weren't the only ones shedding tears. The first Monkey Island game had just been released and PC owners everywhere were laughing themselves silly for the first time. One of the first "point and click" adventure games, Monkey Island stood out for its humorous storyline and sparkling dialogue, though it was often the devilish puzzles that caused the waterworks to flow.The formula was successfully repeated in two sequels. Now, three years later, we are being treated to some more Caribbean comedy. The big change this time is the move to 3D, which, in many ways, is a disappointment. The original interface was so good that losing the mouse control seems a revolution too far.But, in 2000, 3D seemsthe only   dimension for games to inhabit, and EFMI is no different.By using a combination of keys you can make hero Guybrush Threepwood manipulate the numerous objects scattered throughout the game as well as converse with the general populous. And you'll be wanting to talk.   The writing is Frasier-sharp throughout, and it's a pleasure to play a game that treats you like an adult (albeit a wisecracking amateur buccaneer).Veterans will be pleased to see that most of the conundrums are as obscure as ever, although the self-referential tone throughout could annoy   any newbies. Still, once you get used to pairing seemingly disparate objects and competing in verbal gymnastics, you'll be fine.The move in to the third dimension is not a total success but, a decade on, Monkey Island still rules the waves.  (GH)
PS2 speakTaito is due to release a speech recognition system and a companion game, Greatest Striker, for the Sony PlayStation 2 in Japan today. The triangular Taito Speech Recognition System, which   attaches to a headset and microphone, plugs into a USB serial communications port. A compatible Mah Jong game is expected to follow next week.Sega upSega, the Japanese games giant, received a boost last week when it signed an agreement to develop games for the next generation of Motorola mobile phones. The first phone, to be launched next year, will feature one game, a block puzzle game called Borkov. Consumers will be able to upload other games written in the Java language. The Motorola iDEN handsets    also have built-in pagers and two-way radios, and are sold in the US and Canada. Seewww.motorola.com/idenStar storiesSMAC fans - people who play Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri - can now buy the first of three novels based on the strategy game. They have been written in house by Firaxis's Mike Ely and published by Pocket Books in the US. "Centauri Dawn takes us into the world of Alpha Centauri as the Unity survivors struggle to rebuild human civilization on this strange and mysterious alien world." The next two books,    Journey to Centauri and Centauri: Arrival, can be downloaded free from the Firaxis website atwww.firaxis.com/smac/story.cfm.Online gamesNetgames UK, has launched an unmetered internet service aimed at online games players, especially fans of Half-Life, Quake 3 Arena and Unreal Tournament. The service, run by Cable and Wireless, uses an 0800 number, and will cost &#163;25 per month from January 1. Until then, the company is running a free beta test service for people who want to try it first.
One of the nice things about Microsoft Windows is that you can sit down and use almost any PC anywhere. That's the theory. But Windows is so easy to tweak that most of us customise it so much that when we sit down at someone else's PC, it looks wrong. Why aren't the icons we need handy? Why are some utilities? And why does it look so... strange?This is a good argument for sticking to the standard configuration, with its bilious background colour and inconvenient icon arrangement. But no one else does, so why should you?First turn off the Auto   Arrange feature that moves all the icons to the left hand side of the screen. Click the right mouse button, select Arrange Icons, then the Auto Arrange label, and press Enter to untick it. Now you can position the two most important icons on the right hand side of the screen, where they are handiest (if you are right handed). One of these is the Recycle Bin. Left-click it with the mouse and move it. The other is Windows Explorer, and it isn't there, so you have to make one.Go to the Start button, right-click it, and Open the Start Menu folder. Double-click the Programs folder to open that, and select the Windows Explorer icon to highlight it. Now right-click it to pop up the menu, and select Create Shortcut. You now have a second icon, though you may have to scroll down to see it. Use the mouse to drag this icon on to the desktop, and place it just above the Recycle Bin.Your icons may not be   neatly spaced. Right-click on any blank bit of desktop, then select Line Up Icons (Enter) to tidy them up.Windows Explorer is your window on to the hard drive holding your programs and, more importantly, your data. You need to be comfortable with your data files to benefit from a "data centric" view of computing.In the 1980s, with MS DOS, it was tedious to handle data files, unless you bought an extra utility such as XTree or TreeView. So people tended to focus on running programs, and let the programs do much as they liked with data files. Often this meant storing them in a program subdirectory. Bad idea.Windows changes things, because - like the Mac - it makes it easy to put the data at the core of what you do.For example, suppose you are putting on a play. The data-centric way is to find a place for the data: you could create a My Play subdirectory in the My Documents folder in Windows. As the play progresses, that directory will hold an increasingly varied collection of files. These may include email messages, Word documents, text files, a spreadsheet (financial planning), desktop publishing files (the programme), photographs, accounts files, a database, some HTML pages downloaded from the web etc.To work on your play, don't run a program then hunt for the file to load. Instead, use Windows Explorer to go to the data file you want, then double-click it to run the appropriate program. You may never use Windows' awful File Open dialogue box again. To start a new   file, select the folder name and use Windows Explorer to create it. That way you can create it where you plan to keep it, and give it a usefully long and explanatory name.To create the file, select File|New and then pick the type of file you want from the drop-down list. Now you can load the file, and the appropriate program, by double-clicking it as usual. (If the file type is not offered, you can always try creating a text file and giving it the right extension.)One problem with this approach is that Windows Explorer's default setting is to hide the three-letter file extensions (.doc, .txt, .jpg etc) that tell Windows which program should load a particular file. The solution is to change the default. Go to View|Folder Options and click on the tab that says View. Find the box labelled Hide file extensions for known file types, and untick it. Click OK.With this kind of set-up, there is another handy way of loading files and   programs, known as drag-and-drop. For example, if you have a Microsoft Word icon on the desktop, you can load a Word document by using the mouse to grab it in Windows Explorer, dragging it until the file is over the Word icon, and letting go. This is, of course, pointless. However, you can use the same technique to load a text (.txt) file by dropping it on Word, or load an Excel spreadsheet (.xls) file, or whatever.If the application is already loaded and open, you can also drop the file on the background or surround frame (the cursor will show a plus sign) to load it. If it is loaded and minimised, you can load the file by holding it over the task bar entry until it opens, then dropping the file on the background or surround.I'm not sure why you are not allowed to drop a file on a program in the taskbar. It is one of Microsoft's little mysteries. Windows has no shortage of those.
How is new technology affecting athletics?Personally, using my mobile is my main mode of communication. Whether I'm in South Africa training or racing somewhere, it's great to be able to call my coach or to stay in touch via email or SMS messaging. For athletics journalists I guess the beauty is being able to send results and photos from anywhere in the world to be downloaded immediately back in Britain. Obviously, for athletics, things such as timing have to be spot on. With some events world records are set and broken all the time and the difference can be hundredths of a second so reliable technology is vital for things to be exact.Could you see the net being applied to more areas of athletics?I think the internet is big business and it's expanding into different areas all the time so I don't really see why not. At present, for an athlete who's looking for competition, you can go on to the International Amateur Athletics Federation website which lists all the competitions in Britain and everywhere else. There might be a small athletics meeting out in Italy that no one knows about so it's a great way of getting information out to interested individuals. It is also a great way for people to find out about sportsmen or women. With my own website I know we get a lot of hits from journalists as it is updated weekly.What made you decide to set up your own website?It was organised before the Olympics and I was hoping that I'd go there and do really well but I got injured so we decided to do it while I was recovering. It's a good way to keep fans up to date and for them to get in touch. It has been a hard two years for me and there have been some really encouraging messages in the guest-book on the site. When I didn't get selected this year, the feedback and support through the site was amazing.Why don't more sportsmen and women have their own websites?I really don't know. I was fortunate to get a company willing to help set it all up but it needn't be too difficult for others to get a basic website up and running. We release a fair bit of exclusive information via the site and it has very convenient being able to direct people there with questions.Have you been using the net long?Not really. Setting up the site helped me get more involved with it. The most time I've spent on it was at the Olympics training camp in Australia. We had a lot of spare time and I used that to search a lot of web pages and have a laugh in some of the chatrooms.Any favourite sites?I was fascinated by sites likeMingers.comandRotten. I do go to theIAAF sitea lot and I was doing a diary for theBBCwhile I was at the Olympics so I still go to their site.Are you into gadgets?I'd be completely lost without my mobile phone.For more information visit:www.iwanthomas.com
Organising any wedding is usually very stressful. Family rows can easily erupt over anything      from the numbers on your guest list to who keeps an eye on granny's gin-drinking at the      reception.       But David Lethbridge, co-founder of Confetti, the UK's leading wedding site, believes the web      can help to substantially reduce the traditional tensions.Chat rooms onConfetti'ssite let      brides-to-be pour out their frustrations to one another and they can also confide in Betti, the      site's online wedding agony aunt. "They want advice and they want to discuss friends and      family," Lethbridge says. "Their normal network is a problem. Having an independent network is      very powerful."As well as helping its customers to tie the knot, Confetti has been busy over the last couple of      months seeking new partners for itself. In September, Confetti snapped up its two arch-rivals,      Wedding GuideUK.com and WebWeddings.co.uk and at a stroke became the major UK online      player in a market which Forrester analysts estimate is worth about 7.6 billion annually when      you take into account wedding advertising, gifts and honeymoons.Coupled with its French site and two sister sites in Germany, Confetti is shaping up to become      a major European player and appears to be advancing swiftly towards its goal of becoming an      indispensable resource for people organising weddings. On the site, you can chat to online      vicars, plan your budget, book limos, prepare speeches, hire venues and buy wedding dresses."We are doing more than 10 million page impressions across Europe a month. Six million of      those are in the UK," boasts Lethbridge. But he knows that page impressions by themselves are      not worth much to hard-nosed investors unless they are generating serious amounts of      revenue.Having expanded ambitiously into Europe at a time when grabbing land was the mantra of most      VCs, Confetti is now consolidating and focusing on making its UK operation profitable. They      hope to generate substantial revenue as the result of a major e-commerce deal which has      recently been struck with the wedding list business, Burley House.The deal gives Confetti access to a wide selection of gift products produced by a range of      well-known retail partners including Jasper Conran. Another key leading gift service provider      will be Marks and Spencer who have agreed to cross promote Confetti's services to their own      customers.But most significantly, the agreement with Burley House means that Confetti now owns a      personalised fulfilment service which is being run out of Bradford in Yorkshire. Lethbridge can      barely conceal his delight. "It's going to be a killer service," he says, adding that Confetti will      have the capability to deliver wedding gifts all in one go to a bride's address rather than in      dribs and drabs when they are bought from the list.On the surface, Burley House does look like the perfect match for Confetti but analysts point      out that there could be problems negotiating with the different retailers before the service      goes live in January next year."Getting the e-commerce up and running is their next big challenge," says Forrester analyst,      Rebecca Ulph. She points out that Marks and Spencer's gift offering might not be the ideal      choice for all couples who often like to place their lists with different shops. Furthermore,      with retailers replicating each other's gift products, Confetti faces difficult negotiations with      them to agree which of their products will actually make it onto the final online list.To generate repeat business from newly weds, Confetti plans to extend its business beyond      weddings. Lethbridge says: "We believe we can keep people longer by using us for special      occasions."However analysts think the decision to diversify into special occasions such as      anniversaries and birthdays needs to be carefully managed otherwise Confetti could dilute its      brand and drift into potentially damaging competition with the likes of LastMinute and Expedia.With its main UK competitors in the bag and considering the deals with Marks and Spencer and      Burley House, Lethbridge believes Confetti is now virtually impregnable against any rival      onslaughts. "I would not want to launch against us.There will always be niche competition but I      think we will have the core share of the business."Alafolie, the French-owned wedding organisation portal, begs to differ. Although the company      claims to respect Confetti, it is making plans to launch a rival offering in the UK. "There is      definitely room for another player," says Roshan Shetty, Alafolie's co-founder. "The UK is an      extremely key market for us. It is a pretty big wedding market and there is high internet      penetration."Alafolie has already tried to court Confetti and at one stage there were rumours of a merger.      But Alafolie's advances were spurned and now the French-owned e-business is in discussions      with several potential strategic partners to try to sweep Confetti out of its primary position      in the wedding marketplace . "If we take on Confetti on their own turf, we're going to have to      be clever," says Shetty, who likes to portray his portal as more upmarket and far more      "tasteful" than Confetti's.Shetty rejects suggestions that a French-owned site will have difficulties shaping its content      to match the customs and traditions of the UK wedding market and points out that Alafolie is      already providing services to brides- to- be in Germany and Italy.A s the online wedding market consolidates in the UK and continental players weigh up their      chances of success, analysts are questioning the impact that interactive wedding sites will      have on traditional UK wedding magazines.       "I don't think a website will ever replace a bridal magazine. I see it as a comple mentary tool,"      says editor of Brides magazine, Sandra Boler. The magazine has its own web site (seewww.bridesuk.netand is happy to publish adverts for Confetti which Boler does not see as a      threat.While she accepts wedding sites are efficient, she thinks they still lack the personal touch of a      magazine. She says her readers have a physical relationship with Brides magazine which a site      could never match. "They clutch and hold the magazine. A site is not as warm or dear or as      personal."Confetti argues that it can offer advertisers more targeted opportunities by for example      giving dress makers listings on dedicated data bases but there is no evidence yet that wedding      sites have made any serious impact on the advertising revenue of traditional wedding      magazines.       But Boler does recognise the popularity of chat rooms on wedding sites where women can talk      openly with their peers.While she replies to readers' letters as quickly as she can, she says      she would never agree with someone that their mother-in-law is awful.       By the end of next year Confetti expects to have become profitable. At this stage the owners      claim to be doing well, but the site refuses to disclose any actual revenue figures. Whatever      the true sit uation, its success as an online wedding service will depend on the scale of the      response to their new gift service, its ability to fend off the appeal of a French rival, and, as      the big day approaches, whether or not frustrated brides-to-be continue to complain to      Confetti about their in-laws and gin-drinking grannies.
Samsung is entering the ultra-portable notebook PC market with a pair of super slim, lightweights - the NV-5500TL and NV-5500TX.Both laptops feature a 12.1 TFT XGA screen, an Intel Mobile P111 500 LV processor, an external digital camera with video conferencing software and a 56kbps modem.Samsung claims that the notebooks are the first to be accompanied by a clip-on docking station which houses a DVD or CD-rom drive and a floppy disk drive. Also new is the PC's integrated MP3 player which, if hooked up to a remote control/headphones unit, can still be used when the unit is switched off.The more expensive NV-5500TX (&#163;2,499 inc VAT) boasts 128MB of memory, a 20 gigabyte hard disk, a DVD-rom drive and a battery performance of around 7.5 hours.The NV-5500 TL (&#163;2,000 inc VAT) has 64MB of memory, a 10 GB hard disk, CD-rom drive and a battery   life of around 2.5 hours. They will be on sale in January.Further models in the NV ultra portable notebook series are expected in May, almost certainly featuring Bluetooth and SmartMedia compatibility.Get more on Mini DiscsSony is targeting MiniDisc fans who store music on their PCs with its latest home MD recorder. The &#163;350 MDS-PC3 comes with a software and connection pack that enables users to transfer music stored on their hard disks to a MiniDisc.In typical Sony fashion this means not using MP3, but via the company's Atrac compression system.Atrac works in a similar   way to MP3 in losing the bits of the sound spectrum the ear cannot hear, to enable further compression.The MDS-PC3 can be hooked up to a hi-fi system and sports both analogue and digital inputs and outputs.Recording time is rated at 320 minutes per disc no matter what the source (PC or hi-fi system) courtesy of the recently launched MiniDisc Long Play (MDLP) technology. However, discs recorded using the MDLP format will not play back on non-MDLP MiniDisc players.RecordTV's new allianceRecordTV, the controversial internet based-VCR system, may soon be coming to   Europe. The company has confirmed that it is has been in talks with German media giant Bertelsmann with a view to offering programmes via the web.Users simply state what they want to record and then watch the programmes online at their own convenience.The move is indicative of Bertelsmann's recent approaches to web companies. Several months ago it sealed an alliance with online music swapping service Napster.Earlier this year RecordTV suspended its US-based virtual VCR service after members of the Motion Picture Association of America filed a lawsuit against the company. The lawsuit is still pending with a trial date of July 2001.
We got emailLouis Halpern's article, You've got email: are you using it? (Online November 30) misses out one element that I come across every day working in the internal comms side for a large company.Emails take up a lot of the bandwidth and storage space of hard drives. By sticking to plain text format emails, you can reduce the amount of bytes needed to send and store the message - thus minimising the cost of maintaining email systems and download times especially for people accessing via a modem.Including graphics and logos, and using the other features available in packages such as Outlook, as suggested by the author, and presumably also Edesigns.co.uk, greatly increases the space and bandwidth required.This also eliminates people who use text-only email.Name and address  supplied.I dread the day when every email comes with a company logo, as if there were not enough of the wretched things infecting public space already. More HTML, more attachments, more time to download emails - and more nooks for viruses to hide in.David Harris,Wheatley, OxonHalpern and Edesign are quite wrong to suggest that using branded emails would demonstrate professionalism in communications.Their insight is a description of a potentially virulent development of e-junk mail. In fact the beauty of real email communication is the relief at not having to create a "professional" logo-dominated letter.Professional communications are judged on content not on design. Our emails are not indistinguishable because they have no logo. That is sheer advertising hype!Anthony Hoskynshoskyns@btinternet.comDespite reading like a bit of advertorial, Louis Halpern   (CEO of the only company mentioned in the article) makes some very useful points about how to approach writing business emails.He moves on to discuss how to "brand" email but forgoes the analysis and precise recommendations of the earlier part of the article."Your logo says a lot about your business" is the only insight presented about email branding. Considering that the discussion about branding in the real world moved on from logos almost 20 years ago this appears banal.Moreover, inserting a logo into an email requires using non-ASCII formats, which could result in recipients receiving a screenful of HTML - not very brand-friendly. If your intended recipients are on a dialup connection then opening such an email may force their modem to make an unrequested phone call.Better that clients learn about potential recipients and brief their designers to apply their brand accordingly. If this requires using ASCII-formatted email then so be it.Nico Macdonald,London WC2No saleDo all of your correspondents have shares in Tesco?  We tried Tesco shopping and were very disappointed. It took over two hours to choose our shopping from the typed list.When we placed our order we had to wait two days for a delivery slot. When the order arrived 16 items were missing, many of them needed for that night's meal.You cannot beat choosing your own produce. The time taken to place our order over the internet was the same as going to the supermarket.We have tried Sainsbury's with just a fraction more success.Sandra Wordenthewordens@ic24.netSystem warsIs the Feedback column really the best place for platform and OS sniping? (Alun Griffiths, Online, November 30).The views expressed by such snipers usually amount to little more than this: "I know this system really well - it's great; I know that one not at all - it sucks."The truth is that Apple excels in hype, and Microsoft excels in marketing, but in reality, neither product is nearly as good as it should be.   I have hopes for Mac OS X, which I understand will be Apple's first fully-featured modern operating system.Then again, I've believed Apple's hype before...Huw Thomashthomas@cix.co.ukThanks to Alun Griffiths for providing such a good example of the stunning ignorance of Mac users. Of course you can drag and drop files or folders around anywhere you want in Windows.In fact, Windows offers greater flexibility, especially with right mouse click functionality and in open and save dialogue boxes, than with the overrated and overpriced Mac system.D Hill,London W12Now I know why Mac users are sceptical about Linux. Like Alun Griffiths, I have an iMac. It runs a full RDBMS, web server, software development tools, graphics packages, email server, network file server and is an internet gateway allowing it and a W98 box to connect together over a single dialup line.But I haven't come across anything that allows me to drag and drop files around anywhere I want.Thanks, Alun, for reminding what an excellent system Linux really is.Julian Rawcliffejulian.rawcliffe@ntlworld.comIn reply to Alun Griffiths, it should be fairly evident that "D:\data" is the name of a directory (or folder if you prefer) that someone might reasonably create, in this case on a logical drive "D".Logical drives are quite a useful feature once you get used to taking advantage of them, and as a result are increasingly less supported by Microsoft.It certainly is possible to set up hierarchies of directories as you like on a PC, but with each new release of Windows it appears more and more that Microsoft wishes to bully or nanny users away from making sensible choices.Having just moved to Windows 98 I find myself tearing my hair out at the operating system's insistence on trying to force files into places with twee names like My Little Documents and My Little Computer.I haven't seen My Little Pony yet but I'm sure it's there.Roger Musson Edinburgh
Me or 2KI have recently been offered a new PC with the alternative operating systems of Win Me or Win 2000 as part of the deal. I do not have a network, and don't know how otherwise to make suitable comparisons between the two. How might I best evaluate the offers?David J Leighd.j.leigh@staffs.ac.ukJack Schofield replies:Windows 2000 (aka NT5) is technically much better, but should be used only with products on the official compatibility list (seewww.microsoft.com/windows2000/upgrade/compat).This should not be a problem with new hardware but you may have old software that it will refuse to run, including games.Windows Me (aka Windows 98 third edition) does its best to be compatible with any old rubbish, at some cost to its own stability. Currently, Windows 2000 is recommended   for business users and Me for home users. Some suppliers are still dragging their knuckles on the ground when it comes to supporting versions of NT, even seven years after its launch. AOL is an example.However, next year they will have no choice. Microsoft is working on a unified operating system, codenamed Whistler, which will replace both W2000 and 98/98SE/Me.It will be available in both professional and consumer editions, and will offer the option of installing either "Windows classic" or a new user interface. It is currently on beta test.HP on AOLI have just bought an HP Jornada 720 handheld computer, which has a built-in modem. I want to use it for email and the web but so far haven't managed to. My internet service provider (ISP) AOL tells me that I need to install its (massive) program. Is there another, better way of doing it?Arthur HughesGArthurH@aol.comJS:One problem with running a proprietary email service like AOL mail is that the company has to develop its own client software for every device it wants to support. This is why CE users are still waiting for PocketPC software. According to the information online (keyword: PALM), AOL claims to support a wide range of Windows CE machines running version 2.11 of the operating system or later, including the Hewlett-Packard Jornada models 420, 430, 680 and 820. However, the 720 is not on the list.The Jornada 720 does   support standard internet email and web browsing, so you should find it easier to use a standard internet service such as Freeserve or BT Click, which needs no registration procedure and does not charge a monthly fee.You can still collect your AOL email using AOL Anywhere via the website atwww.aol.comMovie magicI have a number of Video CDs (VCDs?) which I would like to play on my PC. What is the appropriate software to use; and where might I get it? Will I need special hardware to do this?David J Leighd.j.leigh@staffs.ac.ukJS:Video CD is a forerunner of DVD, and in Asia, it is still hugely popular as a movie format. It uses MPEG-1 compression to provide a resolution of 352 x 288 (PAL) and 352 x 240 (NTSC), which is similar to VHS. MPEG-1 players are not all that common but Microsoft's Media Player 7 supports MPEG-1, MPEG-2 and MPEG-3 and should do the job. If not, try Xing Technology'sXingMPEGor Zoran's SoftPEGhttp://www.visiblelight.com/mall/.No special hardware is required if you have a reasonably quick PC, with a 200MHz Pentium MMX or better.There is also MpegTV, a Video CD player that runs under Linux and other versions of Unix, which can be downloaded fromwww.mpegtv.com/download.html. The same site offers PocketTV, a free award-winning program that plays MPEG-1 movies on a   PocketPC or Windows CE machine.Install that on your palmtop and you can download a bunch of shorts and movie trailers fromwww.pocketmovies.net.TweakUIAs you suggested, I had a look for TweakUI on my Windows 98 SE CD, but without success. I then read \tools\reskit\readme.doc which said: "Note: TweakUI has been removed from the Windows 98 Resource Kit." Where can I get it?David Wooddry@tesco.netJS:It seems TweakUI was buggy and had not been updated for 98SE.However, Version 1.33 can be downloaded from Microsoft's website atwww.microsoft.com/ntworkstation/downloads/PowerToys/Networking/NTTweakUI.aspand can be used in Windows 95/98/Me as well as NT/2000.You could also take a look at TweakAll, a free alternative fromAbtons Shed. There is a comprehensive list of tweaking tools atwww.tweakfiles.com/allinone.OE orderedWhen I open my Inbox in Outlook Express, how do I get it to go straight to the new messages, rather than the top (and oldest) one on the list?David SteedDavid.Steed@ukgateway.netJS:Thanks to more than a hundred readers who pointed out that the order of messages   in the Inbox can be changed simply by clicking on the little arrowhead in the Received header panel (this is standard Windows behaviour, even if there is no little arrowhead), or by using the View|Sort By menu.But I still cannot see a way of selecting either the first or last unread message...Modem driverPlease could you let me know how I can download the driver and software for a US Robotics 14.4 Fax Modem?Ken Donkin knd@mweb.co.zaJS:Windows should already have supplied a driver for this. However, US Robotics has an official site with drivers to download atwww.usr.com/support/s-main-menu.asp.Other useful sites for driver hunters include1WinDriversandThe Driver Forum.Save the driver in your My Downloads directory, or on a floppy disk, then go to Start|Settings|Control Panel and run the Add New Hardware wizard.If the modem is already installed, you can go to Start|Settings|Control Panel|Modems and remove it, then restart your PC.  Windows should find the modem again.When prompted for a driver, select Change or Have Disk and point it to the floppy drive or My Downloads directory.
In Knowsley telephones have played an integral part in the development of the council's one-stop-shop service since 1994; in Brent a relaunched call centre is a key ingredient in its aim to offer 24-hour council services and the new Liverpool Direct number expects to receive more than 4m calls a year.It may be the internet and web technology that grabs all the prominent headlines, but in the end it is likely to be a simple phone call to your local council that will matter most when it comes to connecting the drive for improved public services with the people who use them.Call centres are already changing the way some local authorities work, and are likely to figure prominently in the way many more respond to pressures to change the way they deliver services to their communities.Tony Blair and the Cabinet Office may be promoting a target of 2005 for all public services to be available online or electronically. But as a series of recent reports have shown, the closer you are to the day to day problems of actual service delivery, the more real the obstacles are.Most councils have websites and encourage greater use of email as a means of communication, but as the IT Trends 2000/1 report published by the Society of Information Technology Management (Socitm) acknowledges, there is still only a "patchy or poor understanding" about how best to use the technology.In contrast to this uncertainty, Socitm found: "There is considerable interest in call centre technology and customer relationship management. Very few authorities have a call centre at present but 63% said they expect to introduce one over the next year or so."The great advantage of the telephone is its widespread availability and relative ease of use, the lack of  major skill barriers and its availability to a greater cross section of people from all ages and social-economic class.However rapid the growth of the internet, the telephone is already in more than 90% of all homes and what the Henley Centre dubbed "teleculture" is a fact of life for councils. According to the Foundation for Information Technology in Local Government, councils already conduct "75% or more of their existing contact with citizens via the phone".Public confidenceBT published a study this summer which showed widespread concern that lack of public access to the internet could pose a major barrier to the delivery of e-services and could even exasperate problems of social exclusion.Concerns about a general lack of information technology skills and low levels of the public's confidence in their ability to use new technology were also identified as major problems.The plain fact is, the older you are, the less likely you are to use a touchscreen, interactive television or personal computer to access information, but the more likely you are to feel comfortable using a telephone.  Even in this high tech age, it seems people still value the opportunity of talking to other people when they want to find something out.This was also a point made in an "Embracing Technology" study by the online bank Egg and research company Mori, which stressed that even though half the population may soon be using the internet regularly there will still be 29m adults who don't use a PC. A hardcore of 9m vow they never will.For local government these issues have a special resonance in the era of best value, in which councils are charged with securing year-on-year service improvements. Information technology, put to good effect, can offer a  solution to transforming service delivery.Since taking up the post of chief executive at Liverpool, David Henshaw has systematically set about transforming the council from " seaport to e-port" - from near the bottom in national performance standards to the very top.A former chief executive of Knowsley, where he helped pioneer the development of one stop shops, Mr Henshaw has forged a 500m partnership deal with BT to establish Liverpool Direct, the biggest consumer contact centre in local government.Liverpool Direct already takes some 25,000 calls a week from the public and by early next year, as the local network of one stop centres expands, it expects to deal with more than 100,000 calls a week.Local people will be able to access council services by telephone and through a range of newer technologies from touchscreens, digital and web television, WAP phones and the internet, but the guiding principle is to integrate both technology and services to make the council more open and customer friendly."Instead of separate council departments all working independently in self-protective silos of service and information, we are integrating our approach right across the council," says Mr Henshaw who emphasises the longer term aim of making the service "more pro-active, more response and more relevant" for the people who use it.Working conditionsWith some 7,000 call centres employing more than 400,000 people throughout the UK, the sector plays a key role for the private sector, which pioneered much of the early development through the rapid growth of online insurance and financial services.Despite attracting more than their fair share of criticism for being the "sweatshops" of a new industrial age, call centres have had to respond positively to problems such as high levels of absenteeism, high staff turnover and complaints about stress and poor working conditions.It is a lesson that has not been lost on local authorities, which have recognised the importance of improved staff training and development. As Anne Marie Stagg from the Call Centre Management Association, explains: "Achieving customer services excellence is very simple. All you do is give your frontline people freedom to do what they feel is in the best interests of their customers and then train them, encourage them and support them in excercising this freedom."Delivering dreadful customer services is often a result of managerial interference and a tendency to restrict frontline people from applying common sense. Staff who value themselves and who are valued by their bosses, will value their customers."
The government will try to head off the fury of the human rights lobby today by vowing that a draft exports control bill will go further than expected by regulating arms trading on the internet.British arms exporters will be required to go on a register before they can receive a licence.The human rights lobby is angry that no space has been found in the Queens Speech for an immediate arms control bill, pointing out that John Major's government published a green paper on arms controls as long as July 1996 in the wake of the Scott inquiry into arms for Iraq. Labour published a white paper in June 1998.The speech will centre on an assault on crime and a health bill implementing the national plan for the NHS, which will establish joint care trusts between health and social security authorities to end bed blocking.Oxfam yesterday rounded on the trade secretary, Stephen Byers, and the foreign secretary, Robin Cook, for failing to deliver on arms trading regulation."The government has failed to live up to its promises and, because of its inaction, small arms will continue to fall into the wrong hands and innocent people will die," it said.Severe criticism over the delay is also expected from parliamentary select committees.However, the Department of Trade and Industry yesterday hit back, promising a bill next year.Ministers claim the proposals will go substantially further than the recommendations of the Scott inquiry. Following some hard fought cabinet committee meetings in the past few months, Mr Byers has decided his draft bill will require all British arms exporters to put themselves on a register before they can receive a licence.A licence will be required for traffickers and brokers, so British citizens using third countries to export arms will still be subject to British controls. Under these proposals, some of the arms exports to Sierra Leone via Bulgaria by British firms would have been unlawful.Ministers accept there will be problems over enforcement.The bill, replacing emergency legislation dating back to the 1939, will also require a licence if an exporter is trading by email.Mr Byers also promises that the bill will give government statutory powers to ban all trading in torture equipment.The bill will not give the parliamentary select committees powers to scrutinise all arms exports licences before ministers grant a licence, the committees' most recent demand.&#149; Air Chief Marshal Sir Peter Squire, chief of the air staff, has warned that RAF pilots are increasingly frustrated because inadequate funding has deprived them of equipment for training,  writes Richard Norton-TaylorThe RAF is short of about 100 jet pilots, and Sir Peter said the problem was compounded by the poor state of living quarters in Britain.Sir Peter also says in Officer magazine that shortages of spares for Tornados have led to aircraft being cannibalised to allow others to fly. He says hiving off services to the private sector is not securing the savings and efficiencies hoped for.
Wanadoo, France Telecom's internet service provider, has made a 1.65bn takeover bid for British internet firm Freeserve.Shares in Freeserve were suspended from trading on the London stock exchange earlier today before the announcement of the bid for the British internet service provider.Last month, Freeserve, which is 80% owned by electrical retailer Dixons, said it was in talks that could lead to a takeover of the business. Wanadoo confirmed at the time that it was in discussions with Freeserve.New of the talks sent a shockwave through Energis investors who feared their company - part-owned by the National Grid - could lose important telecom contracts if Freeserve were bought.In June, Freeserve shares plunged by 20% after the collapse of merger talks with German rival T-Online that could have led to a 6bn deal for the acquisition of the British company.At its last results announcement, in September, Freeserve said it had passed the 2m customer mark but losses for the first quarter of the year had doubled to 17.8m.If Wanadoo succeeds in buying Freeserve, it would be its biggest acquisition since it floated in May. However, last month it was rumoured that Freeserve was in talks with other interested parties.Related stories23 November 2000: Wanadoo seen as likely bidders for Freeserve22 November: Wanadoo confirm Freeserve talksUseful linksFreeserveWanadoo
United Pan-Europe Communications, the cable television group, said yesterday it would merge its high-speed internet unit with its television programming unit following the collapse of a planned $5bn merger with Excite@Home, the US broadband concern.The announcement came as shares in UPC fell 12% to &euro;11.20 amid disappointment at its failure to pull off the merger of Chello, its internet broadband business, with Excite's international assets.Excite Chello, as the new company would have been called, was announced in July. The planned venture marked a new international strategy for both Excite and UPC,  which had earlier planned to list its internet broadband business on the stock market. It was to have been the largest cable-based internet service provider outside the US with 300,000 subscribers.Talks between Excite, which is controlled by telecommunications group AT&amp;T, and Chello collapsed late on Monday. UPC and Excite yesterday failed to agree even on the reason for the failure: the US company blamed funding problems while UPC cited a disagreement over management.Mark Schneider, UPC chairman and chief executive, said: "Although both parties worked hard to resolve outstanding issues, we were unable to reach agreement."An executive at a rival firm said that UPC and UnitedGlobalCom, which also owns a stake in Chello, are likely to look for other partners in the broadband business.Analysts believe that NTL and Telewest in the UK may be interested in a deal with Chello, given their plans to expand into continental Europe.
The telecoms industry regulator, Oftel, yesterday stepped up pressure on BT to open its networks to rivals by ordering it to connect Energis and Thus to its wires so they can provide high-speed internet services.The move is seen as a means of overcoming the impasse in opening BT's local exchanges -"unbundling the local loop" - to rival operators planning to offer broadband services via digital subscriber lines (DSL).Oftel's proposal is for BT's rivals to bypass the local loop and provide DSL services direct. It could enable Energis and Thus to connect business subscribers to DSL services much earlier than by using local loop. Other operators are expected to follow suit.Richard Sweet, Thus's regulatory manager, said it could take until 2002 for BT's competitors to offer high-speed internet services via the loop, while they could gain access to the copper wires as early as next spring under yesterday's Oftel proposal.The first of BT's local exchanges are due to be open to rivals from July next year.Thus, majority owned by ScottishPower, and Energis had complained to the regulator in the autumn after failing to conclude a deal with BT to buy wholesale DSL services, enabling them to convert copper wires into internet connections. Oftel sided with them, as it had over complaints about unbundling the local loop.In its draft proposal Oftel set a deadline for BT to conclude interconnection agreements with its two rivals for DSL services. These agreements would   enable them to take their DSL services off BT's network at specified points and on to their own networks.With a month set for consultations and a further month for negotiations,Thus and Energis expect a deal to be struck by the end of February with, connections possibly available in early May.Still viewed within the City as being too lenient towards BT, David Edmonds, Oftel's director general, said: "I want operators to have a range of options for providing services, including using BT's services, unbundled local loops or using their own and BT's network."Thus has begun using BT's wholesale product, IPStream, to offer high-speed services to its Demon customers but the new arrangement, Mr Sweet said, would enable it to carry the traffic back across its own network rather than relying on BT's."There are potential benefits provided we can negotiate a sensible price," he said.It should enable Thus to guarantee a level of service quality not now available. "We would very much want to offer a business such services but they naturally want it available 98% of the time and we can't do that. This will improve matters even though it won't overcome the service level issue entirely."Mr Sweet said around half the UK's population were within reach of high-speed services but levels of access depend on the length of copper wire and its quality.Oftel said its proposal applied only to Energis and Thus but Mr Sweet insisted it would benefit the whole industry.2929
The website of the parish church of St Chad's in Lichfield has increased its hits from four to more than 300 a day as US voters type the word chad into search engines and click on anything that might explain the bizarre nature of their election.US polling officials have pored over thousands of ballot papers trying to detect voter intention in the tiny punched squares, categorising them as hanging chads (largely detached from the ballot paper), swinging chads (half detached), dimpled chads (indented) and pregnant chads (bulging). Officials have walked the length of counting rooms, scooping up fallen chads with the gum from post-it notes.But when the Washington Times quipped at the weekend that St Chad might be the patron saint of disputed elections, the website of the small Lichfield church suddenly appeared on political news groups, despite bearing no reference to the US election, just a list of church services, articles of local interest and a welcome note to pilgrims from Guildford.Northern Ilinois University now has a link to the parish website on its Whitehouse 2000 election page.In St Chad's online guestbook, Chad Walker, from Georgia, wrote: "Being named Chad and well aware of the importance of bits of paper called chads I have been embarassed by it all. Your website has restored some dignity to my name for me."St Chad humbly stood down as bishop of the Northumbrians in 667 after a dispute over who should be appointed. Visiting the British church's website, Sean Fitzpatrick from Upper Darby, Pennsylvania, wrote: "The story of St Chad is a delicious coincidence. Al Gore would have said 'ONE   Roman bishop!?! There were THREE! I want a recount.' Then he would have claimed to have been the model for Beowulf." Another visitor from the US, Tracy, said: "The fact that there is a St Chad, and that he is revered because of his humility when he stepped down as bishop of York, is seen as delicious irony here. If only our own candidates would follow St Chad's example!"Jill Warren, rector of St Chad's 16,000 souls, said: "We are delighted at the number of hits. Surfers, scraping the barrel for stories on chads, have   hit our site and this is a new way of reaching out to people."Stephen Smith, the volunteer who created and runs the site, has put in extra hours to respond to US messages in the guestbook. "Normally, we get one message every six weeks, about the history of the saints or related issues. We have just had nine chad messages in one weekend."He said he did not expect to attract chad-generated advertising revenue."Once the election has been sorted out, our traffic will go back to normal," he said.Key documentDownload the Florida supreme court ruling (pdf file)Related storiesTimeline - when will America decide?Election glossaryGraphic: Know your chad22 November: The chad debate - are dimples Gore's best hope?InteractiveResults declared, state by stateAudioEd Vulliamy on Palm Beach (3mins 45)Local mediaMiami HeraldTallahassee DemocratPalm Beach PostSun Sentinel
It may be the BBC's flagship news programme, but Today's first foray into light entertainment has proved a flop.Programme makers have been forced to admit that a news quiz running on Today's corner of the Radio Four website is failing after eight people attempted it last week.The dismal take-up may have something to do with the prizes which this week include a signed Charlie Dimmock calendar, a guide to pre-menstrual syndrome, the new Rolf Harris single and a re-issued King Crimson CD.Listeners who log on to the quiz must rack their sleep-fuddled memories to recollect the "strange, ludicrous, mendacious or plain stupid" things people have said or done on the previous week's Today programmes.A fairly typical question comments waspishly on Tory MP Sir Peter Tapsell, who "prior to putting the phone down on our producer ... told him that Today only ever called him about silly things and that if we wanted him on the programme we should talk to him about economics or monetary policy".The quiz asks: "As a listener to Today, with what degree of urgency do YOU think we should take up Sir Peter's suggestion?" The suggested answers range from "very great urgency" to "a fairly relaxed degree of urgency."As an on-screen message admits: "We are all, in a sense, the weakest link. Goodbye."
The Ford Mondeo is a triumph of niche marketing despite itself - a car so embedded in the culture that it ended up, through no apparent plan of its own, with a social subgroup named after it. You will recall Mondeo Man, who played such a crucial role in Tony Blair's rise to power. Mondeo Man was the disenchanted, lower middle class professional, targeted by vote-chasers before the last general election, who could be nudged to set aside the habit of a lifetime and vote Labour.These days, for better or worse, the Mondeo's reputation inevitably precedes it. It is the only vehicle - apart from a tank - that has overturned a government.You don't, however, tend to hear much about Mondeo Man these days. He appears to have withdrawn quietly into his house, appearing only briefly on his drive to wax his car. For all we know, he may be having fond thoughts about William Hague by now. It's even possible that he's driving a Vauxhall Vectra.You hear a little less about the Mondeo, too, and, unless the newly released models go well, historians may eventually conclude that the car enjoyed its golden age in the mid-90s. In 1994 and 1995, the second and third years of the Mondeo's life, during which it reigned as Europe's Car of the Year, it accounted impressively for almost a quarter of British sales in its very crowded sector.Since then there has been, inevitably, a fall-off: last year the Mondeo had a 15.3% share of the market. Nevertheless, there are more than 750,000 Mondeos on British roads. It remains a hit, even as a sleeper. And now here comes a remix, looking to stoke up the interest levels and get the punters dancing the way they did in the glory days.Here are some of the key features of the new Mondeo: more airbags; stronger, safer brakes; snazzier headlamps; and increased legroom for passengers in the back. I'm not sure how much there is on that list to set one's heart fluttering, but the Mondeo is equipped with a new family of Ford engines that might work a little harder to entertain you.On the other hand, being Fords, they might not. I can only report that the Duratec HE 1.8 in the car I drove rendered it quick enough to get your jacket flapping on the hanger in the back.But whatever the tempting extras, for the unconverted there will be the usual prejudices to overcome, not just about the Mondeo label but about the whole Ford brand.Say "Ford" and a whole crop of unfortunate associations comes wriggling to the surface, including: the firm's association with cut-price fleet cars (and, by extension, its association with chippy, middle-ranking sales executives with their jackets flapping on hangers in the back); the fact that it once produced the Capri and still produces the Fiesta; the erosion, in Britain, of the company's lustrous historical connection with the pioneering Henry and, in place of that, its somehow significant association with Dagenham (which houses its plant) and Brentwood (which houses its offices).Before Mondeo Man there was Essex Man, and his spirit appears to breathe deeply wherever Ford cars are owned and driven.But over and above these general, abstract and, in some cases, plainly ungenerous feelings, there is also the fact that Ford has produced some of the most sleep-inducing cars ever to leave a factory, and has placed within them some of the most taste-challenging plastic interiors since the launch of Barbie's first house.The Mondeo does not deserve to be gathered in with this history. This is a new-era Ford - a Ford from the age of the Focus and the Ka, stylised vehicles from somewhere way out to the left of Ford's traditionally bland remit. That said, the Mondeo has a less colourful market in mind, and car designers understand that you can reinvent neither the wheel nor the sales executive. Accordingly, the new Mondeo seems carefully conceived not to startle its constituency.It appears to have turned for inspiration and succour to the VW Passat. The Passat may not be the most sense-awakening car in the world but, being built by VW, its furniture tends at least to feel reassuringly weighty and firm. The Mondeo follows its cue. The indicator and windscreen-wiper stalks, for instance, don't - as they do in older Fords - feel like the boom on a balsawood model of a yacht.Even the plastic fascia on the dashboard doesn't seem quite so overwhelmingly plasticky as one expects from Ford. Interestingly, the plastic on the driver's side is differently stippled from the plastic on the passenger's side. Two different kinds of fascia grain! Now there's a unique selling point, and one strangely underplayed in the car's advertising.Overall, the interior is modestly stylish - a quiet advance on its predecessor. Only two things leap out: the oval clock makes the whole central panel look like an in-car Teasmade; and does that irritating "boing" noise have to accompany the winking of the indicators? In the torture chambers of the future, you may well be offered the choice between having water dripped on you and listening to the sound of a Mondeo waiting to turn right. My advice would be: go with the water. Still, it's the only thing about the car that is painful. The price certainly isn't.The lowdownFord Mondeo LX 1.8Price:&#163;14,595Top speed:127 mphAcceleration:0-62 in 10.2 secondsConsumption:36.6mpg (combined)At the wheel:Dave BassettOn the stereo:Whitney HoustonEn route for:Southend
The security and intelligence agencies are demanding the right to access records of every phone call, email, and internet connection made in Britain, the Home Office confirmed yesterday.The sweeping proposal - a threat to the right of privacy enshrined in data protection and human rights legislation - is revealed in a classified document written by Roger Gaspar, deputy director general of the national criminal intelligence service (NCIS).He said he had drawn up the plan on behalf of MI5, MI6, GCHQ, customs and excise, and the Association of Chief Police Officers. "Legislation should require every CSP (communication service provider) to retain all communications data originating or terminating in the UK, or routed through the UK networks, including any such data that is stored offshore," he told the Home Office."A clear legislative framework needs to be agreed as a matter of urgency."The data on individual communications should be retained in the interests of justice, to preserve and protect data for use as evidence to establish proof of innocence or guilt. For intelligence and evidence gathering purposes, to maintain the effectiveness of UK law enforcement, intelligence and security agencies, to protect society."He added: "In the interests of verifying the accuracy of data specifically provided for either intelligence or evidential purposes, CSPs should be under an obligation to retain the original data supplied for a period of seven years or for as long as the prosecuting authorities direct."The document continues: "Informal discussions have taken place with the office of the data protection commissioner &#91;Elizabeth France&#93;. Whilst they acknowledge that such communications data may be of value to the work of the agencies and the interests of justice they have grave reservations about longer term data retention."Mr Gaspar compared the proposed new data bank - which would cost an estimated &#163;3m to set up and &#163;9m a year to run - to the national DNA database.The Home Office said yesterday it had received representations from law enforcement agencies. It added: "We are considering their representations. However no decisions have been taken." A spokeswoman said the plan would require new legislation.John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty, said yesterday: "The security services and the police have a voracious appetite for collecting up information about our private lives, but this is an extraordinary idea."This would violate the principles of the Data Protection Act and the Human Rights Act and the government should reject this idea now. If it goes ahead we will challenge this in the courts in this country and the European court of human rights."The government has already increased the powers of the police and the security and intelligence agencies to monitor emails and other forms of communications through the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. This allows the agencies to collect "communications data" - websites and email addresses used by individuals - without obtaining any warrant.It also allows the police to demand the keys to encrypted data and provides for connection data held by internet service providers to be made available to NCIS.The government said it needed the new powers in the war against paedophiles, drug traffickers, and organised criminal gangs.GCHQ already has the capacity to monitor all calls made on mobile telephones.
Ministers have given councils just five years to start delivering all their services electronically, but the dream of wired local authorities could be jeopardised by widespread ignorance about e-government.A new survey of more than 200 heads of IT found senior officers and politicians in 75% of authorities have only a patchy or poor understanding of ministers' electronic service delivery plans for local government. This is despite the fact that officers in two-thirds of councils had been briefed on e-government, and a third of authorities had briefed councillors.Brian Westcott, the consultant who edited the survey for the Society of Information Technology Management (Socitm), said: "IT managers are having to cope with a lack of commitment in some cases. To some extent people don't want to be informed about this. They are still worried about the technology, and think it's still something for tecchies."Councillors in particular, he said, might not have a good grasp of e-government policy: "A lot of them are old and retired and, with all due respect to them, a bit out of touch with modern technology."The government wants councils to adopt the "spirit" of a 2005 timetable for all appropriate Whitehall services to be delivered electronically. This target is not yet statutory for local government, and therefore legally unenforceable, but the Socitm findings still underline council concerns about meeting it. An e-government survey released earlier this year by pollsters TBC research found that nearly two-thirds of the 100 officers questioned thought the target could only be met with extra money for IT. Socitm's survey, which also took in the views of over 150 council chief executives, finds the same concern.These anxieties hide the fact that local government is forging ahead with electronic delivery. The Socitm survey found that 77% of authorities had prepared an e-government strategy suited to local needs, or plan to do so. Around a third had appointed a senior manager as an "e-champion" to oversee the implementation of the strategy across the authority. In nearly 100 authorities, however, the chief executive and head of IT did not agree on whether an appointment had been made. E-champions, believes, Mr Westcott are key to driving change through resisting authorities.According to Mr Westcott, the government is already taking many of the necessary steps to ensure that councils are wired up by the 2005 deadline. Ministers have announced a 350m fund to support on-line local government, which councils can only access if they have an e-government strategy. By setting targets in the first place, the government has also piled both direct and peer group pressure on authorities to implement electronic delivery.The obvious next step for ministers is to make those targets statutory - a move that would really ratchet up the pressure on councils to move their services into call centres and onto the internet. The most likely method of doing this would be by incorporating e-government targets into the best value regime.It is a move that Mr Westcott supports, although with the important caveat that the best value measures should not be so prescriptive that they stop councils tailoring e-government initiatives to the needs of their communities. Once the targets are in place, he argues: "It will be up to local authorities and their heads of IT to lead on this and make something happen."
We have had some real fun with suppliers since we started Rools. Some of the most prolonged trials and   tribulations have come when we tried to sort out our telecoms.Like most internet businesses we need a leased line, a permanent connection between ourselves and the net, bringing improved security and performance to our internal network and online service.It is critical to our business but not to the interior designers, accountants and lawyers sharing our building. There is no leased line in place. If we are going to have one, it has to be installed.This is where the fun starts. The supplier has to dig up the road and do some internal work on the building. Permission and cooperation must be sought from the council, our landlord and the neighbours. The paper-chasing has taken a very long time, even with two of our already busy team trying to move things along.We ordered the line in August, when we moved into our new offices. We were warned then that it would take six weeks before installation, so we were expecting   to have to wait. The leaves fell off the trees ages ago, we have had three months of solid rain, and everyone has forgotten what it was like to travel on a train that arrives on time - and we still do not have our leased line.Persistence - an average of six phone calls a day for the past week from our most dogged team member - resulted in a morale-boosting breakthrough last week. A team of five came to survey the dig site.The visit reminded us of the previous month when we   had a leak in the office after a weekend of particularly heavy rain. Over a period of a week, five groups of workmen came to take a look. They surveyed the scene, scratched their chins and went away again. On the final day, one visitor unhelpfully suggested using a heater to dry the damp areas.Forever the optimists, we thought we had reached the end goal with the leased line the following day when the team returned to dig. It was then that we were told that it would require another, separate team to bring the cable up to our offices on the third floor. And it would be another three weeks before they could do this work.With luck the leased line may be in by Christmas day, but we have learned not to hold our breath.One of our early resolutions for the new year is to be a little more sceptical of suppliers' claims for delivery dates.Adam Hamdy and Guy Mallison are the co-founders of Rools, an online payment service for teenagers
The word wireless has connotations of chaps in dinner jackets behind large microphones. But in the United States, wireless has become the buzzword of new economy hype merchants.The technology goes far beyond the futuristic mobile telephones that will connect directly to the internet. It involves connecting networks of laptops without wires, and 'intelligent' fridges and microwaves that will automatically order your food from an internet grocery or adjust your central heating.The last example is from the Bluetooth hall of fame. Bluetooth is a technology that allows electronic devices within a few metres of each other to communicate and synchronise information, creating a personal area network, or Pan. Last month's Comdex 2000 in Las Vegas, the computing industry's biggest trade show, was expected to be a showcase for Bluetooth.But the technology - named after Harald Bluetooth, a Nordic warrior king -- may have a fight on its hands. Techies seemed more interested in a similar technology called WiFi, short for wireless fidelity, which is trying to occupy the same part of the radio spectrum.Some of its proponents even argue that WiFi almost completely obviates the need for Bluetooth, which allows the splendid possibility of a new economy reversal of the Viking invasion, of sorts.WiFi is not quite a new kid on the block. Its previous name, 802.11b, sounded more like a council bylaw prohibit ing tree-felling than the future of wireless working. The most advanced manifestations of the technology were rebranded as WiFi earlier this year by the Wireless Ethernet Compatability Alliance (Weca). But the change is more than cosmetic.Just as with mobile telephony the establishment of rigid standards taken up by a wide range of manufacturers increases the value of the technology. Economists call this the network effect, and there's even a law, Metcalfe's Law, which posits that the value of a network increases by the square of the number of people connected in it.It's as relevant in the context of decisions to manufacture as it is to networks of consumers. Cautious manufacturers are more likely to invest if they see a strong cross-industry brand emerging that offers clearly defined standards and guarantees that all certified products will work with one another - interoperability, in the jargon.The US telecommunica tions industry's failure to adopt standards for mobile phones caused a patchwork system, with phones unlikely to work in different cities, even in the same state. This held back take-up of the technology and ultimately the entire industry in the US, allowing European companies to steal a march. But US companies are making up for lost time in this sector of the wireless market.Apple, for example, was far ahead of the game with its 'Airport' technology, released last year. It allows a network to be formed by both Apple Macs and PCs, no mean feat in itself, but achieved without the fiddly tangle of wires. All that is required, as with WiFi solutions, is a central hub with a fast connection to the internet, and special receiver cards in computers that need to stay within 300 metres of the hub. Small firms or households then have a fully functioning network of up to 30 computers enabling shared internet connections, files, programmes and printers, connected only by radio waves.Apple, in particular, has targeted Airport at its traditional education base. Instead of schools having a separate computer room, the plan is that a trolley of computers will come to whichever class they are required by. At the click of a mouse an instant network with printing facilities would be available.WiFi's theoretical band width - the amount of data that can be transferred at any one time - is 11 megabits, slightly greater than conventional corporate local area networks, and the technology is already working well. The initiative is backed by giants such as Cisco, Toshiba, Dell, Sony and Lucent.Early converts boast of their ability to pick up a laptop and move into the garden or go upstairs without having to unplug or reconnect a com puter to a wire. However, there is more to this than being able to surf the net while ambling around the office.The attentions of Cisco Systems, the US tech giant, is a sure sign of this. It has just completed a $295 million acquisition of Radiata, an Australian company that is developing wireless networks   running at 54 megabits. The cost of the current WiFi technology is also falling fast, making it competitive and in some cases cheaper than using wires and 'Ethernet' technology. A central hub can be picked up for about &#163;300 and laptop receiver cards for &#163;150, though increasingly manufacturers are building the technology into laptops as standard.Toshiba, a leading manufacturer of portable comput ers, plans to do this. 'We think of our laptop computers at the centre of a world of connectivity,' says Steve Medina, a Toshiba director.'At home you can share a connection with your children's computer, once out of range it will automatically synchronise with your Bluetooth mobile phone, and when you enter the office it will switch over to the office network - all without you noticing.' WiFi will also be fitted in 'high-loiter retail-environments' (where people tend to hang about) such as airport lounges and even coffee shops, allowing people to surf the net or check email free.All of which sounds very convenient, but will it be critical to businesses?The technology is targeted at workers in the so-called 'Soho' market - small office/home office. There is an untapped market of small businesses with neither the time nor the expertise to set up complex wired networks, or the inclination to lay wires.In large corporates, the technology is embedded into   new concepts of management, flexible working and office design. A world where knowledge needs to be shared, creative juices flow and office space be used efficiently requires the ability to hop from desk to desk or between teams while retaining access to normal computing tools.But there are worries. WiFi operates in slivers of the radio spectrum that are regulated but unlicensed. A number of low-power radio-based wireless solutions, including Bluetooth, operate at this frequency. There are fears that there may be interference between the two technologies, or indeed that Bluetooth will be rendered obsolete.'There is some overlap in their functions, but I believe the two technologies will coexist,' says Medina, who is involved in both WiFi and Bluetooth. A more worrying question, says Medina, is: 'Can people sit in my parking lot and hack into my computer?' Wires may be a pain, but they are far easier to secure than thin air.
From 1454 to 1455, in the German town of Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg used his invention of printing by moveable type to create about 180 copies of the Bible. Of these, 48 copies survive. The British Library has two of them - one (printed on paper) donated with the library of King George III, the other (printed on vellum) bequeathed by Thomas Grenville in the nineteenth century.They are among the most precious things in the Library's collections. One volume of the paper edition is now on permanent display in the Gallery. It has what Walter Benjamin would call 'an aura', which stems not so much from its (surprisingly handsome) appearance as the significance which hindsight attributes to it. It is impossible to look upon Gutenberg's handiwork without recalling that this is an artefact which transformed the world.Not that the good citizens of Mainz realised that at the time. They had no idea that Gutenberg's technology would undermine the authority of the Catholic church, fan the flames which led to the Reformation, create the communications infrastructure needed for the rise of modern science and even - if Neil Postman is to be believed - lead to the invention of childhood as an extended, protected phase in the lives of young people.Or, to put it more succinctly, that printing would turn the world upside down.But not everybody can get to look at Gutenberg's magical artefact in the flesh, as it were, which is why it is marvellous to discover that the British Library has now put both of its bibles on the Web (athttp://www.bl.uk).Users of the site can obtain virtual magnifications of the pages, allowing them to   examine details not easily visible to the naked eye on the original printed pages and to get an impression of the differences between the paper and vellum copies.There is something deeply fitting about making Gutenberg's work available in this way, for the Web represents the most radical transformation in mankind's communications environment since the invention of printing.This is one of those grand, unprovable conjectures detested by professional historians, but just suppose, for a minute, that it's true - that Tim Berners-Lee (the British inventor of the Web) will eventually be seen as an innovator on a par with Gutenberg. What might that imply?Answer: that a certain amount of humility is in order. The Web is just over 10 years old, and it's only been a mass medium since 1995, so we stand in the same relation to it as the burghers of Mainz did to print in the year 1460. And we are no more able to foresee the long-term consequences of the technology than they were in their day. All we can say for sure at this point is that the Web has led to an unprecedented explosion in publishing.Print was a wonderful liberator but for a long time the technology was available only to a few, and required access to capital, skill and credentials - which is why printers occupied such a pivotal role in society for so long.Print changed the world because it enabled the rapid dissemination of ideas. Today, anybody can become a global publisher or printer - and virtually everybody does. Last week the  Industry Standard, a technology weekly, reported an AltaVista prediction that there will be 100 billion Web pages by 2005. We are rapidly approaching the point where everything that is written can be instantly available, everywhere, on the Web.We have no idea what the long-term implications of this will be, but I suspect that one effect will be to transform our concept of knowledge. Up to now, erudition has been synonymous with holding knowledge in one's head. But in a comprehensively Web-orientated future, it might simply mean knowing where to find stuff. What Gutenberg started, the search engines will finish.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
It is the student's dream - a future in which you would not even have to get out of bed to attend a lecture. Welcome to university.com.This week the first step toward e-universities will take place when a respected Oxford professor gives the first online, interactive lecture.A talking head of Niall Ferguson, professor of political and financial history, will be accompanied by text, synchronised slides and re-sources that can pause the lecture while the student can explore a particular point.'We are doing something between the traditional lecture and a television documentary,' said Ferguson. He will talk about how the Allies managed to win both world wars, despite suffering a higher death toll than the Germans, and how a 'take no prisoners' policy almost swept victory out of Britain's grasp.'It is a tremendous opportunity to democratise education, which would otherwise be available only to the elite few. It really is the way forward, the potential is enormous, both in this country and abroad.'Another advantage is we don't have to dumb down, as television often has to; we can be highbrow, and in an age where many libraries, even university libraries, are often pitifully stocked, this is an essential and groundbreaking service.'The e-lecture is the brainchild of an Oxford team of entrepreneurs that last year   set up a company to weed out all 'www.rubble'and pointless sites. The self-styled internet truth police created boxmind.com, a search engine that allows anyone seeking information quicker access to the most reliable and up-to-date research.'We had a proper sort out of tens of thousands of sites, assessing them very thoroughly and rejecting about 70 to 80 per cent of them,' said Ferguson.'For example, if one looks up World War Two on the internet you get about 1.2 million hits, which is unhelpful. We have whittled that down to 140 sites that are genuinely useful.'Boxmind.com has a searchable directory of 17,000 academic resources, referenced by specialists across 27 core subject areas, and built round a database of 120,000 web addresses.A study by an American university discovered that up to 60 per cent of information found on the internet was blatantly wrong or misguided - the results made a mockery of the web as a valuable tool for learning.'The concept of boxmind was to authenticate information on the web,' said Richard Halcutt, one of the three Oxford graduates behind the scheme. 'It mines the seams of academic gold which otherwise lie buried in the piles of www rubble churned out by general search engines.'While we are seeing the beginning of e-universities worldwide, we are not treading on anyone's toes here. There will always be a future for terrestrial universities because they have established reputations and one-to-one tutorials will be hard to replace. But this will without doubt bring quality back to the internet,' he said.Tuesday's lecture is a test run for the beginning of the second stage of the project. In March a series of lectures will be presented in this same way by Oxford academics, including Richard Dawkins, author of  The Selfish Gene .
They were not even very good jokes. Certainly not the sort of thing you would send to your mother, but exactly the same as thousands of other smutty emails that whizz their way round the computers of Britain's offices every day.But for Rupert Beverley and David Pennington, who worked for an engineering company in Huddersfield, forwarding the messages to colleagues was the worst mistake they ever made. Earlier this month an industrial tribunal unanimously rejected their claim for unfair dismissal. It found the company was perfectly within its rights to sack them not only for sending the emails - but more worryingly for the thousands of workers whose in-boxes are filled with personal mail - for the amount of time wasted in the process.A string of similar sackings in other companies has set alarm bells ringing among civil liberties groups and trade unions, who believe the current regulations could be used as a licence for bullying bosses to build up dossiers and then fire people they do not like.The emails ranged from a cartoon frog in a blender to smutty drawings and jokes. They had been circulating among a group of 40 willing employees at the company, but unfortunately one of them went astray and landed in the in-box of a colleague who did not share their sense of humour. He complained, an investigation and surveillance operation were launched and Mr Beverley and Mr Pennington were sacked for being the ring leaders and forwarding more emails than anybody else.In their case the company had a clear policy stating precisely what was ac ceptable material for inclusion in emails. But the plethora of rules and regulations governing exactly how, when and why bosses can access the in-boxes of their staff is both contradictory and confusing, and has led more and more companies to the conclusion that they can carry out blanket trawls of emails. Others have banned emails altogether rather than end up in acrimonious disputes with their staff.The farrago has led some commentators to suggest it could have ramifications for Tony Blair's vision of London as the e-commerce capital of the world. "The laws are riddled with contradictions," said John Browning, co-founder of First Tuesday, the main network for dot.com entrepreneurs. "Why would companies come to Britain when they don't face these kinds of problems in other countries."Under pressure from employers the government acted. The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which came into force on October 24, allows employers to snoop on staff without their knowledge according to specific circumstances. But the six categories listed are widely considered to include nearly all the circumstances in which an employer might want to snoop.But the RIP Act contradicts both a 60 page draft code of conduct drawn up by the data protection commissioner, Elizabeth France, and article 8 of the Human Rights Act. Ms France insists that email is private and has refused to water down the draft code that effectively bars employers from opening personal messages received at work. She also believes workers should have the power to delete emails, a move that would prevent firms retrieving old messages from an individual's hard disk.However, the Department of Trade and Industry has made it clear that the RIP Act takes precedence. The only crumb of comfort for employees can be found in the regulations, which a spokesman said employees can use to pursue a civil action against an employer who has not told its staff that emails "may or will be intercepted".A spokesman for the civil rights group Liberty said: "Our view is that employers should be obliged to justify each occasion when they monitor an employee's emails or telephone calls and show why it was necessary and proportionate in that case. They should also provide facilities for employees to phone and even send emails from their workplace secure   in the knowledge that their calls or emails won't be intercepted."A spokeswoman for the TUC also criticised the current confusion."At the moment the regulations encourage employers to think blanket monitoring of all emails is allowed without thinking how that will affect the workforce."One of the most worrying recent examples is that of eight sales staff at the telecoms company Cable &amp; Wireless who were suspended after a complaint about a smutty email. Six of them were sacked last week and two others are understood to have resigned. All eight had worked for the company for less than a year and so will be prevented from appealing to an industrial tribunal.One of the six sacked workers said the first time he saw the company policy on emails was in a letter after he was suspended. Even then he felt safe after he read that staff might only be dismissed for downloading pornography. He said he deleted the email. Yet this failed to appease the company and it trawled through his in-box."They went through my entire system and found an email with the word 'fuck' in it, which they said was offensive," the employee said.Cable &amp; Wireless said the emails were clearly in breach of its policy, but admitted the guidelines were not published on the internal computer noticeboard. When the Guardian asked for a copy of the policy a spokeswoman said it was private and confidential.If the Cable &amp; Wireless staff had been at the company for more than a year they might have claimed that the policy was unclear or that Cable &amp; Wireless had failed to communicate it to staff. They could also claim the company had been draconian if other staff on the email circulation list had been let off, as one of the victims alleges.It looks more and more as though the UK is set to follow the American model where more than 40% of companies regularly examine their staff's email. One multinational company in Germany - where the rules governing spying on employees personal emails are much stricter - is understood to have already taken advantage of the more relaxed laws in the UK by sending all the emails sent and received by staff from its offices in Germany to London where they are monitored.It would seem likely that there will be many more court cases before employees know for sure just what words are acceptable for use in private emails and how much time they can spend sending private messages and surfing the internet. But one thing is for sure: that ill thought out missive questioning the parentage of the boss could well land more employees in hot water.
Buying and selling shares has never been easier or cheaper now that several stockbrokers offer online dealing services. Most sites give real-time pricing and stock price alerts, so you can take action when shares reach levels you think significant.The are other advantages: lower commissions; not worrying about engaged phone lines; huge volumes of research and other background information; and not having to stick with the 8am-to-4pm London stock exchange opening times. Dealing out of hours allows stocks to be bought or sold at the next day's opening price.But online broking is not for the novice investor, whatever the brokers may claim. While traditional stockbrokers can supply buy and sell recommendations, online broking is an execution-only service.And it is all too easy to press the buttons and deal without thinking seriously of the consequences; there is no cooling-off period. Even phone-based brokers would raise a few eyebrows if someone dealt 50 or 100 times a day.Yet there has been a surge in online dealing, with around 15% of all private share trading now carried out through one of the UK's 25 online broking sites.But with such a smorgasbord of online brokers scrambling for business, the challenge is determining which broker best suits your needs. Comparing charges is rarely straightforward. The only similarity is that all share purchases are subject to 0.5% stamp duty.Some dealers charge an establishment fee, while others zap you with an annual management charge. All charge commission, but some increase this according to the size of the transaction.A number of brokers also hold out special deals to lure new investors. Charles Schwab offers free dealing for the first 30 days of opening an account and DLJdirect promises trades with a flat &#163;5 commission for the first 50 days.Investors making smaller punts should look to online brokers whose commissions are cheaper at the lower end of the transaction scale.The Share Centre, for example, charges just 1% commission, with the minimum charge being &#163;2.50. There is no establishment fee, but an administration fee of &#163;5 for every transaction is charged. But the Share Centre is not for larger transactions, which can involve &#163;250 in commission for a &#163;25,000 trade. The same transaction would cost as little as &#163;9.95 with Hargreaves Lansdown, or &#163;10 with idealing.com, which both charge flat fees.Other brokers to charge flat fees include Stockacademy (&#163;15), Sharepeople (&#163;17.50), James Brearley (&#163;20) and Xest (&#163;20). The downside is that these sites levy annual administration charges, though these are easily swallowed up by frequent trades.The lowest of the annual administration charges is at idealing.com, which charges &#163;20, followed by James Brearley (&#163;25 plus VAT), Stock Academy (&#163;40 plus VAT), Sharepeople (&#163;42.56) Hargreaves Lansdown (&#163;50) and Xest (&#163;20 set-up and &#163;45 annual administration).An attractive site is Self Trade, which charges a &#163;12.50 flat commission fee, without set-up or annual charges. Halifax Share Xpress offers a similar deal.With so many sites on offer, it has become a business in itself contrasting costs and services of the online brokers. One site that does this isInvestment Gateway, which also offers links to individual brokers.
Confused by financial matters? Money to invest, but too frightened or busy to ask an expert to explain?If you have access to the internet, there's no excuse for financial ignorance. A growing number of websites offer courses aimed at private investors, students and finance professionals - indeed anyone who wants to develop their financial expertise or get their finances in order.This week, for example,Motley Foollaunched a three-week interactive course teaching investors how to plan and secure the finances they need for their retirement."People are perfectly capable of managing their own finances," says Nat Price, the Fool's online seminar director. "But until now there has been little in the way of education or informative materials and typically it's been provided by organisations looking to sell financial products."We've produced this seminar so that people, no matter what their age, sex or financial position, can make a plan for their retirement and put it into action."The three-week seminar, which costs &#163;30, consists of 10 virtual lessons. At the end of the course, participants will have their own individual retirement plans and understand everything from the relative merits of state, occupational and personal pensions through to Isas, share buying, funds and trackers."Many people assume that pensions are the best or only way to save for retirement," says the Fool's spokesman. "But this is simply not the case. One of the keys to the course will be weighing up all the alternatives to make an informed choice."Participants are organised into virtual teams and assigned a dedicated online discussion board. Supported by Motley Fool tutors, each team will be encouraged to apply the lesson theory to a series of practical group homework assignments.Stock Academy, an online stockbroker, has its own education centre. It has just introduced a workshop on reading the financial pages to help both novice and regular investors to gain advantages in the stock market.The free 40-minute workshop identifies what to look for in the financial press, where to find it, when it is published and how to interpret the information.An optional assessment test is also available to participants wishing to test their knowledge. And as the final self-assessment deadlines loom, a separate workshop on basic taxation teaches investors how to minimise capital gains, inheritance and income tax on their earnings and capital.Again, participants can choose to take an optional exam at the end. Stock Academy offers 20 other workshops which provide introductory, intermediate and advanced-level information taught with the help of video clips, interactive spreadsheets, interviews, recommended reading, relevant articles and weblinks and comprehensive financial glossaries.One of the most experienced online educators isWide Learning. Founded in 1997, the company has built up a client base of more than 70 blue-chip organisations, including BP Amoco and PricewaterhouseCoopers.But private investors can also access 50 hours of financial learning on the web. The courses are highly interactive and content covers basic finance and investment topics. Each course lasts between 30 and 90 minutes and contains animations, interactive exercises and self-assessments. Some cost less than &#163;10 for 30 days' access.
Finance online has become a fact of life. Carrying out a transaction over the web is fast; it avoids the hassles of queuing in a branch or being left dangling on the end of a phone line listening to Greensleeves or the Four Seasons; it puts the world at your fingertips.And - despite all the adverse publicity - security is probably no worse than other methods of banking, just more newsworthy. Lloyds TSB's internet bank, Evolvebank, has delayed its launch date - it needs more extensive software testing. Halifax's Intelligent Finance's start was put on hold for months due to similar problems while Egg has also had high-profile difficulties.But mistakes happen and will continue to occur just as they do with flesh and blood banks. My own bank used to send me regular details of a Scottish marchioness with a similar surname.The opportunities on offer from online finance are enormous. But there is the real danger that users will embrace the medium while ignoring the message. It is all too easy to fall in love with online finance and throw caution to the wind. The fact that investors can buy and sell shares at the click of a mouse does not mean that they should.Cheap - or during promotions, free - dealing can be very tempting. But even though the facilities exist in a variety unheard at the start of the year, the normal rules of risk and reward are not suspended.If the French experience is anything to go by, we could soon see link-ups between Sainsbury and Tesco and online stockbrokers.Selftrade, a Parisian operation now controlled by a German bank, has set up stalls in French supermarkets. In one, in a far from affluent Paris suburb, the selling area is next to the entrance and people are treated to a pitch which encourages online dealing. This features enthusiastic salespeople and past performance graphs with steeply upward lines.Selftrade has a good product, a price substantially less than that charged in the UK, and French financial services regulations are different. But, although the thought attracts jibes of "elitist", it must be asked if it is sensible for people with not too many francs to rub together to go straight to individual shares without first building a diversified portfolio through the French equivalent of investment or unit trusts.Here, financial advisers suggest only going into individual shares as a pure punt or when there is around &#163;25,000 to &#163;50,000 built up or available for equity purchases.Equally, online mortgages and loans need to be seen in perspective. Brokers London &amp; Country suggest there is little to be gained from applying for a home loan or remortgage via the internet because it does not speed up the operation. It is better to download forms and fill them in - people may take more care using pen and paper.But London &amp; Country - and those who think like them - are not luddites. They suggest the great role of the internet is to provide facts.There is a massive volume of free or almost free information, even if one or two providers have pulled their own plugs; online finance users can access company information, press releases, material formerly restricted to professional advisers, charts, graphs and search through archive material.There is education galore - multiple-choice test questions are marked in a nanosecond.Money saving opportunities abound - fund supermarkets may not give individual advice but then neither do mailshot IFAs. The supermarket gives far wider choice than Isa recommendation leaflets.And the whole universe of loans, mortgages and credit cards is spread out so individuals can find a best buy. By using online calculators, they can see just how big a loan they might get.And online application helps in case of a refusal. Because it is anonymous, customers will not suffer the embarrassment of a face-to-face knockback.
When it comes to politics, vive la diff&eacute;rence still applies, as the French environment minister, Dominique Voynet, could testify. But when it comes to using the internet, is there really a difference between men's and women's approaches? Or are women second class net citizens - back to the days before Germaine Greer's Female Eunuch.The figures bear out the idea of a gender gap, with 32% of men but only 20% of women claiming to have used  the net to find out information about financial products, according to the latest NOP internet user profile survey.The same survey shows that while 57% of men are considering using the internet to apply for a financial product or service in the next 12 months, only 41% of women would do so.This may be explained in part by the fact that fewer women than men - 25% compared with 39% - feel  secure about sending their personal details over the net.But there is also qualitative evidence to show that yin versus yang is more than just figures. The Norwich and Peterborough Building Society has relaunched its internet banking service, NetmasterGold, after extensive research assessing rival systems on the market.Focus groups were split into those people who wanted a system with bells  and whistles, and those who wanted something simple.All the people who came forward for the hi-tech service were men.Psychologist and author Dorothy Rowe says that women are generally not as keen on net surfing as men, and they prefer simple websites. "It's boys who make this stuff, and boys like toys. They don't ask themselves how the person who is reading their website thinks."Other banks play down any differences. "We find it a tad condescending to presume that women don't want to push as many buttons as men," says Erica Harper of NatWest. "We differentiate between customers in terms of their needs rather than their gender."Few of the big players seem keen to design their internet services around female customers. But the banks have not been bashful about  using women's websites to woo customers - NatWest has a link to the female website Everywoman, providing information on setting up small businesses, and Barclays is about to link up with Mothercare.com.Online broking is also an area dominated by men - DLJdirect, one of the UK's biggest online brokers, says men make up nearly 90% of its customer base.There is, however, one area in which women have traditionally been far superior to men - and that's the world of gossip. Finance site Motley Fool has set up a women-only discussion board which has been very successful. "Women look for something more community-focused, and express themselves more sensibly," says the Fool's Phil Southgate. "Some of the other chatrooms are dominated by men and are full of meaningless comments."
Jet Set RadioSega Dreamcast	&#163;39.99  Sega	*****Never has a comedy gang-warfare graffiti-spraying street-skating game looked this good. While the detailed, Crazy Taxi-style Tokyo city environments are built in standard "realistic" polygonal fashion, the lovable teen-tearaway characters are given heavy black outlines to resemble hand-drawn cartoon figures.This "cel-shading" technique provides a glorious fusion of traditional anime style with high-powered computer rendering.And it all moves beautifully.Skating around bus stations, marinas or crowded nightlife hotspots, you "grind" on handrails and do tricks - &agrave; la Tony Hawk's Skateboarding, although the mechanics of the skating owe more to Nintendo's classic 1080 Snowboarding: very simple controls allowing fluid, almost balletic movement. You can hang on to the rear bumpers of cars to ride uphill, and jump and skid on to any available surface.The object of each area is to cover buses, walls and cars with your gang's graffiti tag (you "spray" shapes with the analogue controller). This entails avoiding a hilarious   force of baton-wielding cops, whose evil sergeant runs after you firing a gun. Later on, the police call in helicopter gunships and tanks. And you also have to deal with rival graffiti gangs who aim to cover your artwork with their own logos.A soundtrack of pleasingly banging Japanese hip-hop is pumped via the city's local pirate radio station (hence the game's name), and there is even an onboard paint application for designing your own graffiti tags, which can then be uploaded to the Dreamarena website.Occasionally the camera gets confused when you are in a tight spot, and there could have been a multiplayer option. But few games can boast such a strong, coherent design personality as Jet Set Radio. It is one of the freshest videogame ideas in a long while, and it is really, um, rad and phat.  (SP)Dino Crisis 2Sony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Capcom/Virgin 	****"You are food," say the TV ads and website for this game (seewww.youarefood.com). Not quite. It is no fun being carried around in a dinosaur's jaws, but it doesn't swallow.Actually, this game, descended from Capcom's Resident Evil, is for people who like killing, especially dinosaurs. At first it is annoying to have two or three pesky raptors leaping on you every time you move. Then you hit the first save point and find that you can buy really powerful weapons only in exchange for thousands of "extinction points", and a raptor is only worth 100. After that, you'd prefer they formed an orderly queue to get shot or slashed.Clouds of blood fly up. The slaughter quickly becomes   mechanical and is entirely tasteless.Oh, I forgot the plot. You play a muscle-bound meathead called Dylan and a sharp, sexy redhead called Regina (but not at the same time). You make your way through the jungle and a military complex, do a bit of underwater work, collect files and find the keys to various doors. Presumably it all leads somewhere in the end.The graphics are fabulous, and the game starts with stunningly cinematic intro .But there are limitations. The camera hops about, leaving you vulnerable to off-screen raptors. Your character is sometimes very slow to aim. While there are different types of dinosaur, their movement patterns are repetitive. As a result, the game is less a matter of skill than endurance.If you are addicted to run-and-shoot mayhem, this is a great buy. Non-addicts should borrow it. If you are any good, you will finish it in a weekend, and there's not much to provide replay value.  (JS)ShenmueSega Dreamcast	&#163;34.99 Take 2 Games	****It is no understatement to call Shenmue one of the most eagerly awaited games of all time. A whispering campaign ensured that: "Did you know you can collect toys in the game and swap them over the net?" "Have you heard you can actually get a job?"And every word of it is true. Shenmue is mind-boggling any way you look at it: in its beauty, its size, and its minutely observed detail. Every character - and there are hundreds - is unique, with his/her own voice, dialogue options, facial expressions, clothes and mannerisms. And if you go to the shops on Christmas Eve, they'll be playing festive Muzak.The game opens with a cut scene in which a young Japanese man looks on as his father is murdered. As Ryo, you vow to hunt down those responsible. With little to go on, you set out from the house and start looking for clues.But it's a big world out   there, with a bewildering array of options. On any one day, add to your rip-off plastic toy collection, spar with your dad's pupil, listen to some tunes, feed the injured kitten down the road, go shopping, chat to the locals, go for a drink in the bar, hang with your buddy; play darts, pool, fruit machines, or, in the ultimate irony, kill a few hours at the local arcade.You never feel completely comfortable engaging in any of this - you're supposed to be hellbent on revenge, after   all - but the daily routines of your various leads and witnesses often leave you no choice.Advancing the plot is a painstaking process - and a teensy bit dull. Tramp to and fro across town, talk to everyone, finally find someone with useful info, go on to X's house, find he's out, realise it's past 8pm and hurry home to avoid a ticking-off from grandma...Because beneath the fantastically ornate trimmings, Shenmue is, essentially, a point-and-click adventure.   Sure, it's a huge, detailed, sumptuous, epic point-and-click adventure with a bucket- load of sub-games, but as with your average sumptuous, epic movie, sometimes lacking in the action department. The neat-looking fights are so few and fast they feel like a game within the game.Make no mistake, Shenmue is a grand vision superbly realised. As for whether you'll still be playing it in two months... I'll whisper it: nah.  (AB)
It was written in the best traditions of a spine-tingling Stephen King novel: the chilling story of a mutant vampire plant that wreaks havoc and mayhem as it preys on unsuspecting citizens.But now the author has included a nasty shock for fans of his chapter-by-chapter online book, The Plant. He has decided to can the project for the foreseeable future.Attention and sales have steadily faded and this month the multi-millionaire decided to suspend the novel, explaining that he needs to work on more conventional books. "The Plant will be going back into hibernation" he wrote last week on the site, saying that he began the story years ago and would eventually finish it. He added: "Don't despair. The last time The Plant furled its leaves, the story remained dormant for 19 years. If it could survive that, I am sure it can survive a year or two."Originally King had claimed he would write up to eight instalments of The Plant, in segments ranging from 5,000 to 7,000 words. The sixth instalment will go on sale in December, described by King as the "most logical stopping point".Marsha DeFilippo, the author's assistant, said sales had fallen sharply to levels that threatened the future of the project. King also discovered the harsh economic reality of internet publishing - that some people are freeloaders. The writer issued instalments of The Plant under an honesty plan where readers were asked for $1 per chapter. He pledged to keep writing if at least 75% of readers complied, adding: "If you pay the story rolls. If you don't, the story folds".The first three chapters cost $1 and those after $2. Downloading was free but readers were asked to "return to pay" at a page headlined "Thank you for your honesty".But by chapter two, only 70% of readers paid; by part four,   only 46% paid. "There is undoubtedly some thievery and bootlegging going on," King complained last month.King's publisher has been bombarded with angry emails from people who have spent $7 (&#163;5) on a book that may never be finished.King's curtailment of the project also contrasted sharply with his optimistic prediction at the outset, describing The Plant as perhaps "going to be publishing's worst nightmare".The horror writer is not the only author to embark on the e-book revolution. Frederick Forsyth recently published a series of five short stories on the internet which can be downloaded for &#163;1.99 each, but was more sceptical."If it's a startlingly small number of hits then I shall desist from ever doing it again because it will be shown to be hype. Certainly the boasting is way ahead of the technology."Useful link:Stephen King's website
Small-business people are not happy with the support they get from government - but some of them are optimistic about the potential of new initiatives. In a survey that firmly lines them up with the farmers and hauliers in their opinion of how much Whitehall understands of their concerns, only 10% expressed satisfaction with government.It wasn't a small survey, either: 22,000 members of the Federation of Small Businesses responded, about 15% of the total membership.But the Department of Trade and Industry's new Small Business Service, set up in April, is "on the right lines", says Stephen Alambritis, the head of parliamentary affairs for the federation. It's headed by a north-eastern entrepreneur, David Irwin, and what he is doing is "encouraging", said Alambritis.But unlike, say, the Labour government of the 1960s which was keen on getting companies to merge into larger units, New Labour ministers are keen on saying how important small firms are: it's one of the clichs of modern business and politics.In October innovation minister Lord Sainsbury of Turville - a member of the supermarket family - delivered a eulogy to internet incubators. The Small Business Service "is very keen to encourage the development of incubation as part of its start-up policy," he said in a speech to the UK Business Incubation Conference.There are regional innovation funds, internet mentoring - also launched in October by e-commerce minister Patricia Hewitt - and even an Innovative Clusters Fund, designed to encourage localised groups of related businesses to start up and help one another.   But don't bother with this last scheme if you're planning to start a business in one of the established high-tech growth areas of Cambridge, Reading or Basingstoke. "They will focus on areas outside the London, south-east and east England regions," warned Lord Sainsbury.  Small businesses have very specific needs, says Alambritis. "People don't set up in business to do paperwork. They don't have legal departments or personnel departments. What they want is help at the end of the telephone line."The Federation of Small Businesses has obviously been captivated by the idea of NHS Direct, the network of call centres designed to provide first-stop medical advice and, in theory at least, reduce the load on GPs who are inundated with people with sore throats and sprained wrists.   The federation's model is the US Small Business Administration, a vast organisation which provides help and advice to entrepreneurs, and even rents or sells low-cost property.   "We want a true one-stop shop for advice and help," says Alambritis. "A glorified call centre."  And just as NHS Direct is staffed with nurses and other qualified staff who know what they're talking about, small business people want to be able to trust the advice they get.Who they don't trust, he says, is local authorities. "They see them as enforcers," as places that impose rates and uphold regulation. Though many councils have "useful development units", they are "the last place" many small businesses would go for help.But that means that start-ups would not get to hear of schemes for rate and rent holidays, and offers of low-cost property, he admits. That's why he thinks business people would be happy to go to a neutral call centre, offering advice about a variety of services.Is that what's on the way? The Small Business Service already has the beginnings of a useful website onwww.businessadviceonline.org, and there are indications that it will be developed in the way that, if the federation is right, entrepreneurs want."We want the Small Business Service to be as close to a one-stop shop as possible," says SBS chief executive Irwin. It is planning to set up what it calls "Gateway" - an internet-enabled network of knowledge and information for use by small businesses and others. "Essentially it will be composed of a website and a call handling service; and underpinning these will be a knowledge base and a client base."The projected launch date for Gateway is April 1 2001, says an SBS spokesman. It will be interactive, and will recognise callers who have been for advice before. The model, he adds, is the personal portal which the Cabinet Office is developing with BT - eventually to be onwww.ukonline.gov.uk- to allow individuals to interact with government electronically. A trial change-of-address system is already in operation: tell the government once that you're moving and the information will be communicated automatically to every agency.It's all part of the government's aim of getting all services to the public available electronically by 2005, and services to business are covered by the same target, which was set by the prime minister in March 1999.Gateway, the electronic version of Small Business Service, will be delivered via the web as well as through call centres and face-to-face, using the new Business Link network.   It's all at a very early stage, though. A chief knowledge officer, John Gibbons, was appointed in October: he has spent more than 30 years in the IT industry, including 19 years as a principal consultant with Price Waterhouse.Potential contractors are already talking to the SBS about starting up the Gateway service, and SBS staff were coy in late November about going into too much detail. "It's going to be much more sophisticated than the current site," said an official. "It will address you as an individual."   But the level of complexity that the SBS is aiming for means that "we have to be sure that bidders can deliver".The background to this is the government's long, sad history of unsuccessful IT projects, and its wariness following a series of criticisms from the industry, from inside Whitehall and from the source civil servants fear most, the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee.As recently as October the Cabinet Office called off negotiations with computer supplier Compaq on a projected contract to build a similarly named project, the Government Gateway, intended to be the interface between portals offering citizens' services and the vast array of government computer systems which hold incompatible personal information.Instead the government, worried about the vulnerability of the Government Gateway to cost overruns, delays and security glitches, decided to run the contract itself, with much of the work going to Microsoft. Now the Department of Trade and Industry, which supervised the SBS, will be concerned to avoid similar risks with the SBS Gateway.Will this be what entrepreneurs are looking for? At the Federation of Small Businesses, Alambritis is enthusiastic about the progress made by Irwin. "He has direct access to Number 10 when he's not getting his way," he says. "But he seems to be getting his way."Global perspectiveThe new United States portalwww.firstgov.govleads straight to a range of business services, including the Small Business Administration,www.sba.gov. This is an instant demonstration of the American zest for success: the "starting up" section has a page on "some ideas on how to be successful", with success stories and a magazine called Small Business Success, produced by the phone company Pacific Bell.The site has clearly laid out step-by-step hints: do your research, training, business plans and so on. There's advice about finding the money, and whether or not to lease premises. There's even a link to a 13,000-strong team of retired executives who are prepared to offer help and advice. And the SBA advertises property and land it has acquired in the course of its operations: there's a 4,000 sq ft warehouse/retail unit in Los Angeles going for $220,000, for example.The Irish Republic's Enterprise Ireland onwww.enterprise-ireland.com, is an altogether more cautious operation. "We have a service targeted to meet the needs of high-calibre, experienced managers, academics and entrepreneurs creating and building new companies with significant growth and export potential," says the site, adding a series of questions about "credible projected sales" and export potential, before offering links to a development adviser.There are relatively few other resources on the web for entrepreneurs, or other sources of government help. The UK Federation of Small Businesses' ideal is the Confederation for Artisans and Craftspeople, which even fills in health and safety forms and tax forms for members, according to the federation's head of parliamentary affairs, Stephen Alambritis. "It means they don't have to hire an accountant." But governments in the EU have a delicate line to walk to ensure they are not breaking anti-competition laws in the way they support industry.Alan Burkitt-Gray is editor of Government Computing magazine andKableNET
While Israelis and Palestinians have been slugging it out on the ground with guns and stones, others have gone into battle with mouse and modem. Although cyber-attacks are not in themselves new, this is the first political conflict in which two sides have fought each other in such an organised way over the internet.The war began early in October when Israel supporters crashedAlbawaba.com, a Jordanian-based portal site, by deluging its chat room with emails containing large and offensive image files.Hackers also broke into several Hizbullah-related websites, planting Israeli flags and other material on their pages.Palestinian supporters retaliated with an attack on Netvision, the Israeli internet service provider (ISP) which hosts websites for the Knesset, the foreign ministry and the defence forces. Service became extremely slow for a couple of weeks and ordinary subscribers to the Netvision service had difficulty logging on.The American giant, AT&amp;T, came to Netvision's rescue - and was promptly listed by various Arab/Islamic groups as a company to boycott.So far, about 90 Israeli sites have been attacked, and around 20 on the other side, according to iDefense, an electronic security firm. The balance of casualties in cyberspace is the reverse of what has actually happened on the ground, and this may be explained by the scarcity of Palestinian websites.The most common attacks are of two types, both fairly primitive.The first is the equivalent of scrawling graffiti on a   street poster: someone breaks into an "enemy" website and defaces it. The damage is usually so obvious that it is quickly spotted and repaired.Last week Unity, one of the Arab-Islamic groups involved in the cyber-war, circulated an email announcing that the Israel Institute of Technology's website had been defaced with a message saying: "Leave Jerusalem... or better, drop dead!"By the time the email arrived, the website was back to normal, and as proof of the exploit, Unity had to rely on pointing to a mirror copy of the offending page.The other type of attack, known as "denial of service", overloads a server - usually   by bombarding it with emails or pings. There are several bits of software that can do this, with such colourful names as EvilPing, FakeMail, WinSmurf, PutDown and QuickFire. There are also ways of defending against them once a website is aware that it may be attacked.To bring down a website by this method usually requires a concerted effort by a group of surfers - which can be difficult to organise. It may be fun at first, but people quickly get bored.Several "attack sites" have been set up where surfers can join in the battle. But the more they are publicised, the more likely it is that the host ISP will find out and remove them.This happened to one attack site hosted by Tripod. Last week it had been replaced by a message saying it was unavailable because the subscriber "may have posted content in violation of the Tripod Terms of Service".Unity's attack page still survives - possibly because it is difficult to find and can only be reached by redirection from another site. Visitors are invited to "defend the Resistance" by attacking groups of "Zionist websites" which include the Israeli defence forces, the prime minister's office, the Bank of Israel and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange."One small windows will be opened for each link you click, and all what you have to do is not to close them as long you are on net, the program will be automatically work," it says, with scant regard for grammar.Trying this for a few seconds - purely in the interests of research - I found that my hard drive whirred madly, and I was struck by the frightening thought that anyone who joins in this kind of attack is taking a lot on trust. How could I be sure that Israeli hackers had not broken into the Unity site and replaced its attack software with some horrible bug that could, at this very moment, be scrambling my own hard drive?In reality, there is no evidence that these crude attacks have so far caused lasting damage. Israeli internet services may well be made more resilient as a result, and the companies that advise on defensive systems will get richer.But a more sophisticated attack hit the American-Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), a pro-Israel lobbying group.The attacker, "Doctor Nuker, founder of the   Pakistan Hackerz Club", not only defaced the site, but also downloaded the credit card details of 700 people - including a Republican senator - who had subscribed to AIPAC via the internet. The FBI advised them all to cancel their cards and monitor transactions.The Pakistan Hackerz Club had previously concentrated its efforts on defacing Indian websites, in support of Kashmir separatism.Opinions on the ethics of cyber-war range from "cool" to "criminal". Some see it as a legitimate form of political protest - "hacktivism" - while others regard it as vandalism, or worse.At one level, shutting down an "enemy" website can be considered a suppression of free speech - the electronic equivalent of book burning. It conflicts with the spirit of the internet, which is to let everyone have their say.In the crude form that it takes in the Middle East conflict, there is no sign that it is doing much to advance the cause of either side, though it does give some people a sense of participation and conceivably diverts them from more violent activity.We have yet to see the full weight of a government's resources deployed in a cyber-attack. Earlier this month there were reports that the Pentagon had considered bringing down Serbia's financial systems during the Kosovo conflict.It is said to have backed off, partly because of doubts about international law, and partly because of fears that such weapons, if used, could easily be adopted by America's enemies.On the other hand, an effective cyber-attack might have ended the war more quickly, with fewer lives lost.
On callYou too can have one of the first personal PhonePages, though it won't be much use until third generation (3G) phone systems arrive. The idea is that when someone calls you, your PhonePage will be sent to their mobile. PhonePages can also be viewed on the web atwww.my.no, but you have to know someone's mobile phone number to look them up. The company's site is atwww.thephonepages.com.Film funThe end of the year always brings lots of new movies and websites. Two of the best are for102 DalmatiansandThe 6th Daywith Arnold Schwarzenegger. Less successful areHow the Grinch Stole Christmaswith Jim Carrey andUnbreakable, Bruce Willis's ordeal at sea movie. TheCharlie's Angelssite is no better than you would expect.Anyday soonPalm Inc has bought Anyday.com, my favourite web-based personal information manager, and plans to move us towww.palm.net. You don't need a Palm to use the service: it synchronises with Palm OS systems, Palm Desktop for Windows, Windows CE (but not PocketPC), Outlook 97, 98 and 2000, Lotus Notes, Lotus Organizer and others.On liveThe three tenors (Jose Carreras, Placido Domingo and Luciano Pavarotti) make their webcast debut on Sunday with a Christmas concert from Vienna (seewww.onlineclassics.com). The programme includes White Christmas, Jingle Bells and Amazing Grace. Black music site Darkerthanblue.com will be webcasting film of Craig David's current tour from December 5. Seedarkerthanblue.On radioThe XY Network, which is still in pre-launch mode, is hosting the whole syndicated two-hour Gilles Peterson Worldwide show. Go towww.xy.fmand select XY Music (Wap phone owners can also trywww.xy.fm). The former Kiss FM DJ is more tuneful than the anti-liberal Rush Limbaugh, whose site atwww.rushlimbaugh.comis already the most highly ranked broadcast site on the web. Well, he has 15 hours a week on 600 American radio stations to plug it.Look downMultimap.com has added a compelling new feature: aerial photographs. The images cover Greater London and major UK cities and counties. Some foreign cities - such as Amsterdam, Paris, Brussels and Tokyo - will be available soon. The photos atmultimap.comare provided by Cities Revealed.Upstarting?The UpStarts Awards have been launched to offer &#163;50,000 to help three "social entrepreneurs" start their projects. Entries may be posted on the website atwww.upstarts.org.ukuntil May. The judges include Labour MPs Paul Boateng and David Willetts.The topsTopTenBuys, a site that lists the top 10 products in a wide range of categories, has just gone live:www.toptenbuys.co.ukdelivers very brief but "up-to-date, unbiased, rated reviews of the most popular consumer products and services available both on and offline in the UK". Products range from hand-made sausages to African safaris, and can be ranked by a range of criteria. The site will be even more interesting once visitors have added their comments. A Wap site can be found atwww.toptenbuys.co.uk/index.wmlNew noted&#149;  Trace, the writers' workshop, is holding a competi  tion for Christmas card pages, but entries close on December 6. See http://trace. ntu.ac.uk/christmas.htm&#149;  BeeBeep is offering a local shopping/delivery service atwww.BeeBeep.com, but so far it works in only London SW11.&#149;  Art is for sale atwww.ThatArtSite.net&#149;  A US-based book co-op is offering used books atwww.TomFolio.com&#149;  Steve, a homeless man with a notebook PC, is online atwww.hungryandhomeless.co.uk&#149;  For Hats of Meat, seewww.hatsofmeat.com
Email factsThe Financial Times has recently reported on a survey conducted in the US, which concluded that: "The internet has become the fastest growing electronic business tool."Approximately 4,000bn emails are sent each year in the US compared to 101bn pieces of paper.  83% of companies with an annual turnover of &#163;1-5m do not display their company logo on emailsHow many emails do you receive on average a day? How many do you send out? Five, 25, 50? Either way you probably spend more time using email for your business communications than the telephone, and you are not alone. One in 10 of us sends more than 20 emails every day and 97% of UK service industries use email more than any other form of communication.Billions of pounds are spent each year on brand building, yet the emails you receive and probably the ones you send rarely have the company's address on it, let alone a logo or slogan and are usually bland black on white.In a world where branding is so important to distinguish   one company, product or service from another and where even IT managers bang on about it, isn't it remarkable that 100 million blank emails are sent every 24 hours?Companies pay out up to 13.3% of their annual spend on marketing. We are deluged with brands everywhere we go from the moment we open our eyes to the moment we go to sleep - in fact, on average we are exposed to more than 3,000 brands every day.Yet companies are really missing a trick when it comes to email - they are sent and received without any branding whatsoever and are totally indistinguishable from each other. Ask yourself this question: Would you ever send an official business letter or fax on plain white paper?We live in a clustered   world. When we go to meetings we hand out business cards. We still send letters; faxes; we produce corporate brochures; we send press releases. The volume of printed material available is astounding, yet much of it has yet to be transferred for use in the electronic world, a world in which we are communicating more and more.Whether you like it or not, email is taking over from traditional communication. To prove this you only have to look at the penetration of other forms of communication. It took 40 years for radio to have 10 million users and television 15 years to reach critical mass; a long time compared to services like Hotmail, which registered 10 million users in less than a year - with no advertising.   The trend can only continue.However, email as it stands is highly under-utilised. It is commonly used for sending short messages about meetings and attaching documents rather than printing and faxing them.Some more advanced users use the "reply to" feature to comment on the message they have received, thereby increasing the speed of dialogue.Email in business is about rapid communication with multiple people. It is about keeping everybody informed about what is going on and   documenting decisions. Bill Gates was famous for running Microsoft by email. It worked for him because he was not scared to share information with the whole organisation.It also worked because he documented the decision flow and he was not scared to be in   control of the communication.The key to making email your most effective communication tool is simple - follow these rules:&#149; Do not beat about the bush.&#149; Do not think of email as a quick informal note. Instead, remember that it is not only a written record of what you are saying, but is likely to be broadcasted to more people that you have initially addressed.&#149; Use email as a call to action. Ask for a response or use questions to be in control and have the recipient work for you.&#149;  Paste your entire message in the main email box to make it easier for users to get to your message quickly, ie don't use attachments.Email can also be used to market your company cost effectively, both to existing and new customers. Businesses spend most of their money on winning customers   by communicating the benefits of being a customer. This is communicating their brand. To keep customers, and stay in business, it is vital to remind them why they first became a customer.Including your brand in their emails is just one simple way of communicating this. Hence branded email can build customer loyalty.Email can also be used for business development. Everybody forwards emails for one reason or another on a regular basis. If your emails are forwarded and they are branded then your company will benefit from increased awareness.Traditional sales techniques benefit tremendously from email, due to its personal nature and ability to reach the recipient quickly.Everybody knows that the best way to get new customers is to be referred. The traditional way of doing this is to ask your current customers who else they think will benefit from your services and obtain their contact details.Asking the question in an email is not only less embarrassing, but you can   also get your customer to send a quick note to the prospect and copy you in. Hence the speed and the confidence of the introduction is greater.Using branded emails in the communication helps enforce even greater professionalism. It can increase the effectiveness of a direct marketing campaign as you get a 45% better response rate.Again this is about showing more efficiently what your company stands for.Your logo says a lot about your business.&#149; Louis Halpern is chief executive officer ofedesigns.co.uk.
For those baffled by talk of Intel and Athlon, megahertz and gigabytes, there is a simpler way. Apple computers have been around since the late 1970s, pioneering the mass adoption of the point-and-click interface used by nearly all computers today, and putting ease of use at the top of its agenda.Today, however, Apple is as famous for its colourful and innovative hardware designs (none of which sport floppy disk drives) as it is for its operating system, MacOS. The company's motto is Think Different, but its machines also all look different.The Apple range is quite simple to understand. There are two lines targeted at the home market - the iMac desktop range, and the iBook laptop machines.The iMac is a colourful all-in-one computer, with a built-in 15-inch monitor and a range of processor speeds and capabilities. The lowest priced iMac costs &#163;649, including VAT, and comes only in indigo (blue). It sports a 350MHz processor, 64MB of memory and a 7GB hard drive, and has a modem and CD-Rom drive but no DVD-playing capabilities.The most expensive iMac (there are two other price levels in between) is the DV Special Edition, available in graphite (grey) or snow (white), which costs &#163;1199, including VAT. This is an more powerful machine, with a 500MHz processor, 30GB hard drive and 128MB of memory as standard. This last point - the memory - is important as Apple's new operating system, called OS X, arrives next year and needs at least 128MB to run.The Special Edition also sports two FireWire ports, which means you can plug a digital camcorder into your Mac and download movies to edit on the video editing   software included with the machine, iMovie. This is Apple's attempt to corner what the company's chief executive Steve Jobs calls the "desktop movie" market, in much the same way it captured the desktop publishing market in the 1980s.On the portable side, Apple has the iBook - a rugged laptop with rubberised, curved corners and a good 12-inch screen, available in two versions. The standard iBook (&#163;1249 including VAT) has now been upgraded from its previous rather puny specification, and has a 366MHz processor, 64MB of memory and a 10GB hard drive. Available in indigo and key lime (lurid green) it has one FireWire port, and boasts impressive battery life of around five hours in "real world" use - which beats most PC-compatable laptops hands down. Like the basic iMac, however, it has a CD-Rom drive but no DVD capabilities. For that you need to look to the iBook Special Edition (&#163;1,499, including VAT), which also has a faster 466MHz processor and comes in Apple's standard go-faster graphite, as well as key lime.But before you buy, there is one important thing to bear in mind: the operating system. Buying Apple means you get to use the Mac OS, which its advocates say is much easier to understand than Microsoft's Windows system. But buying a Mac also puts you in a minority of computer users, and that means that the library of software you have to choose from is much smaller than your Windows-using counterparts.That may not have much of an impact if your computing needs are straightforward or focused in Apple's strongholds of publishing, education or the internet. Microsoft produces Mac versions of Office 2000, Outlook Express (for email) and Internet Explorer (for web browsing) while the situation for Mac gamers is improving, with classics such as Championship Manager also being brought to the OS.But should your software needs be more esoteric, it makes sense to check that what you need is available for the Mac before you invest in any hardware.
Britain's boardrooms are blissfully unaware of the level of threat posed to their corporate networks by hackers and viruses, a survey published today reveals.Compared with the IT managers tackling the problems, Dimension Data's poll shows corporate decision makers are less aware of the threats their companies face.The poll was conducted by e-Mori, questioning and comparing corporate-level and IT department decision makers on computer security.It found that, while 49% of IT decision makers said their company didn't have an IT security breach plan, 62% of corporate decision makers thought they did. And while 66% of IT staff strongly agreed IT security breaches could go undetected, 54% of boardroom staff disagreed or were not sure.Exposing the lack of communication between board members and IT staff, the survey shows that while 88% of corporate decision makers say security is discussed in the boardroom, 30% fewer IT managers say they were involved at such a level.Simon Boyle, marketing manager for Dimension Data, said the survey "highlights the attitude differences between the groups", and showed confusion as to who was responsible for security.The survey showed that although around half of IT decision makers can say their organisation has suffered an IT security breach, one quarter of these events go unnoticed by senior corporate colleagues.According to Boyle, however, all such security breaches were largely preventable. "There are solutions to 95-99% of all security issues," he said. "Our objective   with this survey was to blow the smoke screen away from around this area."Many security firms are over-concerned with protection using high level encryption programs, he added. Only a group of the world's most powerful supercomputers could crack such algorithm based protection. A far more real risk is posed to companies from simpler forms of attack such as computer viruses, most of which can be protected against.With the security industry marketing to firms by playing on their uncertainty and doubt, it was little surprise a boardroom-IT manager split has become apparent, he added.Commenting on the findings, Richard Boothroyd, vice chairman of the British Computer Society's security committee, said that over the past two years he has witnessed a massive change within the security industry."Companies simply cease to trade if they aren't secure," he said. "These issues hit them hard - right between the eyes."With the high profile denial of service attacks and viral outbreaks, Boothroyd said he has seen increased pressure by shareholders on corporate decision makers.In the past year companies like Yahoo! have had their online services disrupted by concerted denial of service attacks.Groups of hackers take over large unprotected networks and use them to place so many requests to a company's servers that they become jammed.In another high profile case this year, the "I Love You" virus played on human nature to spread via email from the Philippines around the world.Reassuringly, perhaps, the Dimension Data survey showed around 90% of both IT and corporate staff now had an acceptable usage policy for email and internet access.Such steps are the first level protections against security breaches, the company said.
