A bid to stem the tide of "pestilent" unsolicited emails was launched in the Commons today.Introducing his consumer protection (unsolicited e-mails) bill, Labour MP Paul Flynn called for legislation to prevent unwanted emails, or spam, being sent."Unsolicited e-mails are a pestilent nuisance that threaten to eternally swamp and suffocate our email system," he said."And that is probably the biggest improvement in communications that the world has had since the invention of the telephone."Mr Flynn made fun of the "preposterous and ridiculous" claims made by spam emails to "enliven our love lives".But he also pointed to the more sinister side of unsolicited e-mails, such as companies offering potentially dangerous medicinal drugs and pornographic images sent out to children and vulnerable people.Mr Flynn was especially concerned for MPs, who risk losing emails from constituents if a rigorous filtering system is introduced."This open universal system we have is already in danger of collapsing," he said.The MP suggested measures for ordinary recipients of emails for lessening the "deluge of junk", such as never responding to spam and never making lists of email addresses.But he believed the most effective protection was through legislation.He said: "The bill seeks to amend the consumer protection act in this country to prohibit the sending of emails and make it a criminal offence unless the consent of the recipient has been gained."Mr Flynn said laws had already been introduced in Denmark and Austria to protect people from unsolicited emails, but Britain and America remained vulnerable.The bill was given a formal first reading but stands no chance of becoming law due to lack of parliamentary time.
If you're interested in following the various debates here at the business blogging conference, Denise Howell is sitting a few seats down from me, furiously typing a very detailedtranscript of proceedings. Denise, you may recall, made some headlines recently for blogging proceedings at a conference where the journalists had been muzzled by agreeing to keeping everything off the record. The organisors had not, alas, told the audience.Dan Gillmorhad some interesting thoughts on that at the time.
Doc Searlsis blogging detailed notes from today's conference, and has a list of the people who are tapping away around the room. Some interesting stuff: Jupiter, the conference organisers, showed stats showing that the % of internet users who read personal websites is actually falling, from 18% in 1999 to 8% in 2002. Of course, the overall population of the internet is still rising rapidly, which means the audience for personal websites has grown, but they are not maintaining their market share.Meanwhile, on the floor, Dave Winer is delivering a curiously unstructured keynote. It comes across as quite random, until he opens things up to the floor, and a quite passionate debate starts up.Those who know of Winer will not be surprised there's a (good natured) argument breaking out on one of Dave's favourite subjects: is weblogging also journalism? It seems quite a few US journalists feel quite strongly that weblogging is no such thing, withJeff Jarvis(a former senior print journalist) putting up a quite spirited defence of some kind of distinction.My view? Journalism's already a pretty big tent, with everyone from reporters to polemicists lurking in its various corners. There's no license needed to join in. So there's space for a few more people in here - readers will vote, with their clicks, for who they want to read, and believe.
All pervasiveWifi? Check.Dave Winer? Check.Doc Searls? Check. More Apple PowerBooks and iBooks per square foot than anywhere else on the planet, apart from (perhaps) Cupertino? Ah - we have a problem. Itisa weblogging conference, but it's a weblog conference with a twist: it's about bringing the joys ofblogging to business. So there are rather more corporate PCs on show than is normal at such events.Update:Someone's just hauled in a 17" PowerBook - this upsets the balance, a little.
Magazines serving the public sector, including Nursing Times, the British Medical Journal, the New Scientist and Nature, are facing a financial crisis after the government revealed a proposal to put recruitment advertising online.The government says it wants to start placing adverts for health care, education and environmental workers on public sector websites from 2005.The move could spell disaster for magazines that rely on recruitment advertising for their income.Although the government has not said it will stop advertising in magazines, publishers fear readers will turn to internet and stop buying their titles when looking for job ads."We ask the government to approach its plans for the future with an open mind on how best to work with existing publications in the independent sector," said Ian Locks, the chief executive of the Periodical Publishers Association."We are pressing the government to carry out a full impact assessment of its communications and e-government strategies on the independent support structure and sources of information and recruitment in the public sector," he added.Journals and websites aimed at grass roots public sector employees will be worst affected, although newspapers will also feel some impact.Public sector recruitment advertising is traditionally one of the Guardian's greatest strengths and the Times has recently made a foray into the market with a weekly supplement rounding up news from the public sector press."It's a concern. It might have a marginal effect but I don't think it's going to mean there's no local government advertising," said one newspaper advertising executive."People still need to advertise in print to widen the net - particularly for the more senior jobs," he added.The PPA is campaigning on a number of fronts to make the government aware of the threat its online strategy poses to publishers.The trade body is making a forceful submission to the Cabinet Office communications review, chaired by Bob Phillis, the chief executive of Guardian Media Group.A meeting between PPA representatives and Stephen Timms, the minister for e-commerce and competitiveness, is scheduled for July 9 and the association also hopes to raise the issue with the information age partnership, chaired by the trade and industry secretary, Patricia Hewitt.The government e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, told the PPA hitting advertising revenues was an "unintended" consequence of the government's internet strategy.He added the government would work in partnership with niche publications in an attempt to minimise the competition they will face from public sector websites.&#183;To give MediaGuardian a story emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
Armchair fans of ITV's Who Wants to be a Millionaire? are being given the chance to play along at home for cash prizes of up to £1,000.Would-be millionaires will be able to test their skills in real time by texting through the answers in special codes on their mobile phones.The scheme will be tested on Classic Millionaire, the recently launched daytime version that repackages old episodes of the show.Celador, the programme's producer, has linked up with Whoosh, a new company formed by the former Channel Five deputy marketing director, David Bainbridge, to allow users to answer the questions worth £1,000 and upwards on the show.The game will cost £1 a time to play plus the standard cost of each text message and the person who answers the most questions in the shortest amount of time will win £1,000.One winner each week will have the chance to appear on the next series of the prime time show, which begins in the autumn.Despite the growing popularity of texting it has not been possible to deal with a high volume of messages and declare winners in a short period of time.This is because of the unreliability of texts and the probability that thousands, if not millions, will be sent simultaneously.However, Whoosh has built its own network that bypasses the 50 million-plus messages that are sent over the existing mobile networks every day."The crucial thing is we must know if you sent in your answer in before or after Chris Tarrant has read it out," said Mr Bainbridge, adding that every message is time-stamped to the second it was sent."Immediately you can start to see the implications for a People's Who Wants to be a Millionaire? or a People's Weakest Link with everyone playing along at home," he added.Bruce Van Den Bergh, the Celador digital boss, claimed the initiative was a world first and, if successful, would be integrated into the new series of Millionaire in the autumn."We are trying to find different ways in which people can consume the brand," he said."People love engaging with the show and this gives them one more option."Celador hopes the interactive element will increase loyalty to the show as well as bring in extra revenue.The programme, once a ratings blockbuster, had been flagging before receiving a boost from the recent court case involving Major Charles Ingram.Whoosh's initiative could be an important development for text messaging.MediaGuardian.co.uk last year revealed tens of thousands of text messages to television programmes were arriving too late.Bottlenecks at the mobile networks prompted some broadcasters, including BBC Radio 1, to discard thousands of messages as there was no way of telling when they arrived.
"In May 2003 alone, Linux-based corporate and government systems experienced 19,208 successful breaches worldwide, whereas similarly oriented Microsoft Windows Server systems suffered only 3801 breaches. During this time period, more than 75 percent of all server-based breaches occurred on Linux systems; Windows systems were responsible for just 15 percent of breaches," saysWinInformant. There's a press release on themi2gsite which provided the numbers, but you have to pay $100 to read it.
CD Baby's Web siteposted details of how Apple's music service is doing ("Sorry, I didn't realise yesterday's presentation was supposed to be confidential. When I found out, I pulled the details. Honest mistake.") Seems the service is "selling about 500,000 songs a week and about half of those are sold as albums, allaying fears that people would choose individual tracks instead of a whole record," according to theBBC. Best bit: Steve Jobs reportedly saying: "We have to be more efficient, though. We're not going to deal with 200 lawyers. Everyone is going to get the exact same deal. It's not negotiable. It's take it or leave it." (F/X cheers)
People have been trying to do comms over power lines for at least 30 years, usually with results that were either technically or financially miserable. Nice to know ConEd and Ambient are still trying in "a house north of New York City", according toReuters.
It was nearly quarter of a century ago that I entered the computer age, when The Guardian presented me with a Tandy 100 laptop boasting a screen which, if I remember correctly, gave one eight lines of text and enough memory to hold one, fairly substantial article. I was able to send the article to London from Belfast - where I was based at the time - in a matter of minutes with the help of something called Telecom Gold and a contraption called an acoustic coupler.The computer caused quite a stir at the time, the gossip column of the Irish Times running an item about my use of the machine at the annual conference of Sinn Fein. In the context of what was known about computers at the time it created the impression that I was engaging in some sort of arcane number crunching exercise, aimed at penetrating IRA secrets.The Tandy represented a huge leap forward from a typewriter and ballpoint pen, but in the years that followed I found myself constantly hankering for improvements. They duly came. Computer screens, of course,are now able to encompass a full page and that in colour, the clumsy coupler has been hard-wired and everything moves faster.Today my Tandy is considered a museum piece and I have a Mac laptop with an i-Pod - essentially a beautifully designed external hard disc marketed by Apple as an MP3 player. The size of a packet of 20 cigarettes, it holds 20 gigabytes of memory, enough to contain either 4,000 tracks of music or something like 200 volumes of text. .Memory is like a vacuum; nature does not like it. The impulse to fill empty memory is similarly overwhelming. So far I have stuffed it with about 1,000 tracks of music - all of it no doubt illegally copied - and, if only I knew how, I would love to stick the Encyclopaedia Britannica and the Oxford English Dictionary in there as well.In fact, I realise, I am a bit of a memory addict - computer-wise, I mean. My compulsion to stick things into memory is not going to be long satisfied by my i-Pod, beautiful though it might be. I am already hankering for a digital video recorder, or - as some people call it - a personal video recorder. The DVR is, as I understand it, a computer gone memory-mad, boasting not only a built-in, read-and-write CD and a built-in, read-and-write DVD, but a hard-drive which offers - at least, the last time I read up on the subject - a staggering 360 gigabytes of memory.Designed to replace a Video Cassette Recorder, the machine offers a means of recording, watching at my leisure and archiving all the documentaries that I keep missing on the box. If that was not enough, I believe it also has the capacity to automatically skip the dreadful ads which television services (here in South Africa, at least) insist on pumping out at exaggerated volumes in an apparent attempt to deafen me. On top of that there is apparently a facility incorporated in the machine enabling one to send favoured programmes over the internet.Needless to say none of this offers much joy to media companies. They are seemingly determined to force consumers to watch ads at whatever cost to their eardrums and to otherwise strip their wallets with the help of arcane copyright laws. One of the manufacturers of the DVR, Replay TV, was recently sold to a Japanese corporation and now seem to have had second thoughts about the magical machine. Its president, Jim Hollingworth, was quoted as saying - with what can only be described as delightful ambiguity - that "we want to respect the intent of copyright and give consumers everything that they can get."Other corporations are hurrying to try and develop means of similarly forcing us to "respect" 18th Century laws regarding copyright. Tactics have ranged from court action to Disney's wacky plan to sell DVDs which will self-destruct 48 hours after viewing.Copyright is an artificial concept which is self-evidently out of date. It falls foul of the right to freedom of information - the "free flow of ideas" - which is increasingly being seen as fundamental to constitutional law. Unless (as is possible) the taste for social control encouraged by September 11 spills over into the copyright arena, the defence of copyright æhas every appearance of a rearguard action in the face of a fast rising tide of consumer demand. It is a struggle in which memory will surely hold the door to the future.
Shirts, sandals, swimming gear, PDA. Yes you might be jetting off for warmer climes, but no proper holiday-maker travels complete unless they find a space in their suitcase for the odd gadget or too. After all you've been too busy to truly investigate that high-tech gizmo you treated yourself too for Christmas, so maybe now, with a little relaxation time on your hands, you're ready to get acquainted.Here's what's heading for the Online virtual suitcase this summerMusicYou have to feel a little sorry for MP3 player manufacturers. Just as they seem to be catching up with Apple, the company unveils a new smaller, sexier iPod with even more storage. Prices start at just £250 (www.apple.com/uk).There are a few potential iPod-busters on the horizon, like Creative Labs Nomad Jukebox Zen (http://uk.europe.creative.com), which offers 30GB of storage at a cheaper price than its lesser-specified Apple rival, but they won't be in the stores until later in the summer.If you still fancy taking a few CDs with you, then Sony's £150 DEJ2000B is so small and thin it will take up next to space in your suitcase (ww.sony.co.uk). Annoyingly it won't play back MP3 CDs though. For that check out the Iriver Chrome X (www.mp3players.co.uk) which also plays Windows Media Audio files and retails for £100.If you are taking your favourite discs then TDK's £30 Outloud CD Wallets will not only store them it will also moonlight as a reasonably good sounding pair of speakers too (ww.tdk-europe.com). Alternatively check out Ellula's inflatable speakers which retail for around £35 per pair. For anyone who misses their bass, the company has even added a blow-up subwoofer to its range this year. (www.ellula.com)MobilesWith most of Europe now offering GPRS networks and camera phones it should be feasible this summer to snap a picture in Benidorm and for it to land on a mate's phone in Barnet.Well, that's the theory. In practice when we tried to send an image home from France last month, it didn't even reach the channel. Even if you can't send an image to another phone you should at least be able e-mail one to a PC. Check with your networks before you go.As for handsets, hopefully Siemens' tiny SX1 smartphone will be in the stores soon. It has camera, video, web and e-mail facilities, yet is so tiny it makes its rivals look bloated. Expect it to retail for around £300 (www.siemens.co.uk).Personal digital assistants (PDAs)You just never know when you might need a contact, or access to your calendar, so don't forget to take your PDA. Palm's Tungsten T is one of most compact models around and as it boasts a Bluetooth connection it is easy to connect to a mobile phone for PDA web surfing/e-mail.The price is down to not much more than £200 now too (www.palm.com/uk). Alternatively Sony's PEGNZ90 Clie is packed with entertaining multimedia facilities including its superb two-megapixel camera. Shame it costs over £500 (www.sony.co.uk). By the way leave your Wi-Fi enabled PDAs at home. You won't find those type of hot spots in Greece or Turkey yet.CamerasFor high-end snappers it's a straight fight between £550 Olympus C50Zoom (www.olympus.co.uk) and Sony's £600 DSCF717. Both are superb five megapixel digital cameras. The Olympus is more compact, the Sony has the higher feature count. Nikon and Canon both have new top-enders due next month too.For something more discreet that still takes good pictures it is hard to beat Sony's £250 two megapixel DSCU20S (www.sony.co.uk). Casio's £350 Exilim EX-Z3 (www.exilim.co.uk) is a great alternative as it takes three megapixel images and you can now buy waterproof housing for it.As for cheapies, the SiPix Groove (www.gadgets.co.uk) takes 1.3 megapixel images, yet sells for around £50. The £80 L'espion XS (www.boysstuff.co.uk) is also worth a spin as it is housed in a sliding polished chrome casing. It also boasts a neat infrared facility that covertly takes a snap of anyone who passes within five metres of its sensor.VideoFor the first time this year you'll be able to lounge by the pool and watch the TV programmes you missed while you were packing. Coming shortly from Archos (www.archos.com) is the AV320 cinema to go player.Well actually it's a hard disk device with 20Gigabytes of storage. Just like Archos' previous model, the AV120, it can record and store video from with a PC or a TV. Only this time the AV320 has a reasonable sized 3.8inch screen so you don't have to squint to watch it.Using MPEG4 video compression you can store up to 80 hours of video on one player. That's enough space for the entire Carry On Series or every episode of Big Brother. You can also store music or images. No news on price yet.
The launch of the PlayStation 2 network gaming experience in the UK next week sees Sony's black box going head to head with the Xbox for the hearts and minds of online console gamers.The network adapter kit for the PS2 is retailing at £24.99, which is well below Xbox Live's starter kit, priced at £39.99.However, Xbox Live has the advantage of having a headset bundled with the initial package. This feature has become an essential part of the whole online experience, allowing players to talk to each other during games, as well as cleverly disguising their voices for those who prefer a bit of anonymity.If you want to get that experience with PS2 online then you're going to need to fork out for SOCOM: US Navy SEALs, a military simulation game that has sold over a million copies in the US. Although the headset that comes with SOCOM is designed primarily for online use, it has also been fused into the single-player experience with the game's voice recognition technology allowing players to give commands to the AI-controlled members of their team during play.For most people though, it won't be the hardware that lures them online but rather the games on offer. Xbox Live obviously has the time advantage, having already been around for three months. Several of its titles are proving extremely popular with games, including Ghost Recon, Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Tides of War and the recently released Xbox version of Sega's epic RPG Phantasy Star Online.Game-wise the PS2 will have some catching up to do, especially as it will only have two titles to its name on release; SOCOM and the destruction derby-style Twisted Metal: Black Online. Some previously released titles, such as Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 and Midnight Club II were launched network-enabled and will be shortly available for gamers to play online as well as off.Sony will also be bringing their infamous PC massively multiplayer online RPG EverQuest on the PS2, with their upcoming EverQuest Adventures Online.If you'd rather be as far away from the console wars as possible, then why not try a trip to outer space? In Firefly Studios' new PC strategy simulation Space Colony, you get to run your own space facility and juggle the needs of your feisty and sometimes unpredictable colonists.Although the look of the game may be reminiscent of Bullfrog classics like Theme Hospital and Dungeon Keeper, Space Colony is all about personalities. You'll have to find a way of building a flourishing space facility that will appeal to the desires of your various colonists and encourage them to do more work for you.But it wouldn't be outer space without the constant threat of aliens. Some of the local inhabitants won't relish you moving in on their turf and your buildings will come under attack from all manner of creatures, from killer space bees to invasive vegetation.Of course, despite what Hollywood might like you to think, not all aliens are aggressive. In fact some will just compete with you for rival mining contracts, while others just want to try and break into your complex to have a soak in the Jacuzzi and get down in your disco.Competition winnersAge of Mythology - Alison Humphreys (Norfolk).  Rescue Rangers -  Paul Sruoga (Otley), David Tudor-Morgan (Fulham) and Peter Burns (Ealing).This week's top ten games (all platforms)Compiled by ELSPA1) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.992) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.993) Def Jam Vendetta (PS2, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.994) The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.995) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.996) Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.997) Midnight Club II (PS2) Take 2 - £39.998) Silent Hill 3 (PS2) Konami - £39.999) The Legend of Zelda: the Wind Waker (GC) Nintendo £37.9910) FIFA 2003 (PS2, XB,GBA, PL) Electronic Arts £34.99
It was the first awards ceremony held entirely online, and the 31 prizewinners ranged from a US anti-war organisation to the space agency Nasa.The winners of Webbys - "online Oscars" - also included one based in London that took the prize for weirdest site, the one category where British sites dominated.For six years the Webbys have been held in San Francisco, but this year, with many nominees declaring their reluctance to travel, the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences (Iadas) decided to have a rolling 24-hour ceremony online. More than 180 parties, from Wellington in New Zealand to San Francisco, were arranged, and the organisers declared the experiment a success.MoveOn.org in the US took the prize for best politics site. It coordinated many of the anti-war protests and in the past week has organised more than 600,000 protesters against the loosening of restrictions on media ownership in the US. Familiar names such as eBay (best services), Google (best news), and ESPN (best sports), also took awards and accepted them with the traditional five-word maximum speech, sent in earlier."Won Webby; Next: Beat Bush" was MoveOn.org's."Mars or Bust; preferably Mars" was the contribution from exploreMarsnow, which won the best science prize.Parallel awards chosen by the public were also announced, with BBC News Online taking the best news prize.Rathergood.com, which defies description and is run from London by Joel Veitch, took the fiercely contested weird site award, beating off competition from three other shortlisted British sites.Otherwise, most of the awards went to US-based sites.The boom in blogging was recognised by the best practices award to Movable Type, a site that helps people publish their online journals.Full list:webbyawards.com
The launch of the PlayStation 2 network gaming experience in the UK next week sees Sony's black box going head to head with the Xbox for the hearts and minds of online console gamers. The network adapter kit for the PS2 is retailing at £24.99, which is well below Xbox Live's starter kit, priced at £39.99. 
 
However, Xbox Live has the advantage of having a headset bundled with the initial package. This feature has become an essential part of the whole online experience, allowing players to talk to each other during games, as well as cleverly disguising their voices for those who prefer a bit of anonymity. 
	
If you want to get that experience with PS2 online then you're going to need to fork out for SOCOM: US Navy SEALs, a military simulation game that has sold over a million copies in the US. Although the headset that comes with SOCOM is designed primarily for online use, it has also been fused into the single-player experience with the game's voice recognition technology allowing players to give commands to the AI-controlled members of their team during play.
	
For most people though, it won't be the hardware that lures them online but rather the games on offer. Xbox Live obviously has the time advantage, having already been around for three months. Several of its titles are proving extremely popular with games, including Ghost Recon, Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Tides of War and the recently released Xbox version of Sega's epic RPG Phantasy Star Online.
	
Game-wise the PS2 will have some catching up to do, especially as it will only have two titles to its name on release; SOCOM and the destruction derby-style Twisted Metal: Black Online. Some previously released titles, such as Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 and Midnight Club II were launched network-enabled and will be shortly available for gamers to play online as well as off.Sony will also be bringing their infamous PC massively multiplayer online RPG EverQuest on the PS2, with their upcoming EverQuest Adventures Online.If you'd rather be as far away from the console wars as possible, then why not try a trip to outer space? In Firefly Studios' new PC strategy simulation Space Colony, you get to run your own space facility and juggle the needs of your feisty and sometimes unpredictable colonists. Although the look of the game may be reminiscent of Bullfrog classics like Theme Hospital and Dungeon Keeper, Space Colony is all about personalities. You'll have to find a way of building a flourishing space facility that will appeal to the desires of your various colonists and encourage them to do more work for you. 
	
But it wouldn't be outer space without the constant threat of aliens. Some of the local inhabitants won't relish you moving in on their turf and your buildings will come under attack from all manner of creatures, from killer space bees to invasive vegetation.Of course, despite what Hollywood might like you to think, not all aliens are aggressive. In fact some will just compete with you for rival mining contracts, while others just want to try and break into your complex to have a soak in the Jacuzzi and get down in your disco.
Rhianna PratchettCompetition WinnersAge of Mythology - Alison Humphreys (Norfolk).
Rescue Rangers -  Paul Sruoga (Otley), David Tudor-Morgan (Fulham) and Peter Burns (Ealing).This week's top ten games (all platforms)Compiled by ELSPA1) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.99
2) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.99
3) Def Jam Vendetta (PS2, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.99
4) The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.99
5) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.99
6) Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.99
7) Midnight Club II (PS2) Take 2 - £39.99
8) Silent Hill 3 (PS2) Konami - £39.99
9) The Legend of Zelda: the Wind Waker (GC) Nintendo £37.99
10) FIFA 2003 (PS2, XB,GBA, PL) Electronic Arts £34.99
The launch of the PlayStation 2 network gaming experience in the UK next week sees Sony's black box going head to head with the Xbox for the hearts and minds of online console gamers. The network adapter kit for the PS2 is retailing at £24.99, which is well below Xbox Live's starter kit, priced at £39.99.However, Xbox Live has the advantage of having a headset bundled with the initial package. This feature has become an essential part of the whole online experience, allowing players to talk to each other during games, as well as cleverly disguising their voices for those who prefer a bit of anonymity.If you want to get that experience with PS2 online then you're going to need to fork out for SOCOM: US Navy SEALs, a military simulation game that has sold over a million copies in the US. Although the headset that comes with SOCOM is designed primarily for online use, it has also been fused into the single-player experience with the game's voice recognition technology allowing players to give commands to the AI-controlled members of their team during play.For most people though, it won't be the hardware that lures them online but rather the games on offer. Xbox Live obviously has the time advantage, having already been around for three months. Several of its titles are proving extremely popular with games, including Ghost Recon, Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Tides of War and the recently released Xbox version of Sega's epic RPG Phantasy Star Online.Game-wise the PS2 will have some catching up to do, especially as it will only have two titles to its name on release; SOCOM and the destruction derby-style Twisted Metal: Black Online. Some previously released titles, such as Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 and Midnight Club II were launched network-enabled and will be shortly available for gamers to play online as well as off.Sony will also be bringing their infamous PC massively multiplayer online RPG EverQuest on the PS2, with their upcoming EverQuest Adventures Online.If you'd rather be as far away from the console wars as possible, then why not try a trip to outer space? In Firefly Studios' new PC strategy simulation Space Colony, you get to run your own space facility and juggle the needs of your feisty and sometimes unpredictable colonists. Although the look of the game may be reminiscent of Bullfrog classics like Theme Hospital and Dungeon Keeper, Space Colony is all about personalities. You'll have to find a way of building a flourishing space facility that will appeal to the desires of your various colonists and encourage them to do more work for you.But it wouldn't be outer space without the constant threat of aliens. Some of the local inhabitants won't relish you moving in on their turf and your buildings will come under attack from all manner of creatures, from killer space bees to invasive vegetation.Of course, despite what Hollywood might like you to think, not all aliens are aggressive. In fact some will just compete with you for rival mining contracts, while others just want to try and break into your complex to have a soak in the Jacuzzi and get down in your disco.Rhianna PratchettCompetition WinnersAge of Mythology - Alison Humphreys (Norfolk).Rescue Rangers -  Paul Sruoga (Otley), David Tudor-Morgan (Fulham) and Peter Burns (Ealing).This week's top ten games (all platforms)Compiled by ELSPA1) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.992) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.993) Def Jam Vendetta (PS2, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.994) The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.995) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.996) Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell (PS2, Xbox PC) Ubi Soft - £37.997) Midnight Club II (PS2) Take 2 - £39.998) Silent Hill 3 (PS2) Konami - £39.999) The Legend of Zelda: the Wind Waker (GC) Nintendo £37.9910) FIFA 2003 (PS2, XB,GBA, PL) Electronic Arts £34.99
AOL Time Warner has abandoned plans to sell its book publishing business after failing to attract a high enough offer.The company announced its decision to employees of Warner Books and Little, Brown &amp; Co yesterday. The two companies publish authors including Jackie Collins, Ian Rankin and Anita Shreve.The decision ends a tender process that began at the start of the year. Negotiations took place with a wide range of potential buyers, including WH Smith and publisher Penguin Books.Bids were believed to have also been made by Random House, the publishing division of German media group Bertelsmann and Houghton Mifflin, bought by a venture capital consortium from Vivendi Universal last year. The price range was understood to be between $300m and $400m.The sale was intended to demonstrate AOL Time Warner's commitment to reducing its debt. But the disposal was more of a symbolic gesture and would have barely dented its debts, which stood at $26.3bn at the end of the first quarter.In recent months, the company has raised $750m from a legal settlement with Microsoft, $1.2bn from the sale of 50% in the cable network Comedy Central and $800m from its stake in Hughes Electronics. It is also discussing the sale of its CD manufacturing business.
Computer users were warned last night to be on the lookout for an email virus that can steal confidential information and allow hackers to take control of infected machines.The virus, a new variant of the BugBear email worm that infected tens of thousands of computers around the world last October, began to spread rapidly from Australia to Europe and the USA at around 8am yesterday.According to MessageLabs, a Cheltenham-based virus filtering firm which reported about 30,000 infected messages in 115 countries, the propagation rate of BugBear.B almost doubled every hour throughout the morning. There was also a huge surge as US users came online.Like its predecessor, the variant spreads by sending itself as an attachment to every address in an infected machine's email address book. To disguise where it came from, it uses different subject headings.As well as searching for anti-virus software and disabling it, BugBear.B installs a keylogger to record what the user types, which may allow hackers to record confidential information such as credit card details and passwords. It also installs a "Trojan horse" program which could allow a hacker to take remote control of infected machines.Experts analysing the virus code have found that it contains a the domain name of about 20 banks and financial institutions. One of the possibilities being investigated is that BugBear.B is able to check whether an infected machine is inside one of these domains and, if it is, launch a dial-up connection that could allow a hacker into the bank's computer system.
Justin Frankel's company, Nullsoft, was one of several gobbled up by AOL, but he's apparently not happy about his company's latest development, Waste, being pulled as soon as it was released (below). Now, asCNetreports, he has posted a note on hispersonal Web sitesaying: "The company controls the most effective means of self-expression I have. This is unacceptable to me as an individual, therefore I must leav" (sic). Nullsoft produced Winamp and Gnutella.
The Sobig C worm/virus is now being widely circulated via spam, but it's starting to look like a plot. "The Sobig.C variant is programmed to expire on June 8 and Sobig.C was released on the same day that its predecessor, Sobig.B, was programmed to stop spreading.The serial releases may be an effort by the Sobig author to fool antivirus software by subtly altering the makeup of the virus. Alternatively, the author could be releasing "proof of concept" viruses, testing the success of different viruses depending on when and how they are distributed," reportsPCWorld.com.
"British Mobile firm Sendo has launched legal proceedings against Orange over its SPV Smartphone, claiming it infringes a patent on its Z100 device," reportsthe Inquirertoday. Interesting - my wife and I picked up two of these Microsoft powered SPVs last week for 30 quid each, camera included (and roll-up keyboard for 20 pounds more), as an upgrade on my Orange contract.They work well enough - crashing no more frequently than my old Nokia WAP phone. And it lets me get at email and, of course, Onlineblog, while I'm on the move (although I've yet to try andmoblog). The interface is a little clumsy, mind you - I'm still trying to work out how to properly access contacts. I'm told the reason it's so cheap is because a new SPV is due out soon, and Orange has a bundle of these things to get rid of as sales haven't been great at full price. Would I pay 250-300 pounds for one? I might be more tempted by the lovely Sony Ericsson P800 if I was splashing that kind of cash.
I'm finalising the arrangements to get across to next week'sClickZ Weblog Business Strategies 2003 Conferencein Boston, from which I'll be reporting both here (on Onlineblog) and in Online. Do drop me a line if you're going to be there...
PicturesIt's a snapper showdownA battle is looming at the top end of the digital camera market after two heavyweights, Canon and Nikon, unveiled 5 megapixel models aimed at enthusiasts and semi-professional snappers.Canon is to introduce the PowerShot G, the successor to its popular G2 and G3. The model features Canon's Digital Imaging Core processor; other features include 4x optical and 4x digital zooms, 12 automatic shooting modes, a 180-second video clip facility and macro options. Images are stored on either a CompactFlash card or a 1GB Microdrive. The G5 will go on sale next month priced at &#163;680.Nikon's latest is the Coolpix 5400. An SLR-styled digital, it features 4x optical and 4x digital zooms, and handles up to 70 seconds of video. Nikon claims its macro facilities - down to 1cm - will make it the closest focusing consumer digital camera available.The 5400 will also go on sale in July, and will cost around &#163;650.www.canon.co.ukwww.nikon.co.ukSoundsiPod goes wirelessNot sure if Apple entirely approves, but owners of the company's iPod personal hard disk MP3 player will soon be able to control their player remotely. German company Ulshofer has patented an infrared remote control receiver, which slips into the iPod's remote connector.Ulshofer claims the receiver, which can start and stop tracks, increase or decrease the volume and cue the next or previous track, is compatible with most universal remote controls currently on sale. The company expects the module to be on sale in early August retailing for around &euro;70.www.ulshofer.de/ipod-remote-eng.html3GThree for allThird generation (3G) mobile phone network 3 is claiming its services, like its video-calling facility, are now available to 60% of the UK population. After an initial launch in the southern half of England, 3 has extended its network to take in areas in the north of England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales. In all, 3 is now available in fifty cities across the UK.When users roam outside 3's network several of its handsets' core features such as video-calling, web browsing and email, won't function. They can, however, still make voice calls and send text messages.www.three.co.ukEuropeEuropean privacyThe European parliament's citizens' rights committee is under fire for nominating Spanish magistrate Joaqu&#237;n Bayo Delgado as the parliament's data protection supervisor. "To the best of our knowledge he has never written about the subject, nor spoken about it in any public presentation," said Simon Davies, watchdog Privacy International's director, who has complained to all MEPs.Jorge Hernandez Mollar, the committee's chairman, replied to Davies that it was "astonishing that you attack a person who you admit you do not know". The committee will discuss the appointment again next week.www.privacyinternational.orgE-commerceEuro consumersOne in three cross-border orders made online within the EU fail to arrive, according to research by the European consumer centre. Researchers made 114 international orders from   e-commerce sites in all 15 EU countries, for common items such as ink cartridges and CDs. They found that 39 (34%) did not arrive - even though charges were made for nine of these missing items.Researchers then returned 57 items, and found that 18 (32%) did not result in a refund, with only 28 (49%) refunding both the price and the outward delivery fee - as e-commerce sites are legally required to do.It took an average of 11 days for items to arrive, although a T-shirt ordered in Luxembourg from Austria took 67 days.www.ecic.ie/news/whats_newPDAsSony shrinks PDASony has given a sneak preview of its next generation Cli&#233; - the company's Palm OS-based PDA. Paraded at a recent management meeting in Japan, the new Cli&#233; is significantly smaller than the company's previous PDAs, sports a clamshell-like design, and features an integrated digital camera.The shape and form factor of the device is said to resemble that of the Nintendo Game Boy Advance SP. The new PDA also includes wireless   facilities, though Sony is tight-lipped as to whether this means 802.11b (Wi-Fi) or Bluetooth.www.sony.co.ukPalm adds voiceOwners of Palm's newly launched Wi-Fi-enabled Tungsten C will soon be able to use their PDA to make internet-based voice calls. VLI has announced the release of its Gphone for the device, which enables users to make and receive calls over IP provided they are within range of a wireless network. Users within the same company will be able to call each other without any telephone costs at all.To make voice calls, Tungsten C owners will need to invest in the Palm handsfree headset. The Gphone system is expected to be ready later this month.GamingSony PSXSony has unveiled the PSX, a souped-up version of the Play Station 2 that doubles as an entertainment system. In addition to the games console, which is the same as existing PS2s, the PSX features a 120GB hard drive and Ethernet support. This enables users to integrate the PSX into their network and use it to store games, video and music files.The new hardware will also feature media components including a DVD recorder and possibly a TV tuner. The PSX will debut in Japan at the end of the year with a European and US launch scheduled for 2004.www.sony.co.ukWi-FiWi-Fi for LanciaItalian car-maker Fiat is adding wireless gateways to its top-of-the-range Lancia Phedras, with the first Wi-Fi-enabled cars available in Spain from September. These will link to 1,000 Wi-Fi hotspots that should be installed by the end of the summer."We think that drivers will stop at petrol stations and make their connection," says Nestor Carralero, marketing director of 3Com Iberia, which manufactures the gateways. Fiat and 3Com will decide next week whether to extend distribution to other countries.
WarioWare, IncGame Boy Advance, &#163;34.99 Nintendo,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Wario, the Terry Thomas lookalike who functions as Mario's evil counterpart, is the edgiest and funniest of all Nintendo's characters, thanks to his ability to withstand the grossest indignities (he's always being set on fire, or stung by a bee so his face swells up and he can float in the sky) and gleefully crazed expression. In his latest starring vehicle, he has come up with a wizard wheeze: to make millions by developing games - or, rather, getting his friends to develop games for him. This storyline may sound self-referential, but it provides a very effective basis for a truly original game.Wario and his mates, you see, have created vast quantities of microgames: at each stage, you must successfully complete three- to five-second stints on a sequence of 15-20. The games are so gloriously diverse, funny and cheeky that they often make you laugh out loud. You might, for example, have to sniff a hanging bogey back up the nose of an airbrushed babe, thread a needle, steer a paper plane or blow up Mars.As you progress, you open up all sorts of goodies, including two-player games that operate on a single GBA. Many of the games are extracts from (or pay visual homage to) lost, ancient classics. Some, admittedly, are laughably trivial, but others can be played at greater length. The result is an utter cult classic that will reawaken the schoolkid in you. And perhaps, Nintendo, you could give Wario's mucker Jimmy T, a blue-afroed,   rubber-legged disco freak, a game of his own soon?Steve BoxerThe Sims Superstar(expansion pack)PC, &#163;19.99 Maxis/EA,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The Sims juggernaut rumbles on with the release of Superstar, the sixth expansion pack. And what a marvel it is. Unlike the rather parochial introduction of pets - the previous pack's main feature - Superstar aims for the big time. Now your Sims can become actors, rock stars or fashion gurus, free to rub shoulders with the in-game glitterati, who include digital representations of Marilyn Monroe, Andy Warhol and Christina Aguilera.Starting off at the bottom with karaoke, your perseverance, luck and influential friends soon lead your character on to bigger things. Things get increasingly complex as your virtual career grows, leaving little time for old buddies.One of the major criticisms of The Sims is the excessive micro-management. Virtual cooking, bathing and toilet habits all need to be looked after and can soon become a chore.   Who has time to scrub floors when directors need schmoozing? Recognising this, Maxis, the developer introduced a butler for hire. As with the other expansion packs, Superstar adds plenty of new items, including the Skydive Simulator and the portable Oxygen Bar.Sadly, the graphics are showing their age, and some UK celeb localisation would have been welcome. But with Sims 2 due out next year, Superstar could be the last, and is certainly the best, Sims expansion pack.Greg HowsonDancing Stage: MegaMixPlayStation 2, &#163;29.99 Konami/Konami,&#42;&#42;&#42;Konami's Dancing Stage games have not only made gamers get up off their behinds and move, they've also helped popularise the rhythm-action genre in Europe, where it's continuing to flourish despite flagging sales back home in Japan.MegaMix is the latest addition to the franchise and is the first Dancing Stage game to be designed specifically for the PS2. The most notable difference  from previous versions of the game is in the updated graphics, which swirl and pulsate beautifully in the background as you struggle to move your feet in time with the scrolling arrows. It's a shame that some of the touted big-name artists such as Ms Dynamite don't appear to have made it on to the final song list.There are, however, seven songs from the likes of Kylie, Elvis Vs. JXL and, rather bizarrely, The Cure's Lovecats, plus more than 20 Konami originals, ranging from the frantic punk stylings of Crash to the funked-up Japanese drum-beats of Tsugaru. On its own, MegaMix is a nice, well-polished product and a good place to start if you've never touched a dance mat before. But compared to its predecessor, Dancing Stage: Party Edition, which has almost three times as many songs and more recognisable tracks, it feels decidedly sparse.Rhianna Pratchett
You can never make something totally hacker proof but, with a bit of quantum cryptography you will always know if someone is trying to get at your messages.Keeping private communications private relies on complex mathematical operations, which can all be cracked. You just need time. Try hacking a message encoded using quantum cryptography, though, and the laws of physics will instantly raise the alarm. Until now, messages encoded in this way were not strong enough to make much of a communication system. But scientists announce today that they have succeeded in sending and receiving quantum encrypted messages over 100km - the furthest distance so far.The technique is based on sending single particles of light, or photons, along an optical fibre. Each photon is encoded to represent a standard bit: 0 or 1. In a standard optical communication system, each bit is carried by a million photons.An eavesdropper could split off some photons - say a hundred or so - and determine the information they were carrying.But because photons can't be split, the quantum technique is more secure. "This stops a crude tapping-type attack where an eavesdropper tries to steal some of the photons," says Andrew Shields, leader of Toshiba's quantum information group in Cambridge, which developed the system. "In quantum cryptography, each bit is carried by a single photon so if you remove that photon then it's gone and the receiver never receives it."Quantum physics also tells us that you can't copy a single photon faithfully. "If somebody tries to copy the signal they introduce changes, and those can be detected by the sender and the receiver," says Shields.One problem with the technique has been that photons are easily scattered out of the fibre. This reduces the signal which can get so low that it gets lost in the background noise."There's nothing we can do to reduce the scattering- that's fixed," Shields says. "We developed a very sensitive photon detector with very low noise counts and that meant we could tolerate a lower signal rate or have a longer fibre."
Mona is a feisty 11-year-old who is determined to become a doctor despite the difficulties stacked against her. As a Palestinian refugee who lives at Ein el-Hilweh refugee camp in Lebanon, Mona complains there are no big places to play and no good jobs for Palestinians in Lebanon but does not want sympathy."The media doesn't present a realistic picture of Palestinians - it presents us as victims. But we want to learn and we want to fight for our homeland," she says. "I want to be a doctor like my older sister Amina and open a clinic with her in Palestine."For Mona and other young Palestinians writing on theEye-to-Eyewebsite, the internet offers the chance to tell the world about their daily lives, hopes and fears in refugee camps in Lebanon, the Gaza Strip and the West Bank.While online diaries, or weblogs, have captured headlines, with writers such as Salam Pax lauded for his fascinating insights into life in Iraq during the recent war, there are many other kinds of personal sites on the web.Yet the Eye-to-Eye site is rare in attracting a wide audience. The site, set up by Save the Children as part of an education project, has attracted attention and messages of encouragement from people around the world. Last month, in a poignant response, children working in the bangle industry in India added stories about their lives, their likes and dislikes, and the injuries their work can cause, as well as pictures of them at home and at play.The children's postings are touching in their simplicity. Yet by giving an insight into lives that most people would otherwise never glimpse; the   site empowers the children - and shows that personal sites can be much more than vanity projects.Now Save the Children hopes to attract funding to extend the site when the original grant, from the national lottery community fund, runs out in June."Most media attention &#91;on Palestinians&#93; is on the conflict but we know there is a different story to tell - and want the children to tell it. We believe it is important their voices are heard," says Andrew Hutchinson, Save the Children's head of education."Internet access in the refugee camps is quite good but the reliability of phone lines is poor and in some cases computers have been smashed when Palestinian institutions have been raided."The site has given an insight into ordinary lives. It focuses on the non-sensational lives of young people, things that are not often seen."More and more people are creating their own websites. Comprehensive figures are hard to come by but, to give you some idea, Nominet maintains a database of .uk registered internet names and says that by the end of April 37,536 sites had the new suffix .me.uk. That compares to 3,818,012 sites with the suffix .co.uk, out of a total of 4,187,163 sites with any .uk suffix.Clearly the Palestinian and Indian children have unusual experiences to share, but what of other personal sites, with their endless family anecdotes and photo albums? Do they have any value, or are they simply clogging up the web?Perhaps both. Neil Beagrie, secretary of the Digital Preservation Coalition, believes that a sample of personal sites - but certainly not all - deserve to be saved for posterity. The coalition, which includes representatives from libraries and univer sities, is looking at doing just that, along with helping to maintain the wealth of public records and scientific research on the net."The trouble is, the average website lasts 100 days: it's constantly being overwritten or replaced or people move on and take the site down. It's unlikely to be captured anywhere so lots are at risk of disappearing, in ways which old paper records are not, so we are trying to find ways to save more of them," he says."Historians in 50 or 100 years can look at some of these personal pages with their family photos and diaries and they will give an insight into how we live now. Or genealogists may be interested in the personal websites of their ancestors."They offer a snapshot of social history, and a record of the publishing phenomenon that the internet unleashed. If nothing else they will show how important such ephemera have been."The Internet Archive, a US not-for-profit company, has already catalogued many personal sites in its online library athttp://archive.org, devoting a section to web pioneers. It has early pages from Yahoo!, which was created as a personal site in 1994 by two US computer students and was originally called Jerry's Guide to the World Wide Web. People can search for other early pages using the archive's Wayback time machine.Setting up your own website now is certainly cheap. Yahoo's GeoCities is free and companies such as Homestead and Webfusion host personal websites for less than &#163;10 a month. For some, that investment has been more than repaid.Leslie Bunder says the site he set up in 1996 generated so much interest that it became a business. Bunder.com took off after he and fellow journalist Caroline Westbrook posted pictures and updates on their wedding preparations to show family and friends. It was, says Bunder, the first Jewish wedding site and brought interest   from outsiders too, keen to know more about various rituals. In the weeks before their wedding in September 1998, the site was attracting 100,000 hits and 200 emails a week.Inspired, Bunder set up a community siteJewish.co.ukand a portal, Jewish.net. And last November he launched his own publishing business, Park Royal Media, to develop commercial and not-for-profit sites and magazines"The site grew out of our passion. But from the word go, we were receiving dozens of emails a week and I saw the potential for doing more. Now that passion is earning me a living," he says.The site has had its detractors, and was lampooned in the Guardian last summer, but Bunder took the abuse in his stride. "If you create a personal website you have to face up to what other people might think about it. We weren't offended with the Guardian mocking us. In fact, the coverage helped. In the days after, we   got 150 emails from people, mostly supportive," he says."It's the best thing I've done, I learned a lot about what works on the web as I went along. If I'd never had my personal website I would never have gone on to run my own company."Another who found that a hobby grew into a business is Alistair Coleman, who won last year's Guardian Best British Weblog award for his series of vaguely autobiographical stories and jokes atScaryduck.blogspot.com."I started with a personal site three years ago: this is me, this is my wife and children sort of thing. I wanted to see if I could do it and thought it would be a cool thing to have," he says. "But after a couple of weeks I decided it was pretty lame. I thought I might as well give it a theme and I turned it into an Arsenal fansite with match reports and jokes."People kept emailing me to say it was funny and they liked it so I set up Scaryduck.com to record more jokes and stories. It has a big following in the US military for some strange reason."He updates the site most days, although he can go for a couple of weeks without. And his tips for a good site? "Be original; keep writing - I've seen lots of blogs which haven't been updated for a long time; but don't log the minute details of your life. "Despite an offer to write a book using some of the stories on the site, Coleman, a technician for the BBC World Service, is pragmatic about his success, saying: "It's not likely to be money spinner - but it's entertainment."His modest ambitions are shared by most personal site creators,   according to a study by Wired magazine.It found that 62% just wanted to give family and friends updates on their lives; 48% wanted to find people with similar hobbies or interests; and 28% wanted to share their ideas, philosophies and beliefs.Their ambitions are reflected in site traffic, says Tom Ewing, an analyst at Nielsen Net Ratings, which records site visitors."Most personal sites get no more than two or three hits a week, from friends and relatives, and are not updated for years," he says.Of course, attracting attention from outsiders does bring risks, as Bunder admits. He has also received some chilling emails via his site, but believes that this is a only a minor drawback."I've only had a few negative emails. It is just like having your name in the phone book. You can't control who sees that," he says.Some sites do hide bits away behind passwords, presumably revealed only to select family and friends, though Bunder believes that is a waste if people have gone to the trouble of publishing their life history on the web in the first place."It's not for everyone, maybe you have to be a little extrovert. But I've had such great feedback from my site. It's changed my life."&#183;Eye to Eye: An exhibition of photographs and stories by Palestinian children living in the refugee camps of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip is showing at the.gallery@oxo, Oxo Tower Wharf, South Bank, London, June 11-15
It's all very well having a camera in your mobile phone, but what do you do with it? And who can you send pictures to when none of your friends has a similar phone or use a picture messaging network? Last week, a new European venture was launched with the aim of creating a use for all that technology, as well as hitching itself to the latest online bandwagon - blogging.The site,20six.co.uk, allows mobile phone users to post pictures and text to personal journals or "blogs". It's a process that has come to be known as "mobloggling" or "photo-logging". With the addition of mobile video, it is now even possible to "video-blog" or "vlog".The company hopes to cater for two needs: the ability for non-technical people to start writing online easily, while attempting to create the "killer application" for mobile picture messaging that mobile phone operators have been searching for.Picture messaging is growing. The research firm Strategy Analytics predicts camera phones will make up 11% of phone sales by 2004, while 50m Multimedia Messaging Services (MMS) handsets will be in the European market by 2004. According to the Mobile Data Association, more than half a million camera phones have been sold in the UK so far. But the growth of picture messaging has not been fast enough for many of the operators. Out of a total mobile phone population of about 50m in the UK, camera phones still have a long way to go.Moblogging can address this issue, says Azeem Azhar, UK manager for   20six: "Having a picture phone is fun, but what do you do with the pictures if you have no one to send them to? 20six is a way of sharing your mobile pictures with friends who don't have camera phones, since web access is now so widespread."So far 20six is free to use, but later this year it will look at selling advertising and charging users for extra services such as more memory for more pictures (currently the limit is 10MB). In the future it may be able to extract some share of the cost of the MMS sent to the site from operators.Moblogging on 20six is relatively simple. First create a home for your blog on the site, enable posting by email and by MMS, enter the email address into the mobile, take a picture and then send. Currently it is only possible to blog via SMS/MMS if you have an SMS/MMS-to-email mobile service.But 20six is not quite the first to arrive. Dublin-based firmNewbay Softwarestarted demonstrating its MMS blogging service earlier this year, but its ultimate aim is to sell its moblogging platform to mobile operators.The 20six site has considerable backers behind it including Stefan Glanzer, Stefan Wiskemann and Christoph Linkwitz, who founded the German auction site Ricardo.de and sold it for &#163;100m in 2001.And they are not alone in thinking moblogging has a future. In the US, T-Mobile created a site for its Hiptop camera phones atHiptop.comfollowing the success of the fan siteHiptop.bedope.com. Other sites, such asFotolog.net, and moblogs such asWearcam.org,BuzzMachine.comand the JapaneseJoi.ito.comhave helped inspire thousands of imitators.Tom Hume, managing director of the mobile specialists Future Platforms, comments: "The whole point of weblogging is ease-of-use: that it makes it simple for people who don't care about technology to run their own sites. Moblogging is a natural progression from this: as long as it's easy to use and marketed well, I believe it'll lead to a surge of all sorts of folks creating their own content."In the UK most of the mobile operators are understood to be interested in the moblogging phenomenon, but have moved slowly, largely due to big-company internal politics and a desire to see what happens in other markets, such as Japan. But if it takes off, expect the operators to get in on the act quickly - or to buy an existing moblog community such as 20six.Moblogging looks like it could even creep into the way we consume media. Noted US IT journalist Dan Gillmor wrote late last year about a future where camera-equipped phones would "capture a crime in progress and shoot the result off to the nearest police station". And before big media organisations even have time to scramble their photographers to the scene, the world will be able to view the aftermath of huge events like earthquakes or, perhaps, terrorist attacks on the scale of 9/11. And with a mobile camera on every corner, it's not CCTV people will be worrying about.&#183;Mike Butcher editsmbites.com
'It's an addiction and I have to feed it. The first time I played, I was hooked," admits 19-year-old gamer Winson Ting. On reading that, you may be picturing the speaker as pallid and unhealthy, with poor hygiene and knotted muscles from too many days and nights spent hunched over his keyboard or gamepad. You probably won't be imagining Ting as a skilled athlete who trains regularly, wins tournaments and entertains crowds with a blend of break dancing and hip-hop moves. But that's exactly what he is, thanks to Konami's game Dance Dance Revolution and the European version, Dancing Stage. What has become a gaming phenomenon in Japan is now taking over arcades and homes in the UK, bringing dance to the people.The premise of Dancing Stage is simple. The player stands on a metal or plastic platform with four sensors:   up, down, left and right, and mimics scrolling arrows that appear on the screen with their feet in time with the music. Although this "Simon Says" aspect of games like Dancing Stage have been a feature of many western toys for years, it was Sony's PaRappa the Rapper in 1997, a copycat button-pushing game, which kick-started the rhythm-action genre in Japan.Over the past five years, Konami has released numerous music-oriented games that work by using uniquely styled peripherals such as guitars and drums. Sega and others have also followed suit with, among others, games based around maracas and tambourines. The games have subsequently come to be collectively known as Bemani games, named after the first of Konami's titles, BeatMania, which used keyboard buttons and a small turntable to create a DJ-style simulation. Konami's games have also lead to numerous spins-offs such as Britney's Dance Beat, and Sega's Space Channel 5, making rhythm-action games one of the most flourishing genres around.One of the beauties of Bemani games is that they're accessible to anyone regardless of age, gender or experience, because they tap into our musicality rather than our actual ability to play the instruments or    create unique dances for real. However, for the experienced dancer like Ting, it's serious business. "It's more than just copying the arrow sequence on the screen," claims Ting, who himself adopts the freestyler mode of play where the object is to be as much of a crowd-pleasing exhibitionist as possible. "You've got music to move your body to and, being a freestyler, you want to impress the crowd. So, in order to do that, you can   do a handstand or a bar freeze. It's a lot more than just pressing buttons when they get to the top of the screen."In fact, Dancing Stage has created a whole dictionary, not only of types of dancer nicknames (such as the Gorilla, Bouncer and Mentalist), but also of moves from the basic to the acrobatic, with names like Dragon's Perch, Butt Out, Hand Jump and the 360 Degree Disaster. According to Dancegames.com, to execute a Hand Jump you need to "create a loop by grabbing left foot with the right hand, then jump up using right foot, pass it through the loop, and on target panel." Or how about the Matrix Walk, where the dancer jumps up and briefly runs across the screen of the machine and then jumps back down.But for every diehard dancer there are hundreds of casual users. Mike Roberts, 25, from Chelmsford has been a fan of Bemani games for the past couple of years. Although he can shake, step and strut in public, he can also identify with those who are nervous about getting their rhythm-action groove on for the first time. "It's a vicious circle for a beginner: you think you'll look silly when you   practice and you can't stop looking silly unless you practice," he says. "It's all about getting over self-consciousness. You don't really have to know how to dance or how to play the maracas to play the game, but by the time you get good at it, the chances are that you'll be better on a real dance floor and if someone handed you a real pair of maracas at a party, you could bring the house down with an impression of Cuban Pete!"Alongside joysticks and gamepads, most games retailers now stock plastic and metal dance mats for home use. Despite the &#163;125 price tag, the metal dance mats have been flying off the shelves, proving that players are serious enough about their dancing to want to recreate the arcade feel at home.In its homeland, rhythm-action games are suffering from market saturation, and while Japan searches for the next big gaming thing, it's in the UK and not the US that rhythm-action has found a flourishing fan base.With Kylie and Elvis v JXL heading up the song list for the latest version of Dancing Stage, in the form of Dancing Stage: Megamix for the PlayStation 2, rhythm-action has the power to capture the hearts, minds, hands and feet of gamers. And in the UK, at least, the beat still goes on.
WebbiesTime for popcorn, fizzy drinks, paper hats and whatever else you need to enjoy the annual Webby Awards, which are being presented tonight in San Francisco. Don't worry about the travel costs, because this year the ceremony is being held online. People will be able to interact via Cuworld's live video chat, a photo-posting area, and message boards. "Lifelike, talking characters created by nominees and designed by Oddcast will deliver the five-words-or-less winners' speeches." You have to register online to get a user name and password by email, but the site doesn't seem to mention a deadline.www.webbyawards.com/rsvpwww.cuworld.comWorld Environment DayToday is also World Environment Day, and events are being held around the world as part of the United Nations' environment programme. This year's theme is water, to link in with the International Year of Freshwater, and the official site provides a selection of resources including a water photo collection and an educational quiz: Are you water friendly?www.unep.org/wedSight aidSuranne Jones (who plays the underhand Karen McDonald) and the cabinet minister Ian McCartney recently popped into Mike Baldwin's knicker factory - well, the set of Coronation Street - to launch A-Sites: a web portal designed for visually impaired people. Sites that meet accessibility requirements can display an A-Sites logo and link back to the portal. Since a large proportion of websites are unusable even by people with perfect vision, the pickings are inevitably a bit thin. A couple of sections have only one site listed, and since it doesn't list itself, one category - Web Portals - has none.www.a-sites.orgHelp lineThe government is also promoting a site to help and support those aged 16 to 19. More accurately, the web is just one of the ways the well-established Connexions Direct service can work. If you don't fancy getting advice via an online chat, you can send a text message or email, phone, or ask it to call you. Topics include relationships (including bullying), health (stress, addictions), money, housing, and careers.www.connexions.gov.ukwww.connexions-direct.comWhatsisnameWhoRemembersMe "is much more than just a Friends Reunited rip-off", the company claims. It is a database with soundalike searching, and doesn't just cover schools, colleges and universities. Other topics so far include housing estates, pubs, villages, various armed forces, children's homes and places of worship. Registration will cost &#163;5 a year, but you will get the first year free if you sign up before September 1.www.whoremembersme.comBroad brotherChannel 4 and Real Networks have launched a premium (ie expensive) broadband service, 4Broadband, that apparently fulfils the voyeur's dream: live 24/7 streaming video with access to all 33 cameras in the Big Brother house. It costs &#163;4.95 per month, or you can get it as part of the RealOne SuperPass service for &#163;9.99 a month. ("Live" in this case means "subject to a short delay".) Sorry, I can't comment on the quality: I have not tried it.www.channel4.com/bigbrotheruk.real.com/partners/channel4/?src=R1E.ch4Geek testWith Matrix mania running rampant, you will obviously want to find out which Matrix persona you are. Not surprisingly, you can take a quiz and find out - though the result never seems to be the Cadillac. Meanwhile, half the blogosphere is pointing to The Geek Test, and if you are even geekier, you can also find out which operating system you are. This kind of thing is very popular on the web, and most people could probably list six of the best examples off the tops of their heads. Quizilla, for example, is infested with the things. Blogger Dane Carlson has made a little list by searching Google: his site has links to an impressive 899 quizzes, even though some of them aren't (Which type of holidaymaker are you? Guardian Unlimited Travel).quizilla.com/users/trinitykills/quizzes/What%20Matrix%20Persona%20Are%20You%3Fwww.cadillac.com/matrixwww.innergeek.us/geek.htmlbbspot.com/News/2003/01/os_quiz.phpwww.quizilla.comwww.carlsoncarlson.comNew &amp; notedThe next Messengermessenger.msn.com/support/sneakpeek.aspFeedster with pictureswww.feedster.com/images.phpBarbecue weather watchwww.iceland.co.uk/weatherSix of the best:Browser start pagesBookmarkswww.mybookmarks.comLinkswww.hotsheet.comSurfwww.backflip.comSearchwww.faganfinder.comNewswww.newsisfree.comMake your ownwww.robotwisdom.com/web/starting.html
High standardsJason Davies writes criticising the "crummy" MP3 format (Feedback, May 29), presumably in favour of Apple's proprietary AAC-based format. MP3 may have slightly lower quality than Apple's format, but it does have the significant advantage of being a de facto open standard. (It isn't, technically, but both encoders and decoders are freely available.) Apple's format is neither, which presents substantial long-term problems for customers.As an illustration, yesterday I spent a couple of hours attempting to play a few files I have lying around in the nearly-dead Yamaha proprietary VQF format on Linux. Due to its closed nature, the only method I had any success with was running a long-dead shareware Windows decoder. In a few years' time, I'm sure even this kind of avenue won't be available to me, and the files will effectively be useless.Apple's system sells you a file that is intimately tied to its format, its platform and its software, and should any of these fail in the future, you may well find all that music you paid Apple for is entirely useless. The ideal solution would be for all pay services to use a format that is entirely open and thus not tied to any piece of hardware or software, and for which the standards will forever be publicly available. The ideal standard exists already - the open-source Ogg Vorbis format - it's just a pity none of the designers of online music stores seems to have twigged this yet. Failing that, MP3 is at least a tolerable alternative, as the effectively open nature of the format means I can be reasonably confident    of being able to play my MP3 files on whatever hardware I own in 10 years' time - something that, sad to say, I wouldn't be confident of as a customer of Apple's store.Adam Williamsonaw280@cam.ac.ukRaised eyebrowsMessrs Young and Davies seem to have taken my comments rather personally (Feedback, May 29). All I can say is: (1) I don't have any other monthly subscription fees draining my bank account; (2) in a normal year I would spend considerably more than $199.98 a year on music, and continue to do so, that's just the way I am; (3) MP3 may suddenly have become crummy, but it's good enough for me; (4) I only download what I want when I want it; (5) if Mr Davies can't find any music worth listening to on EMusic, given the treasures to be found there, then that strikes me as tragic. Is this because I had the effrontery to raise an eyebrow at Apple? All I can say is that I'm writing this on my beloved iBook in a benighted country where the service isn't available anyway. So we're all wasting our breath but I've just downloaded a Badly Drawn Boy album.Mike Pettypetty@blueyonder.co.ukBreaking the lawIn Azeem Azhar's article (Second Sight, May 29) he says "Mobiles also provide a billing mechanism for internet or online services". Well, not if the EU and FSA get their way. Proposed new e-money legislation will make it illegal to useSMS micropayment mechanisms to pay for non-mobile content or services. So a premium rate SMS to pay for access to hidden web pages on the Guardian will have the Guardian and the mobile operator up in court.Go figure how that sort of legislation helps create an entrepreneurial Britain and a second coming of exciting new ventures.Steve Proctersteve@lab2.bizAlert businessesWhether it is a distribution process in chaos or customers leaving due to poor service, it often takes a serious issue to drive UK SMEs to consider a new IT solution. Far too often IT is used to paper over the cracks in a business rather than add value. It is critical that businesses ditch this reactive approach to IT in favour of a far more proactive one.The use of alerts is an example of a simple technology that improves efficiency and effectiveness. Instead of relying on labour-intensive weekly stock reports, a series of alerts can automatically tell you when stock levels are low or can trigger an order from a supplier. Staff can then concentrate on jobs that deliver real benefit. In addition previously costly customer relationship management systems are now easily within reach of the SME.The way in which IT is viewed within an organisation will dictate not only the success of an implementation but also the overall business success. As SMEs across the UK wake up to the business benefits to be gained from intelligent use of IT The question should not be can you afford to implement such solutions, but can you afford not to?Andrew Watkinsonandrew.watkinson@cpio.co.ukGoogle loyaltyYou guys consistently report the big picture in tech and I thank you so much for that.  One thought on the "limitations" of Google's API versus other search engines: who the heck wants to interface with a search engine that's anything BUT Google?David Rosendavid@walek.comClarity pleaseBlogs &amp; bloggers were mentioned many times last week. What does it mean? The whole of Online was meaningless without an explanation.hoozatnocking@yahoo.com
Palm yesterday announced the $170m (&#163;106m) acquisition of rival Handspring, bringing together two of the pioneers of the depressed handheld computer market.The deal marks the return of the founders of Palm to the company. Jeff Hawkins and Donna Dubinsky left five years ago, amid reported conflicts with parent company 3Com, to launch Handspring. Palm was spun off as a separate company in 2000.Wall Street welcomed the deal. Palm shares were trading $1.13 higher at $13.28, while Handspring's were 10 cents better at $1.21. Analysts said the companies' products and sales forces were complementary.Global shipments of handheld devices fell 21% in the first quarter, according to research firm International Data Corporation, reflecting a drop in spending by the corporate sector.Handspring has struggled with losses. It has been trying to move away from organisers to combined personal assistants and mobile phones. But it remains the number two maker of handheld computers, behind Palm.Palm is also losing money and facing competition from bigger corporations, including Microsoft. The merger will mean 125 job losses and will cut costs by $25m a year.The Silicon Valley rivals will spin off PalmSource, the unit that makes the Palm operating system for handheld devices, leaving the rump as a pure hardware company.Both transactions will take place in the autumn when the merged company will be renamed. The all-paper deal will see Handspring investors receive 0.09 Palm shares for each Handspring share they own.
I was asked the other day how many users should be the minimum before anyone should consider installing a Microsoft Exchange Server to store and manage email properly. Fifty? Fifteen? In my opinion, that number is three, maybe even two.The key here is collaboration via Microsoft Outlook and other software. The ability to share your calendars, to book meetings, access files, chat, and more are what elevate Exchange Server above other mail offerings.But if you don't have a permanent internet connection and have to log on to your ISP to collect email via POP3, what then? Exchange Server can't do that, so we won't be able to use the server functionality anyway...Indeed it can't. However, there are third-party applications that can, and they can do it inexpensively. You can install Exchange Server in the office and then let POPWeasel do the collecting. This invaluable utility is a simple program that accesses multiple user accounts online, downloads mail from those accounts, reads the headers, and then passes the mail to Exchange Server ready for distribution to users' inboxes.If that sounds too simple, the company that produces POPWeasel also offers its own mail server, MailGate. This can, of course, be used as a perfectly good mail server in its own right. But it can also be deployed in its Lan Forwarder configuration, to sit on your network providing the capabilities of POPWeasel, and more.Using one mail server to forward mail to another might sound like overkill, but MailGate has many good features, plus additional modules such    as a spam filter, anti-virus scanner, list server, and web mail. Atwww.mailgate.comcheck out the feature set of MailGate, POPWeasel and other applications, including SpamWeasel.Returning to Exchange Server, one question that springs to mind is whether you would want to wait for Exchanger Server 2003, now in late beta test, or plump for the established, service-packed 2000 model. Then, if you opted to wait, whether you'd want to run Exchange Server 2003 on Windows 2000 or the 2003 Server platform.However, if you already have gone down the Windows Server 2003 route, then you should be aware that Exchange Server 2000 only runs under Windows 2000, so you could only implement it by slotting a Windows 2000 server into your set-up.The main attraction of the 2003 version is the enhanced security built into both Windows and Exchange 2003, although in the case of the latter, Exchange 2003 features such as IPSec support within clusters, and Kerberos, which works across Active Directory Forests, are only aimed at the really high-end corporate market.There is also the advantage of the Volume Shadow Copy service of Windows Server 2003, which enables instant backups of Exchange storage groups and databases, as well as the ability to restore individual mailboxes. When used with Microsoft Outlook 2003, which will arrive with the next version of Microsoft Office, the user interface improvements are also marked, not least in the Outlook Web Access (OWA) area.Remote connectivity and synchronisation with hand-held devices such as PocketPCs and smartphones is another advantage.If you use Microsoft's Small Business Server package, then you already know how useful Microsoft Exchange can be - and you also know that you need very few users to make it viable. It is not just for the heavyweights.But if you still don't like the idea of using Exchange, offerings such as MailGate, and the impressive messaging suite from Gordano, are well worth a look.
We all know that Linux is a "fringe" operating system that only appeals to a few die-hard geeks. We      know this because Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson told us so during the antitrust trial, where he decided      that Microsoft had no viable competition. Indeed, according to Patrick Thibodeau of the IDG News      Service, Washington Bureau, he laughed at Microsoft's attempts to "paint Linux as a potent desktop      foe".Well, Linux may be too geeky for the average judge, but it certainly appeals to people running web      servers, and there are undoubtedly corporate desktops where it can do the job. In fact, Linux's inability      to take advantage of all the fun things people can do with PCs on and off the web could be seen as an      advantage by IT managers who would rather their users got on with some work.Last week, the city of Munich announced that it was going to give Linux and Open Office a go. It plans to      convert around 14,000 of its desktop PCs from Windows, starting next year.The mayor, Christian Ude,      claimed in a statement that it was a "strategic decision &#91;that&#93; makes Munich less dependent on one IT      supplier and sets a trend toward more competition". We're all in favour of that.Munich's problem was that it had failed to keep its systems up to date, and Microsoft was phasing out      support for Windows NT: it was faced with an expensive upgrade to Windows XP. An independent report      by Unilog Integrata concluded that Linux was the cheapest option for the financially strapped council.Munich stuck with this decision even after the personal intervention of Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer,      offering a deal that made XP cheaper.In fact, Microsoft argues that Windows is usually cheaper than Linux, because of its lower "total cost of      ownership" (TCO) over five years, based on research by IDC. However, this Microsoft-sponsored      research covers server operating systems, not desktops, and North American skills and salary levels,      not Bavarian ones - though it is true that the cost of the operating system is trivial compared with the      cumulative cost of installation, support, maintenance and other staff-related overheads.But Munich's decision carries little risk. A year ago, Germany's interior minister, Otto Schily, signed a      deal with Erwin Staudt, chairman of IBM Deutschland GmbH, to supply federal, state and local      governments with Linux hardware and software at discount prices. Under this public-private initiative,      IBM is also offering a portal and hotline support, and the version of Linux comes from a local supplier:      SuSE Linux AG of Nuremberg, Germany.No doubt the deal makes sense for IBM, the world's biggest IT company, which supplies hardware,      software, applications, consulting, support and other services to the tune of $81bn a year. Indeed, it      usually gave its own operating systems and software away until 1969, when the US government filed an      antitrust suit to get it to "unbundle" them in order to create a competitive software market. Bundling      someone else's operating system is even cheaper.
Wyse moveWith Microsoft's withdrawal of support for Windows 98 next month, Wyse Technology has released a management product that promises to extend the life of computers running the outmoded operating system. Wyse Alcatraz is a centralised management application that targets brown-field sites - computing environments with a mixture of Windows operating systems from Windows 95 to XP. Stephen Yeo, director of marketing at Wyse, says that Alcatraz automates complex tasks associated with PC management and enhances security by allowing applications, features and facilities to be enabled and disabled remotely. It can also be used to migrate applications from the desktop to the server, even locking out local disk access.Wyse also supplies "thin terminals" often based on Microsoft's Windows CE operating system. Now it has added a version running Embedded Windows XP. The Winterm 9650XE is a compact, flat-screen device that, at &#163;799, is expected to appeal to call centre operators and financial service companies, and the healthcare and retail markets.PeopleSoft pouncesPeopleSoft is bidding to acquire competitor JD Edwards for $1.7bn (&#163;1bn), a move that will bring in expertise in the manufacturing sector and make it the second largest enterprise applications supplier. PeopleSoft specialises in human resource and financials software for large enterprises, but has recently experienced increasing demand in the middle tier, an area of strength for JD Edwards. The merged company will   have to address some product overlaps but, because of the different target markets, there is little customer overlap. Assuming regulatory approval, PeopleSoft will overtake Oracle, but will still be a distant second to SAP, which has around half the worldwide enterprise applications market.Centrino repriseIntel has increased the speed of its Centrino mobile technology line. The top-of-the-range processor now runs at 1.7GHz, the low-voltage part at 1.2GHz, and the ultra-low-voltage chip has advanced from 900MHz to the psychologically important 1GHz. The number of different Centrino-based mobile computers has increased from 34, at the March launch, to 58 now, and should reach 125 by Christmas. Buyers can therefore choose from a wide range of manufacturers and models. Also, Intel says it has now "verified the compatibility of Intel Centrino mobile technology with more than 14,000 &#91;Wi-Fi&#93; hotspots worldwide."Government growsThe UK public sector software and IT services (S/ITS) market will soar above private sector growth over the next two years, according to a report from market analyst Ovum Holway. The company's report, UK Public Sector Market 2003, predicts that S/ITS will grow by an average of 9% annually to &#163;7bn in 2006. This compares with just 0.3% growth estimated for the private sector.Not all government departments will offer lucrative hunting grounds for IT suppliers. The criminal justice and NHS sectors will grow by 25% and 20% respectively but education, which declined by 2% last year, is not expected to achieve more than 2% annual average growth to 2006.Secret contractsThe national IT programme for the NHS has long-listed 22 providers for the five contracts to supply IT for the health service in England - although it refuses to release their names. Each of the five contracts will cover two government regions, except   that of London. The first two, covering London and the north-east and Yorkshire &amp; Humberside regions, will be awarded in October.The programme has also secretly shortlisted three firms to provide a national e-booking service for hospital appointments, and has started the procurement of a broadband network for the NHS.www.kablenet.comTime for teaThe London borough of Brent has taken a novel approach to promoting its website, by installing computers at its weekly pensioners' tea dance. The events are attended by up to 500 people, and the first event with internet access saw dozens visit the site. The borough says that its postcode search, which displays information about neighbourhoods,   was particularly popular. The council already promotes the web at centres for the homeless, for Asian women and at disability charities. "Although Brent is a forward-looking borough in terms of the services it offers online, we still have some way to go in making the public aware of what the council website has to offer," said councillor Ann John, the council's leader.www.brent.gov.ukOpen doorsNine pubs in Dorset and Northumberland have joined the UK's 6,000 public internet access centres, through an organisation called Locals On Line, run by pub associations with government assistance. The scheme was launched last week in the Piddle Inn in Piddletrenthide, near Dorchester.Nick Davies, who runs the pub with his partner Maranda Scarff, says the pub gets about 10 to 15 users a week for its two computers situated in the bar, using a satellite internet connection. A usage fee has recently been removed, and users do not have to buy drinks. "But generally, they do," says Davies. He adds that locals "from 18 to 80" have used the computers since they were installed in February, joined by an increasing number of tourists. A list of the pubs involved can be found atwww.countryside.gov.uk/News/Best practiceThe Department for Trade and Industry has launched a website for sharing best practice between small businesses, using streaming media, the first time the technique has been used by a central government online service. The site, which is part of the department's Business Link service, offers a library of video clips on business techniques and documentary case studies. The information is organised around 22 modules, which include e-commerce, sales and marketing, and access to knowledge and technology.www.connectbestpractice.com
Enterprise IT infrastructures are complex and expensive investments. Thousands of hardware and software components interact to deliver key business processes, keeping organisations running - when it works. They need to be able to adapt and respond to changing circumstances, keeping going no matter what happens around them. The techniques you need to deliver these resilient systems are coming from all over the IT industry: a convergence of hardware and networking trends, application platforms, and new system management tools.A good place to start building a resilient IT infrastructure is with management tools. There's a sea change happening in system administration. Instead of hand-built code to keep track of small groups of servers, a new generation of high level management tools relies on management standards from industry bodies such as the DMTF, the Distributed Management Task Force. Standards such as CIM, the Common Information Model, and WBEM, Web-Based Enterprise   Management, are cross-platform, cross-vendor solutions, which should allow management packages to provide a single point for monitoring hardware, operating systems, services and applications.Traditionally, management tools such as IBM's Tivoli are high-end and expensive software that monitors your systems, as well as providing configuration and operations management features. The new generation of management applications, including Microsoft's Operations Manager, are cheaper, so more organisations can afford to monitor groups of servers, report problems to administrators, and get automated advice. An integrated management suite that monitors applications and systems and applies fixes without human intervention can't be too far away.Systems management is only part of the software story. You need to design resilience into the whole application lifecycle. Configuration and source management tools are essential if you're going to have to roll back to a previous version of the system as quickly as possible at some point. Change management tools   also help you make sure that updates are managed correctly.While resilient applications and services will be at the heart of any business, the hardware you use also needs to be able to survive the rigours of day-to-day use. Most vendors offer resilient hardware: servers with hot swappable components and multiple network interfaces. In some cases, it is even possible to hot swap memory and CPU, keeping the system up and applications running while failed components are replaced.You can add resilience at another level by using clustering technologies to ensure applications keep running even when servers or disks fail. Blade servers can be an economical means of deploying clustered hardware without investing in expensive servers. And virtual server technologies will make blades just another redundant component in your business architecture. Further resilience comes from combining these technologies with network storage, using redundant disks to keep your data secure.Another approach to consider is a resilient network. This can be   anything from duplicate networking hardware for all the servers, to complete duplicate systems held at different sites. While these approaches can seem an unnecessary expense, you do need to consider how much extended downtime would actually cost you - especially when it's your critical line-of-business applications.Large organisations, with more than one data centre, can use server consolidation techniques to bring their applications and data into one place, and then use tools such as F5 Networks 3-DNS traffic management tools to seamlessly route end users to the most appropriate data centre. In the modern network, an application is really only an address that takes in and returns data, and distributed web services will make it even easier to switch between component locations.Of course, building such a system for anything other than web-based applications can be difficult. A mix of change management and build management tools can distribute code to application servers, with data being replicated between each site's back end storage systems and data bases. There's still a data management problem, as you may not need to have exactly the same copy of your data in every data centre - especially if they're in many different countries, with different needs.Persistence Software's solution to this problem is to use a data-caching layer, linked to one or two master databases. Copies of this cache at each site provide local "virtual data centres" so the London office of a company can work with its own set of data, but a visitor from the New York office can access a local cache of his own data on the same servers. It's a solution that's both resilient and adaptable, as it will provide business continuity even if a site is completely lost.It's not easy to get started with resilient IT. It needs a lot of planning and investment, but the tools you need to build it into your business are available now, and they'll be built into future generations of key operating systems and applications.Resilient technologies are a trend that will eventually become part of every IT system you deploy, managing complexity and controlling costs.
It's 3am in casualty and the latest customer is noisily unwell. Luckily, the police know part of his name, which the doctor taps into a terminal. Up comes a history of substance abuse, psychiatric care in the community and records of current prescriptions.Normal practice in the modern NHS? Dream on. Even if the hospital has an electronic patient-records system, it will almost certainly not contain information from GPs, psychiatrists and community carers.At best, this lack of shared information between health and community care is inconvenient. At worst, it can allow tragedies like the Victoria Climbi&#233; case.The gap is partly caused by IT: systems on different sides of the divide were never designed to communicate. Nowadays, however, IT is less of an excuse.A bigger barrier is the professional chasm between local authority-run social services and NHS medical professionals. The two even speak different languages. "NHS organisations talk about treating patients while their colleagues in social care talk about support for clients," says Dr Gillian Rankin, director of service development at South &amp; East Belfast trust, which runs both health and social care.Under the latest NHS reforms, shared social service/NHS teams are to become the norm.Everything depends on sharing information. South &amp; East Belfast is piloting a system to be used by all professionals when assessing, referring and planning care. It is based on a community system born as part of a European-funded research   programme, Ithaca, and commercialised by a specialist firm, In4tek.However, a shared record can also be built from existing systems. In Doncaster, a local health community including hospitals, social services and GPs practices has been sharing medical records electronically since 2000.Its solution, says Ian White, head of information at Doncaster and South Humber NHS Trust, is a "community data warehouse" based on browser technology. The software, from specialist firm CSW, uses XML mark-up language to assemble records from records such as discharge letters stored in existing systems.Consultant psychiatrist Dr Keith Wildgoose says the system is a breakthrough for clinical practice. "One person had 22 sets of case notes within this organisation: you're expected to make rational, informed, safe decisions on that?"Clients will benefit, too. "I did a domiciliary visit to an elderly lady the other week and it transpired that on the same day the social worker and community nurse had also called. She was well fed up at being asked the same questions for the third time."But any hopes for the NHS to adopt shared records face a further barrier: patient confidentiality. This is one of the oldest principles in medicine: after decades of relatively cavalier treatment of people's records, the NHS has ruled that personal health information must not be shared without the patient's "informed consent".It is now wrestling with what this means in practice. Earlier this year, a public consultation found, not surprisingly, that people are happy for   information to be shared among their care team, but they are unhappy for it to go to managers (or IT contractors). Results of this consultation are due to go to ministers next month."There does need to be some very clear coherent policy on this," says Marlene Winfield, head of patient and citizen relations at the NHS information authority. "But we're not there yet."Wildgoose says that the Doncaster warehouse works on pragmatism. "We explain the purposes to which the information we gather can be put. But we don't pro-actively seek individual consent from every individual for every use because that would paralyse the system."Doncaster is already piloting one aspect of the national shared record, an online service called Health Records Infrastructure (HRI), which will pull together information from existing computer systems to create a virtual record. This will be made available to hospitals and GPs as part of the Integrated Care Records Service (ICRS), one of the major applications being procured this year under the NHS's &#163;2.3bn National IT Programme.Richard Granger, the NHS's IT director general, said last month that although the ICRS will eventually integrate all aspects of care, NHS records would have to come first. "We need to be very focused on the core NHS segments of ICRS. The other things are important, but they're going to be done in ICRS release two or three."In Belfast, Rankin reports one breakthrough: an answer to the question of client or patient: "We now talk about users, or even better, people."
What's the link between a smartcard that rewards south London children for behaving well, a database of civil servants' water consumption, an emergency control room in Cleveland and a website for teaching citizenship?Answer: although all aim to improve public services with IT, none is part of the official e-government programme. They are this year's prize-winning projects in the Invest to Save Budget (ISB), a Treasury scheme that allows public bodies to escape the creativity-crushing imperative of balancing their books every year.The scheme, jointly run by the Treasury and Cabinet Office, funds good ideas thought up by partnerships of two or more public bodies.   So far, it has advanced &#163;260m to what Cabinet Office minister Lord Macdonald calls "social entrepreneurs".Invest to Save money helped set up the &#163;100m scheme to join up unemployment benefits procedures and the rather more modest Wolverhampton bereavement centre (Online, May 8).This year's award-winning schemes were:&#183;Karrot, a project in the London borough of Southwark to encourage 11- to 15-year-olds to behave responsibly by giving "reward points" stored on smartcards.&#183;Watermark, a monitoring system set up by the office of government commerce to encourage public agencies to cut water waste. Parkhurst prison on the Isle of Wight cut its water bill by &#163;60,000 a year; the Treasury saved &#163;18,000.&#183;Joint emergency call handling, which enters the fraught no-go area of combining resources between police, fire and ambulance services.&#183;Time for Citizenship, a website to support citizenship education.ISB has been going since 1998, which means that lessons from early schemes are starting to emerge. Most will be familiar to anyone involved in projects for modernising government: "top-level buy-in is crucial"; "ensure each partner's role is carefully defined".There is also the perennial question of how to scale up pilot projects. In a mainly rave review to the project published last year, the national audit office warned that: "Careful consideration is needed as to who should be responsible for the implementaton of new ways of   delivering a service that an ISB project has demonstrated to be practicable."There's still money available in the ISB pot. Under round 6 of the scheme, &#163;40m will be allocated to projects submitted this spring.Sadly, despite the clear role of IT in successful schemes, none of the new funding will go to e-government bids from local authorities. The Treasury ruled earlier this year that councils already have access to adequate funds under the office of the deputy prime minister's local e-government programme.Of course, local authorities, who are getting around 10% of the total e-government budget to revolutionise 80% of government services, may differ on that one.Useful linkwww.isb.gov.uk
What was the original idea behind the New Media Reader?Adrianne Wortzel and I were teaching a new media class at NYU. We'd been working on the syllabus and it came time to do the book order and we realised that pretty much everything we wanted to assign to students was out of print. It was as though you'd begun to develop a syllabus about 20th-century culture only to find that Marx and Freud were out of print!So you feel we're not archiving new media material properly?People think of new media as something without a history and, in terms of new media objects, we're certainly in trouble with respect to archiving. There are some    interesting efforts being made to preserve digital objects but most are trying to preserve the same things about digital objects that you'd preserve about a book or a film. There aren't that many people working on the problem of trying to preserve things that are highly interactive, highly procedural pieces of new media. TheVariable Media Initiativeat the Guggenheim is working on it ,as is theElectronic Literature Organisation- but they're definitely in the minority.How did you get your start in computing?My parents were both professors and when I was a kid I remember playingHunt The Wumpuson a university mainframe. My dad had anOsborne 1aKayproso I remember playing around with those too.Do you feel we've lost the homebrew spirit of those early machines?Certainly there are people who are making money in the computer industry who never thought there was any market for personal computers. PCs were very much a homebrew phenomenon. That raises the question of "what is it that we can't currently quite see that people are working a homebrew ethic on at the moment?" You hear about people exploring stuff like public access 802.11 networks (www.80211-planet.com, but is that really equivalent to the development of the Altair? - probably not.Which emerging technologies interest you?I've really been taken by what's happening in the world of blogs for the last year. If you look at something like Movable Type withTrackBack, what that gives you is two-way links, and just about every hypertext system before the web had two-way links. I think aggregation of blogs is of interest too. Ted Nelson wrote about "transcluding content from one point to another" and that's what a lot of people use aggregation for.Favourite blogs?Jill Walker's Tom Tomorrow's;www.thismodernworld.com; andGonzalo Frasca's.Visit:www.newmediareader.comNoah Wardrip-Fruin's book, The New Media Reader, which chronicles the history of new media is available from MIT Press. Noah's own blog is at:www.hyperfiction.org
The computer industry is threatened by a wild west-style land grab. The biggest, richest players are being assisted by governments to take unassailable exclusive control of the ideas that programmers combine to make a program.Our society is becoming more dependent on information technology. At the same time, centralised control over and ownership of the information technology field is increasing, and mega-corporations with law-given dominion over our computers could take away our freedoms and democracy. With an effective monopoly on modern software, the largest grabbers of the "land" will have control over what we can ask our computers to do, and control over production and distribution of information on the net, through monopolies that the EU plans to give them.The monopolies are patents that restrict use of these software ideas. We call them "software patents" because they restrict what we programmers can make software do. How do these monopolies work?If you wish to use your computer as a word processor, it must follow instructions that tell it how to act like a word processor. This is analogous to instructions found on a musical score, which tell an orchestra how to play a symphony. The instructions are not simple. They are made up of thousands of smaller instructions, much like sequences of notes and chords. A symphonic score embodies hundreds of musical ideas, and a computer program uses hundreds or thousands of software ideas. Since each idea is abstract, there are often different ways to   describe it: thus, some ideas can be patented in multiple ways.The US, which has had software patents since the 1980s, shows what this can do to the development of everyday software. For example, in the US there are 39 monopoly claims over a standard way of showing video using software (the MPeg 2 format).Since a single piece of software can embody thousands of ideas together, and those ideas are arbitrary in scope and abstract in nature, writing software will only be worthwhile for those who are rich and have a large software monopoly portfolio: those with the war chest and clout to fight off claims that might otherwise sink a business. In the US, the average cost of defending against an invalid patent claim is $1.5m. The courts favour the wealthy, so even when a   small business gets a few patents, it will find them useless.Software patents are being claimed at a tremendous rate in the US. If they become legal in Europe, most of those taken out in the US may also be enforceable here. This is likely to have a devastating effect on the local software industry. This will lead to job losses, a poorer economy, more expensive software, and less choice for the customer.The advocates of software patents in Europe, and the probable beneficiaries of them, are the patent bureaucracy, patent lawyers (more business from both plaintiffs and defendants), and computer mega-corporations such as IBM and Microsoft.Foremost among the software mega-corporations is Microsoft. Even as part of the European commission   investigates Microsoft for monopolistic practices, another part is planning to hand it unending series of overlapping 20-year monopolies. Bill Gates wrote in his Challenges and Strategy memo of May 16 1991 that: "If people had understood how patents would be granted when most of today's ideas were invented and had taken out patents, the industry would be at a complete standstill today. The solution... is patenting as much as we can... A future start-up with no patents of its own will be forced to pay whatever price the giants choose to impose."The European commission says its proposed directive on computer-implemented inventions will disallow software patents. But the text was actually written by the Business Software Alliance, which represents the   largest software companies. (The commission didn't admit this - we detected it.) It contains vague words that we suspect are designed to open the door for software patents.The text says that computer-related patents must make a "technical contribution"; and the commission says that means "no software patents". But "technical" can be interpreted in many ways. The European patent office is already registering software patents of dubious legal validity, defying the treaty that governs it and the governments that established it. Operating under those words, it will stretch them to allow all kinds of software patents.Arlene McCarthy, MEP for north-west England, has been a key figure promoting and acting as rapporteur for this proposed directive. The cosmetic changes she has so far proposed do nothing to solve the problem. However, the cultural affairs commission's amendment that defines "technical" will assure British and European software developers that they will not put their livelihood at risk when writing software.The vague words drafted by the mega-corporations must be replaced with clear, decisive wording. Wording that will ensure that our information future will not be hijacked by the interests of a few rich organisations.&#183;Richard Stallman, a MacArthur Fellow in 1990, launched the development of the free/libre GNU operating system in 1984. Nick Hill is an electronics designer.&#183;Go tohttp://softwarepatents.co.ukto learn more, and talk to the MEPs from your region.
Papyrus, parchment, vellum: these are the media upon which the history of past civilisations was written. Ours, it seems, will be recorded in PDF. The spread of the "portable document format", developed by Adobe to provide a universal method for viewing and printing documents on different computers, has been   remarkable. Adobe claims that Acrobat Reader, the software required to read PDF documents, has been downloaded nearly 500m times, and the format has become the most widely used on the web after HTML (hypertext mark-up language).This popularity has been further consolidated by the launch of a new version of PDF, 1.5. Among a number of technical enhancements, this adds support for multimedia content such as Flash and QuickTime movies.There is also a new version of Acrobat (6.0), the software used to create, edit and publish PDF documents, which promises to take the format even further. This provides more powerful tools for adding layers (useful for engineering documents),   annotations and digital signatures. Particular effort has gone into making it easy to convert documents into the format. Microsoft Office files, images, scanned items and a host of other sources can now be turned into PDFs more or less with a mouse click.Thanks largely to PDF, the spread of digital documents across the internet has now engulfed our PCs. There are tools for alleviating this problem, though most are aimed at (and priced for) the corporate market. DTSearch and Isys are two of the best, allowing you to index all the data on a hard drive, irrespective of its format. They provide sophisticated methods for indexing groups of files, and allow Boolean and "fuzzy" searches, to find combinations of words, or words with   variant spellings. Isys also supports "synonym rings", to locate documents containing not just a particular word, but any with a similar meaning. Another program, AskSam, is popular with academics and researchers, allowing them to collate documents of all sorts into a single text database.The new version of PDF does little to help ease the information overload that these tools are designed to deal with. On the plus side, it continues in the tradition of providing a common, secure and accessible format for documents. All the text retrieval tools mentioned above can handle PDF. But it does them no particular favours. Used in conjunction with the free Reader, a PDF document is really a closed book. You cannot edit it, add   bookmarks or other elements. Adobe, for good commercial reasons, reserves those privileges for owners of Acrobat, which costs from &#163;235.More crucially, you cannot link it to other documents that may give it relevance, as you can with HTML. For example, if a document features a person's name, PDF can not easily create links to that name elsewhere on the local hard drive or the internet. Even with Acrobat, it is hard to link one piece of information to another, particularly when other document formats are involved. This is what makes it the parchment of our age: a stable, accessible but almost inert medium: good for preserving a record of our age, but perhaps in its present form, not ideal for the demands of the next one.
Hot ToshI have a Toshiba Satellite laptop. The recent hot spell has seen it turning itself off after about 30 minutes, although I can hear the fan working.Adam ForresterJack Schofield replies:Which processor? Fast desktop chips can cause overheating in confined notebook cases, asOnline warned in March last year. At the time, Toshiba's marketing manager told me: "You run the risk of overheating and thermal shutdown in a bad design. But you can design around the fact that you are using a desktop processor and keep the chip within Intel's guidelines." In August, US users launched a class action against Toshiba America, alleging that some models of the Satellite 5005-S504 and 5005-S507 had a design flaw that caused them to overheat and shut down.Toshiba UK says not to use your notebook in direct sunlight or block the machine's ventilation. It can arrange to check your PC for component failure but there could be a fee if it is not under warranty. Call 0870-4448944.Many notebook PCs that do not have power-saving Pentium M or Centrino chips may be operating at high temperatures. You can help to keep them cool by propping them up to increase air circulation or aiming an external fan at their bottoms. Bytecc offers two standswww.hardcoreware.net/reviews/review-75-1.htmandwww.byteccusa.com/product/cooler/TDD-3000.htm, and there's also theLapworks Laptop Desk Notebook Cooler &amp; Tray Stand. It might be hard to buy one in the UK, but it would be easy to make something similar.Tilde invaderA curious file has taken to appearing and reappearing on my desktop. It has the name "~", and its presence is indicated by a plain Windows icon.Stephen MennellJS:It's harmless. It is the result of installing the April 2003, Cumulative Patch for Outlook Express (330994). The temp file appears after a change is made to your address book in Outlook Express. The Address Book (.wab) is being updated correctly, but it seems that Windows' scratch copy (.wa~) throws a tilde on to the desktop. You could uninstall the patch, but I think your best bet is to ignore it and wait for Microsoft to acknowledge and then fix the glitch. Seewww.microsoft.com/windows/ie/downloads/critical/330994.  Surprisingly, this was the week's most common query, and the first for many moons to surpass "How do I block these Windows messenger pop-ups?"Dust itI had problems with my computer and decided to start again by using the system restore CD. However, about 22% of the way through the installation, a critical error message came up saying 0x0B read fault.Dot McDowellJS:The PC has failed to read the CD, either because the CD is damaged or dirty or, more likely, there is fluff or dust on the CD's laser read head. You could blow it clean, eg with compressed air, or try a CD drive cleaning kit. If all else fails, it should be easy to slot in a new drive, if the case is a standard design.Hijack!My Internet Explorer browser has been hijacked by the website i-lookup.com. A toolbar keeps   reappearing despite me continually turning it off. A dialler program also keeps popping up etc etc.Mike PowellJS:The i-lookup website offers an uninstall.exe file to remove its browser hijackerwww.i-lookup.com/faq.php, but both Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and Ad-aware 6 should be able to get rid of it. I suggest you read the Browser Hijacking page atSpywareInfo. This has links to several popular scumware removal tools, includingHijack.Backchat&#183;John Whitehead wanted to upgrade the 400MHz AMD processor in his PC to run Windows XP. Mohamed Sobhy says: "I have recently installed XP Pro on a computer with a 300MHz Pentium II and it works fine. The important thing is to have enough memory, as you mentioned. At least 256MB are needed, as XP Pro needs close to 200MB to run at full speed. With older motherboards, the correct RAM must be used.Crucialis an excellent place to get any type of memory one needs within 24 hours."&#183;Jo Duddy wanted to use Polish characters on her iMac, and I pointed her towards the Central European character set. Jurek Narozanski says: "there is perhaps one website that you have omitted, which could help Jo Duddy above all others:Apple Polonizacjaand itsdownload page. Unfortunately, it is in Polish language only, but it contains everything for Polish CE fonts for OS 9 through to OS X v10.2.4. It also gives the two key-board simulations, maszynista and programista. The latter is far superior for use on UK keyboards. I use it on a daily basis."
The people who founded Palm left to found Handspring, and following the success of the Visor range, the rumours suggested that Handspring might buy Palm -- it wasn't doing very well at the time. Now the Visor range is moribund and the Treo isn't a hot ticket, while the Palm line has been rejuvenated by the Tungsten and Zire ranges, so the tables have turned.The merged company will continue to be led by Todd Bradley, Palm's president and chief executive officer, and there will be a handheld computing solutions divison run by Ken Wirt. Palm will also form a smartphone solutions division, to be led by Ed Colligan, from Handspring. Device designer Jeff Hawkins will become chief technology officer of the merged company. Handspring shareholders get paid in Palm stock and Donna Dubinsky gets a seat on Palm's board.Comment: TheReuterssummary says: "Like prodigal children returning home, the union of Palm and Handspring will brings Donna Dubinsky and Jeff Hawkins back to Palm." Prodigal means "recklessly extravagant" and "characterized by wasteful expenditure", according toMerriam-Webster. Did Reuters really mean that, do you think? :-)
The morning after the night before, and Jonathan Ive - the newly crowned British Designer of the Year - is still looking a little surprised at all the fuss. Ive is Apple Computer's youthful vice-president of industrial design, responsible for the iconic design of the iMac computer, launched in 1998, and a clutch of computers and gadgets since. On Monday night he won his title, and &#163;25,000, at a ceremony at the Design Museum in London, sparking a frenzy of interest in the quietly spoken 36-year-old Newcastle Polytechnic graduate."Well, I mean, it was obviously thrilling," says Ive, sitting slightly uncomfortably in his hotel suite the next day. "And it was fantastically encouraging ... It's also slightly awkward, in that it's a hard thing to receive an award when there's a team of you ... But it's just really nice."Once, all computers were ugly, utilitarian machines. Tucked away in offices, studies and bedrooms, they came only in beige. But in the spring of 1998 Ive blew away the blandness with the multi-coloured iMac. It was a computer designed to be striking from the outset: a machine with screen and speakers enclosed within a translucent shell, with the keyboard and mouse carefully designed to match.For a struggling Apple, the subsequent huge success of the iMac (the "i" stands for internet) re-established the company as the quintessential "cool" computer company, and helped keep it afloat after years of losing market share to Microsoft. For Ive, it meant redesigning Apple's entire range to fit the company's new image: out went beige and boxy, in came colour and curves.Last year, Apple unveiled Ive's latest creation: the new iMac, completely revamped, with a flat-panel screen and dome-like base for the computer's innards, the two connected by a flexible chrome arm. The daring design was hailed by Ive's fans as his greatest moment. Others said it looked a lot like a table lamp. "Being aware of where we are now, it seemed sort of inevitable and obvious we should do it that way," says Ive. "But of course when you're actually designing it was neither inevitable nor obvious."Until Ive joined Apple in 1992, fresh from college, he had been building up the Tangerine design agency, working as a London-based consultant for Apple between designing bathroom fittings for Ideal Standard and gadgets for Japanese consumer electronics firms. "The goal that you tend to foster at college is that you want to work for a range of clients," says Ive. "But I felt incredibly naive. There was the arrogance of consulting with so little experience, and without ever really understanding, I think, how companies really work."Ive wanted to get to the heart of the problem - and the company tackling it - so he moved to California in 1992, where he lives to this day. "I felt very clearly that to do anything substantial, to truly innovate, it is very difficult to do externally. We've seen in these last few years at Apple that consequential innovation requires a fairly dramatic change, almost a restructuring of a company. That's very difficult to do externally."But it was not for a further five years - and the prodigal return of the company's founder Steve Jobs as chief executive - that Ive was given his head. In late 1997 Jobs decided he wanted a cheap, compact computer, a contemporary version of Apple's first ever Macintosh, launched in 1984.While the components of the iMac were unspectacular, the effort in combining them in the compact unit was revolutionary. Ive even spent time talking to experts in the sweet industry about how to achieve consistent levels of translucency in the new machine's plastics.Ive's passion for the role, and importance, of design, quickly becomes clear. "Sometimes design can be seen as an adjunct; that it is essentially a superficial veneer that can be applied afterwards, when very often the most important product decisions have actually already been made."He is dismissive of the design efforts of the computing industry, and of the consumer electronics industry into which Apple is moving with products like its iPod digital music player."If you think about the consumer electronics industry, that's as creatively bankrupt as the computer industry. It's funny ... I never quite understand why the consumer electronics industry is seen as more sophisticated than the computer industry, because I think they're really as bad as each other."Not everything touched by Ive has turned to gold. One of the early projects he worked on, before the arrival of Jobs, was the Newton personal digital assistant - a handheld computer before its time that promised much, but largely failed to deliver. More recently, his striking Cube desktop computer won plaudits for its looks, but registered disappointing sales amid complaints about cracks in its translucent casing. Apple's share of the world's personal computer market, for all the buzz about its design, has slipped below 5 per cent.But these problems have barely managed to leave a dent in Ive's reputation. Style watchers say that he has completely transformed the lot of the computer. "He made computers sexy, didn't he?" says Jeremy Langmead, editor of style magazine Wallpaper*. He points to the number of advertisements and fashion shoots since 1998 which feature - somewhere - an iMac, and adds: "I think the biggest influence he had was to, early on, point out how it was possible to combine form and function in such a heavenly mix. These are things that are incredibly easy to use, but also look incredibly beautiful."With the Design Museum's cheque in his pocket, what comes next for Ive, and Apple? The company is notoriously secretive about what it is working on, but Ive says there's plenty more to come from him and his team."It's a really diverse team, and it's a really small team. We've been working together for a very long time, and the potency of that can often be overlooked. I think that the creative team has been together for seven or eight years. We almost have this pre-verbal way of communicating."One of the great things about our team, about working so closely together, is the feeling that we're really only at the beginning of something, that we have only just started. We still have a lot more to do."
The magic of Hogwarts will meet the wonder of the web when JK Rowling gives a live reading of her feverishly anticipated fifth Harry Potter novel on the internet.The webcast later this month is expected to be one of the biggest events of its kind.It will be broadcast via the MSN network in partnership with BT and filmed by Big Brother producer Endemol.Rowling will give a reading from Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and will take questions from children around the world at the event, which will take place at the Royal Albert Hall and be hosted by Stephen Fry.MSN broadcast an exclusive Madonna gig live from Brixton Academy three years ago, generating huge amounts of publicity and interest.It claimed 9 million internet users logged on but only a small proportion were able to watch the star in action because the servers had trouble coping with the demand.The Potter event will take place on June 26, five days after Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is published."This is an example of the web doing more than television could ever do - beaming out a hugely anticipated event directly to a worldwide audience, free of charge," said Peter Cowley, the director of interactive media at Endemol.Questions will be taken live during the webcast, which will be streamed at four speeds from 56k to 500k.More than 900 schools have applied for tickets to the event, which will only be able to hold 4,000 children.The webcast will reach children in 34 countries and 18 different languages.Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is the most pre-ordered book in publishing history.Tracy Blacher, the marketing manager of MSN, said: "There isn't a venue in the world that could host the millions of Harry fans desperate to experience the magic of this event. This is what the web should be about."
At first sight, there is nothing very ominous about the Honda Civic IMA. It looks just like any other Honda Civic saloon: not exactly head-turning in the looks department and, to drive, definitely down at the "safe and steady" end of the sensible/exciting continuum.Yet ominous it is. The central-locking system is so near silent that you find yourself blipping the key fob several times to make sure it actually worked, but really the car should issue a thunderous percussion like the crack of doom opening every time you unlock it. Because this "hybrid technology", semi-electric car is the future of motoring.Forget the sinful pleasures of the past (speed, power, glamour, thrills, and more speed), driving from now on will be a deeply virtuous, skinny-decaff experience (think instead: low emissions, low fuel consumption, social and environmental responsibility - and no more speed). Oh, brave new world that has such vehicles in it.Which means that what might be thought of as the golden age of driving is really gone. One day, not far off, there will be museums where you can view animatronic human figures wearing string-backed gloves and simulating wind-in-the-hair driving in wildly improbable, roofless conveyances called "sports cars" or small families cocooned in vast, military-type, four-wheel-drive vehicles that were used to make short journeys in the suburbs in the early 21st century.In reality, of course, whatever "golden age" of motoring there ever was went a long time ago. The inexorable logic of expanding car ownership and use has gradually run up against the limits of road-building and the huge hidden subsidy to the auto industry which that represents. The misery of congestion, with all its attendant ills of waste, pollution and urban blight, has overtaken us.So the writing is now on the wall for drivers - it spells restraint and regulation: carbon taxes, speed cameras and lower speed limits, toll roads and congestion charges are already with us.Honda's first attempt at marketing a low-emissions vehicle, the futuristic-lite Insight, cost it dear - every one was sold at a loss. The Insight also had limited practicality: space for passengers and luggage was severely restricted by the need for the large batteries required for electric propulsion.More promising was Toyota's Prius, which pioneered, in an afford able package, the hybrid technology which the Honda Civic IMA also uses. IMA, by the way, stands for integrated motor assist. Perhaps not a phrase destined to light one's fire, but what it indicates is that this is still a car with a petrol engine, albeit a small and frugal one, but there is also an electric motor to help push the car along. The system is designed so that the engine and the car's own momentum then recharge thebatteries during deceleration or braking. Because the electric motor is only ever helping, not providing full drive power, the batteries don't need to be as large - so there actually is a boot.The Civic's "compromise solution" manages to produce a figure of 39mpg for noodling around town - which is about double what my Volvo estate will do. Reasonably impressive, even if it does as much for one's image as being seen at the wheel of a golf buggy (and feels about as sexy to drive, too).Such considerations are outside the remit of the Civic IMA. Its vision is a more dourly utilitarian business - as if Honda had sacked all its designers and hired transport policy wonks to do their jobs. Sadly, the latter have logic on their side: ultimately, how can I justify my large, comfortable Swedish tank capable of twice the legal speed limit?Thus the libertarian wing of the driving lobby is stuffed because it is stuck with defending the indefensible. Take, for instance, the moral justification for the right to break speed limits. Exactly; there isn't one.The only option, therefore, is Civic virtue.
Apple isn't talking but CNet has had a go at working out the costs: see the right hand columnhere. Of course, it would be silly to expect a service to be profitable from the beginning rather than an investment in the future. You'll have to do your own sums on what could happen next....For example, will labels be able to command 60-70c a track after users work out the cost of filling an iPod?
"FutureMark Corp has reconsidered its position regarding how Nvidia's graphics chips rendered its latest 3DMark 2003 benchmark applications, and concluded that Nvidia's code tweaks were optimizations, not cheats," reportsExtremeTech.
"Analyst firm Gartner has recommended that customers minimize their use of Linux on important systems because of questions resulting from SCO Group's warnings about legal liability," reportsCNet. "Although Gartner has reservations on the merits of [SCO's claims], don't take them lightly," Gartner analyst George Weiss advised.
An inventor from New Zealand who is building a cruise missile in his garage using parts bought over the internet has said you don't have to be a rocket scientist to construct your very own rocket.Bruce Simpson says he is planning to post step-by-step instructions on his website describing how to make the jet-powered missile, which he claims would be able to fly the 60 miles (100 kilometres) between his home and Auckland in less than 15 minutes, the New Zealand Herald newspaper has reported.The missile could carry a small warhead weighing 22lbs, and Mr Simpson claimed the air force would have no way of stopping it.Mr Simpson, a 49-year-old internet site developer, said that his missile project, which he says will cost around US$5,000 (£3,058), was intended to warn governments how easy it would be for terrorists to build one."Obviously the goal of this website is not to provide terrorists or other nefarious types with the plans for a working cruise missile but to prove the point that nations need to be prepared for this type of sophisticated attack from within their own borders," Mr Simpson says on his site.Mr Simpson has already bought a GPS system US$120  and a radio control flight pack (US$150) from eBay, both on his shopping lists of materials and components for the home-made missile.A police spokeswoman declined to comment on whether they were investigating Mr Simpson's project, but said they were "now aware of the situation"."It's not something we recommend people try at home," spokeswoman Rebecca Holt told the Associated Press.The inventor said he is working toward a testing firing of the missile by mid-July. He expects to begin building the missile's body within days and has already built two prototype jet engines. He has approached the air force for permission to a carry out a test flight, and for them to oversee it."It would be rather foolhardy to go ahead without some official involvement," he said.The target for the test flight "depends entirely on the air force", and may be "a buoy out at sea", he added.Former US defence department analyst and terrorism expert Paul Buchanan said Mr Simpson may not be trying to encourage terrorism, but "might be facilitating it".If the missile worked, it would send a powerful message to authorities, he told the newspaper."It might alert them as to how darn easy it is to assemble this stuff," said Mr Buchanan, who lectures at Auckland University.Mr Simpson told the newspaper that his website had received 250,000 hits in two weeks.He said he was alarmed at the ease with which he'd bought from overseas websites the parts needed to guide the missile, and import them into the country - passing local customs with ease."All this stuff is off the shelf," the Herald quoted him as saying. "It rang no alarm bells.""You don't have to be a rocket scientist," he was quoted as saying.The imported parts included a radio control transmitter and flight pack, global positioning gear, antennas and a flight control system.The website allows the public to view pictures and prices of the components, but for more information users must pay a subscription, which Mr Simpson says he plans to offer once the site is complete, to cover his costs.The Herald said he has already tested several noisy jet engines on a bench in his garage, something his neighbours more than half a mile away could confirm.
Jonathan Ive, the British-born designer who has made desktop computers objects of colourful, quirky elegance, won a &#163;25,000 international design award last night.He won the Design Museum's first designer of the year award for a range of innovations from the Apple iMac to the iPod - an MP3 player which weighs less than two CDs but can store up to 7,500 songs.Ive, 36, pioneered the original iMac, which introduced bright colour to monitor casings, in 1998. As Apple's vice-president of industrial design, he has buttressed the company in its struggle to survive against Microsoft.Ive has been called "perhaps the most influential designer in the computer world" by the New York Times.As well as winning the Design Museum's jury vote, the former bathroom designer came top of a poll of more than 20,000 members. Votes were registered both online and at the museum.Sir Paul Smith, the fashion designer, who was on the jury, said at last night's ceremony in London: "Jonathan's designs have touched millions of people's lives and transformed the workplace. He once designed a computer mouse by observing a drop of water; that's lateral thinking."Two million iMacs were sold in its first year. Subsequent milestones for Ive were the Apple iBook, the Apple G4 Cube and the Titanium PowerBook.Last year, the art and design graduate from Newcastle polytechnic, dreamed up the "sunflower-inspired" iMac, a flat screen rising on a stem from a hemispherical base holding the tower. His boss, Apple chief Steve Jobs, hailed the design as "the quintessence of computational call".Ive saw off a challenge from three other finalists whom Sir Paul credited with "making fantastic contributions to the world of design".These were Rockstar Games, the creators of Grand Theft Auto - Vice City, the fastest-selling video game in British history (and possibly the most controversial considering it allegedly encouraged game contestants to steal cars); the jewellery designer Solange Azagury-Partridge, creative director for the Paris jeweller Boucheron; and the London-based glassware, lighting and furniture designer Tord Boontje, creator of the Blossom chandelier and the floral-patterned Wednesday light.Others sitting on the award panel, which was led by Alice Rawsthorn, the Design Museum's director, were product designer Marc Newson, Paola Antonelli of the Museum of Modern Art, New York, and design historian, Emily King.
Larry Ellison's second "network computer" company is folding, according toCNet. NIC (New Internet Computer Co) couldn't sell enough systems to keep going. "Network computers" were wildly overhyped in the middle 90s and, according to some gullible reports, were destined to kill off personal computers. Larry Ellison founded Oracle and was once richer thanCroesus, or even Microsoft's Bill Gates.
