As well as the 2003 Weblog Awards results, we're also launching aWeblogs special reporttoday on Guardian Unlimited. It's somewhere where all our print and online coverage of weblogs will be brought together. And we've also ordered up some web exclusive content you haven't seen in print or on GU before. There are reviews of the major weblog packages, providing a glossary of terms, and there's a very interesting opener from veteran bloggerRebecca Blood(her weblog ishere). Jane Perrone introduces you to some top bloggers in herweblog heavenand - oh - there's some very groovy artwork scattered throughout from that purveyor of cartoons to the blogerati,Hugh MacLeod.
Tada! Today sees the results of theGuardian Weblog Awards- our second contest to celebrate the best in British blogging. I think we've got a fantastic roster ofwinnersthis year and, perhaps just as importantly, an amazingly strong list of runners-up and other entrants. Not only are there some fine examples of people using weblogs, and stretching the definition in all sorts of innovative and interesting ways, there's also real strength in depth. If you're like us, you'll find some new regular reads in our lists today.
Things are looking up for the PC industry. Research company IDC has just raised its forecast for worldwide PC shipments to a record high of 152.6m units in 2003, and 169.9m in 2004. In this year's first quarter, IDC had revised its projection downwards from 8.3% to 6.9%: now it is predicting 11.4% growth.PCs have certainly become more attractive over the past couple of years. For example, on the high street, you can now get a 2.4GHz desktop PC complete with printer and scanner for &#163;399.99 including VAT, or a notebook PC for &#163;599.99. It is certainly worth paying more to get a better specification, but you don't have to pay much more.For businesses, a new PC now costs less than &#163;1 per working day, so it only has to save its user 10   minutes a day to pay for itself. Or save the company &#163;1 a day in support costs, which it almost certainly will, if you are replacing PCs running DOS-based versions of Windows with the much more reliable Windows 2000 or XP.Of course, the PC industry is also expanding beyond its traditional base in desktops and notebooks. PC chips (from Intel and AMD) and PC operating systems (from Microsoft and various Linux companies) are rapidly taking over the server business, and have at least a foothold in games consoles. Microsoft's Xbox runs a version of Windows XP on an Intel x86- compatible processor, and the company is also producing software for cars, smart watches and other devices.There is now a wide range of products that are basically   customised PCs. These include ATMs, supermarket tills, slot machines (one-armed bandits), and some television set-top boxes, for example, the TiVo.Computer companies such as Apple, Dell, Gateway and Hewlett-Packard have already started selling consumer electronics products. These include flat-screen television sets, digital cameras, electronic organisers and portable music players. Smart phones look most likely to be the next addition, because most smart phones are already based on operating systems developed by the computer industry: Psion/Symbian, Palm OS, Microsoft Windows CE or Linux. Intel is also aiming for this market with its XScale version of the UK-developed ARM processor.There are lots of reasons for this expansion. PC manufacturers have   the problem that, as prices fall, they have to shift more units every year just to stand still. They are also struggling to maintain profitability in a market where the biggest manufacturer, Dell, is setting fearsome challenges in manufacturing efficiencies. They desperately need new markets that will enable them to increase their turnover and make better profit margins, and the consumer electronics markets do both.And now is the time to strike. People are used to the idea of connecting their gadgets and gizmos - cameras, printers, scanners, PDAs, music players, mobile phones, etc - to a PC, not to a TV set. For all their bluster, consumer electronics companies never delivered equivalent capabilities. It is not too late, but it may well prove an expensive mistake.
Portable musicThe year's best portable music player, is, you guessed it, Apple's ubiquitous iPod. For both Mac and Windows PC users, it leads the field on account of stunning design, simplicity of use, superb performance and overall value for money. However, after a couple of recent launches, the gap between the iPod and its rivals is starting to narrow.Its most serious competitor is the Philips HDD100, which matches the iPod in design. It is the same size as its Apple rival and boasts a striking piano black finish. The HDD100 also has extra features, such as the option of recording CDs directly on to the player without having to access a PC. It is also compatible with Windows Media Audio (WMA) files. At &#163;250 for 15 Gigabytes, however, it is not as competitively priced as its rival. It is also PC only.For value for money, the clear winner is the Creative Jukebox Zen Xtra. Targeted at those with huge music collections, it offers 60GB of storage for &#163;350. This works out &#163;50 cheaper than the top-end iPod, which only has 40GB of storage. The Creative also scores highly for its excellent battery life (twice the length of the iPod). However, it isn't as elegant as its rivals.For those looking for a smaller player, the Rio Nitrus, which has just gone on sale via Amazon, is another good buy. It offers 1.5GB of storage, yet retails for a competitive &#163;168.49.Digital camerasIt has been a phenomenal year for digital cameras, with models capable of taking high-quality images plummeting in price.Even with the arrival of camera phones, the bottom end of the market continues to thrive, with many companies doing brisk business selling sub-&#163;100 snappers. Our favourite is the &#163;60 Mustek G Smart Mini 3, the latest incarnation of the credit card-size camera unveiled a few years ago. This version now takes two megapixel images that are generally good enough to print out. The gadget lovers' choice is the &#163;70 James Bond Stealth Camera, a VGA model that looks more like a cigarette lighter than a camera.The battle for the top miniature compact digital camera has largely been a two-way affair, with the super-slim &#163;300 Casio Exilim EX-Z4 just getting the better of the tiny &#163;350 Pentax Optio S4. Slightly chunkier, but arguably capable of better pictures than either of them, is the Olympus Mju 400 at &#163;400. All three can capture high-resolution, four megapixel images.At the top end of the consumer sphere, Sony caused a sensation with its &#163;1,000 Cybershot DSC-F828, an SLR replacement capable of taking eight megapixel images. Even more advanced is the &#163;1,000 Canon EOS 300D, a scaled-down version of the EOS 10D professional camera. A key attribute is that it is compatible with any of Canon's   60 EF lenses, giving the serious photographer flexibility unrivalled by any other digital model.Consumer electronicsMany pundits predicted that 2003 would be the year in which digital video recorders for the home would take off. Yet, in spite of DVD recorders falling in price to under &#163;200 (the Mico Espejo DVDR311 available from Sainsbury's), consumers have been slow to pension off their VHS VCRs and upgrade.By some considerable distance, the best digital video recorder is the &#163;200 hard disk-based Sky+ box. It became even better value this year as Sky dispensed with the &#163;10-a-month subscription fee and made a few tweaks, adding the ability to record two programmes simultaneously. Next year, the package will look even stronger, as Sky enables users to program the box via their mobile phone or PC.Philips awesome &#163;4,000 42in   42PF9965 is the best large plasma screen, while Panasonic's 22in &#163;1,400 TX22LT3 is the leading smaller screen LCD TV. For those after a huge set for not too much money, LG's innovative 44in, &#163;1,800 RE-44SZ20RD is the first rear-projection TV to use the excellent Digital Light Processing (DLP) technology. It offers superb value for money.PDAsTwo Palm-based PDAs stood out this year. Palm's Tungsten T3 boasted a superb screen, versatile form factor and came with improvements to core features such as its address book. It proved great value at &#163;300. Just as innovative, although nowhere near as good value, was Sony's Clie UX-50. A   neat PDA with an amazing screen and simple-to-use keypad, it retails for around &#163;600. In the Microsoft camp, the &#163;450 HP iPaq H5550, with its fingerprint reader, superb screen and integrated Bluetooth and Wi-Fi stood out.And the restOf all the wireless gadgets we've tried this year, the best is the Philips Streamium MC-i250, a hi-fi system that integrates into an 802.11b network to access music files stored on a PC and internet radio stations. It is available for &#163;500 with a wireless bridge from BT.Other gadgets we like include the &#163;500 Olympus DM-20, which sets new standards in digital voice recording, Electrolux's Trilobite, the &#163;1,000 robot vacuum cleaner, and two Logitech products - the &#163;100 QuickCam Sphere Webcam and the &#163;300 deNivo Media Desktop, the Bluetooth suite for the PC. Acoustic Solutions' SP110, an &#163;80 DAB (digital radio) tuner for the home, and Bush's innovative &#163;80 DABCR2003 DAB clock radio are also worth checking out.Online's top 101 Sky+:an essential addition to any home entertainment system2 Apple iPod:still the best personal music player on sale3 Philips 42PF9965:if you want a large plasma screen, this is the one4 Casio Exilim EX-Z4:the sexiest compact digital camera5 Philips Streamium MC-i250:one day all hi-fi systems will work like this6 Palm Tungsten T3:a sizeable leap forward for Palm-based PDAs7 Olympus DM-20:superb, if rather pricey, digital voice recorder8 Bush DABCR2003:no more snap, crackle and pop with breakfast radio9 Canon EOS 300D:a breakthrough for consumer digital cameras10 Sony Clie UX50:innovative PDA
e-XmasOne advantage of e-Christmas cards is that the "last posting date" is December 25. And if you like to send cards that benefit a charity, you can do the same online. Donate &#163;5 and you can send 50 e-cards that benefit the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity, which gets 80% of the money. It will also get an extra &#163;1 from BUPA, which is sponsoring the site.www.merrychristmas.co.ukHello WorldSend an SMS message and have it projected by laser beam on to a mountain overlooking Ipanema Beach in Rio de Janeiro, on to the UN building in New York City, a building in downtown Mumbai, or a 140 metre tall water fountain in Geneva. Webcams mean you can see your message on the Hello World website. It could all have been faked by a couple of humorists. In this case, however, it was one of the cultural projects run by Switzerland's Federal Office of Culture for this month's UN World Summit on the Information Society, held in Geneva.www.helloworldproject.comGoogle numbersYou can now search Google for numbers, including the parcel tracking numbers for UPS and FedEx, for patents, aircraft registration numbers, and FCC equipment IDs. Enter patent 5123123 into the search box, in Google's example, and you are offered a link that says: Look up patent 5123123 in the US patent database. Click it and you can read the patent for a "bathtub overflow control device". You can also use Google to look up traffic conditions at US airports.www.google.com/helpwww.google.com/help/features.html#travelHigh triviaThe NoRelevance website is looking for pictures of people wearing T-shirts with parody logo designs, for a future exhibition. Current features include the Cult of the Goat (on bock beer labels), and 45rpm record label designs, with   East German soft drink labels on the way. The site reflects one man's obsession with "cool visual junk" that would otherwise attract little or no attention, and that is precisely why it is interesting.www.norelevance.comGoogle guideA long time ago, I mentioned a book called Putting Your Heart Online, by Nancy Capulet. The same author - real name Nancy Blachman - has now co-written another book, How to Do Everything with Google, published by Osborne McGraw-Hill. She has also created a free, interactive tutorial at GoogleGuide.com which covers much the same ground.www.amazon.co.uk/execwww.googleguide.comMSN newsbotMicrosoft's venture into web search technologies has led to a beta test version of an automated news page, MSN newsbot, much like Google News. However, while Google started in the US, MSN is doing its testing in the UK and three other European countries. Also, where Google mixes science with "technology", MSN puts it with health - a much better idea. However, neither is smart enough to give IT its own category.http://uk.newsbot.msn.com/ worldwide.aspxhttp://news.google.co.ukGeosnapsThe GeoSnapper.com website says it is "the birthplace of GPS photography". The idea is that when you take a picture, you also record the GPS coordinates of the location using a GPS (global positioning satellite) receiver. Then you upload it to the GeoSnapper website, which links the photos to maps. Visitors can then see what a place looks like, or even pay it a visit. So far, there are only 1,006 photos in 165 albums, but if everybody uploaded a few snaps, it could get interesting.www.geosnapper.comCover artThe 100 greatest album covers that were never made are now on display at the ArtRocks site. The project asked artists and designers to create "the definitive album cover" for their favourite recording artist. Results include an Alan Aldridge cover for John Lennon, Ralph Steadman has done the Rolling Stones, Graham Nash has done Crosby &amp; Nash, while Kurt Vonnegut has done Phish.www.theartrocks.com/tgactnw/gallery.htmlNew &amp; notedChat with connections (Windows only)www.huminity.comCost of spam calculatorhttp://navisite.com/mainpageThe Atoms Familywww.miamisci.org/af/slnSix of the bestToysUK Top Tenshttp://www.batr.co.uk/batr2k/press/10xmas2k3.htmwww.toyopia.co.uk/dreamtoys.htmYahooligans Top 10http://entertainment.surveys.yahoo.com/toptentoys03Family Fun Awardshttp://familyfun.go.comDr Toy's guidewww.drtoy.com/main/2003-Holiday-Gift-Guide.pdfAmazon UK hotlistwww.amazon.co.uk
You might not have noticed but the Copyright and Related Rights Regulation 2003 came into force at the end of October. It is a new piece of legislation - modelled on the European Union Copyright Directive - designed to help the movie and music industries battle what they see as the cancer of piracy.Buried deep within its myriad clauses lies section 296ZA, which changes domestic copying from a civil to a criminal offence. Owners of Apple iPods and DVD-ripping software beware. If you use software that circumvents the copyright protection mechanisms embedded in the latest generation of discs, you could now go to prison for two years.It is unlikely that individual consumers will be prosecuted, at least not yet. But the makers of the software that allows the circumvention of these mechanisms are already feeling the brunt of the law.Last week, Warner Home Video UK, on behalf of the Moving Pictures Association of America (MPA), filed a High Court injunction in the UK against 321 Studios, a US company that sells software that allows you to make back-up copies of DVDs.  321 says its software is not a piracy tool, especially as it comes embedded with four different "anti-piracy" measures that make it almost impossible to pass a 321 copy off as the real thing.Tellingly, the MPA is not accusing 321 Studios of piracy. Indeed, it admits it knows of only one   instance when 321 software was used to make a pirate copy, although more than a million copies of the software have been sold worldwide.The MPA's lawyers admit they are not even attempting to demonstrate that piracy was taking place.To my mind, this seems to be a purely legal rather than a moral argument and one that will do little - or nothing - to stop real piracy. The knock-off DVDs found at car boot sales come from industrial-scale production plants run by criminal gangs, not from people in their bedrooms using software such as that sold by 321. After all, it takes an hour to make a single copy of a disc using its software.But who would want to make a legitimate back-up copy? Well, lots   of people, say 321. "These are mums and dads who are sick of buying three or four copies of Shrek because their kids keep chewing them up," says Rob Semaan, the chief executive of 321 Studios.He also points to a number of reports that suggest DVDs have a lifespan of between 10 and 15 years, and that many people might want a more permanent copy than that.Record companies and movie makers have a right to make profits and a right to protect themselves from the criminal organisations that make billions from pirate copies.  But by targeting domestic copying is likely to aggrieve their customers, who are fed up with buying digital products that are not always as robust as the industry claims.
Star Wars: Knights of the Old RepublicPC, &#163;39.99 Bioware/LucasArts, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;That Christmas should see a sudden rush of top quality titles should come as no surprise.That this should be one certainly does. Not only has Bioware no real pedigree in anything but isometric role-playing games (RPG), but Star Wars itself has recently become a dumping ground for second-rate ideas and executions.Knights is a fine game, effortlessly blending two genres to produce a classic first-person RPG, in the mould of Deus Ex with Jedi accessories. The first thing that strikes you is how well the interface works, blending real-time combat with strategic pauses, allowing you to reel off your impressive Force powers.But battles alone would have become boring were it not for a superbly constructed storyline, taking you to half a dozen planets, each housing multiple quests and missions. Choosing which of your team members to use, how to upgrade their powers and whether to yield to the dark or light side of the Force combine to make a rich and absorbing game that plays differently according to the choices.These can be as morally complex as anything in a videogame, where even the need to make money to buy essential weapons compromises your virtue and hastens your decline into mercenary vengeance. For shoot 'em-up fans, the non-appearance of Doom 3 and Half Life 2 threatened to make Christmas truly underwhelming. Knights almost makes up for it.Mike AnderieszChampionship Manager: Season 03/04PC, &#163;29.99 Sports Interactive/Eidos, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;With the recent separation of developers Sports Interactive and publishers Eidos, these are testing times for fans, or should that be addicts, of the Championship Manager games. Eidos has retained the CM name, while Sports Interactive has kept its player database, the key to CM's success.So this is the last Championship Manager game as we know it. Season 03/04 updates all the squads and stats but, more importantly, rights the wrongs of CM4. The most significant is the 2D match engine - a source of much purist consternation when originally announced - which has been improved so that it feels useful now.Training has been made simpler to fathom while the transfer system has also been tweaked. Media involvement is deeper and under-the-bonnet refinements make things run smoother. But the core gameplay remains the same - guide your team to glory.On the surface, CM4 resembles a glorified spreadsheet but get sucked in and years of addiction await. But underpinning CM's appeal is its comprehensive player database. With that gone, 03/04 could be the end of Championship Manager's reign.Greg HowsonManhuntPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Rockstar North/Rockstar Games &#42;&#42;&#42;Christmas would not be complete without the obligatory gratuitously violent game. Manhunt is certainly controversial. You play a serial killer whose fake execution has been staged, and who wakes up to find he is working for an outfit making violent slasher movies. The contrived plot merely exists as an excuse for outrageously violent gameplay. Essentially, Manhunt is a stealth game. You are let loose in various neighbourhoods populated by different gangs (drug-dealers, white supremacists and so on). You must reach the end of each level alive, occasionally solving basic puzzles on the way, but invariably killing every character that you encounter.You can creep up on enemies and suffocate them with a plastic bag; other (single-use) weapons include a shard of glass and a length of cheese-wire. Weapons such as baseball bats and guns are introduced as the game progresses. Manhunt is not without merit in gameplay terms: the characters' artificial intelligence is superb, and working out how to pick off individuals without alerting their colleagues proves to be absorbing and challenging. Disturbingly enjoyable .Steve Boxer
Blurring the edgesAzeem Azhar is right that convergence is making a comeback (Second sight, December 4) but we should be clear that convergence is discussed in two locations: the back end and the front end. The discussion last time was of how convergence at the back end would allow devices to converge at the front end. The reality is that beyond the clock radio and, it is arguable, the Handspring Treo, converged devices don't work for real people.Converging multiple devices into one tends to blur the visual semantics of the device, making it less clear what it does and how it is to be used. Converged devices, such as web-televisions, also encourage incompatible competition for use. Converged portable devices tend to be overly bulky and power hungry, more likely to fail, and create hassle when they do.Converged devices only make sense when the core technology is expensive, as was the case with electrical components in the early 20th century. Now, electric motors and power are everywhere, in bespoke, non- converged devices. This will be the case with digital networked devices, too. And wireless networks even allow core technologies to be shared, without being in the same device.Converged devices such as phone-PDAs may find employment with well-trained field workers, or be used as a last resort by mobile executives desperate to get their email. But they are not the way forward. The beauty of protocols and standards such as TCP/IP, POP, XHTML and RSS is that   they allow multiple devices to access the same data, and represent it in a way appropriate to that device. Convergence is for engineers to deal with. Real people want divergence.Nico MacdonaldLondonKeep fires burningNice article on computer games today (December 11). There is another trade association - theIndependent Games Developers Association (Tiga). We make the games that make so much money, and games are a real British strength. Please don't forget those at the coal face, or the fires may go out one day!David BaileyDirector, Black CactusStaged approachIt is with growing incredulity that I read of the regular failure of high profile, high cost computer systems. The recent report in Inside IT (Big dreams relying on small print, December 11) heightened this to near apoplexy.In particular, this was caused by the "latest idea" of the trade association Intellect and the Treasury's   Office of Government Commerce, to produce a new approach called "concept viability".When I was a jobbing systems analyst/designer, this was a crucial stage in every project. It was called the feasibility study stage, one of several stages from concept to implementation of the project.What seems to have happened, in the past 15 years particularly, is that the technology is seen to be all-important and the investigation into the viability of the system and the actual system user requirement is of secondary importance at best.Isn't it about time the disciplines were re-introduced and projects investigated and planned rather than the "chuck the technology at it and if it doesn't work start again" concept, which seems to be in vogue?Unfortunately, this return to a staged development approach would necessitate a slower start to the project, which would no doubt irk the IT companies of today. It would, however, lead to better, more cost-effective systems and lessen the chance of the egg-on-face scenario for the owners of the system.Diana BrownLeeds
How important is the computer to your design work?A computer of one sort or another has been central to all the work we've done since 1988. Having said that, I can't work any computers I have - even reading or answering email. There was an excuse for my intimidation in the early years of having computers in my studio. I remember feeling it was a little like my mother not using a calculator. It's the net, and net-based communications such as email, which I feel the most handicapped by not using.So you work with a computer operator?From the technical point of   view of design, I'm happy to sit with a proficient operator of whatever programs are required for the work. I don't feel a need to know what Photoshop V.10 does, but if I'm using it on a project I want to be with someone who does. The key moments in screen-based digital design are the bits we can't see in our mind's eye. Mine works in an analogue way... from information placed there by looking at things and by my knowledge of art. I imagine things based on information logged in my mind. The computer shows us things in between. Those "computer moments" aren't based on human aesthetics, but on the arbitrary logic of the machine.Is it mostly PhotoShop you work in?I've done an enormous amount in PhotoShop these past few years and usually use if for stuff you're not supposed to use it for. The guys I work with experiment with filters such as Median   or Smart Blur and we use them for things they weren't intended for. When I did the cover for Pulp's album This Is Hardcore, we were curious about Smart Blur so we tried it and it was fantastic. It took the edge of photographic reality off the image and made it a little like a photo-realist painting.So the computer gives you another hue on the palette?A famous graphic arts book,Ways of Seeing, suggested the digital environment was another place we had to look at. In the early 80s we used the Apple Macs to do things quicker. I didn't learn to use them because I had a genius assistantBrett Wickens. He was so proficient it seemed churlish to bother.Any thoughts on Jonathan Ives' design work on the iMac and iPod?He has done a fantastic job. The past few years have repositioned what we imagine of a computer. The iPod is more than an aesthetic statement: it's almost a reconfiguring of how we understand where music comes from. Its design is interesting in that it is not designed. The iMac range is quite retro.Online content?There is a culture where people are reluctant to pay for content. Also, if things don't happen immediately, they move on to another site. That has led to a culture of impatience. There's something not quite concrete about web sites. Why do people who boot up their computer first thing in the morning still buy newspapers? We're becoming more aware of what the net is useful for but also what it isn't.Peter Saville's bookmarkswww.lrb.co.ukwww.colourwash.co.ukwww.showstudio.comVisitwww.urbis.org.uk
If you're looking for a challenge in the new year, keep an eye on the sits vac columns. Advertisements for a high-flying new job - head of e-government, UK - are to appear just after Christmas.The job, starting in April, replaces part of the current role of the e-envoy. It's no sinecure. The incumbent will be in charge of putting online the remaining one third of government services that have yet to be e-enabled. He (or she) will also be responsible for putting in place new IT systems designed to cut the cost of government. Another item on the agenda is the introduction of identity cards.Andrew Pinder, the current e-envoy, said the new post would be "analogous but not equivalent" to a corporate chief information officer. However, the head will not have the power to tell government departments to adopt a specific technology.Needless to say, the successful candidate will have a track record in getting big IT systems running to time and budget. The salary will be one of the highest in the civil service.There is one other essential qualification: for security purposes, the successful candidate will have to be a UK citizen.Ministers announced the new post   on Monday, ending months of speculation about the future of the Office of the e-Envoy, the government agency set up to create UK Online.The e-envoy has a dual responsibility. One is to evangelise about the internet and e-commerce and remove barriers to their use. The other is to put government agencies online by the end of 2005. This responsibility includes designing and managing central IT systems for use by government agencies.Pinder is thus accountable to two ministers: Patricia Hewitt, secretary of state for trade and cabinet e-minister, and Douglas Alexander, minister for the Cabinet Office.Launching the fourth UK Online annual report this week, Hewitt said that much of Pinder's evangelical work had been done. Although only half the population uses the internet, 96% of people know a place where it is available locally, usually the public library. After a slow start, broadband use is taking off.Efforts to promote e-technologies will continue, Hewitt said, but will be "mainstreamed" into other government departments such as industry, education and culture. She even announced a new "aspiration" - internet access at home for   everyone who wants it, by 2008. This will be led by a digital inclusion panel run by private industry.Finally, more than two thirds of government's 400-odd services are available online. People are even starting to use them: official surveys show that 50% of internet users have been to a government site, Pinder said, and the real proportion may be higher.But now the difficult bit begins. Up to now, e-government has been about adding a telephone, web or digital TV channel to government processes. This is relatively painless, especially if it comes with new funding. The next stage involves redesigning the government machinery to do things more cheaply.The new head of e-government will report to Sir Andrew Turnbull, head of the civil service, and Douglas   Alexander, who said: "The head of e-government will play a pivotal role in supporting the prime minister's vision for public transformation of government so that we can provide better, more efficient, public services."The Cabinet Office talks of "driving cost out from service delivery". One idea is to rationalise government departments in a similar way to private companies where "shared services centres" generally handle processes such as recruitment and paying bills for all departments. Such possibilities are being examined in a wide-ranging review of Whitehall that is likely to recommend job cuts.It is unclear what power the head of e-government will have to enforce such changes. Pinder quashed one rumour about the appointment by saying the Treasury's Office of Gov ernment Commerce will continue to have a role in procuring systems. It is also unlikely the new head will have any direct say over local authorities, which provide the most regularly used e-services. Phil Hope, local government minister, said this week they are making "good progress", with two thirds of services expected to be online by March.Who will get the job? Pinder wanted an international competition, but said this week that the first criterion was "a Brit" because of the security clearance necessary. He said the required skills would almost certainly not be found in the public sector - though he wouldn't rule that out. The most likely appointee is someone who is currently a "senior partner in a consultancy firm".Presumably, with a good parachute.
There won't be a new version of Windows until at least 2005 - unless you count the next service pack for Windows XP, which will replace substantial portions of the Windows code to make it more secure. While Service Pack 2 will have new features - finally adding support for Bluetooth in a consistent way; making it easier to connect to wireless hot spots when travelling; and allowing a remote user to connect to a PC over the internet or with a Smart Display, without kicking off whoever is using the PC - the big changes are about making Windows more resistant to worms, viruses and hackers without relying on endless updates and patches.That's good news for companies that want to test updates before they roll them out to every PC. It's also a change of approach for Microsoft. Usually service packs contain all the updates and patches so far, sometimes rewritten to make them more effective, and some new features. This time, Microsoft is coming out with new versions of many key Windows components to make them more secure. Every component added since Windows XP was released is being   recompiled with the latest version of the Visual Studio compiler, as are several services that aren't new. That's a precaution. The big changes are in the way Windows uses its built-in firewall, in key network technologies including DCOM and RPC, and in a new systematic approach to dealing with email attachments.Service Pack 2 will turn on the internet connection firewall by default in almost any configuration. Previously, that stopped file and print sharing from working but Windows now gets much finer control of the remote procedure call system so it can allow connections from local machines for file sharing while still blocking hackers.The firewall will also start up sooner, and instead of leaving applications to close the ports they've opened in the firewall, it will tidy up after them. Only an administrator can add applications to the list of processes allowed to receive messages through the firewall. Administrators can configure the firewall remotely, so if you take your notebook home, they can reconfigure the firewall when you connect at home and again when you're back in the office.It's good to know that RPC will no longer allow remote anonymous access, which is a way for a hacker to try to connect, using a buffer overrun to force your PC to run a program that puts them in control. But it is worrying to know that programs have been making connections all along over RPC without authentication.Another way of stopping hackers from exploiting buffer overruns is to stop programs running from sections of memory that are supposed to hold data. The service pack will protect the Windows heap and stack - two key data areas - but this will only   run on a very few processors - Intel Itanium and AMD K8s.Other changes are equally common sense. Very few people make legitimate use of the Windows Messaging service (nothing to do with Windows Messenger IM software), but spammers use it to send messages that look official. Service Pack 2 will turn the service off by default, and it will also stop pop-up windows in Internet Explorer unless you have clicked on a link to open them. You will be able to see what ActiveX controls and scripts websites are sending to your PC. The controls for dealing with email attachments will get simpler; the default will be to block attachments that aren't trusted and you will be able to preview files without giving them full privileges to run code on your system.All these changes inside Windows mean that developers will have to make some adjustments to their programs to work with the firewall and the email attachment APIs, which is why Microsoft is releasing the beta version through the Microsoft Developer Network service. Major changes also need a lot of testing so it will be months before the final service pack is released; Microsoft is talking about the first half of next year.There will still be patches and updates to install as new security holes are found, but Microsoft plans to update the Windows Update service to coincide with the release of SP2. This will also handle patches for Microsoft applications, and it will work better with Software Update Services 2.0 for Windows Server 2003 (due in beta in February). That should make it easier to find out what's on all the office PCs and what updates they need. The easier it is to patch our PCs the more likely we are to do it.
Medical experts have long disagreed about whether using a keyboard can cause muscoskeletal problems, such as carpal tunnel syndrome. But a few weeks ago, researchers at Temple University, in the US, revealed that there is a "direct relationship between repetitive, low force movement   and the inflammation of muscles, bones, nerves and connective tissue".As a journalist, I spend most of my day using a keyboard, and I suffer from chronic wrist pain. Six years ago, I tried using voice recognition software to get round this problem. The software didn't live up to the hype, but it did provide a momentary distraction at work as we all laughed   at the ludicrous output.I'd heard that voice recognition software had come a long way since then, so I decided to give it another try. At the moment, there are only two real players in this field, IBM's ViaVoice and ScanSoft's Dragon NaturallySpeaking. Both products are distributed byScanSoftin the UK.I tested ViaVoice Release 10 first, using a Plantronics USB headset. It took two hours to "train" the software to understand my voice. After that, I was ready to try some practice sentences. "Our new User Wizard makes it easy to get started" came out as: "A new user was it makes it easy to get start at." The manual tells me that by correcting recognition errors, the software will make fewer errors. I launch the Corrections Window and left click on the offending word. Bizarrely, the text takes on a life of its own. I watch as random words are added to the sentence until I'm left with: Enough Lorraine off hath enough findings off Fifth Firth for her half a thing he hath pith of Heath off of her new user did makes it easy to get start at.Using ViaVoice's Corrections Window is an exercise in frustration. Left-clicking on a word is meant to highlight it, but it doesn't, and even if you don't select a replacement word from the Corrections Window, it adds one for you anyway ... and another and another, for as long as you dither. When I highlighted a whole series of words and re-dictate it as "the", the program gets it wrong time and time again. I get "of a" "earth" and "Howarth".Dragon NaturallySpeaking goes through the same routine as ViaVoice to train the system, but the analysis is a lot quicker and less painful in Dragon. With very little training, Dragon was able to take some ad mirable dictation. What I saw on the page was intelligible English, albeit with the odd solecism. Here is a line from an article in last week's G2. "If a caterpillar awoke one morning from uneasy dreams to find it had metamorphosed into a detached house in leafiest Surrey, it might look like this." Not an easy sentence, but this is what Dragon gave me: "If a caterpillar awoke one morning from uneasy dreams defined it had metamorphosed into a detached house in leave you Surrey, it might look like this."Dragon also has a sophisticated screen navigation capability. You can even control your cursor by voice, using a facility called MouseGrid. You can click on icons, drag documents, and do pretty much everything you once did with the mouse and keyboard.Voice recognition software has come a long way, but it has limitations. There will always be the odd error with homonyms, but that's not its biggest fault. When I write, I don't "hear" the punctuation. Like driving a car, you cease to notice changing gear or indicating. And with writing, I don't think: comma, full-stop, exclamation mark. Verbally adding punctuation breaks my flow. I start to think differently, and all the natural cadences of "silent writing" are lost. Voice recognition is great for emails - which are usually staccato and full of typos anyway. But I'm not sure I will ever use the software for writing features. And I wouldn't recommend it for poets: The waves beside them danced (semicolon) but they (new line) Out (hyphen) did the sparkling waves in glee (colon, new line).Dragon does provide an auto-punctuation facility, but it doesn't do a great job.So am I a voice recognition convert? Yes, definitely. At least a quarter of my day is spent writing emails, and Dragon will make the task so much easier. I don't see myself ever being completely hands-free at the computer, but this software will save me a lot of wrist pain.Save your wrists, get voice recognition software.
The future of China's internet is being decided in a battle between hard nosed businessmen, hardline party censors, obsessive teenagers and ordinary white collar workers.To say China's internet industry is booming at present is an understatement - a recent copy of the Liberation daily ran a patriotic headline lauding the "Launch of a second wave of Chinese internet IPOs on the Nasdaq". Ctrip.com, a travel website, has just raised $300m, and Shanda.com, an online game website is expected to raise a similar figure in the New Year.But recent months have also seen a spate of arrests for what seem almost trivial political offences, when compared to the flagrant flouting of rules on gambling, piracy and pornography.One among many arrested was a Shanghai office worker who forwarded emails containing Taiwanese political stories to acquaintances. His friends and colleagues are still unaware of his whereabouts, and all recipients had their email accounts investigated by officials. Other, wider publicised cases have involved students and dissidents being arrested and imprisoned for long periods for posting anti-party articles on the web."There is a struggle at the moment - the government wants to push development but also wants to enforce control of content. The government is seeking a balance, now they allow almost any content, as long as it is not political," said a Shanghai-based internet researcher.Commercial needs are imperative for China's main portals and myriad smaller sites which have plunged deeper down market. "The government can control entertainment content - and it's meaningless for them to control it. They could close it all down - but what would that do to the economy?" asked Geoff He, who works in the industry.The entertainment sector will open its doors even wider next year, as foreign investors will be allowed to own a larger share of the market, which partly explains the Chinese government's willingness to let local sites off the reigns to some extent, to expand market share.Since the Sars epidemic, ADSL broadband users have hit 40 million, and varying estimates put the total number of internet users at around 100 million at present. A broadband user pays less than &#163;10 a month on average. Only a generation ago, China saw its people melting down their kitchen utensils to create steel   in an attempt to catch up with the west in Chairman Mao's ill-advised Great Leap Forward. Nowadays they are more likely to be melting their modems downloading films from sites such as 21cn.com.The paradox is that the economic benefits of the internet are clashing with the Communist party's political control. This has come about due to the current leadership's awkwardly named "informatisation" drive, which caught the country's imagination in more diverse ways than the leadership would have hoped. And the technology-led cultural revolution taking place is especially influencing the Chinese youth; around 73% of the online population are under 30. The government likes to publish slogans such as there will be a "digital Beijing" with most households online by the 2008 Olympics. What it does not like to talk about is   that large numbers of those households will be surfing porn and posting nasty messages about the party on bulletin boards. The government had hoped they would use this internet access to order takeaways, or visit the library."The virtual community demonstrates a brand new way of life, almost everything can be done through the internet," one young Shanghainese medical student commented. The under-30 age group is also China's "one child policy" generation.As a demographic group, China's netizen population is the first real post-Mao generation. They surf the internet for entertainment, news, job hunting, to send email, text messages and pictures, chat online, play games and sell secondhand items. The internet has become an integral part of China's urban youth culture along   with mobile phones, computer games, Taiwanese pop, Korean soap opera stars and Japanese cartoons.With so many young people online, the entertainment slant on content is taking over. Lawrence Tse, a partner with Shanghai-based venture capital firm Gobi Partners, expects there will be as many as 140 online game titles operating in China by the end of the year. The cost of domestically developed titles can be between $1-2m, while off-the-shelf games can cost between $1-10m.The pressure on young people in modern China is high - families with only one child have elevated expectations. The loneliness of long hours of study and the strict school system means many turn to the escapism of the web to find friends. The phenomenon of internet friends, known as "Wangyou", is increasingly popular. It's impossible to calculate how many   people have formed relationships on the internet without having met face-to-face, but online chat is one of the most popular applications for China's netizens.The China news service recently reported a new trend. In Wuhan, prosecutors have processed 10 cases where Wangyou met in a karaoke room or hotel, and then one party drugged the other and stole their belongings. The most common crime - when web friends steal the other's mobile phone on meeting - has become endemic. A Shanghai foreign resident recounted a common tale of a Wangyou meeting not going to plan in a local bar: "The guy borrowed her mobile phone and disappeared. She was in tears. He never paid for the drinks either."Wangyou online dating services are one of the biggest moneyspinners for China's most popular portal sites. But complaints are rising about the numbers of suggestive and crude messages being sent. Other sites carry classified ads for prostitutes.The most recent boost to the whole Wangyou phenomenon is blogging which has come on to the scene only recently. Geoff He names two factors as being responsible for this sudden popularity - the Muzi Mei blog, a Guangdong-based columnist who wrote about her sex life, and the writings of Fangxing Dong who exposed a publishing house which censored his introduction to an official biography of China's leading telecom firm, Huawei.Most Chinese internet users can now access foreign news and information almost as readily as internet users in most other countries. The internet safety division of the Public Security Bureau has tried to install a system of monitoring and blocking, but given the sheer volume of traffic, the officials have little real chance of monitoring even a small percentage of user behaviour.Certain servers are watched more than others, but as China's internet service providers boom, the Chinese government looks to be fighting a losing battle against market forces, though it has won some victories - such as forcing Google to drop its cache function.What this has meant is that officials practise what is known colloquially as "killing the chicken to show the monkey". When, either through an informer or by chance, officials come across seditious content within China, they will publicly punish the individual involved, in the hope that the mass users will be frightened into behaving themselves and practise self-censorship. Whether they will or not, only the future will tell.www.Netease.comwww.Sina.comwww.tom.comwww.Sohu.com
Microsoft will use next month's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas to announce the availability of SPOT (Smart Personal Objects Technology) watches from a range of manufacturers. ThePCWorldstory says SPOT "was first announced at CES in January 2003" but of course it was shown in Bill Gates's Comdex keynote in November 2002.Comment: Who wants or needs a watch that can deliver weather reports, news, stock prices, sports scores etc? Probably not many people, but the watch is just a sampler. They might want a clock radio, fridge magnet, phone, car dashboard read-out or some other device that does the same thing. People who wouldn't be interested in getting news and sports tickers on a watch might well be interested in having them on an iPod, for example. However, if so, would they be willing to pay $9.95 per month for the service? I wouldn't. I think that's at least twice too much. I'd have priced it at $3.95 or 99 cents a week....
The digital divide is stopping many people from exploring new learning opportunities and harming their long-term life chances, the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) said today at the first UK conference on equality in the digital age.Ian Kearns, the associate director of the IPPR, Downing Street's favoured thinktank, said: "Progress has been made in this area, but it is still the case that access to IT equipment and the internet is far more prevalent among the wealthy than it is among poorer sections of society."He also said that the gap affected already excluded groups: "As a country we are also missing many possibilities to use new technology to address the needs of specific groups such as older people or the disabled. The government cannot afford to be complacent on this issue."But the junior minister for young people and adult skills, Ivan Lewis, said: "The government has made a significant commitment to developing ICT access, with £396m invested in UK online centres since 1999 and over £300m in learndirect."Speaking at the conference, Mr Lewis said that these initiatives were reaching the people who were the most excluded: "Nearly three quarters of centre users had previously not used the internet due to lack of access or skills, and over 60% were from socially excluded groups."The conference follows on from the first UN summit to discuss the technology gap between rich and poor nations. The global forum held in Geneva last week produced what has been called the first constitution for the information age, declaring more than half the world's population should have access to some form of electronic media by 2015.
WHB Sutherland Ltd is hardly the most obtrusive of businesses: a smallish pharmacy servicing the needs of the residents of Thurso, Britain's northernmost mainland town. It's not the sort of shop you would make a special trip to - unless, that is, you have the desire to be a millionaire.The desire, however, must be mixed with more than a little credulity.The scam goes like this: an unsolicited phone call or email from a Nigerian who informs you that you have inherited an oilfield. Considerable wealth - generally proffered at around $41m (&#163;23m) - will be yours. But, first, there is the small matter of an upfront fee.Should you have any doubts about the veracity of the claim, there is headed notepaper and official-sounding titles to allay your fears. Then, of course, there is always the bank.A telephone call to the Continental Trust Bank in Thurso, Caithness, should set your mind at rest. On the end of the line you will hear a friendly bank manager, albeit with an African accent not commonly heard in the remotest parts of rural Scotland, who will reassure you what a good idea it is to deposit $57,000 to secure so much more capital.Should you still harbour doubts, the bank's address will be an obvious reassurance. The Continental Trust Bank is located at 9 Trail Street, Thurso. If anything goes wrong you can always pop up there personally, despite the somewhat lengthy journey, and speak to the manager face to face.And that is what at least two couples did.Unfortunately, 9 Trail Street Thurso is home to WHB Sutherland Ltd, a unwitting pharmacy with not even a passing connection to Nigerian oilfields or banks. "We had a Mediterranean couple come in - either Spanish or Italian - looking for the bank who were very upset by the whole thing. We suggested they should contact the police," said Andrew Paterson, manager of the pharmacy. "We then had an American couple who took it a little better."Although the scam, known as the advance fee fraud, or the Nigerian 419 after the Nigerian penal statute which deals with it, has been around since the 1980s and is perhaps the most widely publicised on the internet, people from across the world have been duped by its Thurso variation.Would-be millionaires from Norway to New Zealand have been contacting the pharmacy in search of their missing money.Arlen Hughes, from Wyoming, in the US, fell for it."I received a phone call from a fellow in Nigeria saying that I had inherited an oil company," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "They were very professional. I found a registered number in Scotland and so the researches I had found led me to believe they were on the uppity up."But the number Mr Hughes was calling in Thurso was, in fact merely a conduit for another number in London."We have received a number of complaints from people about this," said a spokesman for Northern constabulary. "The address given out does lead you to the chemist in Thurso, but the telephone number is transferred down to London so our investigations have been minimal."Spam email cons initiated by Nigerians are notorious on the internet. They follow the same pattern and there are more than 150 sites such asscamorama.comdedicated to exposing some of their more ludicrous claims, but many people still fall for them each year.Some sites claim Nigerian gangs raked in as much as $50m last year from variations on their 419 scam.
Theft of a mobile phone may be just opportunism, but could be part of multi-million-pound racket whereby tens of thousands of stolen mobiles are smuggled from the UK to Europe, Asia, or Africa.The police, Home Office, customs officials and the telecoms industry have set up a national mobile phone crime unit to gather intelligence and develop technology to stop thefts.Scotland Yard yesterday said that 83 mobiles were stolen in London each day, half the daily total for England and Wales. Of 1,000 street crimes in London each week, a third involved the theft of just a mobile phone.But gangs increasingly target shops and warehouses for larger hauls to sell abroad. Handsets can fetch between &#163;300 and &#163;600 each in India, Pakistan and Africa.The unit, officially launched today, has carried out 40 operations in a month. "We've identified people preparing phones for 'export' through Heathrow and we've identified stolen phones being used in France, Asia and Africa," explained Detective Superintendent Eddie Thomson, the Met officer in charge. "The handsets can be blocked in the UK, but they can be reprogrammed. In Asia, Africa and much of the rest of Europe, they do not even need to be reprogrammed. A new Sim card is inserted and they work.""We need to understand where these phones are going and work on ways to make them worthless to the thieves," said Commander John Yates, senior Met officer in charge of crime. He said there were 51 million mobile phones in the UK, with many households owning four or five.
In the revolting world of spam, among the penis enlargements and worse, are the money laundering frauds so palpably absurd you might think only idiots would fall for them. An innocent Scottish chemist's shop is the latest to be caught up in these Nigerian frauds. Victims were promised they would inherit an oil company in return for an up-front fee. The fraudsters used the pharmacy's address, pretending it was a bank, and now dupes from Norway, New Zealand and the US have been turning up in Thurso to try and get their money back. How could anyone be so stupid? Easily.With embarrassment, feeling a fool, I admit I was a victim of a Nigerian fraud. Looking back now, I can't think why I was so easily taken in but I did make a reasonable check. A hand-written letter arrived from a Nigerian 14-year-old called Sandra. It was nicely written on a religious school's headed paper, though not too perfect, telling me her sad story. Both her parents had died and she had to complete her last two years of school. Her results were good, and it would only cost &#163;100 a year for the last two years to cover the cost. I wrote back and I also wrote to her headmaster, whose name appeared on the school letterhead, at a PO box. He wrote back in more adult handwriting to say Sandra was indeed a needy and promising student, and he enclosed her last term's report. It was an impressive document, each subject carefully filled in by a teacher with different writing, giving an excellent but not over-the-top report, with some subjects subtly lagging a bit behind. So I sent a cheque for &#163;200 and received another of Sandra's letters, a bit too full of God's mercy and Jesus's blessings for my taste. I had an idea I might keep in touch with her to see what became of her. If I had any doubts, &#163;200 was a modest sum for all the effort a fraudster took to create these letters.But it wasn't about the &#163;200. Not long afterwards my bank received a letter with a perfect copy of my signature, giving my bank account numbers, asking for &#163;1,000 to be transferred at once to a bank in Osaka, Japan. Luckily, the bank thought to ring me up and query it. It turned out that a host of recent scams had asked for money to be transferred to Japan and the police had alerted all banks. It took me a little while to work out how they got my signature and my bank details, but then it clicked. Sure enough, when I reported it to the police, they laughed. They knew the Sandra letters very well and the real purpose was to sting the victim's bank account. It happened again last week when my bank got another request for a &#163;1,000 transfer to Japan and I do feel a fool. Looking back at the letters now, I can see it all. For heaven's sake, she even said both her parents had died of the ebola flesh-eating virus.Some charities have been badly stung by letters from foreign lawyers telling them of dead millionaires who have left hefty bequests to them: the charity is persuaded with the aid of convincing false documents to put up substantial legal fees to access the cash, only to find there never was a bequest. But most of the scam emails everyone gets daily invite victims to participate in criminal deals, complicit with fallen corrupt dictatorships, never mind how vile the regime: the worse the regime, the more convincing the scam. Astonishingly, the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS) conducted a survey that resulted in an estimate that 1% of people initially contacted do respond positively. The particular combination of folly, greed and corruption is not as rare as might be expected.A couple in my inbox yesterday are typical: Mr Davydov Sergey of the Savings Bank of the Russian Federation tells me that an American oil consultant died in an automobile accident leaving behind $30m. No relatives can be traced and the sum will revert to the Russian government unless I will stand in as next of kin. Just send my name, address and bank details; attorneys will draw up a fake will and I get to keep 30% of the proceeds. The other email comes from Maryam Abacha, wife of the deceased Nigerian former military ruler. As well as asking to put $40m into my account if I send her my bank details, she says she'd be happy to marry me too.Everyone on email gets blitzed with these daily: offers come in from Qusay Hussein's financial adviser, holder of the missing $1bn from the Baghdad bank; bad Serbs and Bosnians; the Taliban and Afghan war lords; wherever illicit spoils need secret deals. Using real names of bank managers or politicians on the run, some are literate and urbane, others deliberately ill-spelled to fool westerners they are dealing with simple ignorant folk. In the average sting, victims hand over at least &#163;22,000 in up-front "fees" or "bribes to officials" to ease the imaginary cash transfer. Most people don't report it: the police reckon they only hear the tip of the iceberg. After all, who would admit they agreed to launder Bin Laden's cash?So who are these "victims"? The NCIS says: "Do not imagine that they are all humble little people, too stupid to know better, though some are. Many are millionaires and directors of businesses approached personally. They are life's natural risk-takers just doing the very things that made them rich in the first place." Just so. Should the police waste time on "victims" so venal and dumb?The NCIS claims most of the scams orginate from Nigeria or the large global Nigerian diaspora. It began small-time in the 60s and mushroomed in the 90s, with large bundles of air-mails from Nigeria; two years ago it moved on to email. Why from there? "Clever, educated people with a long history as expert traders and dealers, they don't see it as criminal but as business. And they may think westerners deserve all they get."The line between honest and dishonest business is easily blurred. We point fingers at Nigeria, this richest and best-educated country in Africa that should be a mighty power had it not been so catastrophically misgoverned, with legendary corruption. Yet what kind of global honesty is promoted, what model of good capitalism and good government? The US is about to hold another election that will be largely bought and sold by business and oil interests. Think of the corruption that US and UK conservatives carelessly unleashed upon the former Soviet Union in the name of extreme free market ideology.The image of capitalism now being spread about the world is cowboy stuff: little gleaned from America extols the virtue of regulation, restraint and control. We reap from the third world what we sow: if some Nigerians learned lessons in capitalism from global oil companies that helped corrupt and despoil that land, it is hardly surpising they absorbed some of the Texan oil values that now rule the White House. Alas, the querulous, navel-gazing and increasingly non-internationalist EU seems in no mood at present to offer a different and better face of capitalism to the world.p.toynbee@guardian.co.uk
Meet the family. First there was the Peugeot 307 - a hip little hatchback, though not frighteningly or intimidatingly so, sent in to replace the 306, which is the best-selling Peugeot of all time. (There are more than 2.7m of them out there somewhere.) The 307 begat the 307 SW, which was a hatchback with an inflated sense of its own boot and which, incredibly, seated seven people. On seats and everything. That's a pretty cool trick for a hatchback, even if some of those people necessarily ended up sitting with their ankles in their ears.The 307 SW begat the five-seater 307 Estate. And only now do we get the runt of the litter - the 307 CC, a hatchback with the hatch hacked off and a retractable metal roof bolted on, and a car with no intention, really, of seating anyone other than you and the partner of your choice. The 307 CC does have two fully-moulded rear seats, but these are tokenistic in the traditional sports car manner and only people no bigger than briefcases will welcome the chance to wedge into them.The windscreen is closer to horizontal than on the hatchback, and the rear overhang is longer. And, with these adaptations in place, Peugeot reckons this coupe cabriolet version is "set to make hearts skip a beat". I think it looks like a partly melted choc-ice, though I suppose one of those can have the same effect, if dropped down the back of your neck. What the 307 CC certainly looks like is a car that has been built from another car, possibly at home in his garage by a very determined amateur over a long series of weekends. And you wonder whether this might hold it back a little in the marketplace, given that your average coupe cabriolet driver is probably going to be seeking something that at least does a decent impression of being sui generis .Still, slide inside and feel the leather. My 307 CC, the 180bhp 2.0 litre version, was hide-bound in the nicest possible sense. The pale tan leather wasn't just on the seats, it was all over the interior like an expensive suit, making this one of the only cars I have ever driven with a hand-stitched dashboard. Entering the car was like being shoved headfirst into a cowboy boot. If the idea doesn't entirely appeal, you can get a cheaper version with more plastic in it.Seated there, in your own personal branch of World of Leather, with the part-metallic steering wheel in your hands, the aluminium racing-car pedals beneath your toes, the retro clocks and dials spread around you, and with almost no visibility to your rear no matter how hard you crane your neck, you could almost imagine you weren't in a customised hatchback at all, but a cute yet lethal Tarmac monster. It feels like the kind of car that's going to pin your head to the back window the minute you so much as glance at the accelerator.And this cherishable illusion persists, right until you start the engine and move off. At which point the almost humorous absence of twitch and poke, the conservative spongey cushioning of the ride, along with the tendancy of the engine to sound about as growly as a washing machine in its spin cycle, all broadcast the message "hatchback" in tall neon letters.Except that the 307 CC doesn't seem to have had as much thought put into it as the original 307. Take the way it lets in water, for instance. I don't know whether Peugeot got so carried away with the idea of a top-down car that it refused to contemplate the possibility that it might get driven in the wet. But I do know that, as I set off one morning after a downpour and dropped the driver's side window the better to check the road I was reversing out on to, a curtain of rain water dropped into the car from the roof, liberally dousing my right trouser leg and the inside of the door.This was shortly after I had popped open the boot and watched with curiosity as a stream of collected water from the bodywork descended over the edges of the lid into the boot. Call me old-fashioned, but in an ideal world, I would suggest, that kind of thing wouldn't happen.Still, at least the roof peels off at the push of a single button. And there aren't many hatchbacks you can say that about. It takes about 25 seconds for the electronics to run their ritual course - the back end pivoting out and the roof cleverly flipping over into the hold. And even with the roof in there, there is still room in the boot for your luggage, as long as your luggage is a pair of photograph albums and a compact disc.December may not be the optimum month in which to sample a top-down driving experience, but with the heater full on, a little suburban showing-out was possible, even on a day when the outside temperature had dropped to gasp-inducingly cold. Even so, you could achieve much the same effect by driving around in an ordinary 307 with the windows open and the hatch up. And you would have a better car.
British consumers using file-sharing networks to swap music could soon face the threat of legal action, following the example set by industry leaders in the US.Jay Berman, chairman of international recording industry group the IFPI, will warn in an article due for publication today that legal action against consumers in Europe has become an inevitability. He hints in the article that the industry body could begin filing lawsuits next year."Making available copyrighted music without permission on the internet - that means the bulk of all file-sharing - is illegal in practically every country of the world. Those who ignore this legal reality may have to face the consequences," he writes in the IFPI magazine. "Lawsuits on a large scale have so far been restricted to the US; this 'fight back' will almost inevitably have to take place internationally as well."The hardening of the IFPI's stance comes as latest figures show that the number of Europeans on the leading music file-sharing network Kazaa has overtaken the volume of Americans visiting the network. According to figures released by tracking firm Nielsen/NetRatings, about 9.4m Europeans visited the Kazaa network in October.For US users the figure was 8.2m, down from 10m in September. The number has fallen dramatically since peaking at 16m in March this year. This is the first time that Nielsen has tracked European users of the service.In June the Recording Industry Association of America prompted a furore when it announced plans to pursue legal action against individuals infringing copyright laws by offering songs for downloading.The tactic, despite generating huge amounts of bad press, appears to be working. Since September, the RIAA has filed suits against 341 American consumers. More than 200 have been settled, with most agreeing to pay fines of between $1,000 and $3,000 to avoid going to court.The IFPI would not comment further on any plans for legal action. In the article, Mr Berman, lists lawsuits as one of its tools to combat illicit downloading and says the IFPI's broad campaign "will only intensify in 2004".
To follow last week's gaming special, I was keen for a pull-out-and-keep special on the technology behind the world's bestChristmas decorations. Sadly, my great idea was knocked back.
Virtually all Britons know where they can get online - but three-quarters of them have never even visited a government website, a report out today reveals.The e-envoy, Andrew Pindar, published his fourth and final UK Online report as the government announced it would appoint a new head of e-government early next year.Mr Pindar, whose contract runs out in April, said the job of ensuring that all Britons had access to the internet was almost done. Over two-thirds of government services are now online, every local council has a website, and 96% of Britain's population are aware of a place where they can readily access the internet.The new head of e-government - who, like his predecessor, will be based in the Cabinet Office - will concentrate on encouraging the public to make more use of government websites and on automating back-office Whitehall functions. Fewer than one in 12 internet users have ever carried out a transaction with the government online, and three-quarters of the population have never visited a government website at all.The trade and industry secretary, Patricia Hewitt, said a digital inclusion panel would be set up with the aim of ensuring everyone could get online from home in five years' time. "Every home in the UK should have a connection to online services through a digital network by 2008 - whether through a personal computer, DTV, mobile phone or other device," she said.The report welcomes the proliferation of more than 3,000 .gov.uk websites but admits the lack of a single "clearly branded and heavily promoted" portal had held back progress. The current UK Online portal "falls a long way short of providing a single delivery point", it says.A "single sign on" page would help the public navigate the thousands of sites and would enable people to register just once to access all of them, it says. It would also help to allay their concerns about internet security.Some sites - notably NHS Direct, driving theory test bookings, Companies House and Ucas - have proved very successful, the report adds. Nonetheless - despite the introduction of self-assessment tax returns and online benefits - only 8% of internet users have ever carried out an online transaction with the government.Douglas Alexander, the cabinet office minister, said the new head of e-government would make government services more "customer-focused". He or she will also help to fulfil the chancellor's promise to cut back on costly Whitehall bureaucratic functions.The report also confirms that e-voting will not be an option in the next general election. An "e-enabled" election will take place "some time after 2006," it says, after a series of local election pilots.
KaZaA has come top ofLycos's annual list of most used search terms, ahead of Britney Spears and Dragonball. Other big stories included "War in Iraq (#15), the rape allegation against NBA star Kobe Bryant (#6), and the Paris Hilton sex tape. (#4)" says the report."OTHER BIG BREAKOUTS OF 2003: Pop psychologist Dr Phil, Atkins competitor The South Beach Diet, Japanese cartoon Inuyasha, maturing teen queens The Olsen Twins, wrestling babe Torrie Wilson, Jamaican dancehall rapper Sean Paul, porn star-turned-politician Mary Carey, rockers Coldplay, jazz-pop chanteuse Norah Jones, and celebrity dirt website The Smoking Gun."The top three musical acts were . t.A.T.u., Good Charlotte, and B2K.
In Japan, Sanyo Electric is launching a TS41 mobile phone that you can use just by pressing it to your face. "The tiny vibrations from the phone travel through bones in the face to the ear — even if the phone isn't placed next to the ear, reportsAP. "The voice sounds clear even if you're wearing earplugs," says Sanyo. "NTT DoCoMo, has an experimental model called Finger Whisper that is merely a wristband with a microphone and earphone in it. Users talk into the wristband while sticking a finger in their ears, sending it vibrations that the ear and the brain convert to sound," says the report.
Last Thursday the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 came into effect. The name does not, you must admit, exactly trip off the tongue, which may explain why the mainstream media labelled it the 'anti-spam law'.This is misleading because the new rules are, in fact, a dog's breakfast of miscellaneous regulations covering things such as: security of electronic communications; the use of 'cookies' by web sites; the holding of usage data for telecoms subscribers; itemised billing for telecoms services; prevention of calling line identification for telephone calls; processing of location data for mobile phones; tracing of malicious or nuisance calls and emergency calls; privacy in telephone directories; unsolicited faxes and voice calls - oh and rules governing the sending of 'unsolicited electronic direct marketing' (aka spam).As far as spam is concerned, from last Thursday anyone to whom a company or individual wishes to send   unsolicited mail has first to obtain the recipient's express consent.This affects thousands of UK web sites - in fact, any one that includes a check-box labelled 'tick here if you do not wish to obtain email from us'.To be legal from now on, the label on such a check-box must say 'tick here if you wish to receive marketing information'. Failure to tick the box can no longer be construed as passive consent.So far, so good. But there are loopholes. For example, organisations can - under some conditions - continue to send unsolicited email to persons whose details they already possess, despite the fact that they previously opted out.So if you've bought something from a company and they have your details as a result, they can still legally   send you spam. And so on and so forth under three coats of prime legal verbiage. Methinks m'learned friends are going to have a field day.Whether the regulations have any impact on the amount of junk email cluttering up your inbox remains to be seen, but I wouldn't bet on it.For one thing, most British companies are not up to speed on the new regulations. WebAbacus, an online marketing specialist, claimed last week that 98 per cent of firms do not give enough information about files that track user movements, or provide the simple opt-out option   required by the rules. 'Companies are either not aware of the legislation', said a company spokesman, 'or are ignoring it'.For another, most spam comes from outside the EU - specifically from the US and regions further afield (not to mention Nigeria, a particularly fertile source of online scams).So whatever the EU does won't solve the problem. What the US does is much more important.And here the omens are unpromising. After much huffing and puffing, the US lawmakers finally got around to legislating.A bill currently going through Congress threatens law-breaking spammers with swingeing fines and jail sentences, bans them from using false return addresses and requires that pornographic spam be labelled as such.It sounds fierce; spammers must use subject lines that identify what is inside their messages; the automated 'harvesting' of email addresses from websites is banned; and messages must include a mechanism that lets people indicate that they do not want to receive any more messages.Given the criminal mentality of most spammers, this is a bit like leaving a note for a burglar informing him of your desire not to be burgled again.And close inspection reveals that the US legislation doesn't actually ban all spam - it just institutes an opt-out scheme that allows businesses to send mail until people say they do not want it.The US law, in other words, is an ass. The EU Directive is well-intentioned but futile. We will just have to keep hitting that delete key.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
Despite fine words at this week's UN-sponsored World Summit on the Information Society, delegates from the developing world have slated the event for failing to come up with the funds crucial to achieving its stated aims.The conference's central goal is to get the internet, telephones and other communications to at least half the world's inhabitants by 2015.Doing so, many delegates argued, could speed up progress towards solutions to many problems in the developing world, including poverty, Aids, poor education and child mortality rates.But IT aid workers such as Wainaina Mungai, a Kenyan seeking to spread news and information through digital radios, is sceptical that pronouncements from the gathering's podium would help much."There have been many initiatives, summits, declarations, very many commitments on text that have yet to be actualised," Mr Mungai said. "They need to put down money."But governments and international agencies pledged only a trickle of financial support when, according to one organiser of the conference, it would take more than $6bn (£3.43bn) to extend telephone and internet coverage to all corners of the world.Mr Mungai's funding is meagre as he tries to expand his work beyond  pilot schemes in a half-dozen or so villages in Kenya and India. It uses WorldSpace satellite radio to relay villagers' information that they have sent to a central office via email and post.
 
The summit - which was attended by 12,000 business and civic leaders, government officials and more than 40 head of state - also rejected a proposal from the Senegalese president, Abdoulaye Wade, to create a voluntary digital solidarity fund to help governments, companies and non-profit organisations narrow the so-called digital divide."It's in order to purchase equipment from developed countries, equipment to log on to the Internet," Mr Wade told the conference, adding that western companies would benefit from being able to sell more goods.But western leaders insisted that existing funding mechanisms are adequate, essentially deferring serious discussion on the matter until the next information society summit in Tunisia in 2005.Work on the digital divide was overshadowed by contentious issues such as how best to preserve freedom of expression and whether an independent UN agency should take over internet governance from the agency spawned by the US commerce department.
 
Some financial support was announced, however.A US aid agency, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, pledged $400m (£229m) in loans and loan guarantees for US companies that invest overseas in yet-to-be-determined digital divide projects.A UN task force also launched an e-schools initiative to coordinate and connect existing but disparate efforts to connect schools to the global communication network - one of the summit's 2015 goals.But little money has been committed to the project so far, and although the European Union has said it may be ready to contribute additional funds, it hasn't gone as far as to put a figure on any possible donation.The EU information commissioner, Erkki Liikanen, said too much attention had been paid to funding projects. He said regulatory reforms - eliminating government monopolies and encouraging open markets, for one - would do much more to encourage private investments.The World Bank's vice president for infrastructure, Nemat Shafik, echoed that sentiment and said the summit was useful in getting the issue on national agendas.But Sean O'Siochru, a spokesman for the London-based group Communication Rights in the Information Society, said the lack of funding and other specifics is an ominous sign."There are some fine words, but not a whole lot in it," he said. "It's one thing to sign on, but it's another for anything to happen in a region or a country."Andy Carvin, a digital divide expert at the Benton Foundation in Washington DC, would also like to see more specific goals and strategies from world leaders."It's interesting in a cynical way to see how governments have come to agree to pass the buck on a variety of these issues, including the digital solidarity fund," he said.The secretary general of the International Telecommunication Union, Yoshio Utsumi, said many of the details - including financing - will be addressed at the Tunisia summit. But many other specifics, he said, must remain the responsibility of individual countries.While the government leaders made their speeches in main auditorium, other people and organizations showcased their projects in a separate hall on the floor below, an arrangement which some delegates saw as symbolic of the divisions which still exist.There was relatively little interaction, with government officials using their own entrances, restaurants, lounges and even toilets."The people we've seen are mainly from NGOs," said Claire Flus, who works on providing access and local content in Brazilian shanty towns."The governments, I really can't see them. I don't find it obvious at all they are supporting this."
Lastminute.com, Britain's highest profile dotcom company, yesterday found itself in a fight to defend its accounting as stockbroker Collins Stewart circulated a critical analysis that claimed its shares are "ridiculously overvalued".A furious Lastminute responded by saying the research was riddled with errors and the broker would be forced to correct them.Collins Stewart is led by chief executive Terry Smith, whose Accounting for Growth book in the 1980s exposed questionable but legal accounting methods used by public companies.Mr Smith is not the author of the Lastminute report, but analyst Stephan Kalthof examines many of his areas of interest, including use of provisions after acquisitions, capitalisation of development costs and the detail of cashflow statements."We believe we have spotted some real problems for this stock and rate it a clear sell," Mr Kalthof wrote. "It displays all the warning signs of extreme value destruction."One leading member of the Lastminute board said: "Collins Stewart have not spoken to us and it &#91;the analysis&#93; is full of factual errors."They obviously have an obligation to correct the mistakes, but we are fairly cool about it - we have lots of great support from other analysts and it is not as if Collins Stewart is a grade one &#91;investment&#93; house."The company believes the report has been seized upon by hedge funds, which it thinks are partly responsible for the sharp fall in the company's share price in the last week. The stock, down 3.5% at 236p yesterday, has fallen for six trading days in succession for a cumulative decline of 17.5%.Lastminute still boasts a market value of almost &#163;700m, despite last month reporting an annual pre-tax profit of only &#163;200,000 after ignoring exceptional items and the amortisation of goodwill.It called the move into profitability on that definition "an extremely important milestone", and co-founder Martha Lane Fox simultaneously announced she would be stepping down as an executive.Collins Stewart says: "Even this small profit results from an accounting change; development costs have been capitalised." It also argues that Lastminute's profit has been "bought" via acquisitions and notes that the goodwill charge for the acquisition in March of online car hire firm Holiday Autos appears to have increased by &#163;16.8m to &#163;77.9m.Mr Kalthof argues that Lastminute's gross profit margins are under pressure, with its strongest source of growth coming in areas where margins are thinnest, such as airline flights. "Call us mad, but we think commission rates above 30% for booking cars are not sustainable."His final criticism is based on examination of Lastminute's cashflow and net interest statements. He suspects "financial stress" was a motive for the issue of a &euro;103m (&#163;72m) convertible bond in September.
Legislation came into force yesterday intended to make it illegal to spam EU internet users (Online, Life, December 11). But employers need to be aware they will be held responsible for stopping the sexually explicit and offensive spam entering the workplace. Since the rise of email, jokes, derogatory comments and pornography have become commonplace and generally acceptable among friends, colleagues and (to a lesser degree) strangers. Regardless of this, organisations that do not attempt to stop sexually explicit spam will be facing lawsuits from distressed employees.A PA at a financial adviser who found nine of her colleagues had circulated offensive emails about her recently received &#163;10,000 compensation after settling a sexual harassment case against her former employer. This is just the tip of the iceberg.The internet cannot be regulated. It is the responsibility of the employer to define and communicate what is acceptable for the digital medium. Email and internet usage policies and tools are the only protection an employer has.Ed MacnairNetIQIt is highly unlikely that a fine of &#163;5,000 for contacting perhaps five million people is going to be a deterrent - especially if spamming is a lucrative revenue generator, as it is, for many shady operations. Confusion remains over the penalties, but it appears the fine is not specifically assessed either per email or per campaign. Nor is it clear whether the EU has employed a new body to police the situation. This weakness is compounded by the lack of escalation for habitual spammers. There is no distinction in the law between first-timers and regular spam offenders.Reputable marketers will face additional costs and burdens to comply with the new law, but unless spammers are stopped, even an opt-in based email will still be jostling with illegal, unidentified rubbish in the inbox. This could lead to potential diminishing returns for legitimate campaigns, perhaps to the point where certain channels are abandoned. The spam problem must be confronted head-on - the spammer identified and penalised at the source.Jason GoodwinSAS UK
What is spam?Spam can be broadly defined as unsolicited junk email, and it is fast threatening to account for the majority of all email traffic. The Spamhaus Project, an anti-spam organisation, estimates that 60% of western email traffic is spam. Most people are resigned to spam, regarding it as an inevitable nuisance and not realising that most of it - the kind that advertises outright fraud - constitutes a criminal offence. They also do not realise that there are ways in which both individuals and governments can beat the spammers.Computer consultantsGartneruse four categories to define spam, but only the first of these is spam "proper" - the most abundant, annoying and often illegal kind. Gartner calls this typepure trash; often-fraudulent messages from fictitious senders promoting pornography, prescription drugs, get-rich-quick schemes, "miraculous" cosmetic treatments and so on. The second ischain letters; which are jokes, hoaxes or games often forwarded by someone you know. Then there isoccupational spam, such as large-scale interoffice memos; and finally,emailshotsfrom legitimate companies where the recipient probably agreed to be added to the firm's mailing list.How does spam work?"Pure trash" spam is both clever and often illegal under new legislation being introduced in many parts of the world, including the EU. It is also difficult to trace or block because of the way spammers disguise the true origin of the mail, usually by "spoofing" - the forgery of the From: and Reply To: addresses in their emails.If, besides the vast volumes of spam in your inbox, you are also receiving mysterious delivery failure messages in response to emails you never sent to people you don't know, it's possible that your email been spoofed in the "from" field of a message sent out by a spammer, or a message generated by a virus that harvests emails from the email address books on the computers it infects.Spoofing has now been taken to its troubling conclusion with the advent of "Trojan horse" viruses, by which the computers of unwitting users are used as relay stations for spam.By "relay-raping" - targeting poorly protected servers that relay emails - spammers can disguise the path of a message and so hide their tracks and get their messages through. Spam is also commonly routed through servers in different continents - for example, a spam message that appears to have originated in the US may have actually been sent via an Asian server, which unlike many of the western internet service providers (ISPs), has no rules against mass-mailings.Who and where are the spammers?Since 90% of spam is untraceable, and illegal spammers are by definition hidden, it is hard to know exactly who or where they are. But in November,Spamhauslisted 161 spammers, 132 of which were from the US.Legitimate bulk email marketing firms say that they differ from illegal spammers because they do not attempt to disguise the origin of their email, and as a legitimate company, can be contacted by telephone or post. As such, they are subject to anti-spam laws that many countries around the world, including the US and the EU, are currently introducing.How do they get my address?Legitimate bulk emailers gather addresses by asking internet users to provide their email addresses. So if you type your email address into a company website, make sure you read the small print, because you may be signing up to receive emailshots.Reputable companies should not give out your details to illegitimate spammers, whose business is founded on accumulating as many "live" (ie working) email addresses as possible.One way in which spammers fool people into divulging their email is by setting up websites that claim to offer prizes or freebies. But even if you are very careful about giving out your address, there are various ways in which spammers can construct email lists, the use or trade of which are highly profitable.Most addresses are "scraped" from internet talkboards and websites using software robots. Another method is known as a "dictionary attack", in which spammers randomly throw combinations of words and names at known domains (such as hotmail.com) until they hit upon live email addresses. Even if you never respond to spam, the spammer can tell your account exists if they do not receive a "bounce", or delivery failure message.Once constructed, these lists are sold by the million. And once your address has made it on to one list, it is only a matter of time before it is circulated and you are on scores or hundreds, causing the amount of spam you receive to rise exponentially.How do they make money?The one thing that all spammers share is their desire to make money. And unfortunately, because the cost of spamming 100m or more addresses is negligible, they only need a tiny response rate to make their businesses highly profitable.Depressingly, email users actually respond to spam in fairly large numbers. According to the Direct Marketing Association, last year 36% of users purchased a product or service after receiving a commercial email, and 9% of them responsed to an unsolicited commercial email.With most spammers happy with a response rate of one in a thousand, their most crucial business strategy is to expand their email lists ever further, thus increasing the volume of global spam.How can I stop spam from entering my inbox?There is no 100% effective way of protecting yourself from spam. There are lots of ways, however, that you can significantly reduce the amount of spam you receive.Your first move should be to make sure your computer is secure, as many computer viruses spread themselves using spam. At the very least, ensure you have anti-virus software installed on your machine with up-to-date virus definitions. If you use broadband, you should also have a firewall that can prevent hackers from gaining control of your computer remotely.Then, think about getting some anti-spam software. There is an enormous range of filters and spam killers available, and popular ones for PC users include:Spamcop,Spamnet,Mailwasher,SpamEater ProandSpamPal.The web browser Mozilla offersinbuilt spam filteringas part of its email facility. Mozilla is available for most computers including Windows, Mac OSX and Linux, is free to download.If you own an Apple computer,Mail- the email program that comes as part of the company's OSX operating system - has a spam filtering system that gets progressively better the more you use it.It is worth checking the emails filtered out by your anti-spam software to check legitimate messages have not slipped through.There are also other things you can do to prevent yourself receiving spam in the first place. When you are signing up for online services such as shopping sites or email newsletters, read the small print. You may find you are giving permission for the company concerned to send you unsolicited mails, and/or for them to pass your details on to selected third parties.When putting your email on your website or elsewhere on the internet, you can use a code to protect your address from being "harvested" by spammer. At the very simplest level, this means for example jane.perroneATguardian.co.uk. If you want to get a bit more advanced, Mail.abuse.net has a usefullist of linksthat give further details on how to hide your address from spammers.If you get a piece of junk mail that offers you the chance to remove yourself from its mailing list, never respond. That way the spammer knows that his or her email has reached a live account and will bombard you with even more messages.If you're concerned about your business's email security,this articlefrom Online should help.What is the US doing to stop spammers?New legislation aimed at stopping spam is expected to be signed into law by George Bush on January 1. The Can Spam Act - which stands for "controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing" - has been overwhelmingly condemned by anti-spam groups, though.For example the Spamhaus Project has called it "an abysmally poor law". Why? Because the Act allows spammers to send out messages willy-nilly to US email addresses, provided they offer an opportunity in every message for the receiver to opt out of getting any more messages. As Spamhaus points out, "Anyone with any sense would of course realise than if Can Spam becomes law, opting out of spammers lists will very likely become the main daytime activity for most US email users in 2003."On similar grounds, Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for the computer security firm Sophos, calls the Act "bad news for all computer users".The act is not utterly toothless, however. It does ban spammers from using open proxies  - servers that do not require a password or logon to access - to send messages with false headers and reply-to fields. Security firmLURHQhas an excellent page explaining what open proxies are and how they are used - and abused - by spammers.That isn't all. The legislation also clashes with - and effectively cancels out - stronger anti-spam laws passed at state level, for example in California. The SpamCon Foundation has a state-by-statelistof US anti-spam laws.What about Europe?A new European law that criminalises spamming comes into force today. But spam expert Dr Lindsay Marshall has warned that the legislation will have virtually no effect on the amount of spam that ends up in Europeans' inboxes.The European Commission Directive, called the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003, makes it illegal to send unsolicited emails. In other words, people will have to opt in to receive unsolicited marketing emails, with the notable exception of those sent to business addresses. Read the full text of the Directivehere(pdf file), or a Guardian Unlimited news story about the new laws and the criticism they are facinghere.
New European laws come into force today aimed at curbing the stream of unsolicited emails that chokes the inboxes of most internet users, but spam experts have condemned the measures as toothless and loophole-ridden.The EU regulations make it a criminal offence to send unsolicited commercial emails or text messages unless the receiver has agreed in advance to receive them.The government described the law as a "step in the right direction" in the fight against unsolicited emails. Net users may not notice a reduction in the number of junk mail messages they receive, however, as most spammers are located outside EU jurisdiction.The Spamhaus Project, a global spam-fighting organisation, estimates that spam make up 60% of all email traffic on the western internet, with 90% of the junk emails received in the UK originate in the US."Britain's much anticipated anti-spam law has been rendered toothless and will now do very little if anything to stop spam in the UK," Spamhaus said in a press statement.Spam expert Lindsay Marshall, a computing science lecturer at Newcastle University, also criticised the legislation."The problem is that almost all spam originates from outside Europe, particularly the USA, but this law applies only to the European Union. This law is the right idea in principle but to be honest, it will have no noticeable effect," he said.Firms using tracking devices such as cookies on their websites will also have to tell users and provide an opportunity to reject them.Businesses which have established relationships with their customers are exempt from the new laws, in an attempt to ensure that business-to-business e-marketing is not affected.Spamhaus is also concerned about this exemption."Britain's firms will continue to suffer the onslaught of ever more spam, now from spammers claiming legality. The likely outcome of this is that addresses deemed to be "business" such as "sales@company.co.uk" will be rendered useless for anything but receiving adverts."Companies or individuals that break the laws can be reported to the office of the information commissioner, which has powers to take them to court.The penalties imposed by the EU Directive on Privacy and Electronic Communication have also been criticised by Spamhaus.The law states that companies in the EU that continue to send spam will face fines and, in certain circumstances, can be sued by the recipients.In the first instance, magistrates can levy fines of up to £5,000 -  a sum Spamhaus described as a "mere slap on the wrist" for spammers who can net thousands of pounds a week from their activities. However the organisation can also be referred up to trial by jury, where there is no limit to fines.
The following apology was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Saturday December 13 2003The report below wrongly listed Core Design as one of the British game developers to                                                      have failed in 2003. In fact, the company continues to trade. Apologies.The games industry is approaching Christmas with all the wide-eyed enthusiasm of a six year old. This month, around &#163;500m worth of games will be sold in the UK alone - providing a golden end to a remarkable year for the industry."We're expecting 2003 to be another record year in volume and value terms," says Nick Parker, managing director of industry analysts Parker Consulting. "About 30% of the year's games sale will take place in December."Games publishers and developers have strained every sinew to finish their biggest blockbusters in time for the festive season. As with pop music, the Christmas number one games slot is the most coveted of the year.And this year is no different even if - for gaming aficionados - 2003 will not be held up as an example of a vintage year. Too many of the most anticipated titles have seen their release dates slip to next year.The likes of Half-Life 2, Doom II, Gran Turismo 4 and Fable appear likely to hit the shops in March or April, which will trigger a pseudo-Christmas surge in sales in spring. But this year has been an interesting (for some, in Chinese curse terms)   year for a young industry moving towards maturity.The year saw online gaming - touted as the next big thing for at least five years - finally come of age, with Microsoft and Sony launching online services for the Xbox and PlayStation 2, and vastly improved broadband penetration giving online PC gaming a new lease of life. Mobile phone gaming, too, began to generate serious revenues. Recent stories about so-called grey gamers illustrate how games are finding a wider audience than ever.Figures for the overall size of the industry in 2003 will not emerge until March but, in 2002, the UK leisure software market value topped &#163;1bn for the first time, compared with cinema box-office income of &#163;755m and video/DVD rental worth &#163;500m.At &#163;2.05bn and &#163;2.02bn respectively, video/DVD retail and overall music sales comfortably eclipsed videogames, though. Roger Bennett, director-general of the European Leisure Software and Publishers Association (Elspa), says: "The volume and value of sales has been up slightly on the past year so far."But in terms of the attention gaming is receiving, things have changed   more profoundly. This Christmas, Ladbrokes has acknowledged the importance of the games industry by taking bets on the Christmas number one. Its book makes moderately depressing reading for the gaming purist: of the 13 titles on which Ladbrokes will take bets only three - Pop Idol, Manhunt and True Crime - are original titles rather than sequels.The four most-fancied titles - Lord Of The Rings: Return Of The King, Fifa Football 04, Medal Of Honor: Rising Sun and The Sims: Busting Out, in descending order - are published by the mighty Electronic Arts. Clued-up punters who spotted Lord Of The Rings: Return Of The King offered at 14-1 in November will almost certainly thank Tolkien and Peter Jackson for a hefty Christmas bonus.Return Of The King is now 2-1 favourite - shamefully, since although it looks good, it is not much fun to play. The fun but insubstantial Pop Idol has slipped from 1-2 favourite in November to a more tempting 6-1.David McMorrow, Ladbrokes' marketing manager, is happy with the way in which the betting industry's first book focusing on videogames has progressed: "It has been quite popular - the odds keep changing even now," he says. "It was customer demand, more than anything, that encouraged us to run the book. Previously, aunties and uncles might have picked up things like train sets for kids at Christmas, but videogames are becoming a lot more mainstream."We wouldn't rule out running other videogames books at different times of the year."The importance of marketing muscle is graphically illustrated by the presence of Fifa Football 04 as joint second-favourite: you cannot get odds on its superior (but PlayStation 2-only) rival Pro Evolution Soccer 3.New versions of old stalwarts such as Tony Hawk's Underground, Championship Manager 02/03, Mario Kart: Double Dash and Eye Toy: Groove also feature. Arguably the most innovative mass-appeal game of   2003, Ubisoft's XIII, does not, nor does Microsoft's glorious Project Gotham Racing 2.Elspa's Roger Bennett agrees that "sequel-itis" is a problem. "One area that does concern us is the lack of innovation following the inevitably risk-averse position of publishers. There is too much dependence on sequels and licences: one wonders where the new Tomb Raiders and the like will come from. It is an issue the industry does need to address."Hardware-wise, 2003 was an unprecedented year, as three major consoles hit stages of maturity. The big loser was Nintendo which - despite lowering the price of its GameCube to a trifling &#163;79.99 - could not overtake Microsoft's Xbox in total sales. Sony's PlayStation 2, however, towers above its rivals. Microsoft has sold around 10m Xboxes worldwide, against Sony's staggering 62m PlayStation 2s - including 5m in the UK alone.Nintendo has shipped (rather than sold) 5.6m GameCubes - a figure that must be taken with a pinch of salt, as it stopped manufacturing the GameCube for a period, due to huge inventory build-ups.Despite the disparity between the numbers of people using the platforms, online console gaming is proving to be a much more level playing field for Microsoft and Sony. Microsoft is claiming 500,000 subscribers worldwide to its Xbox Live service, while it is believed between 750,000 and 1m gamers subscribe to Sony's PlayStation 2 online service.Bennett sees the rise of online gaming and mobile phone gaming as the year's biggest plus for the industry. "This year, new business models have   begun to appear, with the take-up of mobile and online gaming accelerating among publishers, as well as activity in other areas, such as interactive television and handhelds," he says. "The traditional retail model has been tight on shelf space for the smaller publishers, but 2003 has seen them find new ways of attracting the public."Next year looks set to be one of the most exciting years in the games industry's history. Microsoft and Sony have dropped broad hints that they will unveil the next-generation versions of the Xbox and PlayStation 2 next year. Indeed, Microsoft has already confirmed that its next console will use an IBM processor and an ATI graphics chip.The big launches will probably come at the E3 Show in May, although it is unlikely either will go on sale until 2005. With Microsoft firmly   established in the games industry, it will approach the next generation of consoles on a level playing field with Sony, and an almighty scrap between the two is guaranteed to ensue.Sony's PlayStation Portable will also be unveiled next year, and may just squeeze into the shops in time for Christmas. Nintendo has said it will launch a new item of portable hardware at E3, too - perhaps incorporating mobile phone functionality along the lines of Nokia's flawed but interesting N-Gage.It will be fascinating to see how quickly Nokia comes up with a (surely 3G-capable) replacement for the N-Gage - it has a history of upgrading its products on an 18-month cycle.With Half-Life 2 - perhaps the most-anticipated game in the past five years - plus Halo 2 for the Xbox, Gran Turismo 4, Peter Molyneux's innovative role-playing game Fable and Doom III (from legendary first-person shoot-'em-up developer id Software) are all due to arrive in spring . Despite all the activity, however, the once-mighty UK developer industry saw an astounding litany of companies shuffling off to the code-shop in the sky in 2003. They included Kaboom, HotGen, Computer Artworks, developer/ publisher Rage, Runecraft, Lost Toys, Crawfish, Toys In The Attic, Software Creations and studios run by Infogrames in Sheffield and Vis Entertainment in London.If next year sees a comparable amount of blood on the tracks, the UK will swiftly cease to be a world force in game development. Many developers blamed lack of adventurousness by publishers, but Bennett adds an explanation: "The increased level of investment involved in game development is bound to lead to contraction. But there is always room for niche publishers and niche developers. I would suggest that every talented person who worked for those defunct developers will find themselves a new job in the industry - the demand is still there."Eidos, previously the standard-bearer of British games publishing,   had an annus horribilis, fuelled by the poor performance of the buggy Tomb Raider: Angel Of Darkness. The innovative but over-complicated Republic flopped, and Championship Manager developer Sports Interactive parted company with the publisher (although Eidos retains the right to publish further Championship Managers). On the plus side, legendary old-skool publisher Mastertronic made a return (with a range of republished budget titles), and the first fruits of Microsoft's acquisition of Rare Software appeared.The inaugural Edinburgh International Games Festival - an adjunct of the Edinburgh Festival - was a success, but videogame show shenanigans are on the agenda for the UK in 2004. GameStars, which initially took the form of a televised games awards ceremony, will be expanded into a show next year, taking on the ailing ECTS Show. The industry is in a ferment of indecision, as it tries to work out which of the rivals will prevail.In general, though, says Bennett: "There is a great deal of confidence among the industry. On the cultural side, it is beginning to receive credibility through events like the Edinburgh International Games Festival and the way in which the likes of Sony have developed art exhibitions that relate to games. The UK games market remains the biggest in Europe and the third biggest in the world, and as far as games being accepted as a mass-market, enjoyable experience are concerned, the UK is way ahead of the game."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
The number of UK homes and businesses with broadband internet access is now more than three million, according to figures published today.According to Oftel, the telecoms regulator, more than 40,000 households and companies per week are installing the technology, which offers "always on" connections and faster downloading speeds.One in five UK homes with internet access now has a broadband connection, meaning that the figure has more than doubled over the past year.David Edmonds, the director-general of Oftel, said: "Broadband is one of the fastest-growing new technologies in recent years."It is transforming the way consumers and businesses use the internet, and is becoming an important market in its own right."In the last five years, the internet has moved from the margins to the mass market, with half of all UK households and two-thirds of businesses now online."The e-commerce minister, Stephen Timms, added: "We have reached the three million figure earlier than expected, and this is great news for the broadband market."The UK was a slow starter, but real progress is now being made."
Getting hold of Stoke-on-Trent city council is about to get easier. In the new year, you will be able to text it about problems with litter, vandalism, drugs issues or rent arrears. In partnership with Vodafone, the council is preparing to launch a high-profile text-based service, and people will be invited to send text messages to one central number. Keywords will be used - such as vandalism - to help deliver a message quickly to the relevant department."If the keyword appears in the text, it's automatically routed to the right department," explains Mike Bailey, principal research and development officer for Stoke-on-Trent city council. The call centre will also intercept any texts without keywords and send them to the relevant area.But what happens if they get snowed under with messages? "We hope we are. It will indicate that we are engaging with the public more thoroughly." Bailey is hoping the new texting initiative will give a voice to people living in more deprived areas. "We're hoping to reach a part of the community who don't use other means to communicate with us."Across the country, more councils are turning to texting. Many see SMS as a way of engaging with young people who traditionally pay little attention to their local authorities. Crewe and Nantwich borough council is setting up a text database of young people so the council can inform them of services and consult with them. "We've identified that we are not good at communicating with young people. Texting is a medium they're used to. It's a way of getting them involved,"   explains Louise Musa, head of member liaison democratic services for Crewe and Nantwich. Already a small group of young people has been consulted via texts for views on the re-development of skateboard parks and the results have been positive. "We're building it up gradually. If we're making decisions about things that will affect young people, the councillors want to make sure their decisions are informed rather than assumed ones," says Musa.The platform for the council's new texting service is being provided by London-based technology house, Sign-Up.To, but eventually it will be run in house. "We're training up each department so they can use and maintain their own text lists," explains Matt McNeill, director of Sign-Up.To. While he thinks councils will   make themselves more accessible by going down this route, McNeill says councils have to be careful about the nature of the messages they pump out. "It's making sure the messages are relevant to the audiences. It has to be made specific because mobile is such a personal medium."He feels texting is ideal for time-sensitive messages or for councils to drive people to take specific actions. "If they use it appropriately, it could make councils more accessible in the long run. It's going to help councils appear more relevant."For parents in Scotland, the onset of winter can be a time of school closures. Fife council has launched a text alert service to let them know as quickly as possible. So far, more than 200 parents have visited Fife's site and signed up to receive alerts. The   service is being expande d to provide information on road closures or elderly day centres being shut due to severe conditions.But Fife is keen to emphasise that texting is not the only method of communication. "It's to do with people having a variety of ways of interacting with the council," says Fiona Armstrong, Fife's media manager. "Different people like having different ways of access. We're looking at how we can be more proactive."Armstrong hopes that texting can be used to make council transport services more responsive to people who are dependent on adapted minibuses for travel. Text-based job alerts are also under consideration so that information on the latest vacancies for specific industries could immediately be sent to your phone.   Armstrong also wants to look at introducing snapshot polls for young people to elicit their views on matters such as transport services.If text messaging spreads, it is bound to affect the culture of local councils. But if councils are going to be accessed via text, they will have to become much faster on their feet. It's one thing putting text services in place, but councils know they need to reply promptly to messages.The other question that hangs over these early pilots is whether sufficient numbers of people will be bothered to text their councils. You can understand why a young person might want to quickly text MTV to win tickets to a hot gig but somehow, Stoke-on-Trent city council doesn't have quite the same appeal. Only time will tell.
While we all watch the hunting down of net users who have used peer-to-peer software to share sound files, some of us are beginning to ask where the next hit is going to be. My prediction is that companies will start to aggressively pursue internet users who link to their sites without permission.There has been a worrying increase in organisations which post legal warnings about other sites linking to their site, and an equally worrying increase in law firms and other bodies advising against deep linking.Currently, there are two types of link you can make: a shallow link and a deep link. A shallow link is a link to a home page, while a deep link is a link to a page below the home page.Companies are now posting legal notices which restrict linking. There are a number of variants: some ban linking, others ban deep linking, while many ask you to email them to ask permission, usually with a coda that this permission could be rescinded in the future. A good example of the restrictions companies are placing on other sites can be found on the Apple site, where it expressly forbids the use of crawlers, spiders and other automatic means used by search engines to gather information.The company also forbids deep linking in that you are not allowed to "circumvent the navigational structure or presentation of the site or any content", a euphemistic phrase that effectively disbars deep linking.The policy is in contrast to the hip, web-centric image the company transmits to the world. What are the reasons? There are probably two.The first is ignorance. Many lawyers and media staff still do not have any understanding of computer technology, let alone the internet. They, for example, do not realise a hyperlink is effectively a reference to another page in the same sense that a reference in an academic paper is a reference to another paper.The second reason is commercial. A company that restricts linking to its home page is forcing the visitor to trawl through banner adverts and company information before finding what is required.In America, the courts have not found that deep links to web pages were either a copyright infringement or a trespass. Similarly, in the UK there have not been any successful explicit prosecutions for deep linking. But a worrying case for British law is the recent case between the bookmakers William Hill and the British Racing Board. William Hill reused data about horse races and the horses entered from it on its web site. William Hill lost the case and judgment was entered against it based on a recent EU directive that concerned database copyright.On the basis of the William Hill case, legal companies with media specialisations are now warning clients to be wary of deep linking - some advise against doing it at all.The rationale is that the definition of a database in the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patents Act covers a web page as materials arranged in a systematic or methodical way that can be accessed using electronic means (for example a browser). Even the UK Association of Online Publishers, which should be in the forefront of fighting for net rights, recommends   that if you deep link to another website, you should seek permission.Clearly, we are seeing a process of creep where legal companies and other advisory bodies are creating a climate where linking in the internet will eventually become a licensed activity. The first victims, as ever, will not be companies but individuals.However, not all is gloom. Organisations that have attempted to bar all links or deep links to their sites have emerged battered. Last year, National Public Radio, the equivalent of the BBC in the US, demanded that anyone who links to its site has to apply for permission.There was a furore that led to the NPR ombudsman being inundated by complaints and NPR being submerged by emails asking for deep-linking permission. This resulted in the linking policy being rescinded.What should you do if you are threatened by a company that disapproves of a deep link? I would advise you to first remove the link, and replace it with some sentence explaining why the link has been removed.Next, tell the world what has happened: inform bulletin boards and newsgroups associated with the company's products, write to newspapers, post details on websites such as Slashdot. The resulting furore would almost certainly reverse the policy and also, more importantly, eventually help create a climate where we treat ultra-cautious, over-restrictive advice from legal firms and quasi- official trade bodies with the disdain and derision that it rightly deserves.
It being Thursday, the newOnlineis online, and also in print. But there's a twist to today's edition. We've done something we don't often do, and cleared out most of the usual features to focus on one subject: games. It wasn't a hard decision to make: as Steve Boxer explains in ourcover story, gaming is now huge in Britain and across the world. An increasingly mature audience is playing increasingly mature games, with game sales now worth more than cinema box office takings in this country (check out our team's picks for thetop five games on each platform). New genres are appearing in the form ofmobileandmultiplayergaming. And next year we expect to get first glimpses of a PlayStation 3 and XBox 2. Heady days in an area we hope to do a lot more on in the weeks and months to follow. You'll find the full contentshere.
GameCube by Steve BoxerThe GameCube is an attractive buy, costing less than &#163;80, but this year it suffered from a dearth of new games in comparison with the Xbox and PlayStation 2. Still, you cannot go wrong with any of the following.Mario Kart: Double DashNintendo, &#163;39.99This new-technology version of the venerable kart-racing title featuring Nintendo's favourite characters is an essential purchase. The addition of an extra character on the back of each kart enabled a rather gimmicky cooperative multiplay mode, but the combination of tail-out powersliding, surreal circuits and wonderfully anarchic power-ups remains irresistible.F-Zero GXNintendo, &#163;39.99Although another update - this time of the classic hover-racing title - F-Zero GX is so fast, responsive and swoopy that it has been known to induce motion sickness. It is state-of-the-art, futuristic fodder for speed-freaks, which is particularly good when played against your mates.Soul Calibur IIElectronic Arts, &#163;39.99This fantastic-looking, absorbing beat-'em-up feels more grown up than its peers. It is available on other consoles, but the GameCube version is the best, as it is the only one that lets you play as Link, hero of the Zelda games.WarioWorldNintendo, &#163;39.99Mario's evil twin has had a good year. After starring in the impossibly moreish WarioWare Inc on the Game Boy Advance, he was given his first starring role in a 3D platform game. WarioWorld is slick, agreeably weird and convoluted, and avoids the pitfalls such as bad camera-work which so frequently affect platform games.XIIIUbisoft, &#163;39.99Mixing stealth, first-person shoot-'em-up action and a modicum of puzzle-solving with surprisingly arty comic book-style, cel-animated graphics and a great conspiracy-theory storyline, XIII appeals to young and old equally.PC games by  Rhianna PratchettThis Christmas, PC World and Dixons are running some great deals on 2.2-2.8GHz laptops with DVD/ CDRW drives for between &#163;500 and &#163;1,000. If you want to try your hand at building your own machine, thenwww.scan.co.ukandwww.dabs.co.uklead the way online, or   you can push the boat out and go for the top-notch spec and sleek designs of theAlienware.Call of DutyActivision/Infinity Ward, &#163;39.99The second world war forms the backdrop for this first-person shooter. Call of Duty has an intense and immersive atmosphere as you play your way through British, Russian and German campaigns. There is a strong multi-player mode and a "kill cam" where you can watch the last five seconds of your death from your killer's point of view.Star Wars: Knights of the old RepublicActivision/ Bioware, &#163;39.99A stunning role-playing game, set 4,000 years before Star Wars Episode IV. It revolves around fighting with light sabres, using the force and completing quests that allow you to clock up skills as well as grooming your character for life in the light or the dark side. Excellent graphics.Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max PayneTake 2 Interactive/Remedy, &#163;34.99The first Max Payne game was a triumph of style over substance. Max's   second outing sees him falling for the charms of murder suspect Mona Sax. The familiar comic-style cut-scenes are still there, but the Matrix-style bullet-time has been polished to make it easier to take out large numbers of enemies. Impressive use of photorealistic graphics and rag-doll physics.Empires: Dawn of the Modern WorldActivision, Stainless Steel Studio, &#163;34.99If you would prefer to be refining the art of war than being in the thick of it, then put this on your wish list. Covering great military periods from medieval times to the second world war - and doing so with great flair - this isn't one for novices, as it assumes a fair amount of real-time strategy gaming knowledge.Championship Manager Season 03/04Eidos Interactive/Sports Interactive, &#163;29.99Championship Manager is one of the UK's more understated success stories, earning millions of fans for its unique, yet addictive, way of transforming the player into a manager. This season is harder than ever: Championship Manager seeks ball clubs it portrays, down to their financial plight. This version showcases teams from 43 countries.PS2  by Mike AnderieszThe PS2 still trounces the opposition on units sold and PS1 compatibility. However, it is the most expensive of the big three consoles with an online    service that is currently no match for Xbox Live! On the plus, it is the only one that plays DVDs straight out of the box, and massive developer support ensures most games appear first on Sony's favourite format. Online prices are generally among the best - you can pick up a new PS2 with a DVD remote receiver for &#163;129.99 atwww.gameplay.comor a used one with games for as little as &#163;90 fromwww.amazon.co.uk.Pro Evolution Soccer 3Konami, &#163;39.99EA's Fifa 2004 may have all the real names, teams and flashy sponsorship but this is  the soccer game for playability and pixel-perfect passing, and the PS2 controller makes it the smoothest version to play.ManhuntRockstar, &#163;39.99Definitely  not  for kids, this is graphically violent film-noir masquerading as a game. In turns hugely playable and genuinely unnerving. Interactive thrillers such as this are the future.GTA: ViceCityRockstar, &#163;39.99Imagine Miami Vice meets Goodfellas played out on motorbikes to the sound of 80s pop and bullets ripping into cement. The PC version is arguably better, but this is still a powerful retort to any claims that the best developers are at Microsoft.Eye-Toy: PlaySony, &#163;39.99For novelty Christmas value this is hard to beat. Plug it in and watch the   family kicking, punching and chortling at how the camera incorporates their drunken movements into a dozen simple arcade games. Add the new Eye-Groove disc (&#163;29.99) and you have instant video karaoke too!Tony Hawk's UndergroundActivision, &#163;39.99Quality arcade action that rewards persistence. The novice will try it for 10 minutes and then reach for the Eye-Toy, the expert will be glued until January, perfecting a massive array of tricks, twists and secret bonuses.Xbox by  Greg HowsonThe Xbox is the most powerful gaming console available. Titles almost always look their best on it. Combine this with online gaming via Live - and you have a powerful gaming proposition. On the minus side, it costs around &#163;140 including two games and Live trial and still lacks a decent platform and soccer game.Project Gotham Racing 2Microsoft, &#163;39.99Offline this is an attractive driving game that rewards stylish and risky manoeuvres. Online takes it to another level as you compete against players from around the world.Top SpinMicrosoft, &#163;39.99Easy to get into, tough to master, Top Spin is a tennis game to reckon with. The graphics are lovely but it is the subtlety of control that is the reason for its success. Risking a tricky shot in the middle of an online rally causes thrillingly tense encounters.Crimson SkiesMicrosoft, &#163;39.99Red sky at night, gamer's delight. An aviation combat game that mixes dogfighting with Indiana Jones and comes alive online.
Imagine reading the weblog of your favourite fictional character. Then you get riddle-filled emails from them, you talk to them in a chatroom - and then they telephone, asking for help. This is alternative reality gaming (Arg).The most impressive aspect of this genre, beyond its narrative ambition, is that it is almost entirely created by fans, frustrated by the lack of support from professional games companies. Most games are free to play and built by people in their spare time, often to an extremely high standard. But it's this level of quality that recently led to a clash between gamers and fans of the popular film series the Matrix.The birth of this genre occurred in April 2001, when cult entertainment website Aintitcoolnews received a package from "Anna Ghaepetto", containing a poster for the Steven Spielberg film A.I. On the back were clues pointing to a name in the credits. That name, when Googled, led to a website set in the year 2142 and a mystery: who killed Evan Chan?Soon one website became a network of more than 30, filled with puzzles where clues could be hidden anywhere - deep within the source code to hidden in the background of images. Some pages were in German or Japanese. One clue was in Sanskrit.No single person could solve it all,   but nor did they have to. Before long, fan forums had gathered, with members across the globe. No prize was announced. The film's production company Dreamworks didn't even admit the game existed. But the kudos of discovering and solving a new part of the puzzle kept people playing - as well as an engaging narrative and a new group of online friends to talk to, all struggling with the same problems. It was like an impossible crossword being worked on by more than 10,000 people simultaneously.When the game finally ended, the people behind it - nicknamed the puppet masters, as the plot contained Pinocchio references - revealed themselves as a small team at Microsoft, headed by creative director of entertainment, Jordan Weisman. They had secretly worked for months alongside Dreamworks to create this most complex of publicity teasers, which resembled Nokia's mixed-media creation Nokiagame, launched in 1999 in the Netherlands.The players loved the A.I. game. Unlike online games such as EverQuest, at its heart was cooperation, not competition. Electronic Arts tried to build on this, launching an Arg game called Majestic, which required players to pay a subscription. However, its plot, set around terrorist activity, led to it being cancelled post-September 11. A group of frustrated players decided to create its own title."There were about 100 people &#91;in June 2001&#93;," says Brooke Thompson, one of the writers and now a leading light in alternative reality gaming. "But by August we were down to 25. It was all volunteer work." It cost more than just time: registering the websites and making the in-game phone calls cost Thompson around $1,000. "I look at it as a rather obsessive hobby," she says.The game, Lockjaw, launched in February last year. Once the plot had been decided, each developer had responsibility for specific websites and characters. These new puppet masters watched the forums carefully, making changes in the narrative in response to audience reaction. "When you see that players are relating strongly to a certain subplot, it's fun to develop that more," says Thompson, who also helps runArg gateway. "Their excitement increases and our motivation rises. It also helps in storytelling. By understanding what characters the players are relating to, you're in a better position to make poignant plot decisions."It proved popular and its creators began to consider a new game. Meanwhile, players created guidelines for potential puppet masters, and other fan-made creations arrived, includ ing one set in the universe of Philip K Dick's Minority Report. Some companies also took tentative steps into the genre: BMW ran a small Arg with a sports car as first prize, and American TV series Alias created a game to promote its second season. And then the Lockjaw team returned."One of us had the idea of a game based in the world of the Matrix to coincide with the release of the third film," says Andy Aiken, a research student at Aberdeen University and the only UK-based team member. "We gathered some unused ideas from Lockjaw and went to work."Once the game began, it got a lot of attention from fans of the films. However, one of the fundamentals of the genre is that puppet masters don't reveal their identities until the game is over."One of the genre's slogans is 'This is not a game'," says Aiken. "Suspension of disbelief is vital to the success of an Arg. If you have to tell a potential audience up front they're playing a game, it won't feel real to them."Thousands of people who had never heard of Args, but were convinced this was a creation of the Wachowski brothers, signed up. The game looked professional. Some newspapers claimed it was an official online publicity tool. Although the game didn't explicitly use images or   copyright names from the films themselves, the setting was obvious.It became the most successful Arg ever, with around 12,000 players and visits logged from 118 different countries. But when the truth became known, many people felt very angry at what they saw as wilful deception."I made the mistake of giving all my private information. I thought it was official," said one Matrix fan in the forum thelastfreecity.com. "I feel stupid and scammed and ripped off."The puppet masters admit to feeling bad that people reacted in this way, but point out they never claimed to be official. With one member a lawyer, they had been very careful to avoid copyright infringement.And, unusually, the copyright holders themselves also seem satisfied. "As long as the 'fan fiction' is not in any way connected to commercial enterprise, as long as it is not offensive and doesn't degrade our intellectual property, we generally take no action," said a spokesman for Warner Bros., after looking at the game.This could be the most encouraging news yet for Arg fanatics. As long as copyright holders and software companies ignore them, the future of alternative reality remains in their hands. Prepare for an onslaught of messages soon, from deep within your favourite fictional world.
Online role-playing games are one of the few internet businesses that can get people to pay for content online. Despite humble beginnings, the sector has developed into a multi-million pound industry dominated by giant software companies such as Sony, Microsoft and Electronic Arts. But one modest, Cambridge-based company, Jagex, is playing the giants at their own game.The game is called RuneScape, and it has more subscribers than any other game of its kind outside South Korea. RuneScape is an MMORPG (pronounced "em-mor-a-peg"), one of a growing number of massively multiplayer online role-playing games that is doing what the majority of dotcoms could not do - turn a profit.Part-chatroom, part-adventure game, RuneScape explores a vast fantasy landscape that evokes Norse mythology. Players control online characters - avatars - that perform a variety of quests to gain experience or accrue virtual treasure. They fight goblins and explore dungeons but also form complex communities and learn the power of cooperation. The game is never-ending, with new storylines - or quests - added every few weeks. The average player is aged 14-17 and predominantly male.RuneScape is the creation of Andrew Gower, who developed the game while a Cambridge undergraduate. Just over two years ago, he operated RuneScape from a bedroom in his parents' house in Nottingham. Today, the company employs 29 people and has an annual turnover of approximately &#163;2m.Outside South Korea, Sony's EverQuest is seen to be the market leader in the world of MMORPG, with a shade over 500,000 subscribers. RuneScape has nearly half that again, but the big difference is that not all RuneScape's players pay to play. The game is divided between a free game, which pays for itself through advertising, and a premium members' game, which charges a subscription of $5 a month (the majority of players are in the US). Members get a world that is twice as big and compete in twice as many quests.RuneScape is a much easier game than more expensive rivals such as EverQuest ($29.99, plus $12.95 per month) and Microsoft's Asheron's Call ($19.95, plus $9.95 per month), because players play in a web browser rather than having to buy a CD. It can be played from any computer with an internet connection."We can generate an audience anywhere in the world without having to have CD-Rom distribution in each market," explains Constant Tedder, business manager of Jagex. "That makes it easier for a company of our size to roll the product out."Last week, Jagex launched its first major upgrade of RuneScape. The new beta version - available only to paying subscribers - comes with improved graphics and an expanded world. The free version will also enjoy a graphics upgrade, but no new content. But can RuneScape convert its masses of free players (around 660,000) into paying subscribers, of which there are only 58,000?"That's a good question," admits Tedder. "We believe that if players are so committed to the game that they exhaust the free part, then they will want to convert to the subscription service."Although Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle at Essex University created the first online role-playing game in 1972 and the majority of such games borrow heavily from British fantasy and sci-fi novels, British software companies have been slow to tap into the potential of the genre, although UK companies are beginning to enter the online games market. Also in Cambridge, Nicely Crafted Entertainment is building a dedicated following for Time of Defiance, an online strategy game. But, so far, RuneScape is the best British offering."We have something unique in that we have this very large, free game with no limitation on it," says Tedder. "You can play it as long as you like and it is very involving. You can play for hundreds of hours and still not have to pay."Links  RuneScapewww.runescape.comwww.jagex.comwww.nicelycrafted.com/todc
From a cottage industry teeming with small independent developers to a mass-market proposition dominated by the entertainment big boys, this year has been one of dramatic change for mobile gaming. For the first few months, most Java titles were basic remakes of classics such as Space Invaders, Pac Man and Mario, with the odd puzzler thrown in for variety.But the launch of dedicated entertainment phones, such as the Sharp GX-10 and Nokia 3650, provided developers with big colour screens and large memory capacities, allowing the quality of titles to evolve at a staggering pace. Compare, say, Gameloft's recent and gorgeous Prince of Persia: Sands of Time with anything available in spring. It is like going from Pong to Doom in nine months rather than 20 years.This process has been accompanied - and aided - by the entry of videogame giants such as Electronic Arts, Eidos, Activision and Acclaim. With their marketing clout and recognised brands, they are attracting a mainstream clientele previously sceptical about what mobile gaming had to offer.Interestingly, they have all chosen   to work with established mobile developers, rather than setting up in-house studios, but this cautious approach has paid dividends. Recent conversions of EA's Fifa 2004 (Distinctive Developments) and Tiger Woods 2004 (Iomo) will be among the biggest hits of the year and are unmissable if you have a Java phone.Iomo's Tomb Raider: the Osiris Codex - a 2D platformer based on the Eidos series - has performed well, too, and a sequel subtitled Quest For Cinnabar is due before Christmas. The biggest, though, may well turn out to be Worms, from THQ Wireless, a great little conversion of the turn-based strategy classic. Released last month, it has been the fastest-selling download on Vodafone Live!.Not all the good stuff has a billion dollar brand attached to it, though. London-based developer Morpheme has been busy producing offbeat masterpieces, including Phantom Mansion and the juvenile classic Dr Steve's Fart Box, possibly the world's first flatulence simulator.This month, clear space on your Java handset for Balloon-Headed Boy, a bizarre platformer in which you control the eponymous character, who can inflate his cranium to   reach higher areas. You must also try Vampire Bloodline, a platform game from Mforma that has been huge in the US. And 02 customers: don't miss Cannons Tournament by Macrospace. It is Worms with tanks and allows two-player gaming over GPRS.The launch of N-Gage on October 7 was a key event - if only for the hype Nokia managed to generate, which boosted awareness of mobile gaming. A fortnight later, sales estimations varied wildly, with Nokia claiming a global figure of 400,000, while independent analysts reckoned only 5,000 units were shifted in the US and 500 in Britain.In reality, the figure hovers in between - disappointing for a gaming platform launch, but not bad for a comparatively expensive Series 60 handset. Plus, according to an inside   source, use of N-Gage Arena, the handset's online portal, is attracting numbers at around 80% of expectations, so the device is prompting plenty of profitable GPRS activity for the network operators. Good games are on the way, too, including Sega Rally and Nokia's four-player battle action title, Operation Shadow.There have been significant hardware launches since N-Gage. Nokia's 3100 and 3200 handsets are cheap with abundant features, offering 4K, 128 x 128 pixel colour screens, comfortable d-pads and lots of customisation options. These will probably replace the 3510I and 7210 as Nokia's mass-market game phones. Sony Ericsson is also fighting hard for a share of the gaming market, after disappointing developers with its under-powered T610. There's a teen-orientated candy bar, the T230, the feature-packed P900, and the stylish Z600.If gaming is your only concern, though, save your pennies for the Nokia 6600 or Motorola V500. Both have 65k screens  and support for MidP2, a new build of Java that gives developers access to 3D graphics APIs, in-game texting and Bluetooth connectivity for multiplayer gaming.Early in the year we will also see the launch of the Sharp GX30, the latest in the company's successful Vodafone Live! series. Rumour has it, this will be based on the Sharp SH53, which launched early this year in Japan with a fantastic conversion of the Namco coin-op Ridge Racer.Later, expect to see the first handsets with dedicated 3D graphics chips and plenty of online multiplayer titles as tech companies learn to squeeze more and more performance out of GPRS networks.And 3G? Well, the first generation of handsets had low specification for gaming, but the four major networks are expected to launch 3G services this year for newer models. This will mean faster downloads, bigger game files and, in theory, much smoother real-time multiplayer activity. So Pong to Doom to Quake III Arena -that will be 30 years of development packed into 18 months. Do try to keep up.Prince of Persia: Sands of Timewww.gameloft.comFifa 2004 and Tiger Woods 2004www.digitalbridges.complus all major network portalsVampire Bloodlinewww.mforma.comBalloon-Headed Boywww.morpheme.co.ukand major portalsWormswww.madtap.complus major network portalsCannons Tournament - 02 Games Arcadewww.macrospace.com
It could have been a beautiful week for computer gaming. It might have been the moment interactive entertainment was taken seriously as an art form. It appeared a whopping two times on Radio 4's Today programme and, for once, the spotlight wasn't on violence and the decay of the social order.PlayStation Pensioners hit the morning headlines and the nation balked at the idea of Gaming Grannies. Surely it must be damaging their brains. Quick, give them some knitting! Why aren't they watching Are You Being Served?Instead of making interesting points about lateral thinking, active imaginations and anti-arthritic finger exercise, gaming was again compartmentalised as a repetitive, solitary pursuit that makes addicts of the nation's youth   (and now OAPs) and plunges them into inescapable depression and loneliness.It made a big impression on the BBC switchboards. These things always do. A quick follow-up was scheduled for Saturday morning's show: Is Computer Gaming Art? Well, it could be, if they let it.The problem is that marketers know their primary audience and aren't interested in spending cash to expand it. Billboards, magazine ads and commercials shout action, war, fast cars and loose women. The players on the periphery - women, businessmen, grandads - simply sigh and keep quiet. They know the hidden depths, the gripping storylines, the mind-bending puzzles, the little mutinies. Unfortunately, no one else does.It may come as a surprise to the Today folks, but things have moved   on in the interactive world since Pac Man and Pong. Even mobile phone games, on the comparative bottom rung of the ladder, have 3D graphics and plots. There are countless genres, from action to adventure to social simulation, which have more in common with listening to the radio, having a conversation or reading a book than sitting on the couch watching a DVD.Radio and books allow consumers to use their imaginations to fill in sensory blanks. Computer games offer the opportunity to take an active part in what's happening in the game, by using imagination. They take the drama and adventure of traditional media and make it interactive. The player solves the puzzles, explores the space and makes the choices, not the writer, director or producer.   Yes, point and click Solitaire is the most widely played computer game, but it's not the only one.And another thing, contrary to widely publicised research conducted in the late 1990s, computers don't cause loneliness. Subsequent studies have shown that people who play games on the internet enlarge their social circles. Individuals can create real life networks where they learn, communicate and develop skills that have a positive effect on the real world.If we are to believe Today, then it's a darn shame there are thousands of men and women wasting their energies, artistic talent and up to $10 million a pop on creating silly things that do nothing more than go "bleep" and "blip".Go on, do her a favour. Buy Grandma a console for Christmas. Chances are, she'll love it.
When Tim Berners-Lee invented the web he anticipated that we'd all want to write as well as read. The first web browser could edit web pages as well as display them. Later browsers also allowed ordinary users to do it themselves - until Marc Andreessen, founder of Netscape, decided that the mass of internet users wouldn't want to do that and stripped the edit function out. Bill Gates left it out when he launched Explorer.So, designing websites became the province of geeks and design professionals. Berners-Lee's vision of the web as Platonic "inter-creative" playground was indefinitely deferred. Blogging has changed all that, though. The web is now properly "writable" again   and people who found their voices in their weblogs are now ready for more. We're watching a renaissance of personal creativity - not of formal artistic creation, you'll understand, but for the informal, weekend and spare time stuff - for travel photography, essay writing and home video; for music making, recipes and table-top animation.Meanwhile, the tools of creation - the cameras, the PCs and home studios - have multiplied and got so cheap as to be practically disposable. Historic bottlenecks - bandwidth, storage and CPU - have practically gone away. So what's stopping us exchanging our work?It's not for want of enthusiasm. It's more likely the simple absence of tools. Creating and storing media files is now easy. Exchanging them, though, is a different story.The big guys - the media owners and software developers - have invested millions in distribution methods for their expensive content, some adding technology to control its use even after it's got to our hard disk.At the amateur end of the market, though, we're stuck with a short list of ancient technologies, several of which require a PhD in computer science to operate them. Have you ever set up and administered an FTP server? Enough said.What we need is a new layer of software tools to finish off the otherwise quite slick personal creativity supply chain. Some simple ways of making big media files available to your family and friends without paying for hosting, running a web server or going grey at the temples. Early examples are here but all are imperfect - BitTorrent is a free P2P file sharing tool used exten sively by naughty kids to exchange "warez" (pirate software) and a quite viable way of circulating even very big files (like digital video) among a small community but there's no easy way of finding BitTorrent files right now.Creo's Tokens is a neat way of swapping files machine-to-machine. Ideal if your audience is limited to a handful and clever enough to go round firewalls, but Tokens needs your machine to be online constantly.But the next wave of personal creativity tools is on its way - and will probably have distribution built in. The revolution will be televised after all.
Pantomime season opened in Westminster last week with the staging of an old favourite, the Public Accounts Committee in "government IT cock-up". Of course, in these politically correct times, we are not supposed to use that phrase. Nowadays, it is a "government IT-enabled business change cock-up".But the committee's MPs, many of whom are old stagers, tend to forget modern language in the excitement of finding a culprit. And no amount of jargon about business change could conceal the fact that we were talking about an old fashioned computer failure - the botched introduction of tax credits.In the role of the ugly sisters were Sir Nicholas Montagu, chairman of the Inland Revenue, and   Bill Thomas, chairman of EDS UK. The pair enjoyed some robust dialogue with a series of principal boys: "Oh no we didn't... Oh yes you did." Or, in Montagu's catchphrase: "I don't think that is entirely fair criticism."The great thing about pantomime is the way old stories can be updated with topical subplots. This time, everything hinged on the decision to compress testing the tax credits system before it went live. Surely this breaks every rule in the project management book?No, chorused the sisters. A decision to sacrifice volume testing was made because a more urgent problem had to be dealt with. And even if the volume testing had run to schedule, it would not have identified the fatal glitch, which occurred only when the transaction management system encountered live data.For the grown-ups in the packed house, Tory MP Richard Bacon tried some novel themes, including a reference to Wittgenstein's Tractatus. Perhaps he was planning to quote the famous injunction: "Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent," which would be a first for the House of Commons.Then veteran trouper Frank Field stole the show with a risqu&#233; ad-lib: "I think that's just crap," when Montagu tried to throw a cloak of invisibility over the compensation being sought from EDS. Prince Charming went on to wield his righteous anger on behalf of the single mums in Birkenhead, who were "worried out of their minds" by the deplorable service."I dispute very strongly that we are giving a deplorable service," countered Montagu.The denouement everyone hoped for, the ugly sisters' falling out, was brilliantly underplayed. "I think the responsibility for the system being unstable and not fit for purpose... rests with our IT partners," purred Nick.His sister took it on the chin: "We take responsibility for the IT being unstable" yet "that contributed to an overall programme which we implemented together and the responsibility has to be shared".As usual, the PAC panto had all the rituals of a great family show. Bar one. The hearing took place before MPs knew that EDS was to lose its contract with the revenue. So the packed house was denied the chorus: "Where's your career running Inland Revenue computers? It's behind you!"Nevertheless, this one will surely run and run.
Like a teenager with his first credit card, the NHS this week boldly ordered a set of computers with money it does not yet have. It signed deals worth &#163;2.7bn over 10 years to create a central electronic health record for every individual in England, and to make it available across London and the northeast.BT and Accenture won the three contracts. Three further mega deals, taking the Care Records Service to the rest of the country, are due to follow by the end of the year.The service will be a world first. It will allow NHS staff to call up essential details about every individual wherever they are. Patients will be able to view their records on the internet through a service called My Healthspace - and to opt out entirely if they don't like the idea.Electronic care records will also plug into the e-booking system being set up under a separate &#163;64.5m contract with Schlumberger Sema. The technological gamble underpins the government's reforms centred on patient choice, John Reid, the health secretary, said: "To help patients make these vital choices, they will need access to more information about the NHS and their own personal health and care history than   ever before. This system will equip the NHS to provide that."The combined bill will take the total cost of the NHS IT programme to more than &#163;5bn, double that allocated by the Treasury so far. Reid said he was confident the Chancellor would cough up the rest: "We'll be OK, we know the envelope within which we're working."But the NHS is not the only public body apparently chucking money at IT. The Inland Revenue is poised to sign a new deal worth several billion to modernise and run its systems. The Department of Environment Food and Rural Affairs will follow next year. The Home Office is procuring systems for immigration and the probation service. The MoD is shortlisting bidders for a multibillon pound "defence information infrastructure". Even cash-strapped local government is spending. Figures published this week show that councils' IT budgets will grow by 24% in 2003, to &#163;2.5bn.According to Gartner, an IT market research firm, the British government is spending twice as much money on IT as any other in Europe: $19.6bn (&#163;11.3bn) this year. Ministers will want to show that this is value for money.Despite a range of measures introduced over the past three years, IT   projects continue to go wrong. The latest fiasco to make headlines was the introduction of tax credits. Another project about to come under the spotlight is the Child Support Agency.Although the industry says that disaster headlines are unfair - EDS, the tax credits contractor, says its pensions credit system introduced at the same time was a notable success - all sides admit that more can be done to run projects better.The latest idea, unveiled on Monday by the trade association Intellect and the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce, is to involve the industry much earlier in new government programmes to ensure they are technically possible. The approach, called concept viability, involves industry running a sounding board on which departments can test their brainwaves. "All too often the client produces a requirement without a lot of input from the people who have to deliver," said Peter Gershon, the agency's head.Observers will be sceptical about the value of the idea. IT companies aren't known for modesty about their ability to deliver. Hence a parallel initiative. The industry also published a code of best practice, which it says will establish standards of professionalism in government contracts.The code contains 10 commitments including: "We will only bid what we believe we can deliver with a high degree of confidence" and "We will rigorously identify, analyse and manager risks". Others commit the industry to "constructive challenge" when it sees flaws in a programme and to be transparent about its assumptions and relations with subcontractors.The two sides are also trying to promote closer partnering and working relationships. The Treasury will shortly publish guidelines on partnerships between public bodies and IT contractors to avoid the difficulties of the private finance initiative, which was effectively abandoned last summer as a way of funding IT projects.Neither Gershon nor John Higgins, Intellect's director general, would guarantee that the era of public sector fiascos is over - partly because IT is becoming central to more and more government reforms. "The application of complex IT to solve ever more complex social problems will continue," said Higgins. "Hopefully, things will progress in the right direction."In yet another initiative, aimed at cutting the upfront costs of big IT projects, the OGC is tipping towards a preference for open source software. Last week, it signed a deal with   Sun Microsystems to make available Sun's desktop software available at a preferential rate to government. Scott McNealy, Sun's chief executive, was in the UK last week to sign a deal with Gershon, who praised the "elegant simplicity" of Sun's pricing. Savings on software licences would "free up resources for delivery," he said.Under the memorandum, Sun's Java Desktop System and Java Enterprise System will be tested in proof of concept trials to be announced next month. Significantly, the NHS systems procured this week include a mixture of Windows and open source platforms.Further announcements aimed at cutting the cost and improving the management of IT projects are likely soon, including the appointment of a chief information officer for government as part of a shake-up at the very top of Whitehall.At the NHS, Richard Granger, director general of IT, has a more direct way to concentrate minds. His electronic records contracts are thick with small print about what the suppliers are expected to deliver, and when. "If they don't go into operation, they won't be paid," Granger said. That would at least reduce the financial cost of failure - but not the political cost.
The deluge of viruses this year means that nearly everyone knows that emails with unsolicited offers of interesting pictures or system updates need to be treated with suspicion. But what about that handy utility you want to run on your office PC - or that file sharing software you'd rather run from work because it's faster than downloading on your modem at home? There's a huge range of software - from useful to dubious - that you can download free, but some programs come with hidden extras.Instead of asking users to pay if they like the program, some developers include extra software that tracks the websites you visit as a form of free market research. And some spyware tracks considerably more than that. And while spyware has been around for a couple of years, the past six months have seen it spreading.If you find your system slowing down or your web browser opening to the wrong search engine, you might have an unwanted visitor, but because these programs aren't viruses, standard anti-virus software usually does little to protect you. For one thing, there are legal issues with detecting and blocking ad-sponsored   software that users have agreed to install (even if they didn't bother to read the license agreement). For another, there are a lot of programs to track, and many people see it as a trivial problem for home users rather than a serious issue for business.But even if the spyware infesting business desktops is only ad tracking code, that can be a huge burden on network resources. One insurance company that started using Websense to monitors its network found spyware was generating half a million outgoing messages from its desktop in three days. The company email addresses used to send those messages are likely to end up in spam databases as well, which means more traffic and time wasted. Having the home page in your web browser changed canaffect your productivity as well as being an inconvenience.Tracking down and removing spyware from every desktop is going to affect the productivity of your IT team as well.And you can't just assume that spyware is benign, even if it is legitimate commercial software. Keystroke loggers are useful for parents wanting to keep track of what their children do online, but the same software running in your finance department is a major security issue. Gabe Newell, of Valve Software, believes that keystroke recording software helped hackers steal source code for the Half Life 2 game recently - a theft that has meant postponing the release of the game for at least six months. If customers' information is stolen from your computers, they are going to lose confidence in your business. To add insult to injury, you could find yourself liable under data protection regulations, too.Commercial espionage may not be common and many incidents can be traced to insiders, but Pete Simpson, manager of Clearswift's ThreatLab, thinks we're going to see more general attacks. "It's become clear the spammers have got together with the virus writers and the hackers. It is probably organised crime with some big money behind it and the motive is financial gain." Clearswift recorded a major rise in spam email selling spyware following Microsoft's decision to close MSN's public chat rooms, which could suggest that the hackers had been distributing their code in chat and are looking for new victims to replace their lost audience.Few companies are protecting themselves against spyware, and most of the tools for detecting and removing it are designed for home users - and have to be run on every desktop individually. Anti-virus vendors are starting to take an interest and there may soon be adware and surveillance spyware available.But rather than tackling spyware as a separate security problem, you should look at the implications for your security policy more generally, such as who is entitled to   install which software on their PC.While some spyware is downloaded through web sites, more arrives in email, so blocking or quarantining incoming executable files will protect you. It is hard to block most spyware at the firewall because it sends messages back using email and HTTP, traffic you will want to allow through.Websense offers a free trial of its monitoring software to see if spyware is clogging up your network. This checks the destination of all outgoing email, blocks messages to known monitoring sites based on a list updated daily and lets you choose which users are allowed to send email, and to what addresses. Whatever software you choose, to stop hackers spying on you, you may need to start monitoring your own systems much more closely.
Was there a Sinclair or Commodore in your formative years?Unfortunately, my parents foolishly believed in the myth that computers could be educational, so we tended towards the weightier machines - aDragon 32) and aBBC model B. A friend, Michael Hall, had a Spectrum.Was the humble Spectrum the reason the UK produced so many good games programmers?TheSpectrumwas pretty important, although the rubber keys with multi uses never really did it for me. The first wave of computer whiz kids such as Jeff   Minter and Matt Smith, have certainly shown today's kids what not to do.What started off your love of computer games?My first addiction to computer games of any sort came in the form of thePopeye arcade machinewhich I fell in love with in some dive in Spain when I was eight. When my dad brought a Dragon 32 home and loaded Alcatraz, I knew the rest of my life would involve these beautiful machines.Best game?The BBC original cassette version ofElite. It still looks stunning and was just massive. There was something like 100,000 working planets that you could trade and interact with. If there really is a god, then we would have a version of this for the Xbox that could be played online. The worst game is probably Kiss: Psycho Circus. They   may be my favourite band but the game sucks a fat one.Do you participate in online gaming?I love online gaming. In the past six months I have traded in my Command and Conquer battles on the PC for less cerebral onliners for the Xbox. I have played a few games using thePlaystation network, but they haven't really got it right yet. It's too hard to communicate with your opponents via the PS2, and it seems to crash on a more frequent basis.Once you've managed to getXbox online working- not an easy task for an early BT user - it is a gaming treat. Smooth, user friendly and with the best games. Jedi Academy, Star Wars: Clone Wars and Midtown Madness are all fine examples of what online gaming should be.Where do you see console gaming going?Games are in a pretty good place for the first time in ages. Online gaming will eventually become massive, but it's going to take much longer than the industry had hoped for. The imminent release of appalling cash-in titles, with ill-thought-out live attachments hastily glued on the side, will stop a number of potential online gamers from joining.Gadgets?I love myi-Pod. I started a strict mission to get all my CDs on it, but I only managed half before getting too bored. Despite this, playing songs in alphabetical order provides the most bizarre mix of tunes and is guaranteed to lift your spirits. I tend to buy gadgets and put them in a drawer. I'm getting a global positioning thingy this week.Iain Lee's favouriteswww.lbc.co.ukwww.kissinuk.comwww.angelfire.com/hiphop2/ilovefunwww.ebay.co.uk
Online sales up 39%Sales placed over the web rose by 39% between 2001 and 2002 to &#163;23.3bn, according to estimates from the Office for National Statistics, making up 1.2% of all sales. Business-to-business selling dominated, although sales to households rose from 24% to 27% of online sales. Sales of goods, at 71%, outweighed those of services and the wholesale, retail, catering, travel and telecoms sectors saw the majority of transactions. But use of other electronic systems - closed-network electronic data interchange, email, computerised fax and automated telephone entry - far outstripped internet-based sales at &#163;169bn, although this was down 6% year on year.www.statistics.gov.uk/pdfdir/ecom1203.pdfE-voting doubtsThe UK should scrap its plans for a region to use electronic voting in the local and European elections next June, according to the Electoral Commission. The government, which eventually wants to hold an "e-enabled" general election, had asked the body to choose a region for a full e-voting trial, but in a report released on Monday, the commission says none were ready, nor is there time for the necessary development work. In Dublin, the Irish parliament's environment committee was yesterday due to debate the republic's plans to extend use of electronic voting in the same elections. The Labour party, the country's third largest, is calling for the plans to be suspended, arguing the system has not been properly tested.www.electoralcommission.org.ukwww.labour.ieMaize of CD optionsSanyo is manufacturing a biodegradable CD-Rom with plastic derived from maize. Each "MildDisk" requires about 85 corn kernels for manufacture, and Sanyo says it could make 10bn annually - the estimated global demand for CD-Roms - with one-thousandth of the world's corn production. The disks will be sold initially only in Japan, costing around three times as much as the standard kind, and there are no plans for UK availability. Analyst ButlerGroup says normal CD-Roms only burn at high temperatures while creating air pollution, while the MildDisk should decompose in 50 to 100 years. It adds that the cost will need to be keen to encourage use.Linux problemA vulnerability in the Linux core is spurring users to move to recent releases of the operating system. The   loophole has already caused problems for the Debian Project, a Linux distribution developer, whose server was recently compromised by a hacker. Although the flaw has been fixed in every release since version 2.4.23, there is an additional call for Linux users to move to version 2.6 when it is released later this month or early January. At this time, the 2.4 versions will be relegated to maintenance-only status and no new features will be made available for them.www.secunia.com/advisories/10328Microsoft CRMMicrosoft Business Solutions is readying its customer relationship management (CRM) software for global release next month. Microsoft CRM 1.0 is currently available in the US but version 1.2 will be available across 47 countries and eight languages. The package is available in two modules: sales and customer service and targets companies with between 25 and 1,000 employees.www.microsoft.com/BusinessSolutionsSmarter PhoneSendo will be joining the smartphone set with the launch of the Sendo X early next year. Hugh Brogan, chief executive of Sendo, says that the phone takes advantage of the programmability of Symbian to provide extra features such as email synchronisation. For business use, the system also supports SyncML which will provide connectivity to scheduling software and contact lists over wireless networks. The phone also supports MP3 music standards and has a built-in camera that can take still images or video at 15 frames per second.www.sendo.com/productsThin winsCompanies can save about a quarter of their maintenance costs by switching from PCs to thin clients, says a report from IT analyst company Bloor Research. Thin Client Benefits In Practice looks at six international companies that have made the move to Wyse Technology terminals and concludes that companies with numerous branch offices, sensitive data or hot-desking policies could save money. Stephen Yeo, director of marketing at Wyse, says that holding and running all data and applications on the server improves security and patch management and is a good basis for a move to mobile access strategies.www.bloor-research.com
Predictions are the quicksand of technology journalism. No sooner have you stumbled across the next big thing, than it has vanished in a quagmire of hype and is threatening to take you with it. But online gaming continues to hold its ground.In fact, despite serving an audience with more spots than influence and a deficit of any decisive revenue streams, the online games industry continues to exceed expectations. According to Tamsin Aspinall, business development director at Elspa: "Online gaming has moved to the top of the business agenda and the (gaming) industry is gearing up to meet the challenges this new channel presents."Elspa (Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers) is organising a conference in February aimed at   putting the profit into online network gaming services. From that we can gather there isn't any right now. Telewest would agree that extracting pennies from gaming portals is something of a black art. It has closed its 24-hour gaming service Bygames. But its decision to concentrate on "internet service provision" and the conference are only part of an analysis that sees online gaming taking its first strident steps into adulthood.Counter Strike, the grand old dame of online FPS (first person shooters), was born in a bedroom four years ago and while the enhanced retail version, Condition Zero, is now back in the hands of Half Life engine originators Valve, it maintains its cult status. Valve has learnt the perils of letting bedroom-based coders "mod" (customise) its own online games based on its software. With Half Life 2 (HL 2), it intends to enrol an even greater number of net-enabled conscripts. Expect next generation graphics and an unrivalled physics engine on a PC near you around April.Valve might have a money machine in HL 2, but other purveyors of the genre see its value in different terms. America's Army: Special Forces, free to download and commissioned by the US army as a recruitment tool, goes from strength to strength.Its latest version - 2.0, released last month - has proved so successful that, with 2.1 million users, it is threatening to overwhelm the army's already substantial server bank.America's Army is just one of hundreds of online titles that find connectivity through server browsing the domain GameSpy. Whether you are looking for a stranger to snipe at or a great example of lateral revenue creation, GameSpy is worth a visit. From its downloadable applet Ar cade, GameSpy Industries Inc is free to push any content it likes at action hungry players using its advanced server filters to whittle down to the preferred game, map and fastest ping (server response time).However, a decent chunk of takings comes from sister site FilePlanet, which provides all the necessary maps, patches and demos. FilePlanet is to games demos what Apple.com is to movie trailers. And while you can wait in line to grab that essential file from a public server, there is the option to pay $59.95 (&#163;35) for a year's queue jumping.If you are taking more than a casual interest in the success of online gaming, you can't ignore the enthusiasm factor. Other than unbridled game loyalty, what could fuel another cottage industry - server realty?Games server hosting outfits are springing up with the frequency of estate agents, and the popularity of their "rent-a-games-domain" services goes some way to explain why online gaming continues to bloom when the likes of Telewest are giving up on it. For around &#163;100 a month, you can purchase you own little gamers haven in the shape of a 36 player-plus server for the game, cheat pack and voice hosting of your choice.And let's not forget Sony and Microsoft who, having taken the top two spots in the console Olympics, are committed to the battle for online supremacy. Both will be at the conference and both feature in its All Formats Full Price Games Chart. At the time of writing, every title in the top five offered some form of online component.It may be alchemy driving online gaming's unswerving advance, but as the titles in the top five bear witness, a little connectivity goes a long way.1 Medal of Honor: Rising SunIts online heritage is legendary.2 Need For Speed: UndergroundOnline stats and four player GameBoy Advance Link up.3 Fifa 2004Football Fusion allows the "fusing" of your management exploits in total club manager for single or multiplayer play.4 Lord of The Rings: Return of The KingCooperative multiplayer5 Tony Hawk's UndergroundPlay online with you own face instead of Hawk'sSource:www.elspa.co.uk, week ending November 29
In a bid to encourage internet paedophiles to hand over their collections of abusive images, people who download child pornography should be offered counselling rather than automatically facing prosecution, according to a children's charity.Under the scheme, people who hand over their indecent images of children to the police would not be taken to court but their names would be placed on the sex offenders register.The man behind the idea, Donald Findlater, deputy director of a child protection charity, the Lucy Faithful Foundation, believes the scheme could encourage people who download child pornography to seek help before they abuse children."This proposal is aimed at people who have knowingly downloaded child pornography but not distributed it or abused children," he said."The intention is to encourage those who know they have a problem to come forward by sparing them the humiliation of a court appearance. They would be assessed by a psychiatrist, a psychologist or a probation officer while the police would investigate their computers."Mr Findlater said the current approach, where people who download child pornography face prosecution and demonisation by the media if they break cover, prevents those uneasy about their sexual inclinations from seeking help."This is not about being soft on internet paedophilia. This problem is far bigger than the authorities can cope with. The police and social services are struggling to deal with those cases known to them. But there are thousands of others out there and we want to reach them before they turn their sexual fantasies into reality."His proposal came after the government admitted that less than one in 20 of the 7,200 Britons found to have downloaded obscene images of children from a Texas-based website two years ago have been convicted.Police forces involved in the huge Operation Ore internet paedophile inquiry have so far charged only 723 of the suspects of whom just 277 have been convicted, said a Home Office minister, Paul Goggins.The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) said it would carefully consider Mr Findlater's proposal.Stuart Hyde, Acpo's spokesman on combating child abuse on the internet and assistant chief constable of the West Midlands, said: "Whilst anything that can be done to protect children should always be considered, any such proposal needs to look beyond the removal of hardware, at the potential for such individuals to have been involved in actual child abuse."Rachel O'Connell, director of the cyberspace research unit at the University of Central Lancashire, who spent five years investigating internet paedophile rings, shared the concerns raised by the police.Ms O'Connell, a psychologist who has advised the government on internet safety, said the risk someone posed to children could not be assessed simply by examining the images they had downloaded."Much online paedophile activity is based around exchanging fantasies about child abuse and role playing abusive scenarios, and grooming activity - where they befriend children with the aim of meeting up with them to abuse them. So the police would also need to check for evidence of these activities."But she welcomed the proposal for a less punitive approach to internet paedophilia."One of the most useful ways in which we could combat internet paedophilia is to recognise that there are many people at various stages of a sexual interest in children using the internet," she said."If we can enable those who recognise their behaviour is abusive to take steps to address it, that would be positive."This view was shared by John Carr, internet advisor to the charity NCH Action for Children."If there are men locked into a pattern of downloading abusive images of children who are on the cusp of raping their own daughter, anything that might help them come forward for assessment and treatment should be seriously considered," he said.Mr Carr said the proposal will be submitted to the Children's Charities Coalition for Internet Safety, which includes the NSPCC, Barnardo's, the Children's Society and NCH, later this month. The 13 children's charities will then formally propose the scheme to the police.
Apatosaurus could float - but the 35-ton monster of the Jurassic may not have been seaworthy. A Canadian scientist working from computer models has found the big dinosaurs were buoyant, but in danger of capsizing in deep waters.Donald Henderson of the University of Calgary reports on the topic today, in the Proceedings of the Royal Society: Biology.He considered mass, lung volume, mean density and body length of a variety of creatures: an alligator, an elephant, a diplodocus and three other dinosaurs.He found the biggest beasts would have been so buoyant that it would have been impossible for them to walk along the bottom of a lake or estuary fully immersed. However, their centres of buoyancy would have been somewhere below their centres of gravity, meaning they would have been unstable.But dinosaurs could survive in water to chest height, perhaps using only their forelegs to punt themselves along - this might explain a set of tracks in Texas which showed evidence of only two footprints, instead of the usual four.
The Atkins diet - not always seen as a healthy way to shed weight - may help to prevent fits in children with epilepsy, a team of US scientists says.Six patients, including three children aged up to 12, kept to the low-carbohydrate, high-fat diet and were studied by researchers from Johns Hopkins children's centre in Baltimore. They   remained seizure-free for between four and 20 months and were able to take lower doses of medication.Because the study involved only six people, the research should be treated with caution and the Atkins diet should not be used to replace the rigorous ketogenic diet that can reduce seizures."Our report raises new questions about the ideal level of calorie and protein restriction imposed by ketogenic diet," Eric Kossoff, of the children's centre, told a meeting of the American Epilepsy Society in Boston."By learning more about how the Atkins diet works to control seizures, we should learn more about which patients may benefit best from either of these diets."The two diets have elements in common: high fats and low carbohydrates that alter the body's glucose chemistry. The scientists have now enrolled a group of 20 children with epilepsy to study.
