Another week, another virus warning. The hot property this time is an email urging computer users to check their machines for a file named jdbgmgr.exe, and to delete it if found.Unfortunately, jdbgmgr.exe is not a virus; it is the Microsoft debugger registrar for Java - a programming code, widely used on the internet. Your computer will probably suffer no undue harm from deleting the file, although it is possible some java programmes will not run without it.However acting on unsubstantiated reports of viruses is bad practice, and the next email could be asking you to delete something truly essential.This email probably started doing the rounds after a concerned user realised an actual virus known as W32/Magistr-A can email infected copies of the jdbgmgr.exe file to computers.No doubt whoever started the email meant no harm, but by the time the "pass it on" game starts the original intent can be distorted, leaving others to delete a perfectly legitimate file.Virus hoaxes can be just as damaging, or more, than a virus itself, given that so many people mass-mail these warnings to everyone they know.If you receive a virus warning from a friend, relative or colleague in your inbox:Do notsend it to everyone in your address book.Do notfollow any of its advice, particularly about deleting files.Do notclick on any attachments.Doask your IT department, if you work for a company, or your anti-virus software provider if you are at home, about it. Many anti-virus software packages miss important viruses, but they should be aware of them by the time you call to check.Docheck out the hoaxes section onVmyths.com.Dohave a look at the top viruses being reported byMessageLabs, as if you have an actual virus it will almost certainly be listed here.
Power prowlRe: Me and my net stalker, (Online, May 9), you provided some useful information that will help people have a look at their email headers. But for real power-tracing for internet information, direct your readers to www.samspade.org.Tom Carrollnothoover@yahoo.comAll stalkI am amazed that after all that effort, Gobion Rowlands did not press charges. I think it likely that the Hammersmith and Fulham police regarded the episode as a waste of police time. Perhaps like the perpetrator, he really regarded it all as just a game?B Fletcher(address supplied)Hide and peekIt's ironic that you used a photo of an internet cafe to illustrate your piece on net stalking, without once referring to them in the piece.  All a stalker needs to do is   to send his abusive emails from a cybercafe and his anonymity is guaranteed.Richard Rees Jonesrichard.rees-jones@ntlworld.comLinux legacyIt is good to see that Online is beginning to take the Linux phenomenon more seriously (May the source be with you, May 9), though the article was misleading in some respects.It said that "Windows is better at... protecting the user who accidentally presses the wrong button and deletes crucial files". Actually, this is an area where Linux wins hands down. Its system of file permissions means that when you are logged in as a normal user, you can't damage the system files. More profoundly, it helps protect against viruses and Trojan horses: under Linux, they simply don't have permission to run in a way that damages the system.Another advantage is the variety of desktops and window managers available. Under Windows you only have the one. Under Linux there are several that are easy to use such as KDE, Gnome, Xfce, fvwm. If one breaks, you simply use another.Finally, the article tested Red Hat, but there are several leading distributions (SuSE, Mandrake, Caldera and Debian to name the most   common). Most of the time they do a perfect job at configuring your hardware and they usually come with support.Craig Nelsoncraig.nelson3@ntlworld.comClean WindowManek Dubash is quite correct that under Linux, there are a multiplicity of applications for almost any task - though there are probably more similar applications in the Windows world, if only because more people write code for Windows.What he misses, though, is a fundamental reason why Linux is still not ready for most people to use on a desktop: data compatibility. The open source philosophy applies equally to data as code - most Linux applications import and export data in well-defined public formats, from ASCII text to XML.Until casual Linux users can easily exchange data with Windows users, there will be no general acceptance of Linux on the desktop.   bNeil Barnesb  nailed_barnacle@hotmail.comDomain rulesb   The letter from Ellen Mizzell (Feedback, May 9) is the first I've heard of Nominet's proposal to blow a hole in my carefully constructed internet security. It is the height of irresponsibility to publish private   addresses for any burglar or teenage mischief-maker to see: and their helpful suggestion of using a PO box adds &#163;52 a year to the cost of owning a domain (and still gives away your geographical location). They are proposing to implement this next year. I hope any domain owners who, like myself, value their privacy will make their feelings clear.Roger Wilmutroger@wilmut.co.ukPrice isn't rightSince broadband and ISDN use a single wire to connect to the telephone exchange and thereafter all traffic is digital, it seems hard to justify the expense of ISDN. Why is there no option to use either 64k or 128k ISDN for a price comparable to the current broadband offerings? Is BT simply penalising those who cannot get broadband? Isn't this the same kind of scam that banks and building societies tried on when they reduced interest rates on existing accounts while advertising high rates on new accounts?Ian Cuthbertsoncuthbertsons@bigfoot.comFine San FranI read with disgust that the City of San Francisco charges a "convenience fee" for paying parking tickets online because services or staff numbers can't be cut (Second sight, May 2). My work is very much   involved with automation and IT. However, it does not automatically mean fewer staff and lower cost. The benefit is from higher productivity and uniformity of the process. As we have all realised, a paperless office is a long way off.Lawrence Laulawrence@slau.co.uk
The debut of government services on digital television last month came without policy statement or consultation. This impulsiveness may cost the e-government programme dear.It is not known for sure why a policy statement, due in March but delayed until the summer, was not allowed to see the light of day before action was taken. The death throes of ITV Digital may have contributed to the failure to deliver the document on time. But even less clear is   why the cabinet office did not also consider this good reason to pause for thought before launching its UK Online service on Sky and the now- defunct ITV Digital.What is certain, however, is that by pressing on regardless, the government has allowed the desire to appear technologically progressive to prevail over its more fundamental duty of being consultative and commercially neutral.The blunder seems all the more unlikely because it involves a relationship with Sky, something that would normally set alarm bells ringing all over Whitehall. Not only this, but the political stakes are raised still further by the fact that the deal has turned out to be effectively exclusive, thanks to the untimely demise of ITV Digital.The UK Online service will initially feature information on the World Cup, the Commonwealth Games, advice from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and a searchable database of local community internet access centres. The cabinet office plans to add transactional facilities in future.But until deals are done with cable companies, the government will have a hard time convincing independent   commentators that it is as "platform neutral" as it says it is. This external pressure will only weaken its position when it comes to negotiate deals with rival distributors, giving them leverage that will not be in taxpayers' interest.Meanwhile, the government's new television venture will be racking up costs it will find hard to justify to the taxpayer. Why should public money be spent converting content available on the internet into a proprietary format? Should the taxpayer have to fund the cost of distributing public information in a format owned by a private sector company?Others may wonder how many subscribers a television service needs before it qualifies for such patronage. In the case of Sky, the answer is 5.9 million and rising fast. But will NTL and Telewest's combined 2.2 million be enough to include them and, if so, on what commercial terms?Those scrutinising the financing of the cabinet office   television operations will rightly ask if the government can, or should, attempt to recoup the cost of repurposing its content. It is impossible to pin down the government's position, but existing commercial arrangements offer more concrete evidence.The government is expecting digital television viewers to cough up and will not share the revenue stream with distributors. In both the Sky and ITV Digital deals, the cabinet office agreed to provide its content in return for a penny for every minute a viewer uses its site. This surf-charge is collected by the telephone operator, which charges by the minute for the "return path" from Sky set-top boxes.It seems likely cable deals will be on a different basis. For one thing, cable operators provide outward and return paths. And all those able to receive interactive services by cable must subscribe to cable television. This is not the case with Sky, where the service is available to non-subscribers equipped with a Sky set top box.The metered income, according to the cabinet office, will be channelled back into a shared pool of funds to finance all its digital television activities. "It is cost-neutral," a spokesperson said.   The problems that companies more experienced than the cabinet office are finding in making profits from interactive television suggest cost-neutrality may go the same way as platform neutrality.Even forgetting the knotty problems digital television income may pose the cabinet office bean counters, the fact that payment is taken at all may help turn an already sceptical public off the idea of e-government on the telly. Only last week, KPMG published a survey that found that only 4% of respondents want TV-based government services, down from 21% two years ago.Much of the public support for the government's internet push has come thanks to the wealth of information made available free using the commonly owned internet infrastructure. All of a sudden, without any warning, the government has turned away from this strategy. In the end, it may find its penny-pinching attitude will prove the biggest turnoff to those who need government services the most.
It's Thursday, so Online isonline.
Driving up to the mock-Tudor 1930s house there was little to suggest it was anything more than an ordinary home. A row of mature conifer trees crowded the entrance gate while a gravel drive led to a neatly mown front lawn.Security was not visibly tight, apart from a small camera and redundant retinal scanner at the front door. But this was not a real house. This was Orange's hi-tech living laboratory where for the past 12 months, families have been watched Big Brother style, while they played with the latest wireless gizmos and gadgets.The house, stuck in the middle of a Hatfield business park, has recently been doctored. Orange has taken the results from its observations and focus groups and made changes, kicking out the less commercially viable technologies. Orange House version 2.0 is supposed to be a more realistic view of how families (with a high disposable income, of course) could live over the next three to five years and beyond.The interior of the house retained its character. The design and hi-tech gadgetry that survived the cull did not impinge on the fact that this was an old farmhouse (bought for &#163;500,000 two years ago) where real people could live. And just to prove it, the phone company found four families, each of whom spent no more than two   weeks in the house.For their troubles, they were filmed through wall-mounted cameras and their behaviour and technology usage was studied and analysed by Orange staff and academics from the Digital World Research Centre at Surrey University.According to Jon Carter, project manager for Orange at Home, by far the biggest success was the always-on broadband internet connection and the ability to wirelessly access music, computer games and DVDs from a variety of rooms, controlled by a central server    at the back of the house. In mum and dad's room, a large pull-down screen enabled DVD viewing or network gaming from the bed. An interactive Smart Board gave the daughter access to web games and control of her Sony Aibo dog. Mobile web pads were used as remote   control and internet access devices and the large flat screen TV with access to TiVo's Digital Video recorder was "a big hit with all ages", said Carter.But not everything got such a glowing report. While the company gleaned useful research on what people liked and wanted to use, it also discovered what people didn't want, and that's a bigger list.For one, never underestimate the traditional light switch. Moulded from white plastic, these manually operated devices offer quick and easy access to domestic or commercial lighting. Few will be surprised to hear that these switches have made a comeback and ousted their voice-activated cousins.The same goes for a number of other home control areas. Automated doors got the chop, especially after one family's dog got locked in the loo, so did automated heating systems, remote-controlled washing machines and internet fridges.In fact, Orange's once fully wired-up vision of the future has been downgraded. The company's initial wish when it first built the house last year was to wire up everything. The four families that lived in the house have proved that people simply aren't ready for the kind of remote controlled, automated world that was the Orange House version 1.0."People don't change," said Carter. "The philosophy is that if it works, don't fix it. People won't pay money to web-enable a coffee maker, for example. Why should they?"The smart toilet that examines your stool and calls for an ambulance when it detects something sinister got the thumbs down from Carter, too. He also said that devices such as the face recognition door entry system, the voice-activated control of the washing machine and the remotely operated digital bath are "a long way off" in the minds of consumers.It's been a testing time for Orange. The project has so far cost &#163;2m and Carter has been under some pressure to make the research from the house pay. Carter says that in 12 months, Orange will unveil two products conceived as a result of findings made at the house and it has forged partnerships with the likes of Dyson, TiVo, Samsung, Panasonic and Sony in an attempt to develop more products and services.After all, Orange is not in the business of making TVs and tablets but it is interested in wireless services. Technologies such as Bluetooth were highly regarded, particularly when it came to transmitting snaps from a digital camera, down the mobile phone and into a digital picture frame on the wall. One thing is certain: Orange's vision is now a little more realistic and it has ordinary people and not men in white coats to thank for that.
Sixteen years after the introduction of data protection legislation in the UK, organisations should know what to do when individuals want to see the personal data held on them, as they were warned recently by the information commissioner, Elizabeth France. So Online tested four companies to see how they responded to such requests - and to find out exactly what data they hold on us. All complied with the requests, which were made as a customer.The supermarketSainsbury's took three weeks to compile a quarter-inch wedge of documents, using the Reward card number.  Every purchase from the    past three years was listed, including the store name, the date and time, and the price paid. "This period of time allows us to monitor trends in purchasing, which helps us predict the level of stockholding required in future, and ensures we send customers information they will be interested in," said Sainsbury's.  Sainsbury's recorded the method of payment at each visit, whether a card was swiped or keyed into the till, the staff number, and even which check-out was used. Sainsbury's said this was kept for security and in case of customer queries.The supermarket uses its data to categorise customers. Apart from the data volunteered when the    loyalty card is issued, Sainsbury's draws conclusions from your address, using a categorisation system called Acorn. The area of south London I registered, Streatham, was described as category C, "rising"; group 7, "prosperous metropolitan professional"; and type 20, "gentrified multi-ethnic areas". Sainsbury's said this is used to plan mailshots, store formats and new ranges of goods.An increasing number of companies use customer relationship management (CRM) software to trawl their information. Sainsbury's is no exception. The print-outs it sent show it classes customers by frequency of visits, average spend per visit and other subjects, such as whether they buy organic food.  I fell into a segment for customers who "buy products which suggest they enjoy trying new and different ingredients in their cooking".  These segments are used to decide what kind of mailshots to send you, potentially making junk mail less junky. Customers can also opt out."If you never buy any pet food, you're not going to be interested in getting coupons for it," says Mike Phillips, an analyst at research firm Datamonitor.  He says that Tesco's Clubcard system is more sophisticated than Sainsbury's. "Tesco sends all its members a quarterly balance statement with a set of promotional coupons driven by the customer's past behaviour. It sends out five versions of its magazine, depending on age group," he says, adding that Clubcard has been one of the factors allowing Tesco to draw clear of Sainsbury's as the UK's largest supermarket.Sinister uses of loyalty card data have been mooted. In 1999, the ministry of agriculture suggested cross-checking purchases of genetically modified food with health records, effectively making the cards part of a huge medical experiment. The supermarkets declined to take part.You can avoid such data retention by not getting a loyalty card. Some supermarkets, such as Waitrose, don't bother, and Safeway abandoned its scheme two years ago. Such schemes are expensive: Phillips says Sainsbury's is thought to spend about &#163;150m on it annually.  "It's expensive if you don't extract the maximum value out of the data you collect," he says. That's done by persuading customers to spend more.The internet service providerFreeserve passed our request to Energis Squared in Leeds, which operates the ISP's network. Energis produced the data in two weeks, after it    was agreed to limit the search to the earliest records available and the latest month of data.  The information falls into two sets. The first, Radius logs, show to the second when the customer logged in and out, how many seconds the connection lasted, the internet protocol address allocated during the session, and which phone number called which.The second set of data was labelled Email History. It contained the header information from every email received by the account in the period: the return address provided by the sender, the ISP from which the email originated, the date and time of sending, an ID code, and the title of the email. All are retained. The contents of emails and data on websites    visited were not retained.  The surprise came in the date of the earliest retained data. In both sets, this was from August 20 of last year, more than seven months before this query was completed at the start of April.  In November, Freeserve told Online it retained such data for just three months.   Freeserve declined to comment.However, ISPs are in a legal grey area on data retention. The anti-terrorism law introduced in November seems to require them to keep communications data, while data protection law says they should delete it swiftly. ISPs are expecting the final version of a code of conduct soon.Freeserve seems to be hedging its bets.    Energis Squared also held contact data, the number of times the account had been accessed since its creation, how many seconds had been spent online, and administrative data on whether the account is suspended or limited in any way.The bankCo-operative Bank offered to provide much of its data free, but charged &#163;10 for the complete set. It took the full 40 days to produce the data.  The bank held every address provided by the customer, including the "previous address" required when opening the account. There were quarterly and monthly statistics for the average amounts coming in and going out of the account, along with lists of standing orders.  Also, potentially of use in a dispute with a bank, was a Notes section. This recorded customer service transactions, such as a call requesting a new cash-card after one had been damaged.  The data did not include statements of accounts, although these are retained."The bank takes the view that the data protection regulations are not there to replace existing bank    services," said a spokesperson. "You've had all your statements anyway."  CRM software makes it possible for banks to categorise customers according to profitability, then give the "good" customers better service - automatically switching them to a human operator rather than an automated system, for example.  Co-operative said it didn't segment customers for different levels of service.The phone companyBT's reply arrived in nine days. It consisted of just three pages of data: basic contact and transaction details, and a log of contacts made, such as those made to sort out faults on the line.  A BT spokesperson confirmed that the firm holds seven years' worth of call records - essentially the data on your phone bill. "There's no particularly sinister reason it wasn't included. It's assumed that &#91;the customer&#93; received it on their bill."Do it yourselfYou have a right under the Data Protection Act 1998 to see data held on you within the European Union. The law requires organisations to comply with your subject access request - the legal term - within 40 days. They can charge up to &#163;10. Of the four in this article, all charged &#163;10 except Sainsbury's, which did not charge.Phone the organisation's customer service number, and ask to whom a "Data Protection Act subject access request" should be addressed. It's useful to get a phone number as well. A good alternative is to call head office and ask for the legal department.Some organisations may request that you limit the terms of your query, but you don't have to agree. You also don't have to give a reason for your request.When writing, say you are making a subject access request under the Data Protection Act 1998. See link below for advice. Click on Compliance Advice, then FAQs - Subject access.You should get an acknowledgement within a few days. If not, phone the person you wrote to.If the organisation refuses to fulfil your request within 40 days, it is breaking the law. You can contact the information commissioner's office on 01625 545700, or at the link below. It can take up your complaint with the organisation.&#183;If you have problems with any subject access request, Online would like to hear. Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Napster, the controversial online song swapping service, is close to going under following the resignation of its founder, Shawn Fanning, along with the firm's chief executive and a number of other senior staff.The exodus follows the failure of negotiations between Napster and Bertelsmann, the German media group which hoped to acquire the business.The departures appear to spell the end of hopes of Napster relaunching as a legitimate business. The service once threatened the music industry by allowing users to swap songs for free. At the height of its popularity it had 80m users.The deal with Bertelsmann was wrecked by infighting on the Napster board. The offer, said to be in the region of $15m (&#163;10.3m), was rejected by the private equity firm Hummer Winblad Venture Partners, which has two seats on the board.An email sent to staff by Napster chief executive Konrad Hilbers said he had reached an agreement with a buyer which would have kept the firm together. But the board had chosen not to pursue the deal. "I am convinced that not pursuing the offer is a mistake and it will lead the company to a place where I don't want to lead it," he said.Mr Hilbers was installed by Bertelsmann last year to oversee its relaunch as a legitimate service. Bertelsmann has put $85m into Napster.In a statement Napster said it appreciated the contribution made by Mr Hilbers. But it gave little reassurance about its future. "We deeply regret that we have not yet been able to find a funding solution that would allow Napster to launch a service to benefit artists and consumers alike. We will be looking at additional steps in the coming week to further reduce expenses."Napster was founded by Mr Fanning, then a teenage college drop-out, from his bedroom.The service became the focus for the music industry's anxiety about the encroachment of the internet and has been contesting copyright infringements claims by the big five recording companies.In February 2001, a federal appeals court sided with the record companies and Napster has been offline since last July.The record companies have since teamed up to launch their own online services, and a number of free outlets such as Kazaa and Morpheus have taken Napster's place.
Red CardPlayStation 2 	&#163;39.99 Midway 	***The referee may practise self-abuse and "not know what he's doing" but if he sends off Red Card we'll all applaud. This is a footie game that models itself on the Leeds team of the 1970s rather than the Brazilian champions. So expect gruesome fouls rather than flowing moves.If you are more interested in lunging tackles, coordinated elbowing and two-footed flying kicks, then Red Card has its moments. But when the novelty of karate chopping your opponent becomes (quickly) dull, you're left with a half-baked footie game that can't decide what it wants to be. The unrealistic arcade action means Red Card won't appeal to real fans, while soccerphobes will soon tire of the foul play.The players bear little resemblance to their real-life counterparts. Beckham, in particular, looks more likely to shatter mirrors than break hearts. The two-player option   offers the most entertainment, with post-pub the optimum playing time. Even then there are niggles, such as the erratic keepers who are regularly beaten from long range. For single players, the main challenge allows you to play against teams of dolphins, samurai and Swat teams.Ultimately, it depends on what you want. If you prefer high-scoring farces, try EA's glitzy, yet woefully uninspired Fifa 2002 World Cup. For a proper football simulation, get the peerless Pro Evolution Soccer. If you want to play against a team of dolphins, you need your head examined. (GH)FrequencyPlayStation 2 	&#163;29.99 Harmonix/Sony 	***During the reign of the original PlayStation, Sony pursued clubbers, and it has been attempting the same trick with the PlayStation 2. Frequency is a slightly odd effort that draws its gameplay from dance music. As with the likes of Parappa The Rapper, you must hit the correct button right on the mark -    triggering music samples - to prosper. But the point is to build up entire tracks from their constituents. Thanks to an interface reminiscent of retro classic Tempest 2000, you choose which track part (beats, keyboards, guitar and so on) to attack first, and when you've nailed two bars you can move to the next.Power-ups, which automatically hit the beats or multiply your points, add a hint of variety to proceedings.  There are five stages, each consisting of five tracks, and you must amass enough points to unlock the last track in each stage. A non-competitive remix mode lets you fiddle around with the music. Frequency's strong point is its music: the game features credible artists such as Orbital, Roni Size, and the Dub Pistols, but its lurid visuals let the side down. The game's novelty value soon evaporates, and once you have opened up all the tracks, there is little replay value. One for the music game completists. (SB)Die Hard: Nakatomi PlazaPC £19.99 VU Games/ Piranha Games ***Bruce Willis' barefooted John McClane has become
   something of a pinup in the action movie hall of fame. Unfortunately, his history on the PC has been less iconic, with a
   paltry collection of DOS-based games and PlayStation ports, but this incarnation, the first-person shooter (FPS) Die Hard:
   Nakatomi Plaza, is the best of a bad bunch.The game sticks, as far as possible, to the movie story line with the New York
   cop stranded in a 40-storey skyscraper being overrun by terrorists. This works well nostalgically, as the game also uses
   characters and environments from the movie, but badly in terms of limited weapons and an obsession with correct
   narrative over gameplay realities. The developers have tried to vary the 30 or so levels, but unfortunately, they don't look
   that great, which is surprising as the game uses the LithTech engine, which produced Alien Versus Predator 2.However, the
   artificial intelligence of the terrorists is pretty good, and many will duck, roll and hide during fights. Aspects like morale,
   which affects the way John shoots and how the terrorists react to him, are also innovative. The game seems a strange
   venture since the film is now 14 years old. It's also being released in the wake of some stiff competition such as Medal of
   Honor. Fans of the film will enjoy the inside-the-movie feel.However, against the competition, Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza
   doesn't really stand up. It stoops and winces, as its reluctant hero did, over the shards of what would have been a great
   game about five years ago. Right man, right game, wrong time. (RP)
If you ever feel nostalgic for old Defender arcade machines, the 3D tank action in Battle Zone, or even the simple pleasures of bouncing heads on a Commodore 64, you can relive your lost youth at the Barbican Art Gallery in London.The world's biggest and best computer games exhibition opens there today, and runs until September. After that it moves to the Royal Museum in Edinburgh (from October to February next year), the first leg of a world tour that is expected to reach as far as Japan. And while Game On may have a gallery setting, there is nothing dry or academic about it. Most of the exhibits are playable.Dropping in for a sneak preview on Monday, I was struck by how much the show resembled my loft. Partly this was because it still looked a    bit of a tip, with paint rollers on the floor, and stuff spilling out of boxes - inevitably part of putting on a show.  Mainly it was because most of the video games business is recent history. The Sinclair Spectrum, for example, was launched only 20 years ago last month, and the Sony PlayStation only seven years ago. Where the Barbican scores over my loft and yours is in its size and scope. The exhibition covers two floors - some 2,000 square metres - and includes some classic machines that few gamers have seen, except in photographs.The most exciting are the $350,000 DEC PDP-1 minicomputer on which the first video game, SpaceWar, was produced in 1962; Computer Space, a futuristic-looking arcade system launched in 1971; and Pong, the Atari arcade game that kicked off a huge money-making industry in 1972.  The hardware display starts in the first gallery and has an immediate impact.But the emphasis soon shifts to software, where the improvements in graphics, sound and content are even more spectacular.  Space    Invaders was amazingly addictive for its time, but the graphics and sound were simple, and the plot wasn't exactly on a par with War and Peace. But creating major games rapidly became much like creating feature films, with storyboards, artwork, plots, and at least the occasional gesture in the direction of character development. And today, home games consoles such as Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube can put graphics on your TV set that would have been the envy of Hollywood moguls a couple of years ago.Game On shows some of the original artwork and level maps used to create Grand Theft Auto 3, and some other groundbreaking games. Conrad Bodmin, the Barbican gallery's resident curator, says: "One of the things I wanted to express was that a lot of traditional artistic work went on before you got to the computing side."Again, it is the sort of thing most people never have the chance to see. Professor Henry Jenkins, director of the comparative media studies programme at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Boston, and one of the advisors for the exhibition, says he thinks computer gaming "is going to be the most significant art form for the 21st century," but continual hardware changes and lack of this kind of background material present problems."It's already much harder to do computer games than study the early history of the cinema," says Jenkins, because movies were being copyrighted. "If it wasn't for the pirates, there'd be no way of tracking our way through the early steps at all."  That so much has survived is down to the participants - the programmers and the fans - rather than libraries or museums. For example,    Computer Space and Pong machines are on loan from Archer Maclean, who wrote International Karate Plus - yes, that's the one with bouncing heads.But unless more organisations follow the lead of the Museum of Scotland - which funded the initial research behind Game On, by guest curator Lucien King - there is a risk that the appreciation of games could be confined to a ghetto, like comic books. Video gaming is a big business, of course, and Britons spend more on games than on videos or visits to the cinema.Last year, according to the European Leisure Software Publishers Association, the UK market was worth &#163;1.6bn; this year it should be much bigger, following the high-profile launches of the Xbox and GameCube. But financial success alone will never get the cultural establishment to take games seriously.In the end, that is what makes the Barbican exhibition important: it brings together the raw materials needed by anyone who wants to develop an aesthetic for a new genre. But if you are a gamer who doesn't care two hoots about the cultural implications, it still looks like a terrific day out.
Shine onShine, a new website from Amnesty International, includes 12 interactive media projects to celebrate the organisation's 40 years of "creative activism" in the US.   Highlights include previous Webwatch favourites Hexstatic, who has built an extraordinary "video harp" for the project - a kind of virtual instrument that allows you to manipulate video clips from television news. Elsewhere, the current darlings of the New York club scene, Fischerspooner, contribute an interactive display that features work from their new album. It's all rendered in Flash and the navigation can drive you to distraction, but the work itself is good enough to reward perseverance.Read in circlesReaders of Lewis Caroll might think that the great author's work needs little altering to make it strange and surreal. But visitors to Textarc.org can read the work online in curiouser and curiouser ways. The new site includes more than 2,000 literary classics, such as Alice in Wonderland and works by Shakespeare and Balzac. Each complete text can be displayed, line by line, to form a wide circle on the screen.It works like this. The site's software counts each word in the text and notes its location   every time it is used. It then creates an interactive map in which the relationships between words and where they appear in the book can be seen at a glance. The frequency of individual words can also be mapped. The effect is to turn each work into the kind of concrete poetry that Caroll anticipated in his wonderful books. It takes some time to load and you need a Pentium III PC or better. Fascinating, but you couldn't read a whole book that way.Donnie DarkoHi-Res!, one of east London's most imaginative design studios, is back with another website to promote a new film. After its multi-award winning sites for Requiem for a Dream and Centre of the World, a new Hi-Res! site is a mini-event in itself. The new site is for Richard Kelly's Donnie Darko - a film about a young schoolboy plagued by visions of a giant evil rabbit who orders him to commit acts of violence, and which predicts the end of the world. But Hi-Res! won't tell you any of that. Instead, the site takes on a life of its own, inventing a complicated prequel and sequel to the film. As beautiful as it is beguiling, it is the current state of the art in web design.Get backBackmasking is the alleged insertion of messages - invariably demonic - backwards. It was supposed to be a serious problem in the 80s, and led to a high profile court case involving UK heavy rockers Judas Priest. The results - available here as a number of Real Audio files - aren't exactly convincing, but most are intriguing enough. Some, like Queen's Another One Bites the Dust, seem playfully intentional, but judge for yourself.Slacker studyHas the internet made the world more efficient? Not according to researchers at Carleton University in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Cyber-slacking and the Procrastination Super Highway is a study of how the rest of us avoid studying. It found that 47% of the time we spend online is spent avoiding work. Web watch intended to read the whole report but got distracted by too many instant messages...Pizza actionDomino's Pizza has just relaunched its site and made it a lot easier to order pizza from your home or office. Now you can design as well as order pizza, and even design "half and half" pizzas. The site also has an "order recall" service, so you can save your favourites. Results are delivered to your door in about 45 minutes. Meanwhile, Ihavemoved.com - the site that tells people you've moved - is offering a free pizza for those who sign up to its service.CrashYou'd be forgiven for thinking that this was JG Ballard's pornography of the car crash made real: smashed, catalogued and displayed on the web.Women's cricketwww.webbsoc.demon.co.ukThe home of the gamewww.ecb.co.ukSubscription servicewww.wisden.comEncourage the kidswww.theprideside.com
PaceBookIn the next few days, the computer world could change forever. Paysan is expecting delivery of PaceBlade's   PaceBook, a "tablet PC" running Microsoft Windows XP. PaceBlade,   based in Taiwan, is one of Microsoft's "strategic partners" for the Tablet PC, which Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates announced in his Comdex keynote in Las Vegas in 2000, and demonstrated last year. "It's a PC that is virtually without limits, and within five years, I predict it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America," said Gates.The PaceBook - a tablet with a 12.1in touch-sensitive LCD screen - is about the same size as a notebook PC, and just over an inch thick. You could use it on the move for about five hours, thanks to the use of a Transmeta Crusoe power-saving processor. It also comes with a wireless keyboard, so you can put the screen on a desk and use it as a conventional PC.Gates does not have a particularly good track record as a seer. Just as Windows Companions and Net PCs vanished without trace, so could the Tablet PC. However, PaceBooks could   still find a market for industrial and corporate applications at a reasonable price - around &#163;1,500 plus VAT to companies, says Paysan (01884 232060). And if the tablet PC's handwriting recognition is anything like as good as the Transcriber supplied with PocketPC 2002, it should be very effective in that sort of role.AlphaSmartOver the past two decades, dozens of companies have offered light, battery powered machines that let you perform tasks such as typing letters on a train, without the huge overheads of running a general purpose computer. Kazuhiko Nishi's Tandy 100 was a classic of the genre, but Clive Sinclair's Z88, Alan Sugar's Notepad NC100, Apple's eMate and the Psion Series 7 testify to the idea's appeal. The fact that they all failed in the marketplace does not seem to discourage people   from trying, and the AlphaSmart 3000, an American import, is another contender.The AlphaSmart 3000 is a portable keyboard with an LCD that shows four lines of 40 characters. You can enter about 100 pages of A4 text, stored in eight separate files, and transfer it to a PC or Mac via a USB serial cable. It is very easy to use and is claimed to run for more than 700 hours on three AA batteries.The AlphaSmart is reminiscent of an Apple eMate - it is made of tough semi-transparent plastic - but without the sophistication. If   it does what you need, then it is a reasonable option for &#163;234 inc VAT from Seventh Sense Solutions (01923 222722). In the right business or educational context, it could more than earn its keep. But the days when anyone thought there was a mass market for this type of device have surely gone.IBM ThinkPadNew notebook PCs are launched every month, and the recent trends have been towards the use of Intel Mobile Pentium 4-M chips and providing built-in Bluetooth and Wi-Fi (802.11b) wireless networking. The Sony Vaio PCG-SRX410 still uses a Pentium III-M but can use both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi at the same time, while Toshiba's new Tecra 9100 has a P4-M as well.IBM's new top-of-the-range  ThinkPad T30  is available with either a PIII-M or a   P4-M, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and a "revolutionary design change" - the UltraNav pointing system. The notebook PC world is split between people who prefer to use a sort of miniature joystick to move the mouse pointer, such as IBM's TrackPoint, and people who prefer touch-sensitive pads. Pads must be winning because the UltraNav system offers both.
Several days after his death, the implications of the assassination of Dutch politician Pim Fortuyn were still reverberating round the world - and the net. Webloggers around the world were chewing over the implications of his death: for democracy, rightwing politics, for the Netherlands.How can we be sure that so many netizens were taking an interest? After all, weblogs are scattered across the net, published by individuals, not corporations, esoteric in their choice of subject and often read by tiny - by mass media standards - audiences. Most of us only dip a toe into this electronic soup, and read no more than a handful of blogs in a week. Meanwhile, keeping track of a range of mainstream media headlines is notoriously difficult, for search engines and surfers.The answer lies in a raft of new tools that are emerging to take the temperature of the net: services that manage to follow what this electronic Babylon is saying, make connections among all the messages, and prove in a scientific way where the zeitgeist is headed.My information on the Pim Fortuyn discussions came from Blogdex, a creation of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Media Lab.   Blogdex scans weblogs, indexing the links that each weblog makes. By looking at who is linking to what, a picture emerges of what is grabbing the imagination, and comment, of webloggers.Not everything they talk about is as serious as an assassination, mind you. Number two on Blogdex on the same day was a story from the Santa Cruz Sentinel on the delicate matter of Gillian Greensite and her sculptured Eugenia shrubs. They were proving an eyesore to some of her neighbours on account of them being shaped like 20-foot phalluses. Ms Greensite said there was no resemblance: more than a few bloggers were disagreeing.Daypop is a site often mentioned in the same breath as Blogdex, although it does a slightly different job. Daypop presents itself as a bare-bones search engine of news. You can search for references to specific events and people who are in the news now: Daypop, which has a narrower but more frequently updated index than most   search engines (only 7,000 sites are searchable) should catch breaking news early on. The site also includes a top 40 of links, and a list of the top online news stories. Rocketnews also lets you search current news, and has a "Rocket News monitor" that sits on your desktop with the latest headlines, and a search box.Of course, you might find these automated search engines, charts and listings a little cold - weblogging, after all, has strong personalities and heartfelt opinions at its heart. In that case, the giant collaborative weblog at Metafilter might be more your bag. Membership has frozen at the 14,000 contributor mark, which means you won't be able to join in yourself, but watching from the sidelines as members fish out interesting snippets from the web can be entertaining. The quirky Memepool covers an eclectic range of websites, less newsy but often more wide-ranging than Metafilter.But it's not just bloggers who can define the internet zeitgeist. At the Yahoo portal, a tally is kept of the news stories and photographs most forwarded on by readers: the kind of stories that (sometimes) can brighten up a dull day at the office.When we looked in earlier this week, a New Scientist story was top of the pops. The subject? Research that showed having a son can shorten a woman's life by eight months, while having a daughter can lengthen it by five. That the figures were drawn from research among northern Scandinavian   communities between the 17th and 19th centuries might have been ignored by weary modern mothers nodding in agreement as they forwarded it on.Meanwhile, check out the search spy function at a few search engines - looking at Search UK's spy page provided an entertaining diversion, as it updates every few seconds with the latest queries. They range from the banal ("barnet college sustainable management") to the unsuccessful ("adult movis").But perhaps the best survey of search engine preoccupation comes from Google, and its Google Zeitgeist page. Every week - sometimes more often - the Googlers pick out interesting trends from the millions of searches being put through the engine. Last month, Google received more queries in Spanish than in Japanese for the first time. An accompanying chart showed a big blue swath to denote the English-speaking majority of searchers - but showed it becoming narrower to the right as a rainbow of other languages nudged towards 50% this year.How long, we must wonder, before the ever-changing zeitgeist is in a language we don't understand?
First experiences with computers?First encounter in the workplace was in1985 working on an ICL networked system data inputting for an electrical company in South Africa. My first home system was the dedicated word processor, the Amstrad 8256.How did you get into website editing?Like many early adopting academics, I first used the net as a research tool, and then got interested in editing and content production. One of my first online jobs was editing the website for the Orange Prize for Fiction. I left academia and joined Amazon.co.uk as part of the original team in October 1998. I now work in website development, where my early editorial experience comes in handy.What keeps the Amazon franchise so successful?A commitment to serving customers by offering the best in value, selection and convenience. Everyone is dedicated to ensuring it's easy to find the DVD, book, camera (whatever) and getting it to you quickly.Are you part of the "broadband revolution"?Any development that makes it easier for people to get online is a good thing. The next big change will be "instant on", which could see people having more than one PC in their home.Is the net more than a great research tool?The internet is an amazing medium: it's beaten the adoption of almost every other kind of technology. It's more than a research tool. It's a community, an opportunity for people to debate, share information and ideas and to educate, to read, write and, of course, shop.Could you envisage releasing a book solely via the net?Like any author I want my work to reach a wide group of people. We're some way away from e-books becoming the norm, but it will be sooner than we think.Favourite gadgets?Favourite is my Sony Walkman MZ-R700. Current "like to have" is the new Sony Cli&amp;#233. It has a built-in keyboard, digital camera and it plays music - all your work and entertainment in your pocket.Do you text?Constantly, particularly with my mum, who can't hear. Before SMS, we couldn't communicate easily on the move. Now it's easy to stay in touch and it's opened up a great immediacy in our relationship. The accessibility provided by new technologies can be really enabling. Having a mobile is essential to my lifestyle. It enables me to plan on the move and get more things done in a day.
No picnicI was sent a warning about a virus called jdbgmgr. exe, which supposedly can wipe files. I found it on my hard drive (with a teddy bear icon) and deleted it. I use AVG6 anti-virus and it was not detected, and apparently the main anti-virus programs also miss it. Heard of it?K Docherty,TwickenhamJack Schofield replies:Almost everyone seems to have fallen for this one, in spite of the fact that it is only the old SULFNBK hoax under another name. However, putting "jdbgmgr.exe virus" into Google would have shown it was a hoax in seconds. You can replace the file by installing the current version of Microsoft's Virtual Machine, used to run Java applets, but it is probably not worth the effort. See Availability of Current Build ofMicrosoft VM (Q163637). As usual, restart your PC and do not run any other programs before getting the update.BigfootI have several accounts listed in Outlook Express, such as Bigfoot Internet Directory Service and InfoSpace Business Directory Service. How do these accounts come to be set up? Can I delete them safely?Alan TaylorJS:These services are preinstalled to help you. If you go to Edit|Find|People, this defaults to searching your address book. But if you click the down-arrow for the Look In box, you will be given the option to search a number of directory services such as the ones you mention. You could delete them, but there is no real benefit. You could also try searching for your own name in the various directories.Only deleteAll the emails I have deleted are stored in a Deleted items.dbx folder in Windows/Application data/Identities. I have opened the file in Notepad and find it even contains dodgy emails that I "deleted" unopened and unread.Brian CampbellJS:The Deleted items folder should be visible in the Folders section of Outlook Express. If not, select View Layout, tick Folder List and click OK. To empty the folder, right-click on it and select Empty "Deleted Items" Folder from the drop-down list. You could also go to Tools|Options| Maintenance and tick the box next to Empty messages from the "Deleted Items" Folder on exit, but I don't recommend it.  Close down Outlook Express, select your C: drive in Windows Explorer, press F3 and search for *.dbx files. You may still have one or more large Deleted items.dbx files. You can delete these if you are sure you will never need to recover any of the contents. When you restart Outlook Express, it will automatically create a new file.Slow SEWindows Explorer (in Windows 98SE) becomes increasingly slow. After about 15 minutes of continuous use, all operations (deleting, renaming, etc), take minutes to complete. However, the same operations can be carried out in a Dos window at full speed. Altering the View settings or restarting the program makes no difference.A SmithJS:The most likely causes are a virus, a memory leak in a background program that is consuming all your PC's resources, and a problem with the way Windows is set up. Start by running a virus check. Next, press Ctrl-Alt-Del and find out which programs are running in the background. Stop all of these from loading except Explorer and Systray and see if it solves the problem. If not, think about reinstalling Windows from scratch. Microsoft suggests the problem is caused by having too many files in directories: seeOpening a Folder Takes a Long Time (Q153114).Try limiting each directory to a maximum of 256 files. However, hundreds of millions of people have thousands of files in some directories (eg C:\Windows\System) and these work fine, so I find this unconvincing. The best web page I can find on the topic is atthe-it-mercenary.com. You could try "the Sean option". Alternatively, you could replace Windows Explorer withOntrack's PowerDesk 5,    which is much better. There is afree version.Backchat&#183;The problems with the Alcatel USB modem for ADSL and PCs with VIA chipsets, raised last week, affected several readers. Dr Bob Rollins complained about users having to carry the can for what looks like a defect either in the Alcatel modem, or PCs with USB ports and VIA chipsets, or in the USB specification. "It's galling to sign up to a service - as I did with BT Openworld - to find that you're locked into a one-year contract but that the service might not work with a PC that meets all the requirements advertised on the service provider's website."David Latimer said: "What solved it was buying a Belkin 4 USB port card. I think I got it from Dabs for around &#163;28." Warren Newman added: "there is a similar problem with Apple Macs connected to ADSL. The current Alcatel drivers turned out to be the cause of periodic 'kernel panics' (crashes) on my allegedly crash-proof OS X system. Alcatel is aware of the problem and will be rewriting the drivers for OS X." Robert Clayson pointed out that the Alcatel modem was not the only USB product to have problems with VIA boards:    "I have a Psion Wavefinder, which I must also run through a separate hub because of the power it demands."&#183;Several readers, including Matt Purver, pointed out thatMozilla/Netscape 6can stop popup adverts. Wasim Juned added: "If you're running Opera 6 you can refuse pop-up windows by clicking on File, then Preferences, and Refuse pop-up windows."&#183;More on leaving laptops switched on all the time. Peter May says that IBM Multiprise mainframes are each managed by an IBM ThinkPad that is never powered off. The ThinkPad is "stored with its lid closed, held in a clamp upright inside the Multiprise cabinet. Those laptops are intended to be left on indefinitely."&#183;More onrefilling printer cartridges(March 7): Samantha Steyn says her company is now importing "amazing inkjet refill kits" that use "cartridge-specific inks and incredible patented tools that make the refilling process really simple".
The games console war, which Jackreported ona couple of weeks back, continues: all three are now selling at $199 following big price cuts by Microsoft and Sony. Nintendo, originally offering the cheapest machine of the three, says it has no plans to undercut its rivals, despite price advantage being one of the GameCube's big selling points.
Morefrom ZD Net on that new rack-mounted Apple server, which seems to be meeting with reasonable approval from those who know about such things. MeanwhileCNET News.comhas a remarkably stilted interview with Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO.
Napster, the music download service that at the height of its popularity threatened to bring the multibillion pound record industry to its knees, is close to bankruptcy.Amid infighting on the company's board, the chief executive, Konrad Hilbers, has resigned while Shawn Fanning, the 22-year-old college dropout who founded Napster, is also understood to have quit.Mr Hilbers was brought in last year by German media group Bertelsmann, the predator turned gamekeeper which bought a stake in Napster last July and has since signalled its intention to take full control.A former vice president of Bertelsmann's music division BMG, Mr Hilbers was charged with overseeing Napster's relaunch as a legitimate service but has now quit along with four other senior board members.He is understood to have become exasperated over infighting between John Fanning, Shawn Fanning's uncle, and Hank Berry, the former Napster chief executive and partner at venture capitalist group Hummer Winblad Venture Partners.They are divided on how to split the £21m Bertelsmann is offering to take full control of the company. The German media giant has already ploughed around £59m into Napster in the form of loans and investment.Last month Napster was forced to axe 30 of its 100 employees and still faces a legal bill running into hundreds of millions of dollars from its ongoing court battle with the major record labels.The service has been fighting to survive in the face of a series of legal challenges and has been offline since last summer, when a US judge ordered it to remove all non-copyrighted material at the behest of major record labels including Universal, Sony and Warner.Before the major record companies took action to have the site shut down, Napster had more than 50m users logging on to download music for nothing, often months before it was due to be released.Napster's popularity caused panic in the boardrooms of record labels with artists lining up on opposite sides of the debate. Metallica threatened to sue fans who downloaded their songs while others such as Limp Bizkit encouraged the practice.However, in the time it has been offline other illegal file sharing services such as AudioGalaxy have replaced it in users' affections. They are more difficult to shut down because the tracks are stored on thousands of computers rather than on a central server.The rival subscription-based music download services launched by the big record companies, such as MusicNet and PressPlay, have so far proved less popular than expected due to limited functionality and the small selection of tracks on offer.
Applehas announced its first rack-mounter server: all brushed metal on the outside, big hard drives, loadsa memory and dual G4 processors on the inside.CNET News.comhas the details, including the quotes from an unusually cautious, humble-sounding Steve Jobs. "For everything we know, there are 10 things we don't know," he said, presumably only referring to Apple's knowledge of the enterprise market.
More speculation on the price war gripping the games console market, this time fromSlashdot. It's thought Microsoft might cut the price of the XBox at the E3 games show next Monday, while Sony is rumoured to be ready to lower the cost of a PS2 as early as tomorrow.
Sony has just announced that it's cutting the price of its PlayStation One games console to £49.99, a reduction of £30. It's a smart move by the company: by getting younger gamers hooked on the platform, and by encouraging them to buy games for the console, they're more likely to buy the compatable PS2 - which is facing stiff competition from machines from Microsoft and Nintendo.
RealNames update: Keith Teare, former CEO of RealNames, has a go at Microsoft on hishome page, accusing them of stifling innovation. He's not the first person to suggest that - but the fact remains that RealNames was a bad idea, with or without Microsoft's help. And it'll still be a bad idea if Microsoft decides to ape it, as Teare suggests they might.
RealNames was one of the tech bubble's stupidest ideas. Users, instead of typing in a URL, would type in a single world, and rely on the RealNames system - built into Microsoft's Internet Explorer - to take them to the right site. Sites would pay RealNames for the privilege of "owning" certain keywords, and users wouldn't have to type ".com" or ".co.uk" in the URL. Problem was, there was no problem - users found they could stretch to typing in the whole URL, or discovered that the auto-complete function built into browsers did the job for them. And now, not before time,RealNames is about to die.
The Register's Andrew Orlowski has posted a very interestingpieceon the next release of Apple's OSX, which has been nicknamed Jaguar. There's a lot of the usual analysis of the various eye candy elements of OSX, but some more important notes about speed (much much faster now, even on G3 machines) and performance on laptops (it's not killing the batteries so badly, presumably because it's not working the processor so hard). "A straw poll unanimously preferred the beta to the current public release, 10.1.4," he writes. "Jag delivers where X has failed. So let's say we get on with it?"
American space scientists, once at the cutting edge of technology on this planet and beyond, are now being forced to scrounge spare parts from cyberspace.This is because the space shuttle, first launched in 1981, is dependent on computers that are so obsolete that the average home PC user would have junked them a long time ago. Rocket science, it seems, is not what it was.In particular, Nasa is continually hunting for Intel 8086 chips, now regarded within the industry as being as relevant to the 21st century as the penny-farthing or silent movies.The design is described by some irreverent spirits in the computer business as "brain damaged".The shuttle operators also need eight-inch floppy disk drives, which were outmoded before the end of the 1970s.Reassuringly, the scientists say that the parts are not required for the shuttles themselves, but for servicing and support equipment."It's like a scavenger hunt," Jeff Carr, a spokesman for the United Space Alliance, the company contracted to run the shuttle fleet, told the New York Times.Onebay.com(apparently one of Nasa's chief stamping grounds), it was possible yesterday to find a couple of 8086 central processing units, and even an 8086 users' manual.Bidding for one of the units was up to $7 (&#163;5) with the manual going for $3. Funding for the American space programme is not as lavish as it once was, but it is thought these amounts would be within the budget.However, Nasa's main concern is to buy in bulk to maintain its stockpile and prevent the possibility of a space launch being wrecked for want of an antiquated spare part.The shuttle is due to remain in service until 2012, and there is a possibility of that being extended until 2020.
"Artificial society" software could help real policy, according to this UPI piece onagent-based modelling.
Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the Web, has been giving a keynote speech at WWW2002 (the slides arehere) and tallking toDan Gillmor.
Queue busters: One of the case studies Microsoft has put up to encoruage the use of mobile devices is about W H Smith. Apparently the chain has equipped a small number of staff with small printers and PocketPCs with built in bar-code scanners so they can act asmobile tills.
Intel's new chipset provides for CPU speeds up to2.53GHz.
Employers face fines of up to &#163;3,000 if they refuse to file their tax returns using the internet, under proposals in the finance bill.The Treasury yesterday confirmed the new rules will force employers to send electronic Paye returns by 2010 or be fined on a sliding scale up to &#163;3,000. It estimates the Inland Revenue will save &#163;35m in the first five years of the scheme.The rules were put forward in the Budget when the government said small and medium-sized firms must make the system of employee tax collection more efficient, joining large corporations, which will be forced to comply with a tighter deadline.But the move will catch out elderly and disabled people, who employ carers and families with full-time nannies, if they opt to pay their staff through a payroll system. Other small businesses which have yet to join the electronic age will also be forced to invest in the hardware and software over the next eight years to comply with the rules.John Whiting, president of the Insititute of Taxation, said it was wrong to make the system compulsory. "You can't really criticise ministers for pushing ahead with e-filing. But it shouldn't be mandatory for everyone. The government should be making the system so attractive we all want to file tax returns electronically and not fining them when they don't."A spokeswoman for the Treasury defended the move, saying the scheme had been adopted following recommendations in the independent Carter report. She said small employers would qualify for a &#163;250 award if they made the transition before 2005. The award then declines on a sliding scale until 2010.Employers could also file returns from libraries or internet cafes, avoiding the need for expensive investments in IT.
Nick Denton, founder ofMoreover.comand Onlinecolumnist, hasannouncedhis new venture. Details are sketchy at the moment, but it looks like some kind of hub or aggregator for weblogs. It's an interesting idea, already being explored byDaypopandBlogdex, although I think the people currently best positioned to do something really exciting with this are making the web services and software that publish blogs today. Those bits of software are handling, directly, all those ideas, opinions, facts and links people put in their blogs every day, and sending them out on to the web. That direct relationship with the raw material of personal publishing puts them in the driving seat if they look to do interesting things with all that data flowing through - like indexing it, syndicating it, and offering ways to combine it with the similar efforts of other bloggers. Maybe Nick's going to try and strike a deal with the likes of Blogger - its CEO, Evan Williams, expressed an ambition to do more with all the stuff flowing through his servers when I met him at the start of the year (right at the end ofthispiece). It's the kind of thing which could take blogging, personal publishing, hey - the web itself - to the next level, if done well.
Meme (and spam, of a sort) alert: judging by the contents of my mailbox, an online campaign to boycott Esso and BP is really gathering steam (I found the full text in thisGoogle cached page). Campaigns on fuel prices leave me cold - there are sound environmental reasons for expensive fuel, petrol companies aren't the only ugly multinationals making vast profits, and high tax on petrol is needed to pay for roads - but this campaign could be interesting to watch simply because it is being born on the net. But, that said, there's no need to send me any more copies, people... :-)
In Clarke, the (British) creator ofFreenet, has been interviewed byCNet.
Guardian Online isonlinetoday. It includes features on how a user tacked down a net stalker in the UK, and Chris Locke -- RageBoy -- who reckons bloggers could be the start of a new renaissance. There's a resonant commenthere.
It seems the bottom is dropping out of theonline porn market.
.pro:For professionals only.
Californiais bankrolling the dissenting states' attack on the US government's settlement with Microsoft, and as a University of Virginia professor showed in court yesterday, the dissenting states' demands constitute awishlistthat is heavily based on (sometimes quotes almost verbatim from) the desires of Microsoft's enemies to restrict competition. There are no prizes for noticing how many are based in California.
IBMwill support a grid-based system for online gaming, using software from theGlobus Project.
Mobile phones are toxic, and have such a short life-span they are going to create aserious pollution problem, according to an Inform report.
Your PC is a pretty sad kind of icon - typically beige (groovy Macs notwithstanding) and invariably ugly, it hides its charms from all but the section of the population born with a genetic sympathy for complicated tech. It's certainly an unlikely candidate for the term revolutionary.That's exactly what it has become, though, in the past two decades. The PC is now the greatest instrument of personal liberation in western cultures. That such an over-complicated, over-powered    and over-priced box of tricks should continue to dominate the imagination of so many - geek and non-geek alike - even into the century of intelligent machines - is one of the more remarkable phenomena of the era. Before I attempt to explain the PC's improbable resilience, let's look at the case against it.On the face of it, the PC is a dinosaur: a programmable, general-purpose computer in the era of the simplified, single-purpose tool. Any arm-chair futurologist will tell you that the PC must inevitably yield to a swarm of gadgets variously attached to your person, colonising your home (at about ankle height), discreetly re-stocking your fridge or representing your interests on the net while you sleep. Even your office PC doesn't really need to be a PC any more.It should, by now, have become a "thin client" or a terminal of some kind hooked up to the net and downloading its intelligence and usefulness as it goes. Since you rarely use more than 5% of your PC's power, you're sitting in front of an absurd box of grossly over-engineered circuitry. Spinning fans and glowing heatsinks work incessantly to keep it from overheating while you play Solitaire.Unnumbered gigaflops stand ready to play your Buffy MPegs    without a jitter. Trillions of computing cycles are spent unproductively every day. Not only is the PC probably the most technically complex device you'll ever own, and probably the most complex ever mass-produced, it embodies so many criss-crossing economic, cultural and social factors that it's a miracle it works at all. In the future, goes the story, we'll look back on the era when we had one on every desk and wonder what on Earth we were thinking. In the meantime, though - at least a decade after the first firm predictions of its demise - it persists.The resilience of the PC is really the resilience of a metaphor. Without its metaphorical clout the PC would have been relegated to the back room years ago - merging with the rest of the dumb infrastructure. A psychologist would call the PC "over-determined" - carrying a freight of cultural and psychological meaning far out of proportion to its    apparent status. For its users, and particularly for the young, the PC is a liberated zone, a place of permission, autonomy, creativity and of almost unlimited possibilities. Very few man-made things can ever have carried so much meaning, condensed so much value and potential for action. It seems odd to ascribe such power to the cream-coloured lump on your desk but only a handful of contemporary cultural phenomena can match the PC's potential for connection with others and fulfilment.The significance of the PC owes everything to the fact that most young people now grow up with regular access to a machine whose capabilities are limited only by the imagination. This generation does not feel the vertigo of tech-fear that makes the rest of us anxious, dulling our interaction with the networked world. It's no coincidence that the only people still predicting the PC's demise are the ones old enough to remember a time before it existed.Forty-plus members of the technocratic elite can still be heard talking down the PC but only because they can still remember the IBM Selectric typewriter and can't get the hang of instant messaging. A generation growing up utterly at home with the   transformative power of the PC is not going to give up on this richness without a fight. While quite rational adults worry about "total cost of ownership" and the economics of putting thousands of pounds worth of PC on your desk, its screensaver twirling pointlessly, the wired generation treasures the no-limits culture of the PC and won't be swapping theirs for a slimmed-down access device any time soon: if you don't have the tool you need, download it.If it doesn't exist, code it yourself. If it works, upload it and make some money.  The general purpose PC embodies such redundancy, over-capacity and waste that logic condemns it but, as we have learnt before, logic has little to do with the success or otherwise of technology products.  The bond formed by millions of young people with their ugly duckling PCs will be an increasingly important factor in the post-crash tech economy. If you're still betting on the demise of the PC, you should be prepared for a long wait.&#183;Steve Bowbrick runs Another.com, Britain's biggest email services firm&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Wave Race: Blue StormGameCube 	&#163;39.99  Nintendo	***Nintendo's launch line-up for the Game Cube has been an eclectic mix. Wave Race, like its original incarnation on the N64, is very much a race game for arcade purists, one for improving technique and higher scores rather than surprising the player with more levels or features.Five courses (with a few extras for the experts), eight riders and a handful of bikes are just about all you get, which is short indeed, especially for an early release on a new machine. Fortunately, the action itself is pixel-perfect - on a par with the Tony Hawk   games for realism, if lacking the variety and scale.Wave Race is always enjoyable but rarely pulls you back    to see what else it has to offer. There are short-cuts, but they are easy to find by trial and error or via the free roam   mode, which allows you to look around without penalty.While graphically excellent (the water effects are particularly impressive), race fans have been spoiled by Gran Turismo and Metropolis to expect far bigger games than this for their money.Controlling your jet-bike is challenging to the point of frustration. Turning is far too fiddly for maximum satisfaction, especially as you need to negotiate buoys as well as complete the course, and the GameCube's dwarf-sized joypad makes it hard to negotiate some of the button combinations at speed. Even so, there are plenty of jumps, twists and flicks to perform for extra points, if you have the patience.So is it worth the money? Well, yes - but only if you're new to the Nintendo experience and want to see master craftsmen at work. Very few build so much playability into their games, and Wave Race is no exception.If, however, you owned an N64, you'll be dismayed at how little progress the GameCube represents. Luigi's Mansion and Blue Storm are quality titles, but nothing like the quantum leap demonstrated by Super Mario 64 or the original Wave Race.  (MA)DrivenGameCube 	&#163;39.99  Bam! Entertainments 	**You're more likely to be driven to tears of frustration by the fussy controls than actually enjoy Driven - a racing game for the GameCube. Sadly, the omens weren't good from the start. This is a GameCube conversion of a poor PlayStation 2 game based on a dreadful Sylvester Stallone movie. With a heritage like that you could almost feel sorry for it. Until, of course, you start playing.Whether it's crashing out on a bend for the 798th time after mistiming it by a millisecond, or the rigid unrealistic cornering of your opponents, this is a driving game best left parked. If for some bizarre reason you do persevere - Sly Stallone obssessive? Judge for the GameCube turkey of the year award? - then you may glean some crumbs of enjoyment.These are mainly to be found in the sole original ele ment of the game - the zone. This is entered by racing consistently well for a period of time and offers better handling, blurry visuals and different sound effects. But any enjoymentis soon obliterated by the difficulty level - one notch down from suicidal - that makes progression a painful case of trial and error.The theory behind the game - character-based racing - is sound enough and this GameCube version is superior to its PlayStation 2 brother, though that wasn't hard. The graphics are more detailed, while the difficulty level has been slightly toned down. But being "marginally better" than the mediocre PS2 version is faint praise indeed. Driven deserves all the damning it gets.  (GH)
The prevalence of pornography online is one of the main reasons women's involvement with the web and ICT lags far behind men's. Because men write software applications and devise ISPs, they determine the rules that put women off. But this criticism, in a new pamphlet from the Fawcett Society, is matched by strong advocacy of the web as the basis for new social dialogue among women. Margaret Moran, the pamphlet's author, is a backbench Labour MP whose own Luton democracy pages   have been praised as an example of what political representatives can do online.The Fawcett Society is a campaigning group for women's equality in politics and the workplace. Moran's message about the possibilities of the web and women is positive, even though she says the online environment is male dominated - noting the number of women in IT jobs in the UK has recently fallen.  "How can we involve women online if their experience on the net is of offensive material and mass mailings advertising pornography?" She claims the lead taken by AOL in providing greater parental control over the sites that can be accessed by children is a result of that company's female leadership. She wants the office of the e-envoy to collect information on    women's use of the internet.Yet women can "reclaim cyberspace" if the web is promoted as a tool for addressing the practical issues in their lives. Moran has been active in trying to organise online discussion groups in her Luton constituency. Schools could offer parents free time online: "By encouraging    online communities and enabling them to create their own content and forms of engagement, we may begin to overcome male domination of the e-world."Moran's Womenspeak project broke new ground in promoting conversation between MPs and women victims of domestic violence. She    says the anonymity offered by the technology allowed women to speak, often for the first time, about harrowing experiences - without fear of reprisal or intimidation.  Moran emphasises the importance of non-web advertising, for example flyers and periodicals, to alert women to the opportunity of    online participation. She notes "the consultation was staff intensive and e-democracy cannot therefore be seen as participation on the cheap.Refuges were key to persuading women to go online and supporting them through the process. They reported that women were very keen to go online despite being unfamil  iar with technology." In the parliamentary project on domestic violence, the role of moderator was important - filled by the Hansard Society - in filtering out offensive material and ensuring coherence in the discussion. An expert group from Women's Aid provided support and advice on the design of the site; they were available to give advice to the project throughout.  The need for training and a safe place from which to access the discussion was important.A network of free local IT providers with support was identified and translation facilities were available.  Moran concludes: "The constraints on women's involvement in the traditional methods of democratic participation are many; the shortage of time, issues of safety, caring responsibilities, and the tendency for men to dominate discussions. The online environment offers a number of advantages for women. The interactive nature of the internet allows different levels of participation and involvement at times and places that are convenient for women's lives. Online dialogue allows women sufficient space to express their views and all experiences are deemed as of equal importance."
The internet has seen many buzzwords come and go, but none is striking as much excitement as the key buzzword for this year: web services.Web services is a slightly ungrammatical term used to describe two programming techniques called Soap and XML-RPC. With these techniques, programmers, even relative beginners, can write simple code that links directly into the guts of the bigger system.One such system, which launched its web services to the public last month, is Google. "With the Google Web APIs service, software developers can query more than 2 billion web documents directly from their own computer programs," says the company.So now, with a little skill, anyone can write a program to access, and use, the very heart of the biggest search engine on the web.It is this that makes web services exciting: they enable people to not just have cool ideas, but to implement them with a graceful power that is thrilling - for programmers, at least.You don't even have to spend any money on fancy technology to do it.While Microsoft, Sun, Novell and IBM have thrown big company money behind marketing their own versions, it is the smaller developers and free languages that are really running away with the technology.Bar presentation, all the web services are by definition the same thing, else they wouldn't be able to work together, thus losing the point.While Microsoft's .Net offering is being hyped as the future of computing, the standards that make up .Net and every other commercial web services suite are being most rapidly adopted in the weblogging field.Online has featured weblogging - personal publishing on the web - and has its own blog at www.onlineblog.com. This blog, edited by Neil McIntosh, is created using the highly popular system at Blogger.com.Many people don't like the user interface that Blogger provides, but love the internal features. The stuff it does is great, but as you are using a web site to do your work, some things are quite tricky.Working offline is a painful fudge of cutting and pasting, for example. So, Evan Williams, the chief executive of Blogger, installed a web services interface to his system, and now there are many ways to add entries and edit your blog.All have been written by people unconnected with Blogger - they've possibly never had any contact with Blogger or Evan Williams - yet they can still wire their programs deep into the workings of the Blogger system, something that would previously have been both difficult and somewhat dangerous.By allowing their systems to be used in this way, companies such as Google and Blogger are providing the building blocks for everyone from hobbyists to professional programmers to build new services on top of their technology. They can be combined to unleash greater power.Why not take a web service that gives today's TV listings, for example, and combine it with a system that searches Google for details of the casts of each of the films. Then use another to order a pizza, to arrive just as the first advertising break starts? All from a few lines of simple computer code, and a bit of imagination, web services not only make this possible, they make it easy.The big companies don't necessarily get this. The day before Google released its web services to the public, technology guru Tim O'Reilly wrote: "(This) is a classic case of what Clayton Christensen, author of The Innovator's Dilemma, calls a disruptive technology. It doesn't fit easily into existing business models or containers. It will belong to the upstarts, who don't have anything to lose, and the risk-takers among the big companies, who are willing to bet more heavily on the future than they do on the past."Let's take web services as an example. Microsoft recently announced they hadn't figured out a business model for web services, and were slowing down their ambitious plans for building for-pay services."Meanwhile, the hackers, who don't worry too much about business models but just try to find the shortest path to where they are going, are building 'unauthorised' web services by the thousands."The web, it seems, is about to get really interesting.
One of the things Chris Locke has never told me - and this is remarkable from a man famous for interviewing a talking horse - is that if only people had listened to him, the "internet bubble" might never have happened. It is still not too late for big companies to save themselves billions of dollars. The problem is that most of them don't understand what he's saying.It's not hard: it just doesn't fit their preconceptions. Locke's message is that the internet is not a mass medium, so mass marketing and advertising based on the old, broadcast model are counterproductive. All those internet business plans based on "aggregating eyeballs" are doomed to fail. The web is not print, and it's not becoming television.Even if everyone gets high-speed fibre to their home, with the net carrying digital radio and TV-quality pictures, it doesn't restore the broadcast model's power. "I have a rap here," says Locke, throwing his arms in the air. "Broadcast - broadband - some people think it's the same thing. Video on demand! It's a jukebox! But we still have this bottom up effect on the net, and the technology to create movies has gotten way cheap, dudes. So you are not going to be limited to Hollywood blockbusters, you're going to get lots of 10 minute videos - Atomfilms - and that's going to erode your market.You can broaden the pipe as far as you want, but if everybody can play, it's not broadcast any more. There isn't that control of the passes. The channel is out of control and that makes it a different game."What replaces mass market, broadcast advertising is Locke's "gonzo marketing",    which is not really marketing but "market advocacy" through participation, sponsorship and support. The internet replaces the us-and-them relationship (creative people broadcasting to couch potatoes) with a network of conversations, which is all markets are, really.It's the difference between a media empire such as AOL CNN IPC Time Warner and 100 million bloggers. The explosion in the popularity of blogging, peer-to-peer file-sharing, cooperative (open source) programming and similar movements means Locke's ideas are now being taken seriously by major corporations including merchant banks and the BBC, the latter having paid for his latest trip to London.  But he has been saying the same things for at least eight years, both as a big company employee and as RageBoy, a "seriously maladjusted mental case and towering egomaniac with an advanced case of Tourette syndrome".RageBoy is the alter ego who can, and must, break the unwritten rules that govern the way things are done. His success shows that "winning through worst practices" - the subtitle of Locke's book, Gonzo Marketing - works on the web. RageBoy didn't exist eight years ago, but Alan Meckler did. I know because I met him at the first internet trade show he held in the UK in March 1994. Guardian's Online had yet to be launched, and I was struggling to describe Mosaic, the first popular browser, and explain how the world wide web worked. Meckler, who published the first internet magazine, told me all about a project this guy Chris Locke was developing: MecklerWeb.It would be the web's first cybermall or portal. I felt like a Tiger Moth pilot being    shown a thumbnail of Boeing's plans for the 747. MecklerWeb crashed and burned on the runway, possibly because Meckler engaged reverse thrust during take-off. Gordon Cook, editor and publisher of the Cook Report, summed it up at the time: "On Friday October 14, 1994 Alan Meckler remade MecklerWeb into the very hardcopy-publishing, advertising-based structure that Chris Locke, its creator had said could never work in the new electronic world of the Internet. Indeed MecklerWeb will now be run    on the very attributes of print publishing that Locke set out to prove no longer viable when he created it."Locke went to Internet-MCI "to try to float the same kind of notion", he says, but by that time, the media companies - Murdoch's News Corporation, Time Warner, Disney, etc - were starting to appear on the web. "They said, 'Of course we know it's not television', but they still had the broadcast mentality," says Locke. "It's all about we-tell-you content that's developed behind the scenes at    high cost and then shot out through cannons, and the whole purpose is to have a carrier wave for advertising."The broadcast model is command and control: from the inside it's work orders come from the top, check your brain at the door, shut up and do what you're told," he adds. "With respect to the outside, it's: 'Buy our fabulous product, do it today!' But it's the same voice of command and control: "You're going to do what we tell you.' And the internet just goes against that whole thing."My idea was areas of interest - this is what I've been preaching forever. Internet audiences aggregate by areas of interest, not top down but bottom up. What would pay for it was the opportunity for corporations to attach themselves to areas of interest, and not only keep them afloat with money, but participate with those audiences in a meaningful way."Locke went from MCI to IBM, but there he was forbidden from writing or talking to the press. Bored and frustrated, he started an email newsletter, Entropy Gradient Reversals. That's where RageBoy was born, pouring scorn on his employer, and where Locke developed his voice. EGR was read by internet mavens - it was the only way to find out what he was thinking - but it often had as much or more to say about sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll. The running gag was RageBoy escaping from his chains,   insulting readers, and goading them to unsubscribe, before Locke managed to regain control and apologise, or not.It was often very funny, sometimes intensely moving, full of ideas, and beautifully written. It was, in short, the sort of thing no conventional publication would allow, but it couldn't be stopped on the web. Locke's response to IBM had been: "I'll write on the web: these people are so dumb, they're never going to find it." They did, of course, but as his boss said, "since you quit 30 seconds ago, I don't think there's anything they can do about it".He went back to Boulder, Colorado, where his love life took twists and turns as engaging as any soap. "I am trying to live my heart online, and it's dicey," he says. "We're giving ourselves permission to act like humans online, and we've never had that permission before. We fail and we make mistakes and we're broken, and there's a lot of juice in that. I'm kind of on the edge, and I'm trying to stay there."EGR and the debates that surrounded it led to The Cluetrain Manifesto, written with Rick Levine, Doc Searls and David Weinberger, which was a spectacular publishing success. It was written as a sequel to a website that proclaimed 95 theses for the people of Earth, as a sort of Lutheran disputation with the way businesses approached the internet. Cluetrain led to Gonzo Marketing, Locke's own take on the problem. Recently, that has been followed by The Bombast Transcripts, a collection of mailings from EGR. "People now pay me large sums, as a consultant, to come in and kick their asses,"says Locke."What I'm telling them is: drop this invasive, intrusive advertising - it's not going to work any more - and build relationships around shared interests, and that will create good will towards your company. Instead of turning people off, you can turn them on by hooking them up and getting out of the way. And if this works, I see trillions of dollars shifting towards a bottom-up artistic web renaissance. What could come out of that is a cultural flowering that we can't imagine, just as the middle ages couldn't imagine the Renaissance. I don't think that's a whacked-out vision. "Capitalism has to engage with society. At the moment, companies don't have to look at social effects in their cost of sales. That thinking has to change. You know, if the whole fucking planet melts down, how good was your business plan?"
Earliest encounter with computers?It was a salvaged Spectrum  of some sort. I used the rubber buttons as erasers! Then I used early Macs like the Classic. Now I use a black G3 PowerBook. I've installed an airbag system on the keyboard for when I fall asleep waiting for a dialup connection.Why Macs?Mainly because of their simplicity. I'm no good with code and there was always a lot involved when using early PCs. Microsoft now uses all the icon-based stuff it nicked from Apple but I've stuck with Mac because they're much less complicated. Also, Microsoft is very boring!Is the notion of the "cyberpunk" still operative?The term's still used as a reference point in regard to certain kinds of writers, but in the real world it's not used. The best writer in the old cyberpunk tradition is Greg Egan. It's almost like horror writing because it's so unemotional and detached. The virtual reality idea is fairly old-hat now but he literally took it as far as it could be taken with his book Diaspora.Is the net the last bastion of free speech?No, there'll be another. But most people have no way of verifying anything presented in the media. In Slaughtermatic I posited the idea of a news service that guarantees all the facts it presents are true. People would pay through the nose for it and it would be worth it.Do you post stories free on the net?I sometimes post little articles like the one below, though I don't consider the net a viable medium for releasing my work. As for whether the net will ever replace print media? Radiation, death and mass decomposition will do that eventually!Ever been virused?Yes - though on laptops they are barely distinguishable amid the computer's everyday behaviour.Favourite sites?Thoughtcrime) features the complete text of Celia Green's The Human Evasion, a book people have been ignoring for decades. 3AM  is for people who are genuinely into books and ideas - a million miles from "Guardian recommends". The site www.longtolive.com asks a few form questions and then dates your death. It tells almost everyone they'll live to be at least 80. There's all kinds of fun facts about globalisation and America's oil-and-therapy wars at,  while is conspiracy stuff, with the added value of being unfashionable.Any gadgets you'd like?I'd like to be able to inflate my trousers, really abruptly. I just think it would shut people up mid-conversation. I haven't got a mobile and don't plan to have one.How do you envisage the net evolving?A system of stars will be awarded to people for the amount of voluntary surveillance they place themselves under. Oh hang on, that's already happening ...
Whois it?In Second sight, May 2, Michael Cross says "Back-office integration is the reason the Cabinet Office wants a fundamental change in laws protecting personal data". This caught my attention because of the Nominet "whois" personal-data controversy currently smouldering on the net. Nominet, the quango that controls the registration of .uk domain names, intends to publish contact information for all registrants of .uk domains. The data will be available online and searchable (ie, through whois). Nominet claims that their terms and conditions allow them to do this, though many registrants of non-business domains say that when they registered their domain, this was not made clear to them.  Does this connect with the Cabinet Office's desire for a "fundamental change in laws protecting personal data"?Ellen Mizzell(email address withheld)Yah boo!The real problem with Yahoo is not just being bloated (Is Yahoo losing the plot?, May 2) but that it has stopped being objective. Yahoo used simply to select the best sites (albeit in their view). But last year, it began charging commercial website producers to be considered for listing, so that big business sites appear, rather than smaller (often more interesting) ones. Almost overnight I stopped using Yahoo in favour of Google, which returns information on merit not on the basis of ability to pay.Dr Nick Fiddesnick@scotweb.co.ukYahoo!I'd like to know who these "whisperers" are who claim that Yahoo is losing the plot. I use Yahoo now more than ever: for spam-free email, storing bookmarks and files online, auctions and TV listings, as well as for searches. I find it extremely convenient that all these services are in one place and free. I don't find Yahoo slow and in fact it makes an excellent complement to Google. If I know the site I'm looking for but can't remember the address, Yahoo is better since it lists mainly official sites and cuts out much of the dross.Graham Southorngraham_southorn@ yahoo.co.ukDigital dangerI feel that recent letters about difficulties with recording digital TV (May 2, and previously) slightly miss the point. TV companies and other media corporations do not want "ordinary people" taping their broadcasts and being so presumptuous as to decide when and where they want to view those tapes. The digitisation of broadcast information (first music, now video and soon, TV signals) has partly been motivated precisely because one needs expensive or specialist equipment to record it, and the medium is, generally, non-reusable. A home stock of video tapes, where the owner can watch them whenever they wish, without paying a further licence fee to the copyright holder, is anathema to media corporations in the same way as home taping or Napster. Rather, we will be expected to download "movies on demand" from their central databases. They are deliberate policy decisions.Dr Drew Whitworthpolaw@lucs-02.novell.leeds. ac.ukStay analogueI had been toying with the idea of going digital to see the new BBC offering but Malcolm Chowdhury and Barry Joyce (Feedback, May 2) have convinced me that my steam-driven analogue set-up    is far superior to anything any of the digital suppliers have to offer. If analogue is turned off I will just read more. Thank you for the good coverage of the main issues in computing and technology - you are my main source of information on these topics and have hit the right balance for those of us with more interest in the computer as a tool than a toy. Jack Schofield's column is particularly interesting and useful.Arlene Jonesarlene@waitrose.comPIN it upOn ordering online from Watford Electronics, I could only use my credit card if I also quoted the CVV number printed on the back of the card. As long as you don't allow the card out of your possession, it makes it much safer to buy online. However, it would be even safer if this number was sent separately like a PIN. Why isn't it done?Peter Wilksp_wilks@macharho.freeserve.co.ukAn Apple freeBrian Aldiss (Working IT out, May 2) has three Apple Macs, so he can work on three books at once. If I showed him how to open three files on one machine, would he give me one of his redundant ones?Ben Millsbenmills@ecosse.netTime's rightForget convenience (A lonely medium, April 18). My Timex keeps near perfect time - my Nokia 3310 doesn't. End of story.Jim BrookeJim_Brooke@ compuserve.com
The clonesThe Official Star Wars Fan Film Awards - mostly parodies - have been judged by George Lucas, and the results are now online at Atomfilms.    The rival iFilm site has also put together a collection of Star Wars parodies including American Jedi, Troops (a take-off of Cops), and Pulp Phantom. There's lots more fun stuff, and quite a bit of junk, at the site's Countdown to the Clones page.Royal hustleMTV's Dancing Queen could be considered a tribute to our beloved monarch, but you can    also put Charles and Will through their paces, at least in animated Shockwave Flash form. You get a choice of music (sorry, no Abba), backgrounds, lighting, and options each for leg and arm movements. The animation and programming was done by the king of the genre, "Dancing Paul" Stroot, and there's a link to the MTV version from his front page.LIX upThe LIX has been doing well recently, compared with the FTSE 500 and the average temperature in Britain. You may have missed it, but the LIX is a weekly index that tracks the performance of artist Lucy Kimbell. For example, it goes up when she is being creative or has an orgasm, and down when she has a bad dream. Of course, the number of visitors to the LIX site will help drive up the index, unless they all vote: "This is complete nonsense and a waste of public money." The site was featured in Channel 4's Identinet series. www.lixindex.comFive ways?Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon was child's play compared with Dinner for Five, a new online Flash-based trivia quiz promoting a TV series now being shown on the Independent Film Channel in the US. All the questions revolve around links between this week's and next week's guests. For example, which actor was in Sand and is Conan O'Brien's cousin? (Andy Dick) The choice of four answers means you can still pick up a few points from random guesses.Spider websSony's Spiderman has just outgrossed Warner's Harry Potter film, in the nicest possible way, on its US opening, and the official site is offering new downloads including some professional-looking Green Goblin fan art. There are also, of course, dozens of fan sites, including Spidermanhype, which is already counting down to Spiderman 2 in 2004. Spiderfan offers broader coverage, including the original comics, computer games and collectables.No yolkYou would have thought a large and sophisticated online bank, such as Egg, would have registered the obvious domains before launching a service such as Egg Pay. Apparently not.Life on MarsIt was a cloudy day on Mars when Gxochim stepped purposefully along the Northern Tempe Terra, thinking of the family he had left among the crystal fractures of Ophir Planum. He started: there was a glint in the sky. Oh, it was only the Mars 2001 Thermal Imaging System (Themis) satellite taking a few snaps for earthlings to enjoy on the Nasa site. He made a traditional gesture with eight spare legs and slipped into a shadow where even his 80-foot torso could not be seen...
On June 26 2000, a draft of the human genome - the set of instructions required to make a human - was published, the culmination of two decades of research. The Human Genome Project (HGP) is now close to announcing that the sequence is complete. Its scale is staggering. Every cell in our body contains 3 billion letters of DNA sequence, written in an alphabet of A, C, G and T. The DNA sequence from just one cell would fill 200 phone directories. The HGP has depended on international collaboration, so dealing with the sequence online has made a huge difference to the project's pace. Scientists are generating powerful information in the field of genetics: they need powerful tools, like the net, to allow everyone to engage with the latest developments. The human DNA sequence is online (see below).The ensembl tour gives an introduction to this amazing database. It shows you how to focus on any region of the genome, right down to the DNA sequence. One of the major contributors to the HGP is the UK's Sanger Centre, ). From its homepage you can read about different genome projects. It is proving valuable to sequence the DNA of other species, such as worms and mice, because theirs is surprising similar to ours.The press releases link gives you a detailed history of the centre's work. Those from June 26 2000) reflect the excitement of that day, with one official claiming the HGP would be more important than the invention of the wheel. Geneticists often use a different language from everyone else. Unfortunately, this deters many from finding out more. There are, however, some good places to start with the basics. Utah University has designed a great site with clear illustrations.The BBC recently broadcast a series on genetics. The website associated with these programmes  looks at genetics from three perspectives: science, health and history.    If you want the meaning of one word or term, the US National Human Genome Research Institute has a detailed glossary.The latest news stories are collated by the US Dolan DNA Learning Centre. Alternatively, you can find out what the leading scientists are working on. The journal Nature provides a genomics portal.Research into the human genome is changing the way we understand ourselves. We are learning how we form and develop and why we get ill. This research is particularly significant to people who are unwell because of genetic mistakes.  The Genetic Interest Group is an umbrella organisation for UK support groups who help people affected by genetic disorders such as Huntington's disease. Its site has a good introduction to inheritance. Most genetic conditions are rare and communication among families in similar situations is often beneficial. The scheme called Contact a Family helps parents of children with disabilities to link up for support. There is a detailed section on genetics on the NHS Direct. websiteIt provides information about which tests are available and how genes can be involved in cancer and    more common conditions. There is huge interest in the way genetics influences common diseases. Researchers are trying to establish how the environment and genes interact to cause disease. For more, see Oxford University's site. Alternatively, read about the work of the Public Health Genetics Unit based at Cambridge University.If you click on Information Databases on the home page, you will find a comprehensive guide. Genetics research creates complicated ethical, social and legal dilemmas. The government set up the Human Genetics Commission in 2000 to advise it on such issues. Another important group looking into ethics is the Nuffield Council.This group examines subjects including stem cell therapy, DNA patenting, genetically modified food, behavioural genetics and genetic screening.  Last year, a moratorium was agreed between the government and Association of British Insurers, which prevents the results of genetic tests affecting most life insurance policies. The UK Forum for Genetics and Insurance includes details on its site.Reproductive testing is one of the most contentious areas. The current issues section of www.progress.org.uk/News  is updated weekly with news on subjects such as cloning and prenatal testing.
One Sunday last year Gobion Rowlands logged on as usual to check his email. There was a message from an unusual Hotmail address. Its title was Gob on Rowlands. Its text - not for sensitive eyes - read: "You probably don't remember me, but I haven't forgotten you. So you're still into your wanky dungeons and dragons shit... Clearly you have lived up to your full potential: a self-obsessed arsehole with bad kidneys.   Oh yes Rowlands, I fucking know who you are... So why am I emailing you? Just to let you know that you can't leave your past behind...""To get an email like that out of the blue was pretty unnerving," says Rowlands, 28. He thinks the sender discovered his email address because he had written a book and the publisher had listed author names and email addresses on a website. Initially Rowlands contacted Hotmail, which shut down the email account. Within days a more abusive   email from a new Hotmail account arrived along with a link to a website called Ihategobion.com which encouraged people to "join the campaign to destroy Gobion Rowlands"."It was at that point I decided I needed to take more serious action," he says. Rowlands runs Red-redemption.com, a web design and computer gaming company - he also spent part of his psychology degree studying offender profiling. The stalker had chosen the wrong victim. "I was determined to do something about it," he says. "Not just for myself, but to stop whoever it was doing it to someone else. And you've no idea what might come next - threatening phone calls, physical stalking, actual bodily harm."So Rowlands set off on a trail that would lead him to become one of the handful of people in the UK so far to have successfully identified and dealt with an internet stalker. To be able to report the crime he needed more information. He wanted to try to discover the stalker's identity. Obscure references to his school days in the emails narrowed the scope down, but that still left 50 or so possible suspects. The stalker thought that by setting up a Hotmail account in a fictitious name he was relatively untraceable.His emails gloated about the fact that Rowlands would never find him. In fact, he could not have been more wrong. All emails contain a header - a sequential list of each host (with its unique Internet Protocol (IP) address) that the message has passed through to get from sender to receiver. Popular email software such as Outlook Express usually hides this information, but there is an option to turn it on so that you can see it. Tracing an email back to its source is usually relatively easy."If you know what you are looking for, the level of detail in the header is quite high," explains Rowlands. "Each host identities itself with its IP address and logs time, date and origin of each email it handles. It usually tells you the software used to send the message and the type of email address - in this case a Hotmail account." Once he had details of the source IP address, Rowlands performed a "look up" using the search engines provided by the three regional internet registries. This provides contact details for the owner of each address.The stalker's emails, which were becoming increasingly abusive, originated from an AOL server. Most internet service providers (ISPs) will keep a log of dial-up connections made to their servers.    Rowlands contacted AOL's legal department who acted quickly. "This is the internet and people don't always know how to deal with it. But it's the same crime online as it is offline," says Camille De Stempel, AOL's director for security. She asked Rowlands to provide the times and dates when the stalker had dialled in to send the abusive emails. AOL was able to identify the stalker within minutes. "People may have this misconception that the internet is some   kind of wild west, but there is no real anonymity on the net yet," explains De Stempel.It was clear that Rowlands should go to the police in case the stalker stepped up activities and possibly even attempted physical contact. Armed with printouts of the emails and screen grabs of the website, Rowlands went to Hammersmith and Fulham police. Although helpful, the police needed convincing that he really was being stalked. It took time for them to contact   AOL's legal department to verify his version of events. Rowlands was concerned that the identifying information AOL could provide would be destroyed before the police saw it. (The Data Protection Act requires ISPs to destroy or anonymise non-essential customer data after a short period of time.)Once the police had been convinced, they classified the crime as just as serious as stalking in real life. They advised Rowlands to change    his locks and encouraged him to report any examples of people around him acting suspiciously. "Of course this stoked my feelings of paranoia," he says. He was asked to make a list of people he could think of who might bear a grudge against him and confront them so that they could be ruled out of the investigation. Reluctantly, he made a couple of calls and patched up a few differences with people he'd had minor fallings out with. "This procedure makes perfect sense in the case of a normal stalking inquiry, but it was unnecessary. It is really very easy to track someone down on the net," he says. "They leave such a clear trail behind them."A week later, armed with the evidence from AOL, the police raided the address of the 27-year-old stalker at 7am and took him and his family in for questioning. He was formally cautioned, but Rowlands did not press charges. On questioning, the   stalker alleged that he viewed the whole thing as a prank. "There's clearly something wrong with his perception of what's a rational prank," says Rowlands. AOL's De Stempel agrees: "Crimes committed online should be seen as just as serious and treated in exactly the same way."Hunt the hunterEmail is traceable through the headers it receives as it passes each host.Using Outlook for PC users:open the message, select Message Header under the Views menu. A tab labelled Options appears at the top of the message. Click on this to reveal the header.For Mac users:open the message, click on the word From before the sender's email address. This brings up a box with three tabs - click on Header.Using Outlook Express for PC users:open the message, select Properties from the File menu. Click the Details tab and then the Button marked Message Source. The header is revealed in a separate box.For Mac users:open the message, click the Views menu and select Source. This brings up a box with the header.The source of the email should be represented by the internet protocol (IP) address, nearest the bottom of the header - a string of four numbers (eg 123.145.541.321). IP addresses are unique. The allocated owner will be registered with one of three regional internet registries. You can find out who owns it, and how to contact them by performing a search with the relevant registry (see links for each area below).  Try each in turn. Type the string of numbers into the search engine provided.
Can you wean yourself off Windows and survive? Yes, by installing Linux. But I'm not sure I can live with it - yet. Which operating system your computer runs isn't something you normally need to worry about. It's the layer of software between applications such as your word processor and the hardware and, if you have a Mac, it's easy. Apple designs the hardware and writes the software. The two are entirely in tune with each other.On a PC, competition means that there's myriad operating systems (OS) out there. The trouble is that all but a tiny proportion of people run one of them - Microsoft Windows - while the rest of the market is shared out, broadly speaking, between various flavours of Unix. Of these, Linux is the most popular and is easiest for the average user to get to grips with. What's more, you can download it free. So I thought I'd check it out, some 10 years after I last experimented with Unix.As a heavy duty Windows user, I'm used to Windows' little ways. Familiarity may breed contempt but it makes for predictability, which is what you want when it's your ideas and creativity that are important, not the computer. Could Linux tempt?RedHat's Linux can be downloaded free of charge and the latest version is said to be one of the most user-friendly versions - there are several so-called distributions from various software houses. With a broadband connection, the 1.2GB download took around five hours - a couple of days at least on a dial-up modem. You can get it on CD, but that costs money. I burned the resulting two CD images on to CD-R and booted from disc one. I was pleasantly surprised to find that the OS recognised my GeForce-based graphics card - I had to tell it the precise card type though -    and the rest of the hardware.Within 25 minutes, I had a working system - it's a 667MHz Celeron with 256MB Ram - running Linux. I logged in and, again with the help of the documentation, started the graphical user interface, universally known as X.  A few seconds later, I was looking at an attractive screen - though clearly not Windows - that was intuitive for a Windows user.I was running KDE, one of many window managers. Window managers provide the look and feel of the window components such as title and scroll bars. Linux looks reassuringly familiar. There's a start bar from which you can launch programs. You can right click on the desktop and pop up a menu that does much the same sort of stuff as in Windows. And there are lots of programs installed by default - almost too many. I counted three separate browsers along with dozens of programs accessed from the taskbar.So far, so much like Windows. But there's always some tailoring to be done. You'll want to make it look and work as you want. Web browsers and mail programs are already installed but you'll need to install some practical programs - an office suite maybe. Sun's StarOffice 5.2 is readily downloadable, though once again, it's a hefty download at nearly 100MB. You can change the way the system works but it can be a daunting task. A little digging and you quickly find yourself editing a text configuration file, where an errant comma can mean the system stops.Tracking down those sorts of errors is time-consuming and frustrating. Quite often the quickest way to fix something is to go in using the command prompt which, when unfamiliar with the language, also takes time. It took me back to 1984.Installing software can be a trial, especially when documentation refers to compiling the source code before installation. That's because each distribution of Linux needs its own version of the program which, from a Windows user's point of view, is one of its downfalls.However, variety is a core element of the open source project - anyone can develop any kind of software, from applications to complete rewrites of the guts of the OS. Open source - free - programs exist to do pretty much whatever you want and, if you can't find one, RedHat Linux comes with an emulator called Wine.This pseudo-Windows allows well-behaved Windows programs to run under Linux.  All the way, there's a huge raft of documentation available, so much so that finding the answer you want in a sea of text is not always simple. However, it's what Google's Groups searches were made for. This, in many ways, is one strength of open source software. Dig around you'll unearth newsgroups and websites such aswww.linuxnewbie.org where help can readily be found.Need Microsoft worry? Not right now, not on the desktop at least: for most people, Linux still takes more tweaking and fiddling to generate a tailored system than most people will want to do. What's more, Windows is better at issues such as providing help and protecting itself against the user who accidentally presses the wrong button and deletes crucial files. However, open source software is a idea born of iconoclasm and is achieving some success, thanks largely to champions such as IBM, which uses Linux as a platform for server applications.Although most of us will continue using Windows on our desktops for the time being, Linux is slowly moving in the right direction.
DSL woeI have a home installation of BT broadband. There is a basic incompatibility with the modem they supply and the VIA chipset in my PC. It often reboots when I am clicking on a link. I am told this is due to a power surge through my USB connection. BT suggests downloading new drivers.Gill WalkerJack Schofield replies:This is a known problem. Some PC motherboards withVIAchip sets have problems working with the Alcatel USB modem shipped to home users with BT Openworld. I thought it had been fixed by the appearance of new drivers, including the4-in-1 driverpackage you have already downloaded. Apparently not. The UKADSLwebsite's FAQ (answers to frequently asked questions) offers a list of further suggestions, including buying a PCI-USB adapter card that does not have a VIA chipset. I have no better answer than to work through those. No service is likely to support every piece of hardware and software, and customers should really check first to make sure their systems are compatible.BT Openworld'shelp files list a number of products and services that are not supported. However, I can find no mention of the VIA chipset problem. Since I cannot imagine any ordinary user checking to make sure their PC's chipset is compatible before signing up for a broadband service, it seems to me that putting a warning on its website is the least BT Openworld could and should do.PopupsHow can I get rid of unwanted web pages that appear spontaneously when I'm online? Some don't even have a close button to enable me to close them. Linda GreenJS:You can close these unwanted popups almost instantly by pressing Ctrl-W, but you may prefer to stop them appearing in the first place. Search Google for "popup stopper" or go totucows.com/adkiller95and choose one the many programs available. Unfortunately, I don't know which is best.PopKiis small and very simple and there is also a free version ofPanicware'sPop-Up Stopper ). Shareware options includeAdsGone'sPopup Killer, andZero Popup. We featured Zero in aStep by stepfeature in Online last year.Bug reportsRunning Windows XP, I frequently get a message saying there has been an error. I am asked to tell Microsoft by emailing an error report that has been prepared. Although I usually do as I am told, the problem does not seem to be going away. Does Microsoft take any action following these reports?Mike PurtonJS:Submitting error reports is a good idea because it helps Microsoft find and fix the most common bugs, but it is not a personal service, and it does take time. By default, XP will automatically download bug fixes in the background when they are released,    though patching systems on the fly also has potential disadvantages. Many common problems in XP should be fixed by Service Pack 1. It is being tested now and should be available in September ( seehere). However, if you search Google using the significant details from the error messages, you may find an answer to your problem.POP offOutlook Express corrupts my account settings when I switch off (or is it when I switch on again?) replacing my incoming mail server name (pop.freeserve.com) with localhost and adding /pop.freeserve.com to my account name.Howard Wilkinson.JS:I suspect the problem is not Outlook Express, but your anti-virus program. Localhost is the TCP/IP name for your PC. AV programs typically route email to your PC's hard drive so they can scan it first. Downloading mail direct from the server (pop.freeserve.com) will probably mean it is not scanned. If your AV scanner is on all the time, there should not be a problem, but check your AV supplier's support site for advice.Child pornI received a spam email that obviously refers to a paedophile internet site: "for all fans of tiny little girls" etc. I contacted my local police. They put me on to    theInternet Watch Foundationsite, which has international connections. This may be of interest to other readers.Gerry LynchJS:The IWF site has a page for reporting child pornography, adult pornography and criminally racist material.  There is also an Americansitewhere US and international users can report child pornography. This page is useful in providing an idea of what sort of information is needed.BackchatLast week, Arvind Ahluwalia asked about leaving his computer on all the time. I replied that I left mine on all the time, and that this was normal for computers permanently connected to the internet. While there were many interesting responses, I only have space to mention two. David Wilkins asked if this also applied to laptops (he has an Apple iBook), and Jeffrey Lucas said: "I used to leave my computer on most of the day until a year ago when it spontaneously caught fire."The main enemy of computers is heat, and if a system does not have proper cooling, then it is not a good idea to leave it on all the time. Cooling is particularly difficult with small enclosures and fast processors, and this applies to many notebooks. PCs have high operating temperatures, which should be listed in the manual, but it is certainly a good idea to watch out for excessive heat build up, eg if removable disks become hot when they are left sitting in the PC.  Alex van Kaam's free Motherboard Monitor may help some users keep a track of fan and heat problems, if the PC motherboard provides this information. You can download a copy fromPC World.PCs can cause fires, but it is hard to know whether this is a serious problem. According to Fires in the Home: Findings from the2000 British Crime Surveymost fires (59%) are caused by cooking, especially by overheated fat (24%).  Only 10% of fires are the result of electrical problems, and the main culprit is faulty wiring (3%). TV sets, washing machines and electric blankets have low levels of risk, but personal computers are not even mentioned.  A report from Finland says electrical fires claim around 10 lives a year there, and that "200-300 televisions, 200 washing machines, 50-100 refrigerators and 100-200 sauna heaters catch fire annually".Again, there is no mention of personal computers, but at least one smoke alarm would seem to be the minimum investment required.
