Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Google chief executive Eric Schmidt has suggested that users who complained about privacy invasions by Google Buzz were subject to "confusion".The company has been on the back foot since last Tuesday, reacting to a storm of criticism about the way Buzz - which brings elements of social networking into its Gmail service - works. It made aseries of tweaks to the system over the weekendand has since apologised for angering many users.But talking to phone industry executives at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Schmidt said that nobody had been harmed by Buzz and that the problems were merely the result of poor communication."I would say that we did not understand how to communicate Google Buzz and its privacy," he said. "There was a lot of confusion when it came out on Tuesday, and people thought that somehow we were publishing their email addresses and private information, which was not true.""I think it was our fault that we did not communicate that fact very well, but the important thing is that no really bad stuff happens in the sense that nobody's personal information was disclosed."Schmidt's assertions will come as a shock to privacy campaigners, who had complained that Buzz could inadvertently reveal people's email addresses in public, as well as lists of people's most popular contacts.The Electronic Frontier Foundationhad called for people to carefully review their privacy settings."Google attempted to jump start Buzz with lists drawn from its successful Gmail and Gchat services," said EFF lawyer Kurt Opsahl last week. "While this may help Buzz grow and save users the time to type in all their contacts, it also has an inherent danger of inadvertent disclosure of private information."Among the most notable critics of Buzz's potential to invade privacy was a blogger going by the pseudonym Harriet Jacobs, who said that she was a marital rape survivor and had had her privacy invaded because the systemthought she would like to be connected to her abusive ex-husband.His comments also come as a stark contrast to other efforts by the company to appease complaints, including apublic relations offensive to try and quash upsetover the way Google Buzz works.Earlier on Tuesday, Buzz product manager Todd Jacksonhad told the BBCthat the company was "very, very sorry" and that users were "rightfully upset".However, Schmidt did acknowledge that the company had been making changes to the service in order to allay people's fears."Since Tuesday we have made a series of changes to the product which make some very fundamental changes in the way that you initially experience it, in particular instead of automatically following everybody it now gives you a list of who you ant to follow and it makes it incredibly explicit that it has not been giving them information without you giving it to them."Earlier Schmidt used his first ever keynote speech at the world'slargest mobile phone trade show togive the industry a call to action, suggesting that telecommunications companies should embrace the new world of smartphones and cloud computing, not fear it.He said high levels of connectivity and cloud computing – the idea that devices can be made smarter by relying on the computers on theinternet to carry out complex tasks such as voice recognition – havebrought the industry to a turning point."The confluence of these three factors mans something very fundamental is happening. A phone is no longer a phone, it's your alter-ego," he said."It does not think as well as you do, but it has a better memory. It has a more accurate idea of where you are. It can take pictures better than we can remember things."He said Google is switching to a 'mobile first' model, with more andmore developers thinking first about how the applications and servicesthey have created will work on a mobile device."Culturally it is time to figure out a way to say yes to the emergentnew services and ideas that will not come from Google but from thoseliterally millions of companies and programming shops that will bebuilt on this new platform.""Now is the time for all of us to get behind it. What I would suggestto you here, right now, at Mobile World Congress is to understand thatthe new rule is 'mobile first'; mobile first in everything.. it's time for us to make mobile first the right answer."
&bull; The news fromMobile World Congresscarries on thick and fast:HTC announced its Desire and Legend handsets, while Vodafone said Googlecould harm the phone business. You can catch up with the headlines thanks to therolling liveblog from our communications editor Richard Wray.&bull; The fun and games aroundGoogle Buzzdoesn't stop - just hours after the companyissued a series of mea culpas, chief executive Eric Schmidt told MWC that users had got it wrong because"no really bad stuff happens". Even Jyri Engestrom, the former Googler whose Jaiku messaging service (think power Twitter) was bought by the company in 2006,says there are plenty of things still to fix.&bull; I forgot to mention this one yesterday, but it's still worth discussing: the usually reclusiveSteve Jobshas apparently agreed to be interviewed for a forthcoming biography, according to theNew York Times. The last time a biography hit the shelves, it ended up annoying him so much that not only was it banned from the company's shops, butalso led toallbooks by publisher John Wiley getting dropped by Apple.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Aleks Krotoski is joined by Lord Robert Winston, Professor of Science and Society at Imperial College, London, to discuss why every new technology we develop makes us as a species more vulnerable.We also hear from Richard Wray from the frontline of the Mobile World Congress about Windows' latest operating system for mobile devices, and Bobbie finds out all the dirt onvark.com, the social search company that Google recently purchased for a whopping $50 million.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Google chief executive Eric Schmidt  has extended an olive branch to the mobile phone industry saying he is "not trying to run roughshod" over the operators or turn them into "dumb pipes" in the air.Speaking for the first time at Mobile World Congress, the industry's largest trade show, Schmidt faced angry questioning from some in the industry who fear that Google is piggybacking on their massive investment in infrastructure, through ventures such as its Android mobile phone platform, but giving them no return."I feel very, very strongly that we depend on successful businesses for the operators globally and I disagree that we are trying to turn the operators into dumb pipes," he said. "We need advanced sophisticated networks, we are not going to be investing in broad scale infrastructure, we are going to have the operators do it."After the meeting he stressed that Google's involvement in mobile is designed to make the operators money, not leave them out of pocket. "Almost all of the interesting growth in operators now is coming from mobile data, so both Google and the operators are growing because of this explosion in usage," he said."From our perspective we recognise that the operators have large fixed costs and they have also purchased bandwidth, which is limited in its nature, and so we are not trying to run roughshod over that principle. On the other hand, most of the operators are telling us that we, Google, should build applications that will help them sell their new higher speed services they are spending so much money on."Schmidt added that he did not care whether the network operators tried to get back some of their investment by doing deals with content providers, taking a share of their revenues in return for proving a guaranteed connection for services such as HD video. But he invoked the concept of "net neutrality", which is currently being fiercely debated in the US – it calls for all web traffic to be treated equally."Google defines net neutrality in the following way: if you have a content category like video we want to make sure that the operator does not favour one video [provider] over another because that would then allow the operator to pick winners in the category," he said. "Imagine a situation where the operator also owned a TV network and discriminated in favour of that TV programming against the other choices, that would not be seen as fair."Asked whether Google itself would pay, he replied: "The answer is, we wouldn't."His comments followed a warning from Vodafone chief executive Vittorio Colao earlier in the day that the current debate about net neutrality in the US could hamper any potential attempt to raise cash from content providers.Network companies should be allowed to do deals with content companies who want to ensure a certain quality of service for users. "The solution is to be able to freely deal up and down the value chain," Colao said. "So network operators, content owners, application owners should be able to freely deal and we should try and have competition in all segments."In Europe, the topic is likely to feature highly as the new telecoms commissioner Neelie Kroes, former EU head of competition, takes over from Viviane Reding. The Vodafone boss said: "It is important that the new [European] commission, and to some extent the federal communications commission in the US, take a holistic view of the whole value chain and ensure that the rules they put in place are rules that really enable competition at all levels.
It's been a torrid week for Google Buzz,the activity stream systemthat was added to Gmail but has since been heavilycriticised for invading people's privacy. While the company's chief, Eric Schmidt,tries to woo the phone industry at Mobile World Congress, the Buzz team have been scrabbling to get back on the front foot.Over the weekendthe company made a number of tweaksand now product manager Todd Jackson has been put around anumberofnewsoutletsto give a public mea culpa - and suggest that more changes are forthcoming.Millions of users were "rightfully upset", he told the BBC, adding that the company is "very, very sorry... we know we need to improve things".Still, it's not giving up all the ground."Getting feedback from 20,000 Googlers isn't quite the same as letting Gmail users play with buzz in the wild," he told the Wall Street Journal. "We needed to launch to the public and get feedback from users."Here's what we know:- A number of iterations and tweaks have already taken place, and Google plans another set of tune-ups, as early as this week.- Problems they have acknowledged revolve around 1) exposure of personal information, 2) being unable to see information that's relevant or important, 3) being swamped by updates and 4) what happens for people who decide to opt out altogether.- Buzz was tested internally by thousands of Google staff, but the company did not run tests outside the company (as it has with some other products). It plans to move outside its own walls for future product tests.From where I'm standing, there are two separate but related issues here - one about the product, another about the process.For the product, some of the issues are pretty straightforward tweaks that you would hope get better over time (such as surfacing good information to users). Many of the others are slight tweaks or power user stuff, like the way the system prioritises heavy users, or the noisiness - lots of elementsdescribed by Robert Scoble, who was a heavy user ofFriendFeed(which is very similar to Buzz).All these are fixable as the product develops. Little problems may turn people off in the short term, but they don't kill it. I think it's a little unfair to expect great products first time around, and people should be glad that Google is adapting the product through real-world usage (though the fact the company didn't label this a beta test has also worked against it).But the second issue is one that it's going to find a lot harder to deal with, and that's how Google's processes ended up getting it to this point.The company hasn't always tested on a purely internal basis, but it did in this case. However, it seems to have taken it by surprise to discover that 20,000 engineers and sales people - all entrenched in the technology industry - do not have the same concerns and interests as 150m email users.On top of that, of course, there's also the realisation that when you're inside the firewall there are far fewer of those tricky human issues that the Googlebots missed... the abusive ex-husbands, the cheating girlfriends, the anonymous emailers and so on.One important thing Google needs to learn here is that while your email contacts are a social network, the people it covers are not the same as the circles on Facebook, Flickr or elsewhere. And just because you want to share your photos with friends or family, you don't want to share them with your work colleagues or other email contacts.And they should make the "off" switch easier to find. If you're going to encourage people to share information about themselves, let them know precisely what that information is and how it will be shared, and how it can be made private again - not hide things behind layers of confusing and unintuitive menus.Facebook did a similar thing with its privacy settings recently- adding complexity and obscurity, while changing the default settings to expose more public information.Ultimately, Google must realise that it has reached its Microsoft moment (as described last summer by Anil Dash). What is good for it isn't necessarily good for everybody, despite what the people inside the Googleplex may think.Using and testing your own products - also known aseating your own dog foodis something plenty of technology companies do.But at the end of the day, dog food is still dog food.
Van Halen's spandex-clad brand of cock-rock has never gone down particularly well in the UK – even in their mid-80s pomp they only had two top-10 hits – so Activision's decision to slap a premium price tag on their third band-specific Guitar Hero game (following on from Aerosmith and Metallica) feels slightly strange.Alas, that's not the only puzzling decision. The track list is piecemeal and concentrated very much on the early years of the band – with the Sammy Hagar era, all 11 years of it, airbrushed out of history. Unlike Guitar Hero Aerosmith and Metallica, there are no behind-the-scenes videos and interviews. The latter was clearly made by diehard fans, with considerable input from the band members themselves if the behind-the-scenes video and "Metallifacts" are anything to go by. That game revels in its source material: even the in-game menus are designed with the band's look in mind. No such devotion can be found in Van Halen.Most disappointingly for those hoping to stretch their virtual spandex, the avatars of David Lee Roth and Eddie Van Halen are represented as they are now: somewhat plump-looking 50-somethings who, judging by their hobbling around stage, are suffering from advanced arthritis. Next to them on bass you have pudgy young 17-year-old Wolfgang, heir to the Van Halen rock empire: though not, alas for him, its bone structure. The band's earlier rock god personas can be unlocked later in the game, but only after you've endured a distracting amount of digitalised middle-aged chest hair.As well as the 25 Van Halen numbers, you can rock your way through a further 19 songs from bands supposedly influenced by them – though some of these choices are just odd. Do Weezer really cite David Lee Roth as a formative influence? These tracks were apparently chosen by young Wolfgang, apparently himself a Guitar Hero fan, but you get the distinct impression the choice had more to do with licensing than music.Despite the faults, there's still a decent guitar game lurking in here: no Guitar Hero game can ever, to my mind, be a total washout. As usual you can choose your mode of rock: picking your instrument and playing alone or in band mode. The "expert" level is as RSI-inducing as ever: Spanish Fly and Hot for Teacher in particular, and a long set list will have you nursing your aching wrists. But the problem with this game is it's neither one thing or the other: for the Guitar Hero/ Rock Band fan, there are no innovations at all, and for the Van Halen devotee, it's just not enough love on big-haired display.
Traditionally, Disney's video game offerings have fallen into two camps: outstanding, genre-defining titles of the highest quality, or limp rush-releases pegged to whichever film they're currently promoting.Sadly, for those seeing the company's name and visualising such classics as Castle Of Illusion, Mickey Mania and Kingdom Hearts, here's another for the miserably long list making up the latter category. Developer Griptonite, with several middling film-based titles to their name, emerge with their iffy reputation relatively unaltered here.The game is set in the immediate aftermath of the film, with Tiana looking back to and beyond her amphibian-based ordeals to a future as a New Orleans restaurateur. The arc of the game sees her undertaking a series of challenges which then tenuously result in cosmetic improvements being applied to her dining room's interior. Inevitably, these take the form of a suite of mini-games, taking in rhythm-based tasks, click-and-drop errands, Junior Krypton Factor-style memory puzzles, plus the obligatory "Eh? How did I win that?" chop and wave affairs. All but a few of the 25+ games can be played by up to four players, and more is certainly the merrier where younger gamers are concerned, as the computer-controlled characters are unforgivingly clinical at times.It's disappointing, attached as it is to a gorgeous, hand-drawn animated film, that the graphics are occasionally quite clumsy. Figures are frequently jagged, and viewing the jerky cut-scenes it's easy to forget that you're looking at a current-gen release. In addition, while the game retains much of the talent from the big-screen, voice acting is at times wooden, and lip-synching is half-arsed at best. More of an issue though, the dialogue is wearyingly repetitive – after an hour's play, the frequent references to beignets and gumbo grate appallingly.A New Orleans-set title was unlikely to be a letdown on the music front, and happily there's a pleasing mix of Dixieland jazz throughout – indeed, some of the better challenges on offer tend to be those which make use of the soundtrack. While these never threaten to be on a par with the best rhythm titles around, they're a pleasant antidote to, in particular, the excruciating memory games.Controls, while helpfully signposted before each game, lack intuitiveness, and all too often gameplay takes the form of a mad flail with the remote as you try and remember if the particular game you're playing uses the A or B button, or a particular stirring or wafting motion to perform the task at hand.It generally comes across as a Raving Rabbids-lite for the under 9s, and there's little here that hasn't been done far better in Ubisoft's series. Still, for plastic tiara'd fans of the film happy enough gathering like-minded friends to manoeuvre their favourite characters around for an hour or two, there's enough here to while away a few play sessions until the next Disney juggernaut rolls around.
Plenty of games come to be seen as ahead of their time, but few are afforded the luxury of a remake using the full force of modern technology.Cambridge developer Rebellion, though, managed to enlist the backing of Sega in order to revisit its 1999 classic, uniting two of the most iconic terror-inducing alien creatures from the movie world – the dreadlocked xenomorph from Predator, and the terrifyingly-jawed, acid-spitting eponymous alien which took its original bow from inside John Hurt's stomach.Rebellion's 1999 original for the PC was notable for being one of the first truly compelling online games and, sure enough, the 2010 version shares that focus, with six multiplayer modes (some team based) while others mix aliens, predators and human marines in Deathmatch free-for-alls. However, this time around there's some decent single-player action to be had, too.Technically, the single-player side comprises three games, as you can play through aspects of the same story as marine, alien and predator. The story itself is basic – humans find a mystical pyramid on an alien-infested planet, and marines are sent to investigate – but each of the protagonists brings its own gameplay. As a predator, you can make yourself invisible, jump to designated areas, perform devastating melee attacks, see your surroundings in infra-red vision and perform limited range attacks (the power you require to do so must be recharged by plugging yourself into human machinery).The aliens are fantastically quick and can run up walls and ceilings, but have to get close to enemies in order to launch attacks. The marines, meanwhile, operate much like the protagonists of any other first-person shoot-em-up, with lashings of firepower but no other discernibly superhuman skills. The end result is three games – albeit short ones – for the price of one. When playing as alien or predator, you must take a stealthier approach (the alien levels add an element of puzzle-solving, as you work out how to traverse labyrinthine tunnel in order to pick off isolated marines). But perhaps the game's biggest strength is the joy of playing as the predator, with his all-round hunting skills and flashy visual effects.Whichever species you fancy, you'll find something enjoyable online – you can opt for single-species face-offs if you like. But be warned: Aliens vs Predator is very much a game for the hardcore, even though it is much more forgiving than the original – demonstrating how the definition of hardcore has imperceptibly shifted, as with all other aspects of gaming, towards the mainstream in the past 11 years. Despite that, if your primary experience of gaming took place on the Wii, you'll find it impossibly frustrating. On the other hand, if you've rinsed everything from Modern Warfare 2 and are seeking a new challenge worthy of your skills, it has come at just the right time.
HTC has come of age. The Taiwanese mobile phone manufacturer, once known only as the maker of Windows phones under the SPV brand, today unveiled a new phone sporting Google's Android software which analysts are predicting could steal a march on Apple in the smartphone design wars.The HTC Legend, which runs the latest Android software called Eclair, is made from a single block of aluminium and has a very bright and clear 3.2 inch AMOLED (ultra-bright LED) display. Vodafone has grabbed the handset in Europe, wary of losing out after missing the iPhone in some of the company's key European markets.The Legend will come to the UK in April and already analysts are predicting that it will be a design classic following its launch atMobile World Congress in Barcelona."Legend's clever use of milled aluminium casing could scoop Apple's direction for the next iPhone design," said CCS Insight.Despite its body being engineered from a single piece of aluminium, the HTC Legend has a removable battery – something which the iPhone conspicuously lacks – which slides out from a compartment at the bottom of the phone. The back of the battery casing also contains the phone's antenna so that its metal body does not hinder signal strength.HTC has updated the user face – called HTC Sense – that sits atop Android on the device. Alongside refinements to the phone's address book, so that contacts can be organised into groups such as business contacts and friends, it pulls information from social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter into a single Friend Stream of updates.The Android platform has been the making of HTC. It created the first phone, the G1, using the software, while the Legend is the new version of another successful Android phone, the Hero. The Legend, however, has a rather less intrusive "chin" at the bottom of the device than the Hero.Alongside it, HTC also unveiled the HTC Desire, which also uses HTC Sense. It had previously been codenamed the HTC Bravo andseveral UK operators have been vying to get hold of itas it is essentially the same as Google's own Nexus One device, which HTC also produced. However, it has an optical trackpad rather than a roller ball, and is understood to be cheaper than the Google device.Orange said it will be stocking the HTC Desire from April and it will be free on selected monthly tariffs. It is likely to be priced the same as the iPhone, a policy Vodafone is expected to follow with the Nexus One in the UK when it launches next month.The HTC Desire will also be available in the UK on T-Mobile from 26 March.The Desire has a large 3.7 inch AMOLED screen, like the Nexus One, and contains the 1GHz Snapdragon processor which is also found on the Nexus One. It includes such iPhone staples as pinching to zoom on web pages while it also automatically recalibrates text so that when you zoom into a page, you do not have to scroll left and right to get to the end of a line.Crucially, it also supports Flash, whichApple still resolutely refuses to back.HTC also announced the HTC HD mini, which uses the 6.5 version of Windows Phone rather than theseries 7 platform launched by Steve Ballmeryesterday.
Vodafone boss Vittorio Colao sounded a warning to the mobile phone industry today over the dominance of Google in the search and advertising markets.In his keynote speech at theMobile World Congress in Barcelona, Colao said the dominance of search engines in the online advertising space "from a public policy perspective is something that should be looked at".He urged the European commission to make sure the ideal of openness on the internet did not stop network operators recouping some of their investment in superfast services from someone other than the consumer.Network companies should be allowed to do deals – or as he put it, "freely deal" – with content companies that want to ensure a certain quality of service for users.A film company, for instance, might want to ensure the HD trailer for its film is easily and smoothly downloaded or streamed, by paying a network provider to guarantee a certain level of service."The ability to, at the end of the day, fund our investments with customers' money is fine but we should be able also to have other deals and if content owners want to [achieve] distribution for their own content, [through] commercial deals, why not?"He denied he was calling for regulatory intervention, but his comments to an audience of industry executives echoed a warning by his predecessor Arun Sarin three years ago that companies such as Google could "eat the mobile industry's lunch" if they were not careful.But where Sarin hoped the industry would come up with viable services to compete with the online leaders, Colao said he wants regulators on both sides of the Atlantic to ensure full competition.He said that would allow network companies to start looking at such new ways of making money. One potential source of revenue for Vodafone, Colao admitted, could be Google itself."The Google thing, the point there is a tricky point because it is not a technology point, the solution is to be able to freely deal up and down the value chain," he said after his speech. "So network operators, content owners, application owners should be able to freely deal and we should try and have competition in all segments."The fact that 80% of advertising online goes through one funnel, there's nothing wrong [with that]: to be clear, we use Google, we like Google … it is more of a structural point. You cannot develop a healthy data environment if you do not have competition at all levels. It is more of a point about the future debate about net neutrality than anything specific."Net neutralityNet neutrality, the idea that all web traffic is treated equally so everyone should have access to everything, is hotly debated on both sides of the Atlantic.The stakes have become very high for some of the biggest names on the internet. If they had to start paying even a small amount for the capacity they are using, companies such as Google, with its YouTube service, and the proliferation of online film and television sites, would be facing large bills.In the UK some internet service providers have suggested the BBC should help meet some of the costs of the huge amounts of traffic generated by its iPlayer. In Europe the topic is likely to feature highly as the new telecoms commissioner, Neelie Kroes, formerly EU head of competition, takes over from Viviane Reding.Colao said he has been concerned about recent moves in the US where the Federal Communications Commission last October proposed preventing American fixed-line network companies from blocking content unless it was harmful to their networks. "Some of the FCC interpretations that I read seem to indicate rules on how to manage the thing and I do not think we should have those rules, I think we should have a free system," he said.Google has been lobbying hard for net neutrality and in a move widely seen as part of the fight it recently began totest its own high-speed internet lines in the US. That move came ahead of the FCC's unveiling of a new national broadband strategy, which is due next month."It is important that the new [European] commission in Europe, and to some extent the Federal Communications Commission in the US, take a holistic view of the whole value chain and ensure that the rules they put in place, whatever they are, are rules that really enable competition at all levels," Colao said.Competition at every stageIn Europe, however, the debate is also clouded by the fact that some fixed-line operators have been given what is essentially a regulatory holiday while they build new broadband networks."In Europe the debate is more focused on next-generation access networks, in the US it is more focused on net neutrality, but both are very important for everyone. If you want my prediction I would spend a bit of time over the next few years talking at all levels. These are two important topics I think," said Colao."I remember in the early 1990s the whole discussion was about competition, competition, competition and everything has been designed to be competitive and this has worked pretty well."I think in the new data environment we should ask ourselves what will enable competition in each stage of the value chain."He admitted it may not be possible to charge for network access, but said: "You should leave it to free negotiation. I used to work in the media business and if I wanted to get the newspaper in the kiosks in Sicily at 5am I had to pay more than if I wanted to be in the kiosks at 7am with all the other newspapers."Asked whether he would hope, one day, that Google might strike a deal, he said: "If they wish so, I would welcome it. I would not say no to Google's money."But he stressed that if he did a deal with one content owner, any other content owner would be able to get exactly the same deal at the same price. "Non-discriminatory conditions are very important."Vodafone is already testing technology in Spain that allows business customers to have a certain level of guaranteed service, while across the world it controls the flow of web traffic on its network at peak times.Asked whether his plans would ultimately lead to a two-tier system for consumers, with those who can pay getting a better service, he said: "I think it should be a 15-tier system, a 20-tier system, it's called segmentation, it's the basis of every business."Portable appsColao also called for greater openness in the booming market for mobile phone applications, saying that people should be able to freely transfer their apps between devices, regardless of the operating system."If today I buy a book in London I can freely bring it to another country and do anything I want with it," he said. "Portability of personal data is going to be a very important point."On Monday it was announced that two dozen of the world's largest operatorshad got together to try to create an open apps platform. Google, though, has questioned whether this ambitious move will be successful,pointing to the technical challengesof writing applications that can run on a range of different handsets.
Jeremy Clarkson may not be rushing to play it but anew climate change "game"looks interesting. Climate Change 2010 is a turn-based affair that gives you control of the earth. The downside is that all the consequences of your actions are accurately modelled over the 200 virtual years of game time.  Dr Myles Allen, a climate change specialist from Oxford University, has been bought on board to make sure everything is realistic. He seems keen:Providing science for games is a new field for me but public engagement with the issues surrounding climate change is vital and videogames are a great way of reaching millions of people.While it is unlikely to reach "millions of people" – it would need to be renamed Grand Climate Change Warfare 2010 to even have a fighting chance – the game will certainly add some variety to the PC release schedules later this year. Whether it will be much fun to play remains to be seen. Real-life global threats can form the basis of good games – C64 owners may remember the rather marvellousTheatre Europe– but will Climate Change 2010 have the same impact?Ian Roberts from the developer Red Redemption argues that the accurate data is key to the success of the game.Accurate real-world data is used in many videogames. Take a motor racing game, you need to know how a car responds when a player brakes or turns too sharply. A climate based game is similar but you can't test drive the climate. So we needed the expertise of a real scientist. That's why Dr. Allen's input is so important.What do you think then? Tempted to try this? Or is it just too depressing to even get started with?
Block 17.54am:Mobile World Congress is the telecom sector's annual shindig. Operators, handset manufacturers and software vendors havedescended on Barcelona to launch new products and services and debate the future of the industry.Today's top action includes two keynote speeches - Vodafone's Vittorio Colao at 8.30am CET, and Google's Eric Schmidt at 17.45pm CET. We're also looking forward to the mid-morning press conference with HTC - one of the hottest handset makers around at presentBlock 28.16am:The biggest event yesterday wasthe launch of Windows Phone Series 7. Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said it was a wide-ranging shake-up of the company's previous approach to the mobile market, and would deliver phones with a focus on social networking, music, and video.Reaction to the launch has been mixed. Our ownJack Schofield points outthat there's little detail about upcoming Windows 7 phones. By Christmas, when Ballmer says they will be available, there will be a lot of other new phones on the market. With other technical details also vague, has Microsoft pressed the launch button a little early?Over at ZDNet UK, there'sa picture galleryshowing how a Win 7 phone will look.And the Register, another technology news site, reckons Microsoft's developers might find they have toplough through a lot of recoding to get applications running on this new platform.Rob Enderle, a well-respected analyst, is quite impressed by what Microsoft did yesterday - butwarns that this is just the beginning of the battle. Enderle, who just might have been following the Winter Olympic action, said the software giant had effectively won "a preliminary heat".This effort will ether redefine the company as a success or reassure folks that Microsoft still can't execute. They do have a history of setting the bar too low and this is their first real chance to showcase that this decade will be different.  Like many of you I'm looking forward to the new phones and hoping this decade will be different than the last. Microsoft is now in the medal round and we'll know by the end of the year whether they can medal.Block 38.45am:The conference centre is heaving, and rather hotter than one might like, as today's session begins with a few words from Rob Conway, head of the GSM Association (which runs MWC). Conway has good news for those of you with coding skills - declaring that 2010 will be the "year of the developer". Makes sense - the boom in mobile applications is great news for those who know their Android from their Java.He also reveals he was hobnobbing with Cherie Blair over cocktails last night. Her Foundation for Women has worked with the GSMA ona research project looking at the mobile phone gender gap in low to middle income countries.What a glamorous life these mobile executives lead....Block 49.17am:Now it's Vittorio Colao, chief executive of Vodafone. He claims that the mobile industry has reached a criticial point, or "a new seeding phase for our industry" - comparing it to the start of the last decade when a lot of the heavy lifting on GSM was being carried out.One of the biggest challenges, he says, is the lack of application interoperability between different types of phones. He challenges the handset makers and software developers to get their act together". If today I buy a book in London I can freely bring it to another country."There's no arguing with that. And this comes just a day after the launch of the Wholesale Applications Community - an attempt to break the barriers which mean an app downloaded for your iPhone isn't going to work on your Android handset.Google, though, told us yesterday that this is going to berather hard to pull off.Block 59.39am:Now that's interesting....Colao just took a swing at Google and Yahoo - calling on politicians and regulators to take a hard look at the search giants' growing influence.Colao warned that  "70%, 80% maybe even more" of power is concentrated in the hands of just a couple of search companies - which he claimed could be damaging for consumers."I believe from a public policy perspective is something that should be looked at."We'll have more on this throughout the morning.Block 611.08am:HTC's product launch was one of the most anticipated events of today, and the Taiwanese manufacturer did not disappoint - even though some of the details leaked out ahead of time.HTC, which built the Nexus One for Google, just unveiled three new phones - the Legend, the Desire and the Mini - creating quite a buzz on the showfloor.The Legend and the Desire both run the latest version of Google's Android operating system, and HTC claimed today they take Android "to the next level". HTC is also excited about a new software offering called 'SENSE' which it says improves the user experience (there's an app that connects all your social networking platforms, for example).Here's the official line on the Legend:Built around a newly enhanced HTC Sense, the HTC Legend boasts a unique design with a smooth, continuous surface, machined from a single aluminum block into a seamless compact frame.  To complement its looks, the HTC Legend includes a stunning 3.2 inch, AMOLED HVGA display.  The traditional trackball has also been replaced with an optical joystick, surrounded by a narrow button to improve usability without interrupting its unique design.And the Desire:HTC Desire is the richest way to visually experience news, friends, photos, favourite places and whatever else is important on a mobile phone. With one of the most advanced displays available on a phone today, HTC Desire is designed with a large 3.7 inch AMOLED WVGA display to enhance and maximise content, whether it is pictures and videos, browsing the Web or checking on friends' status updates. HTC Desire is powered by a one gigahertz Snapdragon processor and is Adobe Flash 10.1 ready. As with the HTC Legend, the HTC Desire also includes an optical joystick.The mini runs Windows Mobile, and is a cut-down version of the HTC HD2.Here are some pics....Block 7An official picture of the Legend........Block 8A PR snap of the HTC Desire......Block 912.31pm:We've now had a chance to have a play with HTC's new offerings, and we're seriously impressed. They're extremely well designed, the screens are a delight, and the new social networking software worked flawlessly.Analysts agree, with CCS Insight predicting that "Legend's clever use of milled aluminium casing could scoop Apple's direction for the next iPhone design."Drew Stearne, a video producer at CBS Interactive, also summed up the mood on the showfloor, tweeting that the Legend looked"like the Hero and a MacBook Pro had a baby. An awesome baby."Block 102.46pm:Among the piles of new handsets littering the show booths of Barcelona, this new handset from Sagem caught our eye. It's a partnership with Puma, the German sports company, and is claimed to be "a wearable fashion accessory". There's also the usual internet access, video callling, and GPS functions, as well as a "spin and scratch music player".If you're inclined to mislay your charger, the solar panel on the back might appeal too.Otherwise, MWC has entered something of a lull before Eric Schmidt's keynote at 5.45pm Spanish time. Will he respond to Vodafone's attack earlier today?Block 113.07pm:Another intruiging new handset on show today is the Samsung Beam, which includes a miniature built-in projector. By the sound of it, you'll be able to project a web page or video clip onto a nearly wall.More details and a nice picture over atCrave UK- who also make the excellent point that battery life may be a problem.....Block 126.55pm:And finally today, Eric Schmidt has delivered his keynote address to the mobile faithful.Highlights of the speech included the fact that there are now 60,000 Android devices shipping per day, a statistics that analysts said showed Google's operating system was performing surprisingly well.At times he almost flattered the mobile industry, pointing out how limited an electronics device is if it cannot tap into cloud computing services over broadband."It's like magic. All of a sudden there are things you can do that we've never even (thought of) because of this convergence."But the tone turned less cheery after one audience member accused Google of planning to turn mobile operators into "dumb data pipes" (and thus steal all that lovely revenue for itself)."I disagree with your premise completely", responded the Google CEO, insisting that his company "depends on the successful business of the operators."That's pretty much it from MWC today - thanks for reading, and do come back tomorrow for more.
The Tuesday edition of Chatterbox
Microsoft's launch of itsWindows Phone 7 Series phoneat the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona yesterday was a huge success if you judge it bythe amount of press and blog coverage. But it also provided very few details, including when phones would go on sale. Microsoft says they'll be out before Christmas, but so will a lot of other new phones.Microsoft's list of Windows Phone 7 partners includes Asus, Dell, HP, HTC, LG, Samsung, Sony Ericsson and Toshiba, and it expects to have phones on most networks, including AT&amp;T, Deutsche Telekom, Orange, SFR, Sprint, Telecom Italia, Telefónica, Telstra, T-Mobile USA, Verizon Wireless and Vodafone. In other words, Windows Phone 7 is still a platform. Microsoft hasn't followed Apple's proprietary route, though whether phone makers will still have access to the phone's source code and the right to change it remains to be seen.The demos showed the Windows Phone 7's roots in the attractive user interface developed for Windows Media Center PCs and reworked for the Zune HD and the freeZune 4.0 software for Windows*. They also showed the phone's extensive integration with Windows Live and Facebook, though at the moment, it looks as though Twitter is supported via Windows Live.Email support includes Microsoft Exchange synchronisation, Live Hotmail, Gmail, Yahoo Mail and other services.But it's not clear where Microsoft stands on supporting Silverlight, Adobe Flash, or the still-emerging HTML5 standard.Silverlight support would be welcomed by companies who want to put their business applications on the phone, and it would answer the objection that -- apart from Microsoft Office -- Windows Phone 7 phones are aimed much more at consumers than at businesses.Adobe Flash would be welcomed by many users and web developers, and would give Microsoft a selling point against Apple, which refuses to support Flash. However, the question is still open.The Seattle Timesmanaged to get a quote from Karen Wong Duncan, a Microsoft product manager: "We do not support Flash. We are partnering closely with Adobe. As Steve Ballmer said earlier, we are not opposed to having Flash on the platform."HTML5 support would be welcomed by everybody, especially if Microsoft included an expensive H.264 video codec for playing YouTube and other videos without using Flash. But we don't know what sort of browser will be included in Windows Phone 7 phones, or what its capabilities might be.Windows Phone 7 also has an Xbox Live connection, and users will be able to score points in multi-player games, but Microsoft didn't provide details. Apparently we'll learn more at the Mix 2010 conference in March.Finally, there has been no mention of what has sometimes been called Pink: the code-name for putative next generation versions of the old Sidekick device. (Microsoft bought the company.)The lack of detail makes it look as though Microsoft has announced too early. Presumably it couldn't resist the opportunity to make a splash at WMC, and there's only one a year. Next year's congress would be too late….* This is worth a download if you want something to manage an MP3 player: it's much nicer than Windows Media Player. However, you won't be able to use the Zune Marketplace outside the US.
Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer is hoping that 7 will turn out to be a lucky number again. With Windows 7 helping to bury the ghosts of the poorly received Windows Vista in its core PC market, the software group is hoping to repeat the trick with a new version of its software for mobile phones, a device that has refused to yield to the firm's attentions despite almost a decade of trying.Windows Phone Series 7 is the result of a complete overhaul of Microsoft's vision of the mobile phone. It has abandoned its attempts to turn mobile phones into mini-PCs, focusing instead on giving users easy access to social networking, music, video and mobile phone applications. Coincidentally Ballmer's presentation, at the mobile industry's annual trade show in Barcelona  came hours after the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer Nokia revealed a tie-up with chipmaker Intel that is headed in the opposite direction.The two companies have pooled their software development resources to create MeeGo, a free software platform which they reckon will pave the way for the next generation of wireless communications devices.Both companies have Apple, Blackberry and Google, with its Android mobile phone platform, firmly in their sights. Fierce competition has eroded Nokia's share of the market over the past year, and Microsoft fears that if it cannot get back in the game now, it may never manage it.Ballmer admitted that Microsoft, which has failed to gain any significant share of the mobile phone market, had been forced to "retool and reform" its mobile phone software two years ago. "There is no doubt that the phone market is highly competitive, highly dynamic, super-exciting," he said. "There was no question in our minds… that we needed and wanted to do something that was out of the box, clearly differentiated from our past and clearly differentiated from other things that are going on in the market." "We're taking a big step," he added. "I hope seven's our lucky number."The first phones using the new software will not appear until the end of the year and Microsoft is being very prescriptive about what they should look like, which has raised questions about whether handset manufacturers will be willing to make Windows Phone devices that they will be unable to differentiate themselves from the rest of the pack.Manufacturers including HTC, LG and Samsung have, however, signed up, while Vodafone, O2, T-Mobile and Orange are all likely to sell the devices in the UK. The proliferation of so-called open source software platforms – such as Android – has raised the question of whether Microsoft, which still charges hardware manufacturers a licence fee to use its Windows Phone software, should adopt the same model.Refusing, as ever, to actually name Apple, Ballmer spoke about "vertical competitors" – companies that make devices as well as the software that sits on them, such as Apple – saying "their model is really clear, it's sell devices. We sell software to companies that make devices" and that is not going to change. "My mother used to say to me, if something is free, you should take a look and find out what the real cost is."Nokia, however, has become a convert to the idea of open source platforms. Having bought out its partners in smartphone software developer Symbian and made that available free to all developers and hardware manufacturers, it announced a tie-up with Intel under which it plans to do the same for the next generation of mobile devices. Nokia was already working on an open source platform for so-called internet tablets, called Maemo, which it used in its recently launched N900 phone. Now it is merging it with a similar programme which Intel ran for laptops, called Moblin, into a new platform called MeeGo."It is the future of how we think people are going to use computing," said ­Renee James, Intel's head of software and services. "From Intel's perspective, we see expansive growth which brings new users to computing and at the heart of that has always been software innovation and that happens when there is a stable platform that developers can bet on being there long-term. So I consider this critical to the long term growth initiatives of Intel." The first MeeGo devices will start appearing in the second half of the year, but Intel already has hardware manufacturers such as Dell, Asus and Samsung making laptops for its existing open source platform and they will all be moved over to MeeGo."They have understood the only way to beat Microsoft, Google and Apple is to do it through scale – get the platform to more devices," according to John Strand, owner and head of Strand Consult after the announcements at the Mobile World Congress fair.Immediately dubbed MeeToo by some analysts, MeeGo will create an open source software platform which Nokia reckons will be used in a new generation of wireless devices. Both companies want to attract a wide range of operators, handset manufacturers and software developers."This is not a closed club," said Kai Öistämö, Nokia's head of devices. "We are inviting everyone into this. "MeeGo will create a new strong single platform that will drive the future of mobile computing."The announcement of MeeGo, however, immediately raised questions about the future of Symbian, but Öistämö stressed: "This is very consistent with Nokia's software strategy. Symbian is the perfect environment for democratising the smartphone, what MeeGo allows is the future of mobile computing … well beyond what can be done with smartphones today."The deal may raise some eyebrows at Google, however, as Intel's chief executive Paul Otellini has sat on the Google board since 2004.
Nokia has yet to produce a viable competitor to the iPhone, the boss of the Finnish mobile phone maker admitted in an interview with the Guardian, but its tie-up with Intel should give the company a leading role in the next generation of wireless internet devices."It is very true that we do not have the high-end 'mind share' product, as we speak, but of course we are working to get there," said Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, Nokia president and chief executive.At its investor day late last year, Nokia hinted it would produce major new devices this year. Analysts reckon it is hard at work on a so-called 'iPhone killer'.But Kallasvuo said it is not just about one expensive handset. "We are going for the consumer market, we are going to the business market, we are going to the low end, we are going to the developing markets."Nokia has seen its commanding lead eroded by the likes of Apple, Blackberry maker RIM and devices sporting Google's new Android software. To retaliate, it took the surprise decision last month to give all users of its smartphones free access to its satellite navigation service.Kallasvuo said Nokia sees the services on its phones as no different from the hardware, such as a camera or Bluetooth. They are all reasons for a consumer to pick up a device."The way it is going is this," he said. "Here in my hand I have a device, it used to be a mobile phone, now it is a multipurpose device. Not only a communications device but it has other functionality and it has a camera."The mobile telephone industry has been very good at capturing value from other adjacent industries, such as the camera industry. Now it is about how it will come with different types of content and services and software, like turn-by-turn navigation … from a business point of view that is like adding a camera. One is a hardware component, the other one is content or services but the business logic is the same."You add stuff and sell it to the consumer and the consumer sees value in that."At Nokia's press conference at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona today, new handsets were conspicuous by their absence. The main event was details of the firm's tie-up with Intel to create an open source software platform for internet tablets, laptops and internet-enabled TVs.The fact that Nokia is an important customer for British chip maker ARM Holdings immediately raised concerns about the possibility of Nokia and Intel creating their own chip architecture and pushing out the FTSE 100-listed firm.But Kallasvuo said that as MeeGo, their new platform, is open to all comers and designed to work on different chip designs it is not a threat."It can be Intel architecture, it can be ARM architecture," he said. "Decoupling the software from the hardware will give a lot of opportunity for people to work with MeeGo. The credibility of Nokia and Intel supporting this with a wide variety of devices, I think this is a compelling offer."
However you feel about Farmville and Zynga's other 'social' games, the phenomenal success they've enjoyed means it was only ever going to be a matter of time before the big gaming companies tried to muscle in on the action.I attended an EA event a few weeks back announcing the launch of 'Fifa Online', a browser-based football sim aimed at tapping into this burgeoning social gaming market.The game -available as a free download on the EA website- is the first attempt by the company to create a title which prioritises social interaction and accessibility above gameplay.Fifa Online is very impressive for a free download, particularly graphically. Using your mouse as a controller seems counter-intuitive, but isn't quite as cumbersome as you'd imagine once you get used to it.Borrowing heavily from MMORPG titles as well as popular 'social' games, players earn points and coins by completing matches, gaining experience to essentially 'level up' their players, as well as unlocking items which can be 'consumed' to give boosts to different aspects of the team.You can also meet fellow supporters of your club in the equivalent of 'clans' - the game is intended to be as much about chatting to your opponent as it is about beating them.All well and good, and something I can see taking off hugely, especially as it can be played at the office or in school computer rooms. Taking the social side of World of Warcraft and fusing it with a sport title is a great idea - and anything that brings gamers together is to be lauded.But the thing I worry about is - if you'll excuse a little moralising here - the micropayments system fundamental to this sort of game's business model.Although exact details were somewhat sketchy at the time of my demo, the experience points and special items used to boost players will almost certainly also be available to be bought using real money - just like on Farmville.Thing is, on Farmville, the only really temptation to buy a big house or extra space was to make your farm look a bit nicer. If you want to spend £4 on a pixelated barn, and that makes you happy, then fair enough. Fifa Online, on the other hand, allows you to spend money on helping you beat your friends.Spending £6.50 on turning Lucas Leiva into Michael Essien might not seem like a sound purchase for many of us, but I imagine it's only a matter of time before kids start spending their pocket money - or using their parents credit cards - solely on non-tangible items to win games with.You can't really blame EA for trying to exploit this market - who wouldn't want to sell items that cost literally nothing to produce? But charging for power-ups is a murky road to go down.EA has been the first large developer to jump, but it's only a matter of time before a shoot-em-up is released where you can pay £20 for the best gun, or 50p for a health power-up, and large numbers of people end up frittering money away on something that is, literally, nothing.Aside from being somewhat irresponsible tempting children to waste money like this, it also devalues those who grind their way up to earn their status in the game. Fifa Online represents a worrying trend for gaming, I think, no matter how fun it may be.Fifa World Cup 2010Moralising over (well, sort of). EA also announced details of this summer's World Cup tie in release, and I got to have a play around with it. It is essentially exactly the same game as Fifa 2010 but with some superficial tweaks - begging the question whether it would have made more sense to make it available as downloadable content - but the small changes they have made are pleasing enough.Player likenesses and kits for all the probable squads have been enhanced, and each nation's manager has been included, prancing around on the sidelines between phases of play. Menus are branded with official World Cup logos and the like. The grass looks a bit nicer too.It's a cynical release by EA but let's face it, if you want to watch the World Cup and play the definitive game alongside it, you'll probably end up buying it. Look out for our review in a couple of months.
I receive a lot of data in PDF format and it would be very useful to reliably convert it for spreadsheet analysis. Currently I print files then OCR scan and save them in Excel. It needs time-consuming scrutiny to ensure reliability.John HaworthThere are lots of ways to get data from Adobe PDF files into Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, and several of them should work better than the one you are using. However, I'm not sure any of them will avoid the need for "time-consuming scrutiny to ensure reliability". The best way to do that is to get whoever publishes the data in PDF to send it to you in Excel format, or in another common format such as csv (comma-separated values). Any process that involves a conversion will generally involve some level of checking, though you should be able to decrease the level as the system proves itself.Since PDF-to-Excel conversions are economically significant (possibly saving hours of re-keying and checking), there are commercial solutions such asCogniview's PDF2XL-- which might be your best bet -- andBlue Label Soft's PDF to Excel Converter 2.4. Asearchwill find more.However, before buying anything, you should try some of the free online solutions, such asNitro's PDF to Excel Online. Zamzar, a site that offersa very wide range of conversions, has recently added PDF to Excel. Before that, you could have used it to convert PDF to text and then loaded it into Excel using the Text Import Wizard -- a process that could well be more accurate than your OCR.Incidentally, if the files are commercially sensitive, you should consult your IT department first.
Nokia and Intel hope their MeeGo platform will power a wide range of devicesNokia and Intel announced at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona that they will merge their Linux platforms.Nokia'sMaemoand Intel'sMoblinplatforms will now beMeeGo. Maemo was the Linux-based OS that runs Nokia's flagship N900 handheld computer.Moblinwas Intel's Linux-based operating system focused on netbooks.It makes sense for the mobile giant and the chip-making behemoth to close ranks behind a single effort, especially withGoogle's Linux-based mobile OS Androidhaving a head start.It might cast a chill onGoogle meetings if board member and Intel president and CEO Paul Otelliniis asked to explain the move. Otellini has been on the board at Google since 2004. Of course, Steve Ballmer of Microsoft might be none to happy that Intel is working on a competitor toWindows Phone 7, which he just launched at the same event.However, Intel and Nokia have solid business reasons to cooperate on MeeGo. Intel obviously sees an opportunity to makeinroads against low-power rival ARM, even though MeeGo will run both on Intel and ARM chips. However, this is about much more than mobile phones. In laying out its strategy, Nokia said:MeeGo will offer an unparalleled open computing platform for pocketable mobile computers, netbooks, tablets, IP mediaphones, in-vehicle infotainment systems and connected TV's.Intel said that MeeGo was an OS for anything with a processor.It seems a long time ago, but in the late 1990s and the early part of the last decade, everyone was talking about thepost-PC erawhen the internet would jump from our computer screen to the mobile phone and a range of other connected devices. Remember theinternet-enabled fridges? It was an idea ahead of its time.However, we're starting to see the predicted explosion in new devices including netbooks, a new generation of media slates like the iPad, e-readers and eveninternet-enabled digital radios. That's probably where MeeGo is hoping to carve out a niche. The market for mobile phones dwarfs the market for PCs, and Intel and Nokia are betting that the market for these myriad post-PC devices will dwarf the mobile phone market.
People who want to see the latest viral videos, very old TV commercials and pop videos, great sporting moments or almost anything else that can be delivered in a brief video, will usually turn toYouTube, which now serves up more than 1bn streams a day.YouTube has become so engrained in everyday life online that we now take it for granted, but it didn't even exist five years ago. The startup registered its internet domain name, youtube.com, on 14 February 2005, as co-founder and chief executiveChad Hurley recalled on the company blogyesterday.However, it was still some way from providing a service, and YouTube wasn't officially launched until December. No doubt there will be more fifth birthday celebrations then.Although there were other online video services around at the time, YouTube took off. It made it easy to upload and view videos, and also to embed them on blogs and other web sites, so you didn't have to go to YouTube to watch them: it was "like Flickr for videos". Google bought the company for $1.65bn in 2006, less than a year after its launch, but is still working on ways to make money out of it.YouTube has upset some movie studios, TV stations, music companies and other content providers because users often upload clips that they may regard as violations of their copyrights, rather than as free publicity. However, it has also helped lots of ordinary people to reach a vast audience, and achieve some species of fame.YouTube's most-watched video at the moment is "Charlie bit my finger", which has been viewed 160m times. Judson Laipply's Evolution of Dance is now trailing in second place with 137m views, ahead of Miley Cyrus's music video for 7 Things (110m).Seen them all before? Let us know your favourite YouTube videos below.YouTube's top five videos1.Charlie bit my finger - again !(160,150,052 views to date)2.Evolution of Dance(137,007,826 views)3.Miley Cyrus - 7 Things - Official Music Video (HQ)(110,524,702 views)4.Hahaha - Small daring boy(107,357,309 views)5.Jeff Dunham - Achmed the Dead Terrorist(106,529,954 views)
Google kicked off the world's biggest mobile phone show today by predicting that the latest industry plan to create an open application platform could be doomed to failure.The warning came on a busy morning in Barcelona, where Intel and Nokia announced a new alliance andseveral manufacturers showed off their latest handsets.Andy Rubin, Google's vice president of engineering, said he was sceptical about the potential success of the mobile phone operators in creating their own application platform. Rubin, who is the man behind the search engine's Android mobile phone software, also insisted that Google will continue to produce its own-branded mobile phones, despite what analysts have described as the muted success of its first device, the Nexus One.Earlier today,two dozen mobile phone companies – including Vodafone and O2 – joined forces to try to get themselves back in the market for providing customers with so-called "apps", programs that consumers can download onto their phones. At present the market is dominated by Apple, with iPhone users having downloaded more than 3bn apps from its store, while Android's Marketplace and BlackBerry's own apps store are gaining traction.Speaking to the Guardian atMobile World Congress in Barcelona, however, Rubin said he does not see a great future for the operators' Wholesale Applications Community (WAC)."There is always a dream that you could write [a program] once and [have it] run anywhere and history has proven that that dream has not been fully realised and I am sceptical that it ever will be," he said."I just hope that the people who are managing that [WAC] really understand technology deep enough to fulfil that promise because it's an awfully big promise."On the Android side what we have realised is that app stores are somewhat aligned with a platform," such as Android or Apple's operating system or BlackBerry, he explained, rather than an individual operator.But one of the criticisms levelled at the industry by analysts at Mobile World Congress is that there are just too many competing "platforms". As well as Apple, Android and RIM's BlackBerry platforms, several handset manufacturers such as Samsung and Nokia have opened their own application stores providing apps to consumers.MeeToo?At the Mobile World Congress, Nokia itself announced yet another platform. It is merging its Maemo platform, which is used in the N900 smartphone, with Intel's Moblin, which is an open source software project, to create MeeGo. Immediately dubbed MeeToo by some analysts, MeeGo will create an open source software platform which Nokia reckons will be used in a new generation of wireless devices. Devices are due out this year and both companies want to attract a wide range of operators, handset manufacturers and software developers."This is not a closed club," said Kai Oistamo, Nokia's head of devices. "We are inviting everyone into this."MeeGo will create a new strong single platform that will drive the future of mobile computing," he added. "You should look at the N900 and where that trajectory is going."The announcement of MeeGo, however, immediately raised questions about the future of Symbian, the operating system which Nokia took over a few years ago and then made "open source" – free to anyone who wants to use it – in order to see-off the threat of Android, which is also open source and has already been installed in 27 different handsets from a range of manufacturers.But Oistamo stressed: "This is very consistent with Nokia's software strategy. Symbian is the perfect environment for democratising the smartphone, what MeeGo allows is the future of mobile computing ... well beyond what can be done with smartphones today."Too many platformsBut back at Google, Rubin is unconvinced that all the different platforms being produced will make it."Are there too many platforms? The answer is yes there are too many platforms... what we are seeing with RIM and iPhone and Android is the app stores are aligning with the platform and that enables the developers to focus on one sort of technology," he said.He stressed, however that this does not mean that operators are shut out. "We are here to participate in the ecosystem. If we were here to take all the slices of the pie it would not make any sense, it's not our business model: advertising is our business model. So we are happy to allow the operators and the [equipment manufacturers] and the third-party developers to participate."Google raised eyebrows earlier this year by developingits own-branded Android handset, the Nexus One, which it sold only through its own website. Sales, however, have been sluggish, according to industry analysts."Nexus One is the first in a series," stressed Rubin. "There will be a Nexus Two and a Nexus Three but the real innovation here is the distribution of cellphones on a web store."He said Google's deal with handset manufacturer HTC, which developed the Nexus One, is not exclusive so the new phones could be produced by any manufacturer. Analysts reckon Google has sold about 80,000 Nexus One handsets since it was launched in the US last month. That compares with the 600,000 iPhones that were shipped in its first month and more than half a million Motorola Droid devices, which also uses Android.Rubin, however, said the real importance of the Nexus One was in creating a new way of selling cellphones. Google has been able to use the launch to create the technology which means that "when Nexus Two comes out we will just put it on the website and it will instantly go worldwide to all the operators that are hooked into our system".
The New York journalist and author Michael Wolff has a reputation for stirring up trouble – but he knows the inside of Rupert Murdoch's mind about as well as anyone, thanks to the long hours he spent interviewing the mogul for his biography,The Man Who Owns The News.Given that MySpace is Murdoch's most well-known online-only property, I thought it was worth talking to Wolff about thecompany's troubles– and it proved to be a very interesting conversation indeed.While I documented some of his comments in a storyturmoil at MySpace, the restrictions of newsprint meant I couldn't include the rest of what he said – including claims that Murdoch is "out to lunch", that the rest of News Corp was trying desperately – and thatSo here's the rest of what Wolff told me during our conversation. I've marked his comments in bold."The thing that's going on at News Corp right now is total, total desperation over this digital stuff," he told me. "Rupert is giving orders - Rupert, the guy who knows nothing about this whatsoever - is suddenly commandeering this whole thing. It's got everybody completely freaked out.""Rupert is saying 'what's going on with MySpace, what's happening, why isn't this working?' – and it's impossible to explain to him that it's not working because it's over, because this is the way the technology business goes – once it's past, it's really past. There is almost no way to get that back.""He absolutely has no idea – I cannot stress this enough, how much Rupert is out to lunch on this. If people really quite understood how little feeling has for this business, they would fall down laughing – or crying."Obviously what's happening at MySpace isn'tjusta result of Murdoch'severythingthat's going on at MySpace, but it's surprisingly rare that anybody talks about the social network's issues in context of the wider business at News Corporation. Remember, after all, that the parent company is making a drastic, includingintroducing charges for news articlesacross many more websites,lashing out at Googleand wondering about theviability of online video sites such as Hulu.Now, before I go on, there are plenty of reasons to consider Wolff's comments carefully. He's not afraid of courting publicity (described variously as mischievous and fond of ruffling feathers among other things). He founded a news aggregation website calledNewser, which is exactly the sort of property that Murdoch has railed against in the past. And, of course, he was probably aware that we'd mention his book.(Full disclosure: when Murdoch was asked a couple of weeks ago about the Guardian's stance on paywalls,he described it as "bullshit".)Much of the newspaper industry is falling behind Murdoch on paywalls, but I've long been concerned about the amount of credence people put in his moves online. While Murdoch rightly commands respect in the news business for his canny insight and unrelenting success, there's been little evidence to prove that he has a grasp of the faster-moving, technology-focused internet world.Indeed, back in 2006, not long after Murdoch bought MySpace,I wondered why everybody thought he had the whole thing worked out:Nobody doubts that Murdoch wants to make money from the site. But, considering the facts on the ground, surely the question is not "is this possible" but "why does anyone think he knows how to do it".When I asked him about the origins of the MySpace deal, Wolff said that the mogul had spotted a great bargain when he bought MySpace's parent company, Intermix, for $580m – but the problem was in trying to turn a good deal into a great one."In Murdoch's defence, he bought something that became incredibly valuable in a very short period of time," said Wolff. "But at that point you have two alternatives: you either know how to build your business, or you get out of it – and he did neither."But he also warned against other media companies thinking that they'd got it worked out, too."There is no major media company that has made a success in this business – especially made a success when they go out and they buy stuff. But [News Corp] made every mistake you can possibly make on this: they under-invested in technology, they imposed their own top-down culture on this, they saw this as an extension of their fundamental content business, the media business ... instead of thinking that this was an entirely different business with new norms and new behaviours."This business has nothing to do with the businesses we've been in all our lives. In some way, this is just part of the tragedy – or comedy – of the internet, which is that it is replacing the media business, but it is not of the media business."Like many big bosses, he said, Murdoch operates almost independently of the company below him – and his recent prognostications have left scrambling to meet his wishes … a task that may prove impossible."Everybody's playing catchup with Rupert – he go out and he makes these announcements, "pay this" or "pay that", and everybody is suddenly looking down to see if their fly is open. Rupert really is out of control on this issue … [and] it's really hard to do what Rupert wants, because he doesn't know what he wants – or at least he doesn't know how to get it."And if all of that wasn't damning enough, his prognosis for the future MySpace – and for News Corp – was just as scathing as his analysis of its current predicament."There's just no reasonable basis on which you say that MySpace gets to live again, or that News Corp becomes an interesting digital company. The only thing that News Corp has ever done in this space is for Rupert to shoot his mouth off."
Is it really 10 years sinceThe Simslaunched? The PC home/life/relationship simulator went on to spawn two sequels and numerous expansion packs. In total the franchise has now sold over 100 million units worldwide since its launch in 2000. Heck, even the mighty Depeche Mode have recordeda song in Simlish. PC gamers may have scoffed at the time and carried on playing Diablo 2 but The Sims reached out to a vast new gaming audience, much like the Wii did six years later. That's the theory anyway. In reality the original Sims drew a large amount of initial interest from more traditional PC gamers, primarily due to designer Will Wright's track record. Their excitement rapidly faded – helped by a wave of increasingly random expansion packs – but a far larger number of new fans were hooked.The cliché says The Sims appealed to female gamers, who enjoyed the relationships and house building stuff.  While over-exaggerated there clearly is something to this stereotype, with my wife and other female relatives showing far more interest in The Sims than any other PC game before or since. Interestingly their interest faded with Sims 2 and, especially Sims 3, as both added a layer of control complexity and depth that seemed off-putting. And that throws up an important point. People often say The Sims is a brand for "casual" gamers but Sims 3, for example, demands far more gaming skill than, say, Bejeweled.  This is reflected by EA's recent announcement that Sims 3 – released last year on PC – will be coming out on the consoles this Christmas.So why did The Sims become so successful? The real-world setting was key - domesticity clearly appealed to wider audience than Diablo.  But there is more to it. When the original game launched there was nothing really like it. Older gamers may have nostalgic memories ofLittle Computer Peopleon the C64 – remember him tapping on the TV screen as you got increasingly bored of the "action"? – but The Sims was on another level. Your creations felt real for start. These were true little computer people and they needed your help. Washing, eating, bathing, going to the toilet – the gaming rule book was rewritten. Even if it was just trying to starve your Sim there was a real emotional engagement.  And then there was the shopping.  Furniture, kitchen goods, swimming pools – everything was available as long as you went to work and lived the capitalist dream. Will Wright says his inspiration for The Sims came from a fire that destroyed his home in 1991.After that you have nothing and have to build your life from scratch, so what do you buy first? You get a toothbrush and underwear, then a place to stay, later a new car.The domestic setting and retail therapy helped The Sims appeal to a wide audience but neither would have been enough if the original game had not been so cleverly designed.  The numerous and often unnecessary expansions shouldn't obscure that fact.Anyway, ten years on what are your favourite memories of The Sims. Never played it? Dismissed it after 20 mins? Or a huge fan and now playing Sims 3 every day?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The big news this week is likely to come out ofMobile World Congress, thephone industry's annual shindig in Barcelona. Our own Richard Wray is there, reporting onplans for a number of companies to link up to offer a rival to Apple's app store.&bull; Another competitor looking for more success in the mobile world isAdobe, which saysthat it's planning to offer Flash and AIR for Android. There's no Flash on the iPhone,as we've discussed previously, but it looks like Adobe wants to try and get Apple's competitors to support its runtimes.&bull; A couple more things to ponder coming out of the weekend: BoingBoing points out that the state of Washington - which is facing a budget deficit of almost $3bn -could give Microsoft a $100m tax breakandan amnesty on $1bn in unpaid taxes; and Robert Scoble manages to argue pretty successfullywhy those who whine about the TED conference being too exclusive should stop moaning.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
More than a dozen of the world's biggest mobile phone companies, including O2and Orange, are hoping to strike back against the success of Apple in persuading people to download and use mobile applications – or "apps" – by building their own competing open platform which can be used by developers of games and other services.The mobile networks hope that by pooling their resources, creating technology that would allow services to be developed that will work across a huge range of handsets, they can claw back some of the ground they have lost to companies such as Apple and Google and generate additional revenues from third-party developers.The mobile phone networks fear that at the moment they are in danger of becoming little more than "dumb pipes in the air", with all the revenues created by applications going to software developers and the companies that operate the stores that supply them.Apple has already seen over 3bn apps downloaded from its App Store by users of the iPhone and iPod touch. Google, meanwhile, has an application marketplace as part of its Android mobile phone platform, and several devices sporting the software will be unveiled at this week's Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, the industry's biggest trade show, which starts today.But it is not just Google and Apple that are profiting from the "apps explosion". Steve Ballmer will this afternoon use the Mobile World Congress to unveil Microsoft's latest attempt to break into the mobile phone industry. Windows Mobile 7 – or Windows Phone, as Microsoft has dubbed it – includes an application store that allows users of Microsoft devices to download a host of games and other applications. Even phone manufacturers such as Samsung and RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, are getting in on the app act, while Nokia already has its Ovi store open for business.Several of the world's biggest operators are part of the Open API initiative, which allows application developers access to some of the core information contained within their networks, such as location and billing. Essentially an API (application programming interface) allows a developer to integrate its application with another piece of software. The Open API plan, for instance, allows software developers to create programmes that can be paid for by consumers on their mobile phone bills.But the new consortium, which will be announced by industry trade body the GSM Association at the Mobile World Congress today, is designed to go even further. The recent explosion in mobile phone software – from Apple's iPhone to Nokia's Symbian platform, Google's Android and Microsoft's Windows Phone – means the "apps" market is becoming increasingly fragmented. Also, consumers who switch from one device to another will soon find themselves having to download – and pay again – for all the applications they had on their old phone just because their new phone uses different software. The operators fear that they will be at the receiving end of the subsequent consumer backlash.Orange, Telefonica – which owns O2in the UK – T-Mobile and several other operators are already signed up to the GSMA plan. Vodafone, however, is ambivalent as it is engaged in an open platform alliance called the Joint Innovation Lab with China Mobile, Japan's Softbank and Verizon Wireless of the US.In fact, applications are likely to be a highlight of this year's Mobile World Congress, with developer workshops taking place throughout the show, helping programmers create for Android, BlackBerry and Vodafone's recently announced Vodafone 360 platform.Several companies will also announce their own app developments. Today, for instance, British digital music group Omnifone will announce that it has created a version of its mobile music service that runs on Android phones. Omnifone, which has access to a catalogue of more than 6.5m tracks, is looking for network or handset partners who want to launch an unlimited download or streaming music service on Android devices using its platform. It already, for instance, powers Vodafone's unlimited music service in the UK and recently clinched a deal to have its MusicStation service pre-installed on Hewlett-Packard laptops and computers. Omnifone is currently developing apps for both the iPhone and Windows Mobile devices.Skype, meanwhile, will today announce that it has created a version of its popular free internet telephony service for Nokia's Symbian operating system, which is already used by more than 200m mobile phones worldwide. Skype is now available as a free iPhone app, which has been downloaded more than 12m times since its launch in April last year.The Symbian version will initially be available as a download from the Skype website but will appear on Nokia's Ovi store in the next few weeks. The company, which was sold by owner eBay last year, is planning an Android version for later in the year. Skype, which allows people to call other Skype users anywhere in the world for free, is also expected to announce a partnership with Verizon Wireless, which is likely to raise some eyebrows as in the past the American network's joint owner, Vodafone, has blocked internet telephony services from its own networks.
Days after MySpace, the struggling social network site, replaced its chief executive, a leading media pundit has said that interference from its owner, Rupert Murdoch, has left the business in a state of "total desperation".Last week the site, which was bought by Murdoch's News Corporation in 2005,&nbsp;made the shock announcement thatOwen Van Natta was stepping down&nbsp;as chief executive after less than a&nbsp;year in the job.Since then, reports have suggested that his departure was the result of tension between Van Natta and Jonathan Miller, the former chief executive of AOL who now operates as the head of News Corp's digital businesses.But Michael Wolff, author of The Man Who Owns the News, a biography of Murdoch, said that the roots of MySpace's problems were much deeper. "It certainly is not [Van Natta's] fault – he inherited a business in which you could only manage decline," he said.Instead, he suggested, the reshuffle is indicative of a wider panic over the way in which News Corp deals with its online businesses."The thing that's going on at News Corp right now is total, total desperation over this digital stuff," he added. "Rupert is saying, 'What's going on with MySpace? What's happening? Why isn't this working?' It's impossible to explain to him that it's not working because it's over, because this is the way the technology business goes. Once it's past, it's really past. There is almost no way to get&nbsp;that back."Five years ago, Murdoch surprised the media industry by spending $580m on MySpace, at that time an up-and-coming force in the rapidly expanding business of social networking. With the acquisition, News Corp believed it had acquired a significant lead in online media through a site that boasted a huge following and good relations with the music industry.While the site has generated plenty of cash for News Corp – at one point, advertising on the home page alone was valued at $1m a day – a series of missteps has left it in turmoil, struggling for success and flailing in the wake of its rivals.Competition has chiefly come from Facebook, which first overtook MySpace&nbsp;in popularity last summer and has gone on to significantly extend its lead since then.Figures from comScore, the internet traffic analysts, suggest that MySpace has about 57 million users in the US, down from a peak of more than 75 million. Facebook, meanwhile, has experienced incredible expansion in the past 18 months and now boasts more than 400 million users worldwide.Shift of powerWhile that shift of power has left the site looking like second–best, it has had other, material implications: last year Google chopped the value of a contract with MySpace to provide search services by $100m after the social network missed its traffic targets.Faced with this growing litany of problems, Murdoch brought in Miller, who left AOL in 2006, to oversee MySpace and News Corp's other digital businesses. Once installed, Miller acted quickly, first removing the website's co-founder Chris DeWolfe as chief executive, then bringing in Van Natta – a former Facebook executive – to refocus the business.With a new executive team in place, the company sold off a number of smaller properties that it had acquired and slashed more than 700 jobs worldwide, nearly half its total workforce.One person familiar with Miller's approach is Jason Calacanis, who sold his online publishing company to AOL in 2005. He says that, under the circumstances, bringing in a new chief executive with a reputation for deal-making was a mistake, but that the company could still rebound."Jon is a really great manager of product people, and the people MySpace needs right now are product people," Calacanis said."It was probably, in hindsight, a misstep to put a deal person into a company that needs product leadership. But they took quick action to reverse that, which I give them credit for."However, history is not on the side of MySpace. Social networking has been a graveyard for the media industry, with users happy to leave behind sites that fail to continue innovating, in favour of younger, faster rivals. Friends Reunited, bought by ITV in 2005 for £120m, was sold off last year for a mere £25m, while AOL is said to be looking to offload Bebo, which it bought for $850m in 2008.Faced with struggles across News Corp's digital businesses, Murdoch and his lieutenants have begun taking an aggressive approach, calling for news sites tocharge readers for contentand labelling Google a ­"parasite". He aims to put his newspapers, including the Times and the Sun, behind a paywall, something described by the co-founder of Twitter, Biz Stone, as a vain attempt to "put the genie back in the bottle".Wolff said that this was a result of Murdoch's fundamental misunderstanding of the differences between the technology and media industries. While the 78-year-old mogul craves leadership in the digital world, Wolff suggested that a career spent building traditional media businesses has left Murdoch struggling to understand the speed and innovation required on the internet."He absolutely has no idea," he said. "If people really quite understood how little feeling he has for this business, they would fall down laughing – or crying."
Silent Hill, a survival-horror-cum-thriller franchise, has divided gamers in the past – its compulsive storyline and chilling ambience flawed by tedious tasks and puzzles. For those who didn't give up early, or end up on a therapist's couch,Shattered Memories, the game's seventh incarnation, provides plenty more heart-thumping moments during a quest to find your daughter – missing when you regain conciousness in a car wreck. Creeping around the ghost town plays tricks on the senses – visibility is limited due to claustrophobic fog or darkness, although the Wii remote is cleverly used to control a flashlight, phone and, inevitably, to complete puzzles. As with its predecessors, positive and negative alternate endings are achievable, although the title's nature means neither is upbeat, while the gameplay will still divide opinion, although the puzzle elements have been made far more interesting. Which is enough, with the addition of new characters and even a dash of (dark) humour, to bring new life to the series.
A new website that has been described as "surreal", "addictive" and "frightening" is proving a sensation around the world – and attracting a reputation as a haven for no-holds-barred, explicit material.Chatroulette, which was launched in November, has rocketed in popularity thanks to its simple premise: internet video chats with ­random strangers.When users visit the site and switch on their webcams, they are suddenly connected to another, randomly chosen person who is doing precisely the same thing somewhere else in the world.Once they are logged in together, chatters can do anything they like: talk to each other, type messages, entertain each other – or just say goodbye, hit the "next" button and move on in an attempt to find somebody more interesting.Chatroulette describes itself as a "brand new service for one-on-one text, webcam and microphone-based chat with people around the world", but no one is sure who started the site. The owners did not respond to an attempt to contact them by email, and they have gone to great pains to protect their identities. This may be because ­Chatroulette appears to operate largely as an ­unregulated service and, as a result, has rapidly become a haven for exhibitionists and voyeurs.A large contingent of people seem intent on using the service's string of random connections as the basis for some sort of sex game.Users regularly describe unwanted encounters with all sorts of unsavoury characters, and it has become the defining aspect of the site for some. Veteran blogger Jason Kottke, who has spent years documenting some of the web's most weird and wonderful corners, tried the site andthen wrote about witnessing nudity, sexual activity and strange behaviour."I observed several people drinking malt liquor, two girls making out, many,  many guys who disconnected as soon as they saw I wasn't female, [and] several girls who disconnected after seeing my face," he said, adding that he also witnessed "three couples having sex and 11 erect penises".Yet despite the highly offensive nature of much of the site's content, Kottke – like thousands of others – has been hypnotised by the glimpses the site offers into other people's lives. "Chatroulette is pretty much the best site going on the internet right now," he wrote.Although the site says that it "does not tolerate broadcasting obscene, offending, pornographic material" and offers users the option to report unsuitable content, the restrictions do not seem to prevent users from broadcasting explicit videos of themselves online.However, like the chatroom explosion in the late 1990s or the early days of YouTube, spending time inside Chatroulette is becoming a peculiarly modern form of entertainment, particularly popular with students in campuses around the world. In just a couple of months the site has expanded significantly as it tears through universities by word of mouth, spreading virally in a similar manner to sites such as Facebook. This has catapulted the site up the charts and brought it increasing amounts of attention from bloggers. The site had just a handful of visitors at launch, but now boasts more than 10,000 concurrent users at any one time – often rising to 16,000 and beyond.One chatter, who identified himself as Dan from Philadelphia, said that he had been using the site since very early on and that it was largely populated by people looking for any kind of instant amusement. "Everybody wants to be entertained," he said.He said he regularly goes on the site with a group of friends to hold "Chatroulette dance parties" – playing records and dancing in front of the camera in an attempt to bring a smile to the face of any passing visitor.Although Chatroulette takes the idea of random connections between people to extremes, its raison d'être is not entirely new. Internet chatrooms have been around for a generation, while an explosion of webcam sites emerged in the late 1990s. Meanwhile, millions of people use video chat services such as Skype every day to talk to their friends and families, and YouTube – which was bought by Google in 2006 for $1.65bn – is among the biggest sites on the web.There are also a number of self-broadcasting services online, including blogTV, Justin.tv and qik.com – though most provide only one-way connections.With constant campaigns against cyberbullying and abuse on the internet, there are still questions about potential abuses of Chatroulette and its dangers, but the site's rise is creating interest in many quarters.Among those wanting to chart its development is Fred Wilson, a New York-based venture capitalist with Union Square Ventures who has invested in dozens of dotcom companies, including Twitter.While Wilson saysthe level of "perversion and sexual innuendo" is sky-high– and does not suggest that anybody puts money into the service – he admits that it taps into something primal about the web."The internet is this huge network with over a billion people worldwide on it. Chatroulette feels like a pretty cool way to take a quick trip around that network, meeting people and talking to them."
IF, LIKE MILLIONS of others, you use Gmail, Google's webmail service, you will have been startled last week by the sudden appearance of a cuckoo in your email nest. When you log in to collect your mail, an invitation to "try Buzz in Gmail?" –  "no setup needed" – pops up. There's no indication of what this "Buzz" is, but if you click "try" a window opens saying you're now "following" a number of people and that a number of people are "following" you. Below this comes a stream of Twitter-like postings from your followees.This will come as a surprise, because you have no recollection of making any decision to follow anyone, or of soliciting followers yourself. And this is in fact the case: Google has simply gone through your email inbox and designated some of those with whom you correspond frequently as followees. And you were at no stage consulted about any of this.Google Buzz is a new social-networking tool developed by the search giant and designed to undermine Twitter and Facebook. It's breathtakingly crass and intrusive and takes astonishing liberties with your privacy, of which more in a moment. But what's even more significant is how it was introduced, and what that tells us about Google – which is that it is well on its way to becoming the next Microsoft. In earlier times, Google would have developed Buzz as a "beta" product and offered it as an option on the top of the Gmail menu for those who wished to try it, as they do with the calendar, docs, reader and other services. But with Buzz they simply inserted it into Gmail with only the most enigmatic of warnings, and suddenly users find that, somehow, they've been enrolled in Google's own Twitter/Facebook competitor.If this doesn't seem like a big deal, think about the privacy implications. By default the list of those you are following (by implication those with whom you are in regular contact) is publicly available in your Google profile to everyone who visits it. And this information itself comes with helpful "follow" links, which provides a way of harvesting the contact lists of other people. You can hide the list of unsolicited followers/followees from your profile page, but to do so you have to click "edit profile" and uncheck the box next to "display the list of people I'm following and people following me". However, this option isn't obvious in the Buzz window itself.Now think of the implications. Of course it's potentially embarrassing for people who conduct personal relationships or confidential business via email, but it could also be life-threatening. Suppose you're a political activist living in an authoritarian country. You use Gmail because it's slightly less risky than other systems. Many of your Gmail contacts are other activists, inside and outside your country. Under the Buzz defaults, they would suddenly be exposed to anyone who checked your Google profile.In the real world, the devil is in the details. In cyberspace, it's in the defaults. And the default settings in Buzz are so crass that one cannot imagine they are the product of corporate carelessness.The Google boys are smart and know exactly what they're doing. They've been enviously watching the stupendous growth of Twitter and Facebook and wondering how Google can cut them off at the knees before they become really unstoppable – which brings us back to Microsoft.In 1995, Bill Gates &amp; Co became alar­med by the rise of Netscape, the start-up whose Navigator web browser was taking the world by storm. Microsoft's own browser, Internet Explorer, was a feeble imitation, so the company decided to attack Netscape not by building a better product, but by integrating Explorer into the Windows operating system, thereby making it the default browser for most computer users. In other words, they "leveraged" their dominance in one market to wipe out Netscape in another.All of which suggests an interpretation of what Google is up to with Buzz. It's too late to tackle Twitter or Facebook on their own terms, so the only option is to "leverage" an area where Google is strong.Gmail is that area, which is why Buzz was bundled into it with so little ceremony. Bill Gates once said that Google was the only company that reminded him of Microsoft in its early days. How right he was.
From tiny start-ups looking to get their games and gizmos in front of Google, Vodafone and Microsoft to veterans of the telecoms industry who will be glad-handing old contacts, this week's Mobile World Congress will host a clutch of British technology firms hoping to turn back the tide sweeping in from the US and far east. UK Trade &amp; Investment, the government body that supports British firms overseas, is helping out 120&nbsp;companies at the show and part-funding the attendance of 50.The Cambridge-based Hypertag is typical of the firms being taken there. It has developed pioneering technology that makes it easy for advertisers to connect with consumers through poster sites that use short-range Bluetooth technology. Advertisers can use the technology to offer people anything from free music and game downloads to money-off vouchers direct to a phone.After being funded by the Technology Strategy Board, set up by the government three years ago to invest in innovative technologies, Hypertag has worked for 18&nbsp;months with the billboard firm JC&nbsp;Decaux and PSI, the airport advertising part of Aegis. Having tested its technology in Luton airport, Hypertag is looking for partners in Barcelona. "We've got technology which we know companies want to use and now it's all about sales," said director Jonathan Morgan.UKTI is also helping Movirtu, which is targeting the billion people in developing countries who live on less than $2 a day and cannot afford a mobile phone but may spend 30% of their income on phone calls. Its MX Share service, already tested in Africa, allows people to make and receive calls and texts on someone else's handset, without them needing their own expensive sim card, handsets or additional software.At the show, Movirtu will launch a new service that will give users easy access to information on healthcare, education or even agriculture through mobiles. It is also looking for network partners in developing countries, said the chief executive, Nigel Waller. "We would like to move forward with a number of operator agreements to give us scale."Also eyeing the developing market is Synchronica, which will showcase two new low-cost MessagePhone handsets that offer all the functions of a BlackBerry, such as emails and texting, but at under $100. Other UK-listed firms include Intec, which specialises in billing systems for mobile networks, the Bluetooth-chip designer CSR, mobile marketing specialists 2ergo and mobile banking experts Monitise.But it's not all about gadgets. Also plying their wares will be Foof Productions, the Gateshead-based mobile phone game creators, and the Middlesbrough-based developer, Fluid Pixel. They are the creative parents of Animentals, a mobile game that takes a twisted take on the virtual pets craze spawned by Tamagotchi in the 1990s.Already available on Nokia's Ovi store and with an iPhone version due out soon, Animentals takes place in the hospital of Dr Foof, who must nurse a collection of crazed pets back to full mental health, partly through a series of challenges. The Animentals range from the depressed Goth penguin Pingoth to the highly unstable Furball. "What Dr Foof is offering is rehab for damaged digital pets," says the game's producer Andy Banks. After four days in the hothouse of the congress, it's a need many of the attendees will recognise only too well.
When Eric Schmidt, chief executive of Google, takes to the stage in Barcelona on Tuesday evening to deliver the keynote address to hundreds of mobile phone industry executives gathered for the Mobile World Congress, the industry's biggest trade show, the message will be clear: well done, Europe, for getting mobile communications this far. We'll take it from here.For two decades, Europe's mobile telecoms sector has considered itself to be a world leader. It had the biggest names, the technological knowhow, the most customers. Over the past year, however, that hegemony has been smashed. At a time when Europe is mired in economic turmoil and ­facing a demographic timebomb, one of its great hopes for fuelling future growth is ­slipping away."Europe has become the 'flyover states' of the mobile industry," says a ­senior European executive, referring to the disparaging term used to describe middle America by high-powered business travellers shuttling between California and New York."All the service innovation is being done on the west coast of the US, and all the manufacturing and technical innovation is being done in the Far East. All we're doing is selling other people's products."His customers now care only about access to services such as Google, Facebook and Twitter on their phones, and the devices they covet are the iPhone or the latest BlackBerry, which has proved a great hit with teenagers. This year's hot handsets, the executive says, are being made by HTC, the Taiwanese manufacturer, which will use this week's show to unveil its latest devices, featuring Google's Android software. While Apple lords it over the high end of the market, China's Huawei and ZTE are creating cut-price smartphones that will democratise the mobile internet in the coming years.Sensing the change blowing in the wind, even Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, is turning up in Barcelona to front the software group's latest attempt to break into a market that it was once shut out of by Europe's gatekeepers, Nokia and Ericsson. As for Apple itself, the iPhone maker would never do anything so vulgar as actually appear publicly at the event, or have a stand in one of the eight exhibition halls; but its executives will be in town, holding meetings behind closed doors with suppliers and networks as it looks for more wireless partners to back its latest invention, the iPad, outside the US.After a week in which the turmoil in Greece has shown the fragility of the eurozone and a new acronym, "Pigs", has entered the economic lexicon as a harbinger of doom, the evidence the Mobile World Congress will provide of Europe's loss of control over the mobile phone industry is a harsh blow.It leaves European policymakers, many of whom have bought in to the idea that the future lies in the creation of innovative technologies, to pin their hopes on new areas such as green ­energy or fall back on old stalwarts such as biotechnology. But the green sector has yet to prove the breakout ­success that will give Europe its own version of Silicon Valley, while biotech has always been the saviour that never quite seems to arrive. After the dotcom crash at the start of this century, biotechnology was looked to expectantly, especially in the UK, as the next big thing. In America, meanwhile, graduates from Stanford and drop-outs from Harvard were quietly getting on with building Google, Facebook and Twitter.The impressive lead in mobile communications that Europe once held over the rest of the world was created by the European Union. In the 1980s, when wireless communications went mass-market, America's Motorola vied with Finland's Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson for dominance of the nascent global market. Europe's players were handed the advantage when the EU officially adopted and set aside specific wireless spectrum for a digital mobile technology called GSM.The first networks appeared in 1991 and overnight the European technology players that had helped create the standard had a huge market. Seeing its success, other countries soon adopted GSM, expanding the market for Ericsson, Nokia and others throughout the 1990s. Even America's largest network, Verizon Wireless, is switching to the super-fast version of GSM later this year. So where did it all go wrong?"As soon as the mobile business opened itself up in such a way that internet technology could become available on mobile networks, that was the end," according to Mark Newman, chief research officer at Informa Telecoms &amp; Media. "Maybe Europe had a chance but it blew it, in my view, because there are too many sets of interests, each so obsessed with their own sphere of influence that they could not co-operate."You had operators and device manufacturers never pulling in the same direction, and I cannot see any way in which Europe can regain the ascendancy. Essentially the future of communication services is that people want access to the cloud of services called the internet."The industry did see it coming. It tried several times to create a mobile internet that was not going to be beholden to the American giants. In the late 1990s, a pared-down wireless internet service called WAP was being pushed by several GSM operators. Customers, many of whom were used to dial-up internet access, were unconvinced and soon started summing up the service by replacing the "w" with "cr".A few years later, O2tried to create its own mobile web by importing the i-mode standard from Japan. Again, it was a dire failure. When the "true" web started turning up on the next generation of 3G phones, the operators tried to keep their customers within "walled gardens" – as they were called – creating content portals that offered customers what the operator thought was the best of the web. Usage was paltry. Having spent billions buying licences to run 3G services, the operators had to prove to investors that there was consumer appetite for mobile internet services, so they demolished their garden walls.Ironically, the operators' initial intransigence over the mobile web brought both Apple and Google into the industry. The former saw a way of bringing the vertically integrated approach that had worked so well in music – where it controls both the device, the iPod, and the store, iTunes – into the mobile market. The latter made its move because it feared that the combined effect of Apple and market leader Nokia could shut it out of the mobile internet altogether.In fact, Google needn't have worried about Nokia because the runaway success of the iPhone changed the game. The arrival of the 3G version of Apple's device a year and a half ago dramatically altered the mobile industry and proved that consumers, given the right device, will do much, much more than use their phone to make calls and send texts.Nokia is still the largest mobile phone manufacturer in the world. But the Finnish giant, a former rubber boot manufacturer whose success created hundreds of millionaires and helped pull the country out of recession when the Soviet Union collapsed, has been sideswiped by the success of Apple and the encroachment of Google's Android platform. It has been forced to make Symbian, its own software platform, free to developers and handset manufacturers, as Android is, and last month took the desperate decision to give users of its smartphones free access to its satnav services to make its devices as attractive as the iPhone. Only three years ago it spent €6.5bn on the map firm Navteq but it is now effectively giving that intellectual property away as it tries to protect its market share.The crisis into which Nokia has been plunged by Apple has pushed it into bed with another American giant, Intel. The two companies will use Mobile World Congress to announce new microchips that Nokia hopes will help it to compete with HTC's latest devices. Apple already has its own in-house chip design team, having bought fellow Californian company PA Semi two years ago.Ericsson, meanwhile, spun its handset business into a joint venture with Sony. However, after initial success with ­"featurephones" based on Sony's Cybershot (camera) and Walkman (music)technologies, Sony Ericsson's share of the billion-device-a-year market has collapsed under the onslaught of Apple and BlackBerry, halving from about 10% three years ago.But it's not all doom and gloom, says Olaf Swantee, who runs Orange's mobile operations across Europe. He reckons that Europe's big mobile phone operators, such as Orange, Vodafone and O2, have the opportunity to leverage their huge customer service bases to get themselves back into the game."Yes, the [US] west coast and Asia have really taken very strong positions," he admits. "If you take equipment manufacturing, companies like Huawei have grown really strongly and we have seen traditional software manufacturers like Google and Apple enter the mobile market as it becomes a more software-driven environment. But, as the market moves to a more mature phase, what is becoming more and more important is the customer interface."The importance of direct customer contact, whether that be through shops or call centres, was proved this year when Google launched its Nexus One mobile phone. It sold it only through its website, and those customers who had problems with the phone had to email Google, rather than talk to its network partner, T-Mobile. Many found themselves waiting days for issues to be dealt with.In the race to increase revenues – not least to pay for the network investment required to deal with the traffic generated by devices such as the iPhone – the mobile phone operators have the chance to claw back money from the likes of Apple and Google, which aggregate other people's content through their iTunes and Android marketplace stores."Once the markets top out," says Patrick Bossert, director of strategy at global billing services expert Convergys, "and growth slows and margins get tighter, then those aggregators will be looking to solutions for local-language customer care and marketing."They cannot afford to establish a base in every market in which they operate, but the service providers are already there. They may not have a lot of leverage now but, boy, do they have a lot of assets that are actually quite desirable."It's a theme that the GSM Association, which represents all these networks, will be picking up this week as it tries to wrest some of the initiative back from Google and Apple."I don't feel that we are being left behind, but there are areas that the mobile operators need to address," says Michael O'Hara, the GSMA's chief marketing officer. "And getting their assets into the developer world, finding a way to get into the value chain, is really key."Being great at customer service is hardly the white heat of technology, but for Europe it might just be the start of some sort of fightback. For now, though, the story is going to be – for home-grown talent, at least – depressingly familiar. As Informa's Newman warns: "In 2010, Apple is going to make hay. I can't see anyone catching them up this year."• This article was amended on 3 March 2010 because we inadvertently referred to Google's network partner," AT&amp;T" but this should have beenT-Mobile. This has now been changed.
VAUXHALL ASTRAFROM £16,010MILES PER GALLON: 51.4CO2PER KM: 129 GRAMSGOOD FOR: OPENING UPBAD FOR: CLOSING DOWNThey say it's usually darkest just before dawn. And the past six months have certainly seen Vauxhall and its parent company General Motors face some of their darkest hours. Yet as management has fought to keep its stricken ship afloat, the designers and mechanics have kept their heads down and responded in the only way they could – they've built what some critics are hailing as their best car ever. Hyperbole? I don't think so. This latest generation Astra, the sixth since it first hit our roads, is the real deal.  The only question is: is it the 70th-minute impact sub GM needs it to be?The Astra has a colossal battle on its hands. The hatchback segment of the market is one of the most fiercely contested in the UK, accounting for almost a fifth of all car sales. Worse still, the Astra goes toe-to-toe with two of the best vehicles on the road – Ford's Focus (the bestselling car in Europe for the past decade) and VW's Golf (Top Gearmagazine recently hailed the GTi as "the most complete motoring package on the planet"). Neither will be in any mood to relinquish their titles. If the Astra were a rugby player it would be time to reach for the fake blood capsules…Britain has had a long affair with Vauxhall – though it's mostly been an affair of convenience and economy rather than passion. Vauxhalls are cheap, available and rewarding in a workmanlike way. They are the most-stolen cars on our roads and the most popular in the second-hand market. But hardly your heart's desire. This new Astra, however, will push all your buttons. For a start it doesn't really look like an Astra; it looks more like an Alfa Romeo – particularly in lipstick red. It's sleek, smooth and curvy. The old Astras were all about sharp edges and flat panels. But it is on the inside that Vauxhall has really upped its game, swapping dull dependability for a lacquering of everyday luxury. It's roomy, comfortable and usable, of course, but there's a patina of posh about the whole operation. And everything from the "gooseneck" door handles to the embedded uplighters round the gear stick and the glowing tips on instrument needles reveals that Vauxhall has gone the extra mile.The design team has also thought about the needs of real drivers. Crash dummies don't worry about where to put their loose change or that tattered road atlas. But the Astra comes with a bucketload of simple, effective storage solutions: a hard-shelled sunglasses case above the door; moulded coin slots and pen holders; a centre console for CD cases; large cup holders that'll fit a drinks bottle and even an under-seat drawer big enough to hold a spare pair of shoes. It drives well, a new chassis and suspension means it tackles our dreadful roads with all the vigour of Joe Worsley hunting down a wild-eyed fly half, and, among a comprehensive range of engines, a 1.4-litre turbo petrol knocks out more than 50 miles to the gallon.It's built in Britain, too, at Ellesmere Port, which first built the Vauxhall Viva in 1963 and can now turn out more than 500 Astras a day. All you need to do is buy one of them – soon.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
Brawling titles with roots in the demanding world of Japanese arcades aren't an immediately obvious fit with the Wii. It is, after all, a console whose innocuous, saccharine  spell has wooed pensioners and parents alike.None the less,Tatsunoko vs Capcom, after gaining a substantial fanbase in the arcades,  is a fighting game that has also found a home on Nintendo's family-friendly platform. Just like the coin-operated original, it delivers an immediate and intense sensory bombardment that barks and rasps as neon splashes fill the screen. The relentless fighting that is the game's focus is an exaggerated parody of real sports combat, defined by spectacular special moves and caricatured competitors. There's consideration for the new school of Wii gamers though – by bringing together a huge cast from the vast back catalogues of game creator Capcom and cult animation studio Tatsunoko, and by offering a wealth of simplified control schemes that allows beat-'em-up virgins to feel like accomplished warriors.
It's not even lunchtime yet, and I've already seen more public nudity than I normally bargain for in a year. On top of that, I've been propositioned, pestered and almost spat my coffee out at least four times.Why? Because ofChatroulette, a new and often Not Safe For Work website that manages to be deeply weird, grossly offensive and utterly fascinating - and is exploding in popularity.I've written a story today about the site,which randomly connects webcam chatters to each other, because it's really started kicking off for all kinds of reasons - as a craze for bored web surfers, a haven for perverts, and an inspired idea that brings back memories of the early web.The creator of the site appears to haverevealed himself as a 17-year-old from Moscow(a detail that arrived too late for us to squeeze into print, unfortunately) who has really hit a nerve.The truth is that just talking about Chatroulette isn't enough: the best way to find out what happens on the site is (unsurprisingly) to use it.So, grasping for a mug of coffee as the early morning equivalent of Dutch courage, I fired up the computer and braced myself. What would it be like?Almost immediately, I was part of a constantly rolling sequence of chatters, watching as people flipped through their virtual telephone books looking for somebody interesting to connect with.It was just seconds before I understood how lightly I'd taken the warnings about explicit behaviour, too. During my first closely-monitored half hour session, for example, I saw one couple having sex, four people masturbating on camera and was asked to show my genitals once (I refused, bluntly).Along the way, a smirking teenager also took the time to try and insult me, first calling me gay and then a paedophile. It was as if I'd never left the playground. I almost switched off.Offensive - and humanThis brash, offensive, gratuitously sexual aspect of Chatroulette is its most distasteful element. The high likelihood - actually, certainty - of stumbling across somebody whose main objective is to shock you or use you as part of a sex game makes a trawl through the site both adults-only (though it doesn't ask for any proof of age), and distinctly not safe for work.But behind the shock and the almost-robotic titillation, there was clearly something human going on, too: people who just want to talk to someone. The question is, who? Who are they really looking for? And what do they actually want to talk - or whatever - about?A total of 50 people simply turned off as soon as they got sight of me. A couple tried to soften the blow by waving goodbye as they did so, but in truth their attempt at a polite gesture just crushed my ego even more.Elsewhere, I was connected to somebody dancing around the screen in a terrifying clown mask, to a sinister-looking individual wearing a balaclava, and several people who appeared to scream at me before disappearing. One person, meanwhile, seemed to have pointed their camera at the TV in an attempt to rebroadcast the film they were watching.All in all, during a single spin of the wheel with Chatroulette, only a handful of people hung around long enough to talk to me.One of them was Winni, a bespectacled teenager from Bavaria who appeared to be sitting in bed. He apologised for his broken English and told me that the site was both fun and disturbing at the same time."It is fun," he said, "But too much perverse."Later I spoke to Chris, an American living in Manchester. He, like me, was a fellow first-timer, and popped onto my screen sitting in a dark room and wearing a cap. We spoke for a few minutes, and he agreed that Chatroulette seemed to lurch randomly between the bizarre and the lewd."It's just not right," he told me, before we waved goodbye to each other and carried on our explorations.As the parade of faces passed by - most of them young men and women with a glazed look of boredom in their eyes - I felt as though I were the cameraman in an extreme version of the Truman Show. I was peeping, albeit briefly, into other people's lives, and allowing them to sneak a look at mine. The experience was creepy, overwhelming and disturbingly addictive. It wasn't hard to see why the site is starting to attract attention.The service is largely built from reused parts - webcam sites, chatrooms and so on - and the site itself looks even more like a relic: its grey, clunky interface stands in stark comparison to the slick, stylish designs of modern websites, leaving you with a sense that the service was carved from some piece of ancient, craggy computer code.But perhaps this is precisely part of Chatroulette's appeal - by dispensing with bells and whistles, it connects back to a time when the web really was uncharted territory.Strange frontiersAfter all, as the web has grown into a ubiquitous element of 21st century life, it has become a very sterile place. Indeed, for all the pseudo-revolutionary talk about how the internet connects us to people around the world, most of us spend our time visiting just a handful of sites and reading about things we have already experienced from people we already know.Even the places on the web where oversharing is part of the game - Facebook, Twitter, blogs - are largely confined within an agreed social circle, which is one reason it still makes news when somebody gets fired for mistakenly publishing what they think of their boss online.By comparison Chatroulette, with its random scattering of people, seems to recapture the feeling of being on some strange, uncontrollable frontier.Nobody using the service seemed too bothered about that problem, however. The sequence of users I came across - predominantly young men, presumably searching for members of the opposite sex to gawk at - simply kept looking and looking and looking.Perhaps this sort of shared exhibitionism is the logical evolution of a world in which Facebook and Twitter are common currency, where we seem to spend more time in our tribes and yet happier than ever to let strangers glimpse our lives. Through these corners of the internet we are already locked in a constant performance for the benefit of other people - so why not take it to its conclusion?Performance was an important part of using Chatroulette, explained Dan from Philadelphia, another player I came across in my travels.A young man dressed in hipster attire - plaid shirt, nose ring, cool expression - Dan said that he'd been using Chatroulette for a couple of months now. Back in the very early days, there were only ever around 1,000 people using it at any one time. Today there are now an average of around 10,000 concurrent users, and during one of my sessions that number rose above 16,000.We carried on talking and then, pulling on a cigarette, he leant forward towards the screen to type back to me."Everybody wants to be entertained," he told me. With a look of disdain, he explained how most users simply want to consume - while far fewer are prepared to do something worth watching."That's why we started Chatroulette dance parties," he said.Every so often, he explained, he would get together with his friends put a record on and dance in front of the camera for the benefit of any stranger who wandered by. Perhaps, he said, looking over my shoulder into the room behind me, I should try playing my ukulele for people instead of just chatting?Good idea, I said... before waving goodbye and spinning the wheel to find somebody else to talk to.
Do you ever feel like buying a&nbsp;jellyfish, peeing in Paris, ­televising your life, getting rid of static electricity, catching a&nbsp;good man and keeping him,&nbsp;turning tuna fish into something spectacular, buying and selling sperm and/or avoiding brain-eating amoeba?Of course you do. But then you remember your ignorance. Why does no one teach you these vital&nbsp;skills? How can you go through life clueless about shoeing a horse, finding the right pet frog or fixing a toilet with a fishing wire?That's whereeHow.co.ukcomes in. Here, you&nbsp;will&nbsp;find more than a million instructional articles and videos that promise to tell you "how&nbsp;to do just about anything". Some of the&nbsp;advice is obvious, vague or downright deranged, but there is such a&nbsp;can-do energy to&nbsp;the enterprise&nbsp;that it barely matters. This is&nbsp;a&nbsp;world in which almost every ­problem has a&nbsp;step-by-step solution, whether it is, "How can&nbsp;I&nbsp;fall in love?" or, "How do I make a martini?"Founded 10 years ago during the dotcom ­bubble, eHow was originally compiled by ­professional authors, and meticulously organised. Some content is still commissioned by&nbsp;the site's US owners,Demand Media, but you&nbsp;don't get a million articles online without a&nbsp;healthy chunk of "crowdsourcing" – in other words, ­letting anyone contribute.There's money to be made, too, though only if you live in the US. American contributors get a&nbsp;share of the advertising revenue they generate. The freelance writer Maria O'Brien, for example, known to eHowers asWriterGig, makes about $1,500 a&nbsp;month from around 400 how-tos, ­covering every­thing from conceiving twins to making garlic juice. Other contributions are less&nbsp;professional – in all senses of the word. Not&nbsp;only can anyone sign up to eHow, but what they write gets only the briefest of vettings before&nbsp;going online.It can all look pretty chaotic, but a search of the site throws up truly inventive, eclectic gems.• This article was amended on 22 February 2010. The original referred to WriterGig as Maria Miller. This has been corrected.How to make a grilled cheese sandwich with an ironByhainterncharlieDifficultyModerateThings you'll needIron, tinfoil, bread, cheese,&nbsp;butterInstructions1Turn your iron to the highest setting, like Linen, or Cotton.2Roll out a piece of tinfoil long enough to cover an entire sandwich. Don't worry about the tinfoil ruining your iron, it will be perfectly safe.3Butter two pieces of bread, on one side of each piece. Place buttered slices on tinfoil, buttered-side DOWN.4Add cheese to the bread.5Fold the tinfoil over the bread, so it is covering the entire sandwich.6Press the iron to the tinfoil and let it sit, ­generally for about 30 seconds. Flip the sandwich over and repeat until your sandwich is just the way you want it.Tips and warningsHeat your iron to its highest setting for maximum effectiveness. Thirty seconds is a good time limit, but it may take a minute for each side.How to end worryByJudy FordDifficultyModerately easyThings you'll needStrips of paper, penInstructions1Cut sheets of paper into strips of approximately 1-by-5 inches. Cut a total of 100 strips so that you'll have an adequate supply for the week.2Write one worry on each strip. Be sure to write them all down, no matter how big or small.3Be specific. For example, instead of, "Worried about bills" write, "Worried about overdue phone&nbsp;bill." The more specific you are, the more relief you'll feel.4Create two piles: one pile for "Yes" and one pile&nbsp;for "No".5Read one worry out loud. Ask yourself, "Is there anything I can do about this worry today?" If the answer is "Yes", place that worry strip in the "Yes" pile. If the answer is "No", put that worry strip in the "No" pile. Continue until each worry is placed in the appropriate pile.6Throw the "No" pile in the trash. Yeah! Since there's nothing you can do about "Nos" today, there's no need to hang on to those.7Shift your focus to the "Yes" pile. Commit to taking action on each worry in the "Yes" pile.8Put the worries in order based on which one you will handle first, second and third.9Decide what action you will take and do it ­immediately, then move on to the next worry. Keep taking action until you have reached the end of the worry strips.10Be worry-free for the rest of the day.11Repeat the above steps every day. Soon your worries will quiet down. You will begin to discover the difference between worries you can do something about and those you can't.12Memorise this mantra: I may have worries, but I no longer worry about my worries.How to french kissBy eHow contributing writerDifficultyEasyThings you'll needMintsInstructions1Start with gentle pecks and tongue-free kisses as you get to know someone.2When you're ready to french kiss, lean toward your date with your head tilted slightly to avoid bumping noses.3Make eye contact as you lean toward one ­another but close your eyes as the lips meet.4As you lean in for the kiss, have your lips parted slightly and inhale through your mouth to&nbsp;heighten the senses and to avoid breathing on&nbsp;your date.5Allow your lips to brush against each other's to&nbsp;create light, feathery kisses. Keep the tongue in&nbsp;your mouth initially.6As the kiss warms up, allow your tongue to flicker on to your date's lips. Don't let your tongue linger – keep the flickers quick and gentle.7If your date responds in kind, let your tongue extend back toward his or her tongue. Keep the movement light and gentle – tongue wrestling is a&nbsp;no-no.8Breathe through your nose as your tongues touch.9Lose yourself in the moment: give complete ­attention to the kiss.10End the kiss. French kissing can get messy if continued without breathers. Take time to nuzzle necks, nibble ears or whisper sweet nothings.Tips and warningsFresh breath is essential. Avoid smelly foods ­(garlic, brie, coffee) beforehand. Freshen up with a mint or gum, making sure to dispose of the gum before kissing. Some people find it helpful to practise french kissing on ice-cream.How to politely avoid  Mormon missionariesByjeremyknowsDifficultyModerately easyAs a current member of theChurch of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saintsand a returned missionary, I&nbsp;encourage you to listen to the missionaries when they knock on your door. But if you need to turn them away, you can do so quickly and politely...Instructions1Answer the door. If nobody on the street ­answers, then the missionaries will probably come back later and try your street again.2Allow them to introduce themselves. Mormon missionaries and FBI agents dress very similarly. You don't want to accidentally slam the door on an FBI agent.3When they ask if they can share their message, respond with a simple, "No, thank you." They've heard thousands of reasons why people don't want to listen to them.4Offer them a beer, or a coffee or tea. Since members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints don't drink coffee, tea or alcohol, the missionaries will graciously decline your offer. But they will leave with a smile, thinking you are a very nice person.Tips and warningsMissionaries consider their work to be a service to&nbsp;people. Some people really are looking for ­religion and they consider it a miracle to have missionaries come to their home. If you don't want the service, just decline.How to pee standing  up outside if you are a girlByblahsnap86DifficultyModerately challengingThings you'll needFull bladder, something to pee on or into, toilet paper (optional)Instructions1Whether it be a tree, wall or person, find something steady that you can put your weight on to.2Drop your pants. The lower you pull them, the less likely you will be to misfire.3Stand about three feet away, facing your solid leaning post, put your dominant hand out and lean against it. Once you are almost ready to pee, bend your knees and move your hips toward the wall in order to make sure you do not pee straight down on to your pants.4Once you are situated, it's time to enjoy the primitive feeling of peeing in the great outdoors. After you have finished, continue as you would if&nbsp;you were sitting on a toilet (wipe if you can, pull up your pants, wash your hands).How to look scary in  a rough neighbourhoodBy eHow contributing writerDifficultyModerately easyInstructions1Consider wearing a hooded sweatshirt or coat. When people can't see your face, they are more wary of approaching you. With your hood up and&nbsp;your head down, you become an unknown quantity on the streets.2Look people in the eye if they approach you. Feeling safe is a matter of displaying confidence.3Talk to yourself as you walk. When people think&nbsp;that you are mentally unstable, they have&nbsp;a&nbsp;tendency to leave you alone. Making people nervous before you allow them to make you ­nervous is a valuable weapon when you have&nbsp;no&nbsp;other defence.4Walk confidently and determinedly without smiling. Even if you are lost, look as if you know&nbsp;where you are going. Confidence is the most ­intimidating thing you possess under these&nbsp;circumstances.How to find money  around the&nbsp;houseBygluestickgirlDifficultyEasyInstructions1Check the utility room. Look in the pockets of&nbsp;dirty trousers. Look inside the washer and&nbsp;dryer for any coins. When people start a&nbsp;load&nbsp;of clothes and clean out the pockets, they will often take money out and leave it by the&nbsp;dryer. You just have to grab it fast enough.2Open up the coat closet. There could be coats that have forgotten money in them.3Look through drawers and chests. Jewellery boxes may have loose change lying inside. Places that haven't been opened in a long time are the best bet for forgotten money. Drawers and containers still in use will more likely have money that someone will come ­looking for later.4Tear apart the sofa (not literally) in search of change that could have slipped out of someone's back pocket.5Old handbags could contain a wallet or some bills that didn't make it to the new handbag.How to make your  girlfriend orgasmBymikematthewsDifficultyModerately challengingThings you'll needGentleness, vibrator, confidenceInstructions1Spend about 15 minutes using foreplay and oral&nbsp;sex to arouse her senses.2Use the missionary position.3Place a pillow under the small of her back.4Reach down and massage her clitoris with your&nbsp;hands while thrusting inside her.Tips and warningsWear a condom... you're not married yet and still need to protect each other.How to make a decisionBy boykinwrDifficultyModerateThings you'll needDecision to make, pen/paper or spreadsheet, basic maths skillsInstructions1Narrow your choices to two or three. Whether selecting among jobs or lovers, there are generally two or three clear preferences. List these preferences.2List desirable features. If you're choosing among lovers, you might list physical appearance, personality or intelligence as key features. If you're choosing among jobs, you might list money, location or promotion potential.3Add weights to each factor or feature, depending on its importance to you; I recommend using numerical values between one and 10 – assign 10 to the most important feature or factor.4Rank the choices. For each choice and feature you listed in steps one and two, rank the existence of each feature using a value between one and 10 – 10 will indicate that the feature exists perfectly.5Assign a score. The score becomes the weight you've assigned times the rank. For example, under your choice of two or three potential lovers a feature is personality, you created a weight of 8 (pretty important) and rank the existence of personality for lover number one as 2 (almost nonexistent); you then get a score of 16. Rank each feature and total them; the choice with the highest score is your logical decision.How to give a lie detector  test to your childBy Janet FordYou know that your child is lying but you want them to confess. Well, then you need a lie detector test. This fun lie detector test was one my own dad gave to us kids and then later to his grandkids. It never failed!DifficultyEasyThings you'll needGlass of waterInstructions1Inform your child that you are going to have to give them a lie detector test.2Pour a glass of water.3Instruct child to place their index finger into the glass of water.4Let the child know that when they do that, the&nbsp;water will ripple if they are lying but it&nbsp;won't&nbsp;move at all if they are telling the truth.5A nervous child will wiggle ever so slightly and&nbsp;cause the water to ripple, while the child&nbsp;confident in their statements will not. In&nbsp;theory anyhow. Remember, this is not at all&nbsp;scientifically proven. Have fun with it but don't take it too seriously.How to accept a gift graciouslyBy eHow contributing writerDifficultyEasyThings you'll needCalligraphy pens, postage stamps, personalised stationeryInstructions1Smile and say thank you, no matter how odd, ugly or wrong the gift is.2Hold the sweater up to yourself and tell Aunt Bess how perfect it is. Open the book and gush over the pictures. Put the frame on the mantel and "ooh" and "ahh".3Let the giver know how you might use a gift of money. "Oh, Gran, now I can finish art school", "I'm off to Istanbul" or, "Here's my new car."4Live with the gift and learn to love it if it's engraved, monogrammed, specially made or specially ordered.5Keep in mind that something like an engagement ring might be difficult to exchange, but not impossible. Be as diplomatic as humanly possible.6Talk to the giver in private if the gift is too expensive, too sexy or not suitable to the occasion or your relationship. Never discuss such things in public.7Write a more effusive thank-you card for a more special gift. In public, however, every gift&nbsp;gets equal time.Tips and warningsRemember that, "I never imagined myself in a&nbsp;tiara" is&nbsp;far nicer than, "A tiara? What were you&nbsp;thinking?" Don't recycle gifts within the same small circle of friends. Try not to look disappointed. Set your mind to it.How to bring a word  back into fashionBygluestickgirlDifficultyEasyInstructions1Make use of modern technology. Throw your&nbsp;word into your Facebook status updates. Promote&nbsp;it in your blog. Forward it to all your friends by email.2Speak it in everyday conversation. You really have to learn your word in case someone should&nbsp;ask you about it. Know the definition and&nbsp;the ways it can be used – ie, is it a verb, a&nbsp;noun, a&nbsp;slang term for something?3Tell your friends to spread it like wildfire.4Go tourbandictionary.comand post your word,&nbsp;complete with a definition.5Sit back and watch your beloved word become&nbsp;famous. Even if it's just in your area&nbsp;or&nbsp;your circle of friends, you can say, "I&nbsp;knew&nbsp;it&nbsp;first!"
How To Be A RetronautIf you could replicate Mr Benn's fancy dress shop on the internet, a place where every visit would turn up something new and discombobulating (but not too much), that website would be a lot like this. Essentially an emporium of retro treasure, author Chris Wild invites us to shuttle between the ages: from shocking sculptures of the 1700s, to Kodachrome snaps of 1950s Piccadilly Circus, to biblical scenes captured by Google Earth. Rather than nostalgia or folly, the aim is enlightenment, wonder and the pleasure of weirdness; such as the video of man who believes he time-travelled into the future while fixing a leaking sink. He has mobile phone footage with his future self to prove it.Unhappy HipstersUnhappy HipstersAnyone who has experienced envy while watching Grand Designs or flicking through the pages of a glossy interiors magazine has been consoled by one pure thought: the people who reside in those lovely houses are nearly always really, really sad. Providing further evidence that this is true, this scathingly funny blog reproduces pictures mainly found in the publication Dwell, of fashionable folk lounging alone in minimalist American homes, complete with fittingly miserabilist captions; the emptiness of their existences matched by the spartan furnishings that seem to mock their barren souls.Blog roll: CouplesBrad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, pittwatch.com Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/ReutersPitt WatchBreaking up and making up Brangelina style, studied from all available angles.Crying WifeA man videos his partner's teary outbursts during rubbish movies.OK TrendsCharting the success of smiling versus non-smiling pictures on dating sites.Sleep Talkin' ManPearls of surreal nonsense spoken by a sleep-talking chap, jotted down by his wide-awake partner.Mil MillingtonThe still brilliant Things My Girlfriend And I Have Argued About list. Our favourite? The correct way to chop a kiwi fruit.Hot Chicks With Douche BagsExploring the phenomena of women's attraction to vest-wearing jerks.Le LoveThe perfect kiss, vodka and a lovely cake recipe for the broken hearted.What we learned on the web this weekFever RayWhy theBrits should invite Fever RayWhentoplay with your foodGrange Hillthen and nowThe disturbingworld of Upside Down Face2009's mostloathsome AmericansC3P0 wasbonkers for tuna in brineThe historyof London Underground signsWhy AkiramattersWhere AliceIn Wonderland meets GorillazSheldon fromBig Bang Theory's finest moments
Mass Effect 2– PC, Xbox360 (reviewed)Commander Shepard's back to save mankind from an expanded set of shadowy threats, this time in league with the distinctly dodgy-sounding Cerberus, an organisation run by Martin Sheen as the constantly smoking Illusive Man. Your first job is to assemble a team of soldiers, scientists and mercenaries to go and investigate the disappearance of far-flung human colonies. If you played the original, the actions you took will affect encounters in this instalment – although since that was in 2007, unless you have eidetic memory, you'll be relying as much as newcomers on the follow-up's gentle explanation of just about everything. Its fighting system artfully blends shooting, "biotic" techniques (which are magic in all but plot rationale) and squad commands, while its interactive and well-scripted conversations flow beautifully. Like being in your very own space opera, it's a fearsomely entertaining adventure that delivers a pleasing impression of choice and initiative in both battles and relationships.Electronic Arts, £23.99-£37.99MAG, PS3MAGSimulating war is something games have been doing for quite some time, although never on the scale of MAG. Where other console-based shooters support 16 or 32 players, MAG has maps on which 256 make-believe warriors go for glory. Only playable online and highly orientated around team play, you deploy in a squad, whether on foot or by parachute, meaning you're very frequently with a group of, if not buddies, then at least people who aren't deliberately trying to shoot you. Picking one of three factions, which your character serves for life, you take on a series of detailed scenarios with experience points earned for killing enemies, securing objectives and following orders. Earn enough and you too can volunteer to lead a squad or platoon into combat. Slightly drab-looking, with imprecise controls and an awful lot of waiting around before you can reappear with your team, MAG's unique scale comes at the expense of some of the polish we've come to expect and rather like.SCEE, £33.49Tumbledrop, iPhoneTumbledropIf there's one thing the iPhone isn't short of, it's puzzle games spiced up with a bit of real-world physics. Despite this profusion, few of them are any good, suffering from over-fiddliness in the case of Enigmo and its sequel, or lack of polish or real thought in the case of most others. Tumbledrop, by contrast, is a work of some finesse, in which you must rescue a precariously perched pink star by deleting blocks underneath it until it descends to earth. Removing the wrong shape at the wrong time will cause your star to topple neatly into the water, forcing you to restart, while working out how to get it to ground level in fewer moves will earn you a gold medal. It's elegant, swift to restart after failures and fun. Although rival title Danger Cats! has an identical premise and sounds funny, it's nowhere near as accomplished a game.Starfruit Games, £1.19
Tomorrow night's episode ofThe Virtual Revolution, The Cost of Free, looks at the dark corporate underbelly of the web, and how it's transforming our notions of privacy and culture in the 21st century. It's also the one that excites me the most.I am a dystopian from way back, and I'm both thrilled and terrified to see how we have been complicit in our own 1984. What does Google have on us? How is Amazon's recommendation system contradicting the most powerful opportunity for new inforamtion that the web offers – serendipity – and manipulating us into homogenous proles for its own benefit?As assistant producer, Jo Wade,explains in an article for the BBC:Every day in Britain millions of searches are carried out on Google for free. Every month we spend millions of hours on Facebook for free and read millions of articles from free newspapers. But now look at it the other way round.Every day Google gathers millions of search terms that help them refine their search system and give them a direct marketing bonanza that they keep for months.Every week Facebook receives millions of highly personal status updates that are kept forever and are forming the basis of direct advertising revenue.Every month free newspapers plant and track a cookie tracking device on your computer that tells them what your range of interests are and allows them to shape their adverts and in the future, even content around you. So you're not just being watched, you're being traded. The currency has changed.•The Virtual Revolution airs on BBC2 at 9:15pm Saturday
Owch. Google Buzz has demonstrated precisely why - and how - engineers really shouldn't be let loose with human relationships.In an angry (and swear-ful, if you're sensitive) posting,"Harriet Jacobs"* takes the search engine giant to taskfor revealing, through Buzz, her present relationships to "my abusive ex-husband".She explains:"I use my private Gmail account to email my boyfriend and my mother. There's a BIG drop-off between them and my other "most frequent" contacts."You know who my third most frequent contact is? My abusive ex-husband."Which is why it's SO EXCITING, Google, that you AUTOMATICALLY allowed all my most frequent contacts access to my Reader, including all the comments I've made on Reader items, usually shared with my boyfriend, who I had NO REASON to hide my current location or workplace from, and never did."My other most frequent contacts? Other friends of [boyfriend] Flint's."Oh, also, people who email my ANONYMOUS blog account, which gets forwarded to my personal account. They are frequent contacts as well. Most of them, they are nice people. Some of them are probably nice but a little unbalanced and scary. A minority of them — but the minority that emails me the most, thus becoming FREQUENT — are psychotic men who think I deserve to be raped because I keep a blog about how I do not deserve to be raped, and this apparently causes the Hulk rage."To which of course Google will say (adopt meerkat voice) "Just edit your public profile! Simples!"Jacobs's rejoinder:"I can't block these people, because I never made a Google profile or Buzz profile, due to privacy concerns (apparently and resoundingly founded!). Which doesn't matter anyway, because every time I do block them, they are following me again in an hour. I'm hoping that they, like me, do not realize and are not intentionally following me, but that's the optimistic half of the glass. My pessimistic half is of the abyss, and it is staring back at you with a redolent stink-eye."This, of course, is the failure of the engineering imagination to deal with the reality of human interaction. Google tested Buzz internally a great deal before releasing it (the product was called "Taco Town" during testing) but the weakness of that is that it doesn't have many people who really hate each other internally. Or perhaps none. And of course stalking would be the sort of thing that would lose you your job at Google.It's when you get into the grey outside world though that the black-and-white certainties that Google thinks it can apply to search (but which it actually tweaks repeatedly to stave off the people trying to game the search results) break down. And quickly.We can hope that this real-world example will demonstrate to Google that it has made a real mistake by not letting people opt very carefully in to Buzz. But the question is, will it?* It's a pseudonym. (Ta, Robin Wauters at TechCrunch.)
Next month, Final Fantasy XIII will be released to great fanfare around the gaming world. Expectations are simply huge for a series that has consistently set the standards for role-playing games over the past 20 years. I was allowed a first play of the game a few weeks ago – today the embargo lifts and I can share with you some of my impressions.First off, the game looks absolutely incredible. Breathtaking. If you have a large HDTV and you want to make the most of it, this is the game for you. And I'm not just talking cutscenes  - one section shown to us featured the controlled character walking around a huge plain, while in the distance a huge dinosaur type creature grazed. I don't think I'd be exaggerating to say the experience was something close to watching Jurassic Park.Swivelling the camera around also showed the incredible detail they've managed even during regular gameplay. These are some of the most advanced facial representations I've seen, and you can pick out individual hairs and the shine on the buttons on their jackets. I'm going to stick my neck out and say that, once released, FFXIII will be graphically superior to any other game available on this generation of consoles.Once my jaw had been picked up from the floor however, the small matter of actually playing the game came under my scrutiny.The combat system's been tweaked yet again, this time pitched roughly as a sped-up version of the one in Final Fantasy VII - somewhat similar to that featured in FFVII Crisis Core on the PSP. It is turn based, but the balance is tipped towards action over tactical gameplay which may not please RPG purists.Old favourites such as summons, looking better than ever, and potions, spells etc remain, as well as plenty of slightly daft looking highly-coiffured baddies. It certainly feels like a Final Fantasy game.In the first 20 minutes of the game that I got to play, it was rather cut-scene heavy. I counted 9 or 10 in this inital stage alone. If this is indicative at all of the game as whole, it could prove frustrating for those (like me) who easily get impatient or irritated by the cheesy dialogue and bubblegum characters. Thankfully though you can skip them - although I'm sure Square would rather we didn't.The prospect of side-missions and exploration is handled mainly using a (once again) Crisis Core-like system of picking missions from savepoints. An example shown was a savepoint in a large plain where you could take on the task of slaying a certain amount of a type of creature for money and exp points. I fear this could get somewhat repetitive, but for many it will be preferable to random battles, something that a lot of gamers found pretty annoying.Meanwhile, the main game is split up into chapters, and around 50-60 hours of gameplay is to be expected to run through the main storyline.There are some really nice touches I noticed during the initial presentation. For starters, there won't be any more hammering the X button to cycle through conversations with townsfolk and the like. The 'Nautilus' shopping mall section of the game had the character simply overhearing conversations of passers by to retrieve information.The 'paradigm shift' system too seemed a clever way of handling combat. You can assign a compatriot to a 'Medic' or 'Commando' role and they'll automatically heal you or fight in a certain way - no more scrolling to Curaga hundreds of times in every boss battle.I must admit though that nothing I saw had the charm that many feel has been lost from earlier outings of the series - remember Cloud's cross-dressing? It's going to be a big ask (if you'll allow the football parlance) for the game to live up to the quality of its graphics, and for a lot of us those FFVII glory days will never be recaptured. Early signs look promising though, so keep your eyes peeled for our review next month.InterviewI had a brief opportunity to put some questions to producer Yoshinori Kitase and director Motomu Toriyama (via their translator) - all questions are answered by both conferring with each other, unless specified.Could you introduce FF13 for our readers?It's part of a series, and the series has been going on for 22 years. This is the 13th numbered title. It's based in a fantasy universe but this time we've used sci-fi elements as well. For the first time the series will be available for high-definition consoles like Xbox 360 and PS3, therefore we're very proud of the high quality graphics. The story is based on a really 'human' drama.Which other Final Fantasy games is FF13 similar to?It probably has the most similarities with FF7, it has magical spells but it's also quite futuristic. You can imagine a more evolved version of FF7, perhaps.What games was FF13 influenced by?When it comes to the battle scenes, maybe Call of Duty 4? Atmosphere on the battlefield, that sort of thing. We took some inspiration from that series.Do either of you have a particular favourite Final Fantasy game?(Toriyama) FF10 was my favourite. It was developed by the same team, and was strictly story driven. Like FF13 there was a lot of humanity in the story.What sets FF apart from other RPG series?Maybe two things, one is obviously the series is very good at telling a story - all the movie scenes are excellent, of a very high quality. Also, when we create characters and their movements, obviously we use motion capture like most, but also they're each meticulously created and finished off by different animators, so graphically it's really excellent as well.How long does it take to develop a game like this?The game was originally meant to be for PS2, so from that particular point it's been about 5 years. Since switching to high-def consoles we had to start from scratch with some elements, so it's been about 3 and a half years since then.Normally in the west we have to wait a long time for Japanese games to be overdubbed. How did you manage to get this game released so quickly?From day one we've been trying to create both versions simultaneously. Our CEO was very keen to make the timelag to be as small as possible. When we came to Europe to promote FF10 there were lots of questions and complaints about always having to wait such a long time, so this time we've done our bestAre there any plans to use downloadable content in FF13?The ideas have not been finalised as yet.Will there be any differences between the Xbox and PS3 versions?The content is exactly the same, although Xbox users will have to use 3 different discs. They'll only have to swap discs twice during the game.What's new in FF13 that sets it apart from the rest of the series, apart from the high-def graphics?The series has always been known to present a new battle system in each work - it's what fans expect. We have been using ATB (Action Time Battle) - this game uses the same system but makes it speedier so that it plays more like an action game.•Final Fantasy XIIIwill be released in the UK on 9 March
A "youth against the banks" Facebook party at a Mayfair mansion in London was broken up by officers in riot gear last night after revellers pelted police with bricks and bottles.The teenage organisers of the party conceded that the event "got out of hand" when thousands more people than expected attended the five-storey squat in Park Lane. But they claim that heavy handed tactics by the police sparked the unrest.Police, ambulance crews and the London fire brigade were called to the house just after 11pm, and used loud hailers to urge partygoers to leave."There was a fear for their safety because the structure was believed to be unsafe," a Metropolitan police spokesman said. "Through loud hailers we tried to inform people that the building was unsafe and that they should leave."Riot police moved in after bottles and bricks were thrown at the police and ambulance workers, the spokesman said."Once that sort of thing happens you need  to be prepared for every eventuality, but thankfully it cleared up pretty quickly after that." No arrests were made.But one of the organisers, 18-year-old Oliver Fox, said the police presence was excessive and provocative. "The police response is what made it get out hand," he said.Co-organiser Neil Fraser, 19, said: "A couple of people wanted to cause a scene, but it was nothing really. There was an incredibly heavy police presence. We had expected a knock on the door, so it was a bit of shock when they turned up in riot gear."The pair started a Facebook group last Sunday urging people to "come and live the high life in a mansion on Park Lane". The party was billed as a "youth against the banks" event as the organisers believed the home was partly owned by HSBC. The bank has yet to confirm this."We wanted to shake things up because the banks are kind of running the world which isn't fair," said Fox, a sixth-former from north London."We didn't break in, we got in through an open window. It's not illegal, that's just how squatting works," he said.Members of the Facebook group, which has since been deleted, grew rapidly. "The idea was to invite a large number of friends not the whole of London youth," Fraser said. "We personally only invited about 200 each. We then watched the group grow, it didn't seem real. It was growing by a person a minute."The police estimated that "in excess of 2,000 people" attended the party. Fox and Fraser said 5,000 turned up.Fraser said: "There were 3,500 people confirmed to come, and they all invited their friends. And there were another 5,000 people awaiting replies the last time I looked [at the group]. We didn't plan that many people so it was kind of an uneasy time."Fox said: "I've never seen that many people, except at festivals. As we were leaving the police said 'it's all kicking off you'd better get out of here'. They didn't know we had organised the party and were responsible for this chaos around us."The police spokesman said: "Inquiries are under way to establish who the organisers were."
Bill Gates has said in an interview with the news site Bnet that he doesn't think the iPad is a dramatic move compared to what Microsoft has done with tablet computers - but admitted that he is envious of the iPhone's features.Interviewed by Brent Schlender, Gates - who said in 2001 that he thought tablet computers would be the predominant form of computers sold "within five years" (but saw that prediction fail), was lukewarm at best."You know, I'm a big believer in touch and digital reading, but I still think that some mixture of voice, the pen and a real keyboard - in other words a netbook - will be the mainstream on that," he told Schlender.Gates has long been a proponent of voice recognition technology for computers: in 1998 he tried to demonstrate a voice-drive system at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Seattle, and forecast that by 2011 computers would be able to recognise their owners' faces and voices.But the iPad, which is a completely touch-driven system, using fingers rather than an easily-misplaced stylus for its control - just like the iPhone - does not impress him in the same way."So, it's not like I sit there and feel the same way I did with iPhone where I say, 'Oh my God, Microsoft didn't aim high enough.' It's a nice reader, but there's nothing on the iPad I look at and say, 'Oh, I wish Microsoft had done it.'"Gates's admission that he looked at the iPhone, unveiled three years ago in January 2007 and which went on sale in June that year, and thought that "Microsoft didn't aim high enough" is a startling revelation from the man who drove the company to focus on mobile.The iPhone has leapfrogged Windows Mobile in share of the smartphone market since its launch; Microsoft has not released figures for the number of licences sold for the past financial year, but it has seen high-profile defections by companies such as HTC to Google's Android mobile operating system.The iPad has garnered great excitement from publishers and TV companies which see the possibility of selling more content through online stores akin to the iTunes Music Store and App Store.However Cambridge City Council hasdeniedreports that it was planning to buy a number of iPads for its councillors in order to save paper. It called the reports in the local and national press incorrect, and implied that it is instead looking at Windows-based tablets.
Videogames are like relationships. Some last forever, providing an endless perfect balance of joy, challenge and satisfaction. Others, we enjoy furtively, afraid of what our friends might think, knowing they're all wrong. And there are those we go into for a quick mess about, certain nothing serious will emerge and feeling happy about that.But others, we look back on and think 'dear sweet Jesus, what was I thinking?' You know what I mean, right? Those games we once played obsessively, that we eulogised about to our peers, that we sacrificed sleep and nights out and love affairs to. And then maybe weeks or months or years later we look back and wonder what on earth we were doing.Unfortunately, as a games reviewer, my mistakes are recorded for all to see in various magazines and newspapers. Many of them are now mercifully defunct so my lapses in taste are lost forever. However, I'm not sure I'll ever reconcile myself to the fact that I gave Pilot Wings 64 nine out of ten in Edge...Anyway, what are the games you are most ashamed of championing in your shadowy past - what is your interactive entertainment equivalent of discovering a Travis CD in your collection?
Friday is here. Fabulous news obviously, but it does mean yet more wallet-opening temptation in probably the most expensive six weeks of gaming releases I can remember.  This week's biggie isBioshock 2. I haven't played it yet but I've heard mainly positive impressions from those that have. There is a vague consensus that it lacks the originality of the first game though. Any comments from those of you who have already played?Other new releases today include Karaoke Revolution from Konami and Sega's Phantasy Star Zero on DS.  I'm looking forward to the latter – and not just because I'm planning to review it. Phantasy Star is one of those rare gaming "brands" that has massive nostalgia value to me,  although unlike Zelda, Mario and co this is based on a release in the 21st Century – Phantasy Star Online. If Zero gets close to a handheld version of that Dreamcast classic then all will be good. US reviews aremixedthough...Anyway, planning to get a new game this weekend? If so which one?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
