Anyone interested in cutting-edge character animation, the future of CGI and/or bizarre interactive art exhibitions should make their way to theBFI Southbanknext weekend. Running from November 14-16, the OneDotZeroAdventures in Motionevent offers a packed programme of digital eye-candy.Of particular interest to Gamesblog readers should be the compilation programmes, which feature grab-bags of short digital and animated movies. I'd recommendWow &amp; Flutter 08for character animation andTerrain 08, for loads of amazing imagined environments and cityscapes.Extended Play 08will also feature the animated sections from Heavenly Sword.There's a YouTube previewhere. I still can't work out how to embed things on this new system!
Okay, here's another mobile game review. I know, I know, not everyone cares, but there have been some interesting releases recently and this game's perfect if you're looking for a compelling, instantly accessible time-waster…But then, surely you know Peggle. As a member of Popcap's, quartet of blockbusting, genre-defining casual titles (alongside Bejeweled, Bookworm and Zuma), Brian Rothstein's classic has quietly extended its reach onto a myriad of platforms, from PC and Mac to iPod and, later this year, Nintendo DS. Last year, it was in at number 40 on PC Gamer's '100 most addictive games of all time' list. It should have been higher. It is also just about the perfect mobile game, requiring the player to simply aim and press 'shoot' – even the trickiest of keypads will have a job making that difficult.So what is Peggle? Well, it's sort of Breakout meets pinball, via Puzzle Bobble and pachinko. Your ball begins at the top of the screen, lurking above an array of metal pins – you need to clear all the orange ones to access the next level. So, you aim and shoot, your ball bounces around, then eventually pops out at the bottom – if you're lucky, it'll go in the ball bucket and you get to use the same ball again; if you're not, you start again with a new ball from your limited collection. From time to time it's possible to hit purple pegs for extra points and green pegs to activate a range of power-ups. And that's it.There's something almost Zen-like about this game's seeming randomness. You have so little control over the action, all you can do is watch and hope – it should be the antithesis of a good game, but then, if you've ever visited a Tokyo pachinko arcade you'll know how ruinously addictive the incalculable physical collisions of a steel ball can be. And there is skill involved – using the edges of the screen as a rebounding platform, being the most obvious tactic. There are lots more, though, prompting Popcap to produce its ownstrategy guide.The mobile translation is just about perfect, with neat visuals, an uncluttered menu system and a reliable conversion of the all-important physics model that ensures you're able to accurately aim those vital rebound shots. Game modes include the turn-based Duel for two-player fun, alongside the full Adventure option and Quick Play, for speedy stabs of Peggle action. If you're looking for an alternative to Tetris on your phone, well, this is probably it.Published by Popcap. Available now.
In the past few years they have become synonymous with thesocial networking phenomenon– rivals fighting each other for millions of users. Yesterday internet giantsFacebookandMySpacewent head to head again, as they outlined audacious plans for the future.Speaking in San Francisco, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg said he would continue plan to expand aggressively around the world – while the head of MySpace suggested the company might bring out its own music player to rival the iPod.The comments came at the Web 2.0 Summit, an annual gathering of some of the world's top technologists and investors.MySpace chief executive Chris DeWolfe said that he was focused on beating the economic downturn, initially through expanding its advertising programme and also through the new MySpace Music site, which lets surfers buy and download tracks online.But he also intimated that the social network could have an even bigger target in its sights – Apple, the company behind the massively successful iPod. Asked whether the company would consider making its own MP3 player to build on its reputation in online music, DeWolfe replied cryptically that "it's possible".Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, meanwhile, said that he was not as interested in raking in profits as his competitors – but would instead concentrate on continuing to expand the website."Growth is our top priority," he said. "The challenge that we have is to bring people along the whole path, first bring people along to Facebook, and make people comfortable with sharing information online.""We got people through this really big hurdle of wanting to put up their full name, picture – their mobile phone number in many cases."Over the past year the two websites have been jostling for top spot. Facebook has already seen remarkable growth in the last 12 months, growing from 50 million users at the start of 2008 to around 125 million today, to make it the world's biggest active social network.However, beyond potentially ground-breaking developments such as taking on Apple, DeWolfe told the Guardian he thinks the future of social networking will look much the same as it does today."I think the starting-off point is always going to be your home page on the internet," he said. "On that page you'll have everything you're passionate about … and you'll bounce off to whatever you're interested in – the weather, sports scores, news headlines – whatever it is."Not everyone agrees, however. In his talk Zuckerberg hinted that bringing Facebook to mobile phones could be a crucial next step for the company – and he is not alone.The chance to make social networking truly mobile, taking advantage of increasingly popular phone technology such as built-in satellite location, is being touted by some as the next big thing.Technology industry analysts ABI Research recently predicted that social networking via mobile phones could be used by as many as 82 million people within five years – allowing them to see where their online friends have been in the real world, including restaurants, bars and shops.That could be a conservative estimate, according to Tom Coates, who runs a location project called Fire Eagle at internet giant Yahoo. The system, which aims to make it easier for website owners to build location-sensitive programs, is hotly tipped – and Coates said mobile networking might prove a perfect way for existing social websites to reach millions of new users."A separate social network on your phone has never made sense to me," he said. "If you've gone to the trouble of setting up and maintaining a way of keeping up with you friends online – whether on Yahoo or Facebook – it makes sense that you'd want that network to be portable and available on your phone.""The same thing is true for location – you can get your location on the phone and take it back to the rest of the web."
For some people – ok, me - the late '90s were a gaming golden age. You know,Ocarina of Time, Metal Gear Solid, Goldeneye, Mario 64, Half Life. Classic games all, particularly Ocarina, but one game that fails to make these kinds of lists isBanjo Kazooie. Ok, clearly Banjo didn't reach the rarefied heights of say Super Mario 64 – its most obvious influence – but BK was a top tier platformer that looked and played a treat.  And it still does. Ok, the looks have faded but a recent go with the Live Arcade version proved the game was as entertaining as ever.  But what about Nuts and Bolts, the new Banjo Kazooie game?Due out next week on Xbox 360 the game is still recognisably Banjo – think hub and brightly coloured worlds to explore - but this time the platforming elements have been replaced by driving, with numerous contraptations ready to be constructed. Sacrilege? Possibly. Personally I would have been happy enough with Banjo HD, although that's assuming they didn't go allJak and Daxteron us. You know, turn a fantastic platform adventure – and Jak and Daxter was one of the best ever - all "grown-up" in the sequel. Jak II was a gaming mess with an art design that sucked all the lovable charm from the original concept.  But what I've played so far of Nuts and Bolts suggests fans will enjoy, even if I can't see it replacing Gears 2, Fable 2 and Fallout 3 at the top of the 360 sales charts.But why the move away from the platform gameplay? I've decided to ask Rare themselves. I'm speaking to them early next week so if you want to know anything about Banjo or Rare stick your question in the comments and I'll press them for an answer.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
The TechCrunch headline saysYahoo: Poor, Alone and Sadand the text ends with "Yang must go." Jim Goldman echoes that at CNBC inYahoo's Yang Needs to Go, saying: "Jerry Yang has made a mockery of the vaunted company he helped create." Om Malik's headline at GigaOM is:Yahoo's Yang Has No Regrets — He Should, and he says Yang has "chosen to reign over what has become a listless battleship without ammunition. Yang is a conscientious person, but he might be deluding himself." AtCNet, Dan Farber observed: "Yang's job is to sell that vision inside and especially outside of Yahoo. The problem is Yang can't sell." The Industry Standard observed:Investors, observers lose confidence in Jerry Yang.This is what's called "a bad press".All Jerry Yang did was answer questions on stage at theWeb 2.0 Summitin San Francisco.Was he really that bad? Watch the 42-minute videohere.Yang's general message appeared to be that he had never really been against the Microsoft takeover (really???), they'd tried hard to sell Ballmer the company, but would Microsoft please come back and buy Yahoo now.Still, I guess it's hard to argue that Yahoo was worth a lot more than Microsoft was willing to pay now that it's actually worth a lot less…..
The chief executive of Yahoo, Jerry Yang, said he felt let down by Google's decision to pull out of an advertising agreement between the two internet rivals.The $800m (&pound;500m) deal, which would have enabled Google to sell advertising on some parts of Yahoo's search engine listings, had been subject to a formal investigation by the US department of justice over potential monopoly concerns. Google decided on Wednesday that it would pull the plug on the agreement."It was disappointing to us that they didn't want to defend this deal," said Yang, speaking at the Web 2.0 summit in San Francisco. "We were going through a process with the department of justice to get them to understand how this was a good deal."Yang insisted that the deal - if it had gone through - would have allowed both companies to benefit from exploiting each other's weaknesses, rather than increase Google's dominance in the search engine market. "It's incredibly important to participate and compete for the search marketplace ... in fact, we are doing better in search today than when this whole thing started," he said. "I really thought that the government, in this case, does not understand our industry and has a market definition that is too narrow."Google had announced its surprise decision by saying that it did not want to take part in a drawn-out fight."Pressing ahead risked not only a protracted legal battle but also damage to relationships with valued partners," said Google's chief legal officer, David Drummond, in a statement.The pact had been seen as a tactic to ward off Microsoft's $44bn attempt to buy Yahoo, which ended in acrimony after the two companies failed to come to an agreement. But Yang rejected that interpretation, saying there was no "poison pill approach" taken by Yahoo executives.
How I tried to loveGrim Fandango, the gorgeous but oh-so-tricky point and click adventure released – gulp – ten years ago.  The art design was fantastic and I always loved the genre. But for me Grim Fandango never matched the heights of Monkey Island or Beneath a Steel Sky - although it obviously looked 5000 times better – mainly because the puzzles were so obtuse.The controls were iffy at times too but it was mainly the often obscure puzzles that caused the real mouse-throwing frustration.  And guess what? It could have been worse. Designer Tim Shafer hasreleased the 1996 puzzle documentfor the game and finally admits the game was just a teensy bit tough:People said the puzzles in Grim were super hard, and I've always maintained that this was due to a deep character flaw or mental illness on the part of the player. But now, reading this again, I've realized that holy smokes--Some of them puzzles were nuts. Obscure. Mean, even.The doc is well worth checking out. Grim Fandango then, anyone here finish it?
While at GameCity last week I managed to grab a quick chat with Geometry Wars creator, Stephen Cakebread, and Bizarre Creations games manager, Craig Howard, about the origins and future of the shoot-'em-up series.How did the game studio behind driving titles like Metropolis Street Racer and Project Gotham actually find itself making a vector-style shooter? Here's how...So can you remind us how Geometry Wars came about?SC:When we started working with the Xbox prototype hardware there were some issues with the analogue sticks on the controllers – this was only on the prototype, but we were still developing on it so we had to work around it. We wrote a test app to help with the solution then inputted it into Project Gotham Racing. Then we got to the end of Gotham and went into bug lockdown mode, where no-one can make any changes unless it's to fix a bug, and towards the end of that basically, no-one was doing anything except playing the game – we were just waiting for feedback from Microsoft.At that point I'd been playing the game for a year so I was a bit bored. So I took the test app I'd written and just started playing around with it, and I kind of turned it into a game – and because it was an analogue stick test at the start, it sort of stayed an analogue stick game. That's where the dual stick aspect of it came from. And over the next year, I would just work on it for five minutes here, five minutes there, during my lunch break, and I just added to it…Several possible influences have been mentioned elsewhere, but did you have any specific games in mind while you were working on it?SC:I was writing shooters in college – and before that. I wouldn't say I was particularly obsessed by them; I don't even play many of them. It's just that this is a really quick genre of game to make.Were you surprised by the phenomenon it's become on Live?SC:Very surprised. It was initially written for us, for me and a couple of other people at Bizarre, before it was put in PGR2 as an Easter egg. And when we did include it, we said, okay, let's make it less hardcore and more accessible to everyone else. And we got feedback from that version, so when we started the Arcade version we thought, let's make it easier still, make it more casually orientated. But yes, it completely outstripped our expectations in terms of popularity.Why don't more developers encourage this sort of thing – small projects, undertaken in periods of downtime?CH:I think at most games companies there are people writing games on the side, because most people who end up in the industry love videogames and have always been involved in making them in some way. So it does happen in most companies, but definitely one of the good things within Bizarre is that the culture is one of support. And there was some luck involved – we worked closely with Microsoft and the initial version that came out was very popular with key people within Microsoft. That helped the game gain a lot of traction. So we were quite lucky that the momentum gained behind it really. Other companies might have that, but the commercial reality is, staff get pulled away left, right and centre to work on other projects.SC:To be honest, probably the only reason we got the time was that we'd just started work full-time on The Club. At that point, we combined two teams, and the team I was originally working with was kind of a concept team so it was quite small, and we were all lead people. When we merged with the other team, there were too many leads, so I was moving around, dropping between things, trying to find something to work on. And it just so happened that at that point Microsoft came to us and asked if we wanted to work on a Live Arcade game. And because I was in limbo at that moment, it made sense for me to move on to it. So it just happened at the right moment. If things had worked out differently and I'd been leading The Club, I could have been absolutely snowed under – it might never have happened.So back at the beginning of Xbox Live Arcade, there was Geometry Wars and Mutant Storm – do you think your titles somehow created the demand for retro-style shooters, or do you think it was there to begin with?SC:I don't know. I'd like to think it was our games! What I think is, there just weren't any dual stick shooters out at that point. I think it was rare enough for people to think it was new. It's not new, it's been done hundreds of times before, but it was gone from peoples' minds. It probably would have happened anyway – it just needed a good two-stick shooter to come out. We just happened to be there at the right moment to really capitalise on something that was missing from the market.CH:A lot of people who still buy games are of the age group that remembers playing arcade games and have an affection for them. That avenue was dead to all but the most hardcore, buying import 2D shooters. Xbox Live Arcade opened that avenue back up to people. I mean, now I'm a busy family man so I can't sit and play a 25-hour epic, but I can sit down with Geometry Wars and try to beat the highscore. That's ultimately why I used to play games when I was six or seven, and that's another reason why we're seeing a renaissance of this style of game.A lot of people seem to assume that only hardcore gamers are downloading 2D shooters on Live, but isn't it also – as you say - a nostalgic thing? And it's a quick gaming fix in the same way as casual PC titles like Bejeweled are…CH:It's definitely a combination. I mean, real hardcore shooters are very niche. You look at the sales of Ikaruga on Dreamcast – I think it sold something like ten or twenty thousand. And even when it was released on Arcade, it was quite niche. I love Ikaruga, but there are other elements to Geometry wars – the twin-sticks, the visuals – it's not just the hardcore, there are also people who just want quick fix gaming.Was the game a financial success for Bizarre Creations?CH:Hmmmm. It sold quite well and it was a small investment. But what people have got to understand is, it doesn't mean that every indie game is going to pay for itself. It's still a product and you're writing it for other people, not just yourself – if you want to make a living out of it.And so how did the idea of a sequel come about?SC:It was very much the case that we'd done Geometry Wars Evolved, we didn't expect it to do well, it DID do well, and so Microsoft and all the marketing people were saying, when's the next one?! So there was definitely a pressure from that side to get one out as soon as possible.Did it feel different working on the game, considering the gradual evolution of the first title? Did it feel more like a regular job?SC:It did actually! This time round I had to think about it more seriously. And before, I'd had loads of ideas over many years and it was a case of, oooh, just implement them all! This time round it was a case of, oh, I implemented all the ideas I wanted in the last one…The difficult second album…SC:Exactly!CH:That's what we always said! It had to have the feel of the original but it had to move on.SC:We needed people to be able to look at the screenshots and say that's Geometry Wars, but also to be able to say specifically, that's Geometry Wars 2… Because it's such a simple visual style, it took us quite a long time to nail that aspect of it.So where did the visual style come from?SC:At the start there was no inspiration. I can't draw – at all. I'm rubbish at art, I didn't have any artists working with me on it so… it's easy to draw squares. There was no grand vision. But obviously as we progressed that changed. When we did the PGR version, we did talk about developing the visual style, but I was like, I have a week to put it into the game! And then it sort of set the style. And fortunately, by a fluke, we made the right choice because there was an interest in old skool games – vector graphics, arcade machines, all that sort of stuff. And because we brought that forward by taking a modern approach, it felt fresh again.CH:Another thing is, vector graphics looked great on the host machines, when they were proper vector units, but at home – apart from the Vectrex – there was nothing like that. And at the time, machines were essentially low-res anyway, so it was essentially a bad art style choice - it would just look rubbish [He's clearly not played Mercenary – Keef], so you went for sprites.We're doing things in, well, 640x480 which is quite hi-res for a standard def TV, but now obviously with 1080p, you can really go back to that idea of incredibly sharp lines. It's kind of weird that modern technology is only now able to make quite accurate representations of the stuff they were doing in 1980… And that's why it still looks fresh, because you never dabbled with that on the low-res consoles.So are you working on another one?SC:I definitely think there will be another one at some point, but we're not working on it right now… It might be us doing it or an external studio, I don't know. So yes, you'll see more of Geometry Wars but whether it'll be a Retro Evolved Geometry Wars in the arcade style I don't know.CH:It'll be an MMO won't it?SC:We'll converge it with World of Warcraft!CH:We're playing with ideas, and if one comes up that looks like the direction we want to go, that's where we'll take it.Do you see a future in which pretty much all games are bought as downloadable content?CH:I'm pretty internet savvy and I don't mind buying things over download, but I'm still a long way away from being happy to spend £40 on something I don't physically own, where the DRM or security server could go down and I can't play my game. I think in the long-term future, people may accept that, maybe I'm just of an age where I need to see something for my hard-earned money!SC:I've bought quite a lot of DRM music online and I'm quite worried – you hear about DRM servers being shut down, and I might be in a situation where all my music is locked to my old laptop. I'd hate to be in a situation where nobody can play Geometry Wars anymore, because Microsoft turn off their Xbox Live servers… Although Microsoft are not going to disappear over night! But you look at Steam – obviously Valve are big, but they're not the same level of big as Microsoft. It's when the really big players get behind it that you can feel a little bit more secure about buying.CH:I think episodic gaming might be the only way you can get people to swallow buying a full-price game, as it'll be over several purchases.SC:I was really excited when Half-Life 2 went episodic! I got through five hours of Episode 1 and I was like, ooooh, I can't wait for Episode 2 – and it took a year! I was expecting it in the next couple of months! I think if a developer could crack that, make a game, get three or four hours out initially, and then another three hours out every three months, I think it'll work.What do you see as the future of Xbox Live, PSN and WiiWare games?CH:I don't know. My only concern is we don't start getting budget versions of triple A retail games, I think that will kill it. To me, downloadable games should be designed as an alternative to the mainstream, that's what will keep it healthy. The most successful independent music labels are the ones that stay true to what they do, they find a market and they stay there. You know, if someone's going to buy a first-person shooter, will they buy a budget download for $8 of will they buy a pre-owned copy of Call of Duty 4? They'll buy Call of Duty 4.With games like Castle Crashers and Braid coming out of the indie sector and onto major consoles, do you see services like Xbox Live as being really good for independent developers?SC:Yeah, I mean when someone like Jonathan Blow can bankroll their own game… it's that thing: it's cheaper so therefore smaller studios and individuals will be able to do it. Whether it'll stay cheap is another matter. If games are successful, you'll get bigger publishers saying, yeah, I'll put some money into that. Then the amount of time it'll take a single coder to produce a game of similar quality will go straight through the roof. I think the maturation that took a decade to happen in the mainstream industry is going to happen in two or three years with downloadable games…
Intel's Classmate PC reference design helped get the netbook market going, andClassmate 2introduces a touch screen and convertible Tablet PC-style design. The bad news is that people are apparently calling it a "netvertible". The worse news is that it runs Windows XP Home, which doesn't have Microsoft's Tablet PC support.Laptop magazinehas looked at the first implementation from CTL and says:The 8.9-inch system packs a 1.6GHz Atom 270 processor, 1GB of RAM, 60GB HDD and 802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi. The final version will also come with a 6-cell battery (our test unit has a 4-cell). According to CTL, pricing is still being worked out. The hardware without an OS will cost $499. The Ubuntu Linux version will retail for that price, but we assume the Windows XP Home version will be about $50 more.Intel has also provided a launcher screen to make it easier for kids to run applications using their fingers. It's shown in Laptop's video.Asus is also developing a touch-screen version of its Eee PC, and we may end up with a choice of several.However, such systems would make much more sense if they had a version of XP or Vista that included the Tablet PC Edition's features, and ideally the superb OneNote software from Microsoft Office. Unfortunately, XP Home is the only OS that Microsoft offers for around $20-$25 under its ULCPC (Ultra Low Cost Personal Computer) deal. Maybe someone should phone Bill Gates, who has been the Tablet PC's biggest fan.
I take no great pleasure in being proved right (well, OK, a bit of pleasure). It did occur to me that it would be a mistake for the Financial Services Compensation Scheme to email, rather than write to, accounts holders at IceSave to give details about recovery of their money.Because,as I write in today's paper, what are those emails going to look like? To a spam filter, they'll look something like this:"Kindest Sir, I have in my possession £4 billion that was seized as terrorist monies in an account in your name ready for transmission to you if you will kindly remit your details, I am grateful your reply."Yup. Your standard419 scam.And now I've had confirmation. An email cc'd to me this morning from a (former?) IceSave account holder, and sent to pretty much anyone in the  FSCS (and for good measure the Treasury) points out the following:The email you sent to me at 19:41 hours yesterday 4th November (see below) was classed as spam by Postini (a subsidiary of Google) who provide a spam email filtering service for my email service provider (Plusnet). I find the Postini spam email filtering service to normally be very accurate and it is now very rare for legitimate emails to me to ever be classed as spam by that service, even though the odd spam email does still reach my inbox due to the endless variety of ingenious methods used by spammers to try to circulate spam filtering.In order for your email to have been classed as spam it was clearly sent incompetently by a mailing organisation perhaps more frequently associated with unwanted bulk spam marketing communications than with legitimate email. Can you explain who you engaged to send out these emails for you and how they have managed to send the email in such a way as to cause Postini to classify it as Spam?Lastly on this point can you explain why you did not send an important communication of this kind that it is essential depositors should receive by post when Icesave does have my postal address and indeed has communicated with me by post on a number of occasions during my previous time as an account holder.I find bureaucratic government organisations like Ofcom and the FSA normally have an overwhelming penchant for always responding to communications by email from the public by post because they seem to feel it is more official to do so but here we have an absolutely vital communication for investors being sent out by the careless and insecure method of email purely I assume because it was cheaper for the FSCS to do things this way.As I noted in my piece,that's the problem that phishing and 419 scammers pose for our financial institutions: while the latter thought they were covering themselves in glory by cooking up fabulous financial instruments (such as a mortgage-bundling bond that paid only about 2% above ultra-safe US Treasury bonds, butwould go fabulously sour(NY Times: registration required to see article) if only 6% of the mortgages went sour - pretty much a given in the US in 2006, the 419ers and scammers got on with conquering our email inboxes.They've done this so successfully that I now assume any email purporting to come from a financial institution that makes it past my spam filters is, even so, junk.Anyone else seen their FSCS email consigned to the spam filters?And of course you know what the next stage will be: phishing emails purporting to come from the FSCS which will direct you to "a different site" where you'll be encouraged to enter all your IceSave details and confirm your postal address.Do not do that.The only thing worse than losing your money to the cupdity of bankers would be to lose it to the greed of phishers.I've asked the FSCS to tell us how many emails it has sent out, and by what method. I'm also trying to get hold of the original email to see the headers; if you've received one, let us know.(Upated: changed from FSA to FSCS, which is actually in charge of this. The FSCS says about 200,000 emails are being sent out.)
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Icelandic export on hard timesThis is Bjork - yes, the singer - explaining how a cathode-ray tube TV works. You wonder why? Perhaps all her investments were in an Icelandic bank, and she has to work in a repair shop now.Sorry, what Apple Dock?From Microsoft's Professional Developer Conference (PDC) last week, showing the (as yet unreleased) Windows 7's Task Bar. Does it look just a bit like Apple's Dock? The speaker admits that yes, they did copy "another operating system - Windows." Ta-daa!Door keys? No, I use a wireTaking DIY to fabulous new heights is this servo-driven keyless lock: you tap a wire in a rhythm to get in. Yes, supremely geeky.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
MySpace Music, the collaboration between Rupert Murdoch's social network for emo kids and the record labels, is still on the hunt for a CEO. Thelatest buzzis that it's MTV's head of digital music Courtney Holt. I caught up with chief executive Chris DeWolfe today, and while he wouldn't confirm the news he did say that they hoped to announce the appointment of a boss "within a week" (as early as Thursday, perhaps?). It might be a politically expedient time todelete that Facebook profile, Courtney.
Yahoo chief executive Jerry Yang says he felt let down by Google's decision to pull out of a controversial advertising agreement between the two internet rivals.The $800m deal – which would have enabled Google to sell advertising on some parts of Yahoo's search engine listings - had been subject to aformal investigation by the US Department of Justiceover potential antitrust concerns.However, despite recently renegotiating some of the terms to allay fears, Googledecided on Wednesdaythat it would pull the plug on the agreement."We were disappointed," said Yang, speaking at the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco. "It was disappointing to us that they didn't want to defend this deal.""We were going through a process with the Department of Justice to get them to understand how this was a good deal [and] Google clearly felt they didn't want to stay in."Yang insisted that the deal – if it had gone through – would have allowed both companies to benefit from exploiting each other's weaknesses, rather than further increase Google's dominance in the search engine market. He also added that he believed the US government's interpretation was inaccurate and damaging."It's incredibly important to participate and compete for the search marketplace… in fact, we are doing better in search today than when this whole thing started," he said. "I really thought that the government, in this case, does not understand our industry and has a market definition that is too narrow."Google had announced its surprise decision by saying that it did not want to take part in a drawn-out and complicated fight."After four months of review, including discussions of various possible changes to the agreement, it's clear that government regulators and some advertisers continue to have concerns about the agreement," said Google's chief legal officer David Drummondin a statement. "Pressing ahead risked not only a protracted legal battle but also damage to relationships with valued partners."The pact had been widely seen as an attempt to ward off Microsoft's$44bn attempt to buy Yahoo, which ended in acrimony after the two companies failed to come to an agreement.But Yang rejected that characterisation of the deal, saying there was no "poison pill approach" taken by Yahoo executives. Instead, he accused Microsoft of going cold on the deal at a crucial point in the negotiations."Everybody's replayed that in their minds – I'm no exception," he said. "To this day I'd say that the best thing for Microsoft to do is to buy Yahoo… at the right price. They walked away from a public offer. We were ready to negotiate, and we felt that we weren't that far apart.""I don't know what else we could have done," he added.Yang – who started the company in 1995 with his co-founder David Filo – has come under a series of attacks since taking over the helm after the departure of former CEO Terry Semel in 2007.The criticism became increasingly extreme after Microsoft tabled its bid in February, resulting in an attempted boardroom coup by dissident investor Carl Icahn, and a number of vocal attacks from smaller shareholders.But talking to an audience of internet entrepreneurs and investors, Yang said the collapse of takeover talks was "not personal" and that he harboured no ill will towards Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer."People who know me will know that I don't have an ego about remaining independent," he said. "I have a lot of respect for Steve and we'd had a lot of good conversations. From my perspective, it's not personal."
I need to stay connected, so I signed up for a USB-based broadband deal with 3. The salesperson told me 3 covered "99% of the UK", so I figured I could get online pretty much everywhere. But when I was in Wales for eight days, there was simply no signal from Hay-on-Wye to the Lleyn Peninsula.Irfan Husain3's website says it has "an expanding 3G service area already covering 91% of the UK population, backed up by a voice and text network covering 99.5% of the UK population". This is the sort of description that phone companies use.Of course, 3's ownCoverage Checkershows that its HSDPA (broadband) and 3G service comes nowhere near covering 90% of the UK's land mass. Wales, Cornwall and anywhere north of Yorkshire have very little HSDPA coverage beyond the main towns and cities. Even in places such as Surrey and Sussex, coverage is patchy. This is something you should really have checked in advance.Dial 333 and ask for your contract to be cancelled on the grounds of mis-selling. If 3 does not resolve the problem, you can take it further by using an ADR (alternate dispute resolution) scheme. In 3's case, this is the Ofcom-approvedOteloon 0845 050 1614. (Many ISP's use Cisas, the Communications &amp; internet Services Adjudication Scheme: seehttp://www.cisas.org.uk/Members.aspfor a list.) Ideally, you should have full details of the deal, such as the name of the salesperson, the date and time of the purchase, what you were told, and the nature of your complaint. You may also get help and advice from your localTrading Standardsoffice.
I'm thinking of buying a netbook as a second machine for net access and mobile broadband. Should I get one with XP or can I run Linux and not worry about what's "under the bonnet"?D CameronLinux-based netbooks have friendly front ends that make it simple to run the software provided, and they're fine as long as they do what you want. The only way to find out is to try one -- or try several, because they all come with different versions of Linux that work in different ways. If you find you need to change the base software or add new programs, it can be a considerable challenge, because you'll have to learn Linux from scratch (including the DOS-like command line). Basically, if you can do what you want with the built-in software or by using online applications, then you could certainly try Linux. However, if you want to use familiar Windows applications (including iTunes) and your existing skills, then you should stick with XP.Since you plan to use mobile broadband, you must obviously check that your ISP's USB dongle actually works with Linux. If you want a netbook that takes an embedded Sim card instead, the options include the Advent 4213 and Dell Inspiron Mini 9, but both of those run Windows XP. I haven't actually noticed a Linux netbook with a built-in Sim, but I'd expect them to appear.
My four-year-old PowerBook G4 is putting itself into sleep mode and refusing to wake up. It gives a very unfriendly beep and a black screen when it is turned on. Taking out and replacing the memory will eventually bring it to life.Veronica PiekoszFor a first attempt, try resetting the Mac'sPRAM and NVRAMand itspower management unit(PMU). If that doesn't work, I'd suspect a hardware fault, though that might be as simple as a flat battery. Some early models of the PowerBook G4 had a reed switch that tended to fail, and another common problem was memory slot failures. Apple extended the warranty for machines with memory slot failures, but in the US, there's a lawsuit over machines with serial numbersoutside the extended warranty schemethat failed anyway.However, the G4 has an old PowerPC chip, and is obsolete because Apple has long since moved to Intel chips. Whether it's worth repairing depends on how much that costs, and whether you are able to splash out on a new one. The cheapest new MacBook with 2GB of memory and a 120GB hard drive is £769* direct from Apple UK, post free; but it only has a 13.3 inch screen, not the G4's 15-inch screen. The cheapest model with a 15.4 inch screen is a MacBook Pro at £1,399.* £719 with only 1GB of memory. The published version has a small editing mistake.Backchat 1: Veronica has now taken it to an independent repairer, and she says: ""It looks very much like I've got this memory slot problem, which requires a new -- expensive -- logic board to fix. I bought the machine in 2005, but the extended warranty expired in July this year. Apple have washed their hands of it, despite me arguing that they sold me a machine with a known problem, ie not of merchantable quality."Backchat 2:  In my answer, I mentioned that in the US, Apple had extended the warranty for models with a known memory slot fault. Veronica found out that her machine's serial number was in the range affected, and her Trading Standards office said she seemed to have a good case to take to the small claims court. She says: "I called Apple again, and this time they agreed to pay for the new logic board (£600!) needed to fix the problem."
Bond fans have had slim game pickings since the seminal GoldenEye was released on the N64 in 1997, but Quantum of Solace is a step back towards respectability. Like the film this is a full-on action hit, with few breaks in play. The game does throw in some stealth sections and there is some basic puzzling but essentially this is big guns, smart suits and lots of killing. And brainlessly entertaining it is, too. Call of Duty 4 and Gears of War are obvious inspirations - the former's general gameplay is pilfered here, while the latter's cover mechanic is well used - and anyone expecting originality should look elsewhere. Brevity is an issue too, with even the most ham-fisted aficionado likely to complete the game in a few hours. Multiplayer will help here though, with all the standard competitive options available. The graphics are solid, though occasionally uninspiring and are basically good enough. Much like the game itself, really.
Red Alert has always taken a cheesier spin on the C&amp;C franchise and, with Tim Curry and George "Sulu" Takei now in the cast, you can guess how camp the alternative-timeline plot has become. You play as the Soviets, Allies or Empire with levels ideally designed for two players in tandem across the three plot-heavy campaigns. It's all a bit linear, with new units and technologies being unlocked one per level and objectives revealed in big, unsatisfying chunks. However, it's still a beautifully balanced and designed game, and although Red Alert takes the RTS genre nowhere new, it's a cracking journey nonetheless.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday November 11 2008Emails to UK customers of the collapsed bank Icesave, explaining how to claim back savings, have been sent by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, not the Financial Services Authority as we said in the article below. This has been corrected.Earlier this week, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme emailed people who had savings in the collapsed Icesave bank. I wondered two things: first, would the email begin, "Kindest Sir, I have in my possession &pound;4 billion that was seized as terrorist monies in an account in your name ready for transmission to you if you will kindly remit your details, I am grateful your reply". And secondly, since this email would presumably be identical, and go out to hundreds, even thousands, of people at the same time, how many spam filters would reckon that this was just a standard "Nigerian 419" advance-fee fraud, and consign it to oblivion?Even if it was written in something more closely approaching English (personally, I think there should be a new classification of "419 English" for those emails, which contain such neo-Shakespearean constructions as "I must confess my agitation is real, and my words is my bond, in this proposal") then there has to be a high chance that any spam filter would flag it as phishing. Especially if it has a URL in it, and even if that URL goes to the FSCS's website.That's the problem that phishing and 419 scammers pose for our financial institutions: while the latter thought they were covering themselves in glory by cooking up fabulous financial instruments (such as a mortgage-bundling bond that paid only about 2% above ultra-safe US Treasury bonds, but would go fabulously sour if only 6% of the mortgages went sour - pretty much a given in theUS in 2006, the 419ers and scammers got on with conquering our email inboxes.They've done this so successfully that I now assume any email purporting to come from a financial institution that makes it past my spam filters is, even so, junk. Thus I was very suspicious of the email saying "Welcome to online banking" from one bank where I had an account, even though I'd just signed up to do, yes, online banking.Equally interesting is that this doesn't apply to any of the other big always-online organisations that handle your money. EBay and PayPal always address you by your username, which no spammer will have access to; that's how you can tell phishing emails relating to those two from the real ones. (It's odd Amazon hasn't cottoned on to this key element of identity, yet phishing attacks involving Amazon are comparatively rare.)How did the financial services companies get into this mess, where the machines that run our online world don't trust their communications? Because they took too long to do it. While they built secure websites, the criminals worked on insecure emails.But actually, the banks were right to hold back. Email as presently constituted is insecure and so prone to spoofing that a 10-year-old can do it. If - and it's a huge if - we had had S/MIME or PGP implemented everywhere by default from the outset of the net's arrival in the wider world, then we'd be used to the idea of checking an email's encryption certificate against its signature - even getting it done automatically - and rejecting the fakes. Sadly, we didn't. Had Outlook Express used its inbuilt S/MIME functionality as a default, we wouldn't see so much online scamming (which is Microsoft's other giant failure on the web, the first being releasing insecure versions of Windows for online use that hackers could conquer).I wonder, though, if the FSCS is going to realise how many of its emails are probably sitting unnoticed, while people who lost huge sums fume at "government inaction". I must confess, my agitation is real.
It looks like it. A few eager hackers on the Doom9 forum have, over the past couple of months, developed their own Blu-ray software player, by analysing in minute detail the workings of real Blu-ray players.Rather than "crack"Blu-ray, the Doom9 group has tried to create a "virtual machine" (VM) that will play an encrypted movie in just the same way as any other Blu-ray player. Ideally, the Blu-ray disc (BD) shouldn't realise it's playing somewhere it shouldn't. (The code has sets of "traps" to detect this sort of thing.)The advantage is that if the movie studios change their protection scheme, the VM should still work. On the Doom9 forum, Schluppo speculates that they would have to "force a firmware update (including new player keys, public key, memory footprints or signatures) and then use the content code to 'revoke' (or rather interdict) the leaked player specific data in future".But the team could get round this by obtaining player-specific data for the new system.This isn't the first time BD+ has been cracked. Antigua-based SlySoft did it, and added an HD option to its widely available Windows program, AnyDVD. (bit.ly/blu-ray2). This removes AACS encryption, BD+ copy protection and region coding from BD movies.AnyDVD HD therefore lets you play HD movies without an HDCP-compliant graphics card or an HDCP monitor.Of course, not everyone wants to pay &euro;79 (&pound;64) for a closed-source Windows program. Part of the motivation for Doom9's hackers was to have open source code that would enable Blu-ray movies to be played on Linux PCs.But the bigger question is whether the crack is going to benefit Blu-ray or not. Linux users may finally be able to play BDs, but are they going to buy Blu-ray drives and commercial movies? Even if they do, will that make any difference to a market made up largely of PlayStation 3 games console owners? It doesn't seem likely.Or will we see widespread casual piracy of the sort that already exists with DVDs? Well, Blu-ray's appeal is that you get 1080p high-definition video and TrueHD or similar surround sound. This is what fills 25GB and 50GB discs. How many peer-to-peer users are going to download one 25GB Blu-ray movie rather than 12 or more DVD rips? Surely no one who has looked at P2P thinks this is a quality-driven market.It might spoil the idea of releasing some stunning new material exclusively on Blu-ray, to try to drive sales of players. Anything like that is going to get ripped, downsampled to fit on a DVD, circulated via P2P and pirated on a worldwide basis. But, let's be realistic, that was always going to happen anyway, wasn't it?
I am quite open about my relationship with the PlayStation 3. To date, the Sony console has done nothing for me. Until this week, the machine has sat under a substantial layer of dust and cat fur, discarded in favour of the superior games to both buy and download on the Nintendo Wii and the Xbox 360. I was even able to play SingStar, my traditional favourite party piece, on the PlayStation 2. But that all changed this week when the game I've been looking forward to more than anything in recent memory finally arrived.Little Big Planet is the brainchild of Guildford-based developers Media Molecule. It has been on the blocks for over two years now, experiencing technological setbacks and cultural hiccups that have delayed it unmercifully. However, now I've had my hands on it, I can wax lyrical and say that it is the most exciting, forward-thinking, well-balanced, casual- and hardcore-friendly console game project I've played. Tall praise indeed.It is a platform puzzler, taking inspiration from diverse products like Japanese cult game Katamari Damacy, the beautifully choreographed Abe's Odyssee and the ever-innovative Dreamcast's Chu Chu Rocket. So what makes this one so revolutionary? First, it was developed post-Facebook bubble, with a development team that paid attention to what was happening outside the world of gaming. As I've said before, the next revolution in interactive entertainment will come when games and web developers sit down and chat, coming up with new products that are as compelling as games but as accessible as the internet. That seems to be what's happened.While the Xbox 360 innovated in the social networking space with Live, this is the first major step towards community-driven and community-developed gaming by a mainstream publisher. It's "Game 3.0", as Phil Harrison glibly put it during the LBP announcement at E3 2006. In a nutshell, because it is a game plus a toolset that allows other people to create their own levels, plus a distribution platform with integrated social network and ratings systems, LBP has the potential to be the MySpace of indie games development. Enter new ideas, fewer gatekeepers and more grassroots product.Second, it is a new IP, which has a freshness that only indie games seem to have nowadays. Third - and I know this shouldn't be important - it looks stunning. Finally, and above all else, LBP has no pretensions.It's managed to inspire an archaeological dig through my console pile to extract my forgotten PS3. The next challenge is to act as an inspiration for products that build upon it, rather than inspire a new generation of copycats. Can it do it? I think it can.
Windows immobileIt amazes me to see the internet turn so quickly against Windows Mobile (Can Microsoft be a mobile hero? October 30). I do not believe the situation is as dire as everyone else believes, but I do feel it is important that Microsoft steps up their game and focus on usability for their next release. I don't see Microsoft letting Windows Mobile die anytime soon, but on this path-to-nowhere I can easily see Windows Mobile quickly becoming irrelevant.smartphonethoughts.comI like the iPhone and G1 and I feel they have both brought some much needed feature innovation to the smartphone world, but I'll stay with Windows Mobile and the Outlook integration. Keeping my data management simple is the key to my choice.forums.thoughtsmedia.comFallout 3: the falloutAs the games industry grows in economic clout and aesthetic sophistication, it'd be nice to think that newspapers would start to junk their laughable one-paragraph "reviews" in favour of, well, actual reviews. But, given this week's rapid cuts to the staff of several notable newspapers and magazines in the US, I suspect videogame critics had better get in line behind the editorial cartoonists, staff photojournalists, book critics, and all the others deemed to be expendable by the "we can just print more press releases" accountants.d-log.infoI'm in the officeThe pressure towards productivity ... hmmm some truth to that, but I think it's more than a question of environment (Read me first, October 30). Motivation, interest, meaning, habit. They all play a part.fieldus.comPicture thisCultural institutions generally prohibit photography in their premises on the stated grounds of copyright (Letters, October 30). While taking a picture per se does not engage such laws, the fear is of reproduction and consequent legal action. Of course, the cynical might conclude that this is designed to encourage purchase of the accompanying postcard/catalogue/tea towel. Other common reasons for a ban include disturbance to other visitors, crowd control and the depressingly inevitable catch-all "security".Chris Rogers,EdgwareSearch meEven more ridiculous is the meaningless adherence to regulations (Security services must show bottle, and decide on liquids, October 23). I had a water bottle - obtained airside and containing around 25ml - confiscated just because it wasn't in a plastic bag ... meanwhile the aircrew walked past with their full 150ml bottles in their hands, no bags! So not being in a bag increased the risk of it being dangerous ... right?!Mike Whittaker,StapletonThe old blackNaomi Alderman's point that web design had something to do with IceSave going bust (Post-crunch, ugly is the new black, October 14) is, at the very least, ignorant. Innovation, creativity, design and usability do not necessarily come at a premium - but once again the media gives the impression that businesses pay a fortune for something a four-year-old could have done with a crayon. Yes, there are terrible designs out there that cost a fortune; but at the same time, there are brilliant designs, brands and websites created on small budgets. Like any large organisation, banks and building societies have a duty to keep their image up to date and have the best websites they can within a manageable budget. Surely the public would be more likely to invest in banks that have spent the time working with design and development teams that actually know what they're doing?Tom Tribe,CardiffRead all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Not connectedI need to stay connected, so I signed up for a USB-based broadband deal with 3. The salesperson told me 3 covered "99% of the UK", so I figured I could get online pretty much everywhere. But when I was in Wales for eight days, there was simply no signal from Hay-on-Wye to the Lleyn Peninsula.Irfan HusainJS:3's website says it has "an expanding 3G service area already covering 91% of the UK population, backed up by a voice and text network covering 99.5% of the UK population". This is the sort of description that phone companies use. Of course, 3's own Coverage Checker (bit.ly/aj0055) shows that its HSDPA (broadband) and 3G service comes nowhere near covering 90% of the UK's land mass. Wales, Cornwall and anywhere north of Yorkshire have very little HSDPA coverage beyond the main towns and cities. Even in places such as Surrey and Sussex, coverage is patchy. This is something you should really have checked in advance. Dial 333 and ask for your contract to be cancelled on the grounds of mis-selling. If 3 does not resolve the problem, you can take it further by using an ADR (alternate dispute resolution) scheme. In 3's case, this is the Ofcom-approvedOteloon 0845 050 1614. (Many ISP's use Cisas, the Communications &amp; internet Services Adjudication Scheme: see bit.ly/aj0056 for a list.) Ideally, you should have full details of the deal, such as the name of the salesperson, the date and time of the purchase, what you were told, and the nature of your complaint. You may also get help and advice from your localTrading Standardsoffice.XP or Linux?I'm thinking of buying a netbook as a second machine for net access and mobile broadband. Should I get one with XP or can I run Linux and not worry about what's "under the bonnet"?D CameronJS:Linux-based netbooks have friendly front ends that make it simple to run the software provided, and they're fine as long as they do what you want. The only way to find out is to try one - or try several, because they all come with different versions of Linux that work in different ways. If you find you need to change the base software or add new programs, it can be a considerable challenge, because you'll have to learn Linux from scratch (including the DOS-like command line). Basically, if you can do what you want with the built-in software or by using online applications, then you could certainly try Linux. However, if you want to use familiar Windows applications (including iTunes) and your existing skills, then you should stick with XP. Since you plan to use mobile broadband, you must obviously check that your ISP's USB dongle actually works with Linux. If you want a netbook that takes an embedded Sim card instead, the options include the Advent 4213 and Dell Inspiron Mini 9, but both of those run Windows XP.PowerBook rescueMy four-year-old PowerBook G4 is putting itself into sleep mode and refusing to wake up. It gives a very unfriendly beep and a black screen when it is turned on. Taking out and replacing the memory will eventually bring it to life.Veronica PiekoszJS:For a first attempt, try resetting the Mac'sPRAM and NVRAMand itspower management unit. If that doesn't work, I'd suspect a hardware fault, though that might be as simple as a flat battery. Some early models of the PowerBook G4 had a reed switch that tended to fail, and another common problem was memory slot failures. Apple extended the warranty for machines with memory slot failures, but in the US, there's alawsuit over machineswith serial numbers outside the extended warranty scheme that failed anyway. However, the G4 has an old PowerPC chip, and is obsolete because Apple has long since moved to Intel chips. Whether it's worth repairing depends on how much that costs, and whether you are able to splash out on a new one. The cheapest new MacBook with 2GB of memory and a 120GB hard drive is &pound;719 direct from Apple UK, post free; but it only has a 13.3 inch screen, not the G4's 15-inch screen.Backchat&middot; Peter King wanted an external hard drive for his Mac. Five readers suggested LaCie, including Ken Ward and Susan Griffiths, while two suggested Iomega drives.
Where in the world does the average citizen spend just two hours a week online? An isolated backwater, perhaps? Or maybe netizen figures from a far-off land trapped in a time bubble of its own desiring? Well, close. This bastion of digital indifference is Italy, one of our closest neighbours, a super-rich G7 nation and homeland to the inventors of the telephone and radio.Some think this technophobia is a good thing, preserving the Italy of laid-back "click with friends and family, not a mouse" yore. Tourists for one find the low-tech lifestyle enchanting.Turning off the netOthers feel it has put the country at a huge disadvantage, flinging it far over the wrong side of the digital divide where Italy will, in economic terms at least, continue to languish as the ageing, increasingly impoverished sick man of Europe.And if moribund economies are measured by a lack of IT skills, high-speed connections and e-commerce, then Italy is very sick indeed.The median amount of time Italian internet users spend online has actually decreased between 2007 and 2008, according to one survey by tech trend specialists JupiterResearch.Interestingly, what that survey suggests is that although there is more internet connectivity than ever in Italy, residents are actually spurning the net.Could it be that Italians have better things to do? Face-to-face networking, old-fashioned chat and time to share news and gossip over a game of cards in the shade of a village piazza, perhaps - the same things that draw thousands weary of net-driven modern life to Italy every year?Information technology definitely presents a dilemma for many Italians, says Paolo Di Croce, the secretary ofSlow Food International, who advocates a little less rush in all our busy lives. He believes technology has its place but should not overshadow, for example, the emphasis placed on real-time relationships or physical communities."The personal element in Italian life is something that will not be exorcised. So we have to find the right balance. Just as with the Slow Food movement and its globalisation, the web and email have become our major tools. Without internet we are not possible, but we must use them wisely," he says. "If you can't survive without sending 50 mails a day, without becoming a slave to the BlackBerry - this goes against our philosophy."That Italy produced the Slow movement in the first place indicates that there was always going to be some resistance to demands for instant results, efficiency, 24/7 and convenience. And it's not as though Italy doesn't have form in its resistance to modern-day technology concerns and pressures: it spent the least of all the developed countries on fixing the millennium bug. In the event, no problems worth reporting were experienced.Seeing how the use of IT has often actually increased our workload and complicated daily life, some on the side of the more demanding, tech-reliant digital divide are eyeing enviously Italy's less digitised, less demanding work practices. Such practices may, in the long run, even be good for business.Just as financial globalisation allowed a few to hijack our banking systems, Italy claims its banks are now in better shape because their less tech-savvy institutions do things the old way."America and the UK used to say the Italian banks were backwards, but it turns out we now have the soundest banks in Europe," said Italy's finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, following the global financial crisis.Italy may suffer in other ways - creaking bureaucracy, protectionism, inefficiency and low growth - but shows less of the malaise that comes with overexposure to digital lifestyles or unregulated internet that the rest of the west is suffering.Meanwhile, as the internet savvy suffer info overload, Italy continues with older IT practices that many of the digital generation would find puzzling - Flash-infested websites that are less-than-functional shop windows, a sometimes poor response to emails and a bureaucracy that has made it painfully slow and expensive to bring email to the masses.Domenico Condello, the technical consultant to a company that is attempting to bring the internet to unconnected hills 30 miles east of Rome, Comunita Montana dell'Aniene, says it has been a huge struggle to cut red tape holding back Italy's answer to feeding broadband to its hilly regions - a fast WiMax service."There is pent-up demand here," he says. "Fast WiMax services such as ours should revolutionise the internet in Italy." But he admits the start has been slow and that probably only the young will be interested in using the service as it rolls out this autumn.Italy's half-hearted adoption of the internet and the older generation's failure to grasp the importance of IT to a future economy has frustrated many youngsters so much that they simply give up and go abroad, says Bernhard Warner, who runs a tech consultancy in Rome.Art and history"But," adds the American expatriate, who swears by his high-speed web connection: "There are certainly things to be learnt from the Italian way of doing things."I can't see myself living anywhere else. Here, you can walk beyond your desk and realise there is more to life than tech things. Being surrounded by such art and history keeps your perspective fresh. I'm pleased by the Italian sensibility."But even in the cities, he points out, where there may be broadband, the cost makes it a luxury for most Italians with their lower disposable incomes than the UK. "The preferred way to contact is the mobile for most. So far the net has been a tool for better-paid young professionals," says Warner. It's a far cry from internet being as available as "air and water", which is how the EU recently referred to its policy on broadband adoption.Italy's new government under Berlusconi is probably not helping. The last election was about halting globalisation, protecting an inward-looking Italy, largely arguing against free trade and the opening of international markets - the internet being a large part of that.Many who disagree with those policies have abandoned the country, leaving il bel paese - the beautiful country - to decide if it really does prefer life in the past - unhurried, and happily unwired.
This is a seminal time for cameraphones. Within the next few months, according to industry calculations, the number of cameraphones is expected to exceed the total number of conventional cameras ever sold. Not bad for a device less than 10 years old, as cameras have been around for a century. It is a seminal moment for me in another way. My current digital camera, given as a present barely three years ago, is a 7.1 megapixel Nikon Coolpix 7900. It has served me well, but I have been trying three new cameraphones that are, in theory, more powerful. They are the first cameraphones to boast 8MP - that's 8 million pixels.Megapixels don't define a good camera. That depends, among other things, on the quality and size of the lens and how much light is let in. But for the first time it is possible for most people to use a cameraphone rather than a digital camera without a noticeable diminution in quality. Talking to experts at the recent Symbian smartphone show in London, I found the consensus view was cameraphones will never (never say never ...) reach the quality of a single lens reflex, but by next year when 12MP models arrive - capable of taking images that can be blown up to poster-size proportions and with the nirvana of zero shutter lag - most users won't need to know the difference. Some will have a "burst" mode enabling you to "rewind" after taking a snap to get a better version.We are nearly there already. All three of these phones have awesome specifications despite coming on the heels of the beautiful iPhone and the full-of-potential Google Android. Their main drawback - apart from poor battery life if used intensively, and screens that are difficult to read in bright sunlight - is that the complexity of their functions sometimes thwarts usability. Samsung has lobbed two 8MP models into the marketplace. One, the i8510, is a smartphone with the all-conquering (so far) Symbian operating system that was recently made open source, thereby giving users access to all the applications that outside developers will devise. It marks another coming of age, because cameraphones are no longer derivative but innovative. The i8510 has satellite navigation, a "touch" mouse and a super-sweet facility to take a 360-degree panoramic shot in almost failsafe fashion, plus the ability to wait until a person smiles and take the snap then.Samsung's other 8MP offering is the touchscreen M8800, shipping next week. It isn't a smartphone and doesn't seem to have Wi-Fi enabled, so there will be data charges when uploading images etc. But it has the cool photo features of the (heavier) i8510, including the ability to tag snaps with the longitude and latitude of where they were taken and to sketch over them - though navigating through the photo library is a pain. The video function is almost as good as the Nokia N96, which is some praise. The third 8MP model, a Sony Ericsson Cybershot C905, is a neat phone weighing 136g with a slideback keyboard with big keys and a neat sliding lens cover, but hampered by apparent lack of Wi-Fi (though it is mentioned in the manual) and a disappointing battery life. Like the others it has a big screen and would have been regarded as a miracle of compacted technology five years ago, but now there are many similar devices.The lesson is this: you no longer need to buy a separate camera for most uses, a fact that will be even more true next year. Cameraphones are expensive at plus or minus &pound;500 if bought outright or "free" on a monthly contract. And they are strange, in that a mundane one can often produce great snaps in the right conditions while a state-of-the-art one sometimes does not. I have posted photos taken with these three cameraphones and others plus two digital cameras (7.1MP and 10MP) atbit.ly/keegan2. I wouldn't bet on being able to tell them apart in a blind tasting.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
When a proposed settlement was reached in a lawsuit by book publishers and authors againstGoogle, it was a major event in the ongoing copyright wars. The dispute has been emblematic of the issues involved in applying copyright productively to new situations, and what are appropriate business models for an internet era.In brief, Google has been digitising books, constructing a search index and, crucially, showing portions of books matching a search term while selling advertising around the search result. The amount made available varies according to whether the book is still subject to copyright restrictions, and what permissions and licensing have been obtained. But the very concept has created a copyright law conundrum.From one perspective, Google is making "fair use" - the use of short extracts, allowed under copyright law - of the books. Possibly a small snippet may be shown, while the searching ability is a valuable "transformative" application. But from a competing perspective, Google is making commercial use of the entire book itself overall. Doing it in little pieces per transaction might then be akin to the "salami slicing" computer crime technique of stealing extremely small amounts from a large number of items.There's no obvious answer as to which view is legally correct, showing that copyright questions are not necessarily a simple matter of taking a moral stance on property rights versus cultural freedom. Since both sides of this argument were socially respected big businesses, neither could win by having paid advocates and captive experts overwhelm the other's viewpoint.In addition, Google has lost copyright cases before, such as one in Belgium involving theCopiepresseorganisation which represents several newspapers. But the book project also involves libraries, which might change the legal balance.There was thus substantial incentive for both sides here to reach an arrangement, dividing up potential revenues. The agreement is complicated, and god versus the devil is in the details. Perhaps the most important aspect is the creation of a Book Rights Registry, which will manage recordkeeping and revenue disbursement. In heaven, this will be a model of cutting the Gordian Knot, which keeps material tied down and away from view because of the desire to compensate writers. In hell, it'll just be a deal that shuffles almost all the money among large corporations, while actual authors receive a pittance that's used to justify the system.Parallels have been drawn with the collective licensing of music, in the hopes of having a similar collective licensing of books. But if the end result also imports the creative accounting of the music business, artists will not see much benefit. TheWriters Guild of America strikewas a stark example of the fight that may be waged over book rights payment issues, with Google in the role of Hollywood studios.Librarians and open access advocates have not all been enthusiastic. The director ofHarvard University Libraryhas stated that "the settlement contains too many potential limitations on access to and use of the books by members of the higher education community and by patrons of public libraries".Brewster Kahle, who founded the Internet Archive and heads the Open Content Alliance, earlier warned of "the consequences of the consolidation of information into the hands of a few private organizations".Professor Siva Vaidhyanathanis also cautions against "corporate welfare" and of libraries "giving away access to one company that is cornering the market on online access".Amid all the reactions, an overall lesson should be how little can be determined by legalism, and how much remains unsettled as new technology causes shifts in markets and power. There's some value in enemy-of-my-enemy opposition, where the interests of an advertising near-monopoly are a counterweight to a content cartel. But battles between behemoth businesses should not be mistaken for friendship to libraries, authors or public interest.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Mobile disposalCoolaworld has launched Coolafone, which lets you send your mobile phone for recycling in exchange for a variety of goods and services.coolafone.comBamboo notebookAsus has launched its Bamboo Series notebook PC in the UK, as a "truly green" product with a natural wood finish.bit.ly/bamboo(PDF)Lara's new themeIf you like to watch Lara Croft shimmy, Eidos has released a demo of the seventh Tomb Raider game, Underworld, for Windows XP and Vista.bit.ly/laracroftManhunt 2 (18+) unleashedRockstar has finally started selling Manhunt 2, the game that the BBFC went to the high court to try to ban.rockstargames.com/manhunt2Faster P2PTests by Comcast in the US have shown that P4P "localised" peer-to-peer networks can speed up file transfers by 80%bit.ly/p4p(PDF)Silver Surfer, 2008Bernard Featherstone has won the Silver Surfer of the Year Award for his work on the Hearts of Salford website for heart disease sufferers.bit.ly/silver-surferTV on PSPGoView, a venture by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe and BSkyB, has launched its portable video-on-demand service with a month's free trial offer.goview.tvSilent PCTech Radar has published an article on how to build the ultimate silent PC.bit.ly/silent-pc
If the world thought that the PC and mobile phone had revolutionised the way we live our lives, then just wait for the impact of video and pictures on the internet. Most commentators expect the moving image to dominate the next phase of the internet around the globe, but in China this trend has already begun in earnest.Tudou - China's answer to YouTube - was started in January 2005 (a month before YouTube) by 35-year-old Gary Wang. Nearly four years later, Tudou has some 12 million users a day and 75 million unique users a month. It serves 100m videos a day, numbers that make it the biggest video-sharing site in China. As for growth, Tudou has nearly three times more user visits today than a year ago."[The] internet in China is very much viewed as an alternative to TV entertainment," says Wang. "People come to the internet looking for fun, not just for information." In fact, one of the reasons he called the site Tudou is because it is the Chinese word for potato - a play on the English term "couch potato".Wang is personable and speaks fluent English, a legacy of having studied and worked in the US and Europe before returning to his native China earlier this decade. Back in China, Wang worked for almost three years for Bertelsmann Group trying to open various business doors, particularly around investments in TV channels. He realised there were too many regulations to work an entertainment miracle on the traditional medium, but recognised the potential of the internet."There are things you cannot do in China because of certain regulations," says Wang. "TV is simply off limits. If you take away TV you didn't have a large market, so I began thinking how to bring entertainment to China, where there were already 10 to 20 million broadband users  and I knew it would build up."Only connectHis instinct proved correct: there are now more than 250 million Chinese online, with 91 million going online in the past year alone, according to the recent KPMG report Destination Digital. The report claims the scope for growth in China's online market is huge: only 19% of Chinese people are online and, despite the recession, digital ad spend in China will increase 40% next year to reach $5.2bn, predicts KPMG.Wang is expecting to ride the wave of growth with perfect timing. In April, he closed his most recent funding round, raising $57m from existing investors IDG Technology Venture Investment, Granite Global Ventures and General Catalyst Partners. In total, Tudou has raised $85m. The company has 250 employees and four offices throughout China.Speaking to the Guardian at the recent Mipcom TV market in Cannes, Wang explains that of the 13m video clips currently on Tudou, somewhere between 30% and 70% are of a type acceptable to advertisers. "It's about the willingness of the brand advertisers," says Wang. "The format is there. The audience is there. The tracking is there but the willingness needs to be there."Wang says that so far only about 5% of Tudou's video inventory is being monetised with advertising; analysts estimate that YouTube is monetising only 3% of its total video inventory. The biggest hurdle for both sites is attracting advertisers to user-generated videos where the type of content is hard to predict.Longer form, higher qualityWang's answer to this dilemma came in August when the company launched a new site calledHeidoufor professional videos from name-brand suppliers like Chinese, Korean and Japanese broadcasters - and soon, he hopes, some big Western media companies. But Wang is clear the content that resonates best with his audience is Chinese or Asian. "We all look for relevancy and for us it's Chinese faces and Chinese issues," says Wang. "But some of that is a lack of exposure to Western content and we will try and make some changes in that."Heidou already has 15,000 videos in its library - all with copyright permission - and some 2m videos are viewed a day by nearly one million users. "Heidou is longer form, bigger screen and higher quality than Tudou," says Wang. His hope is that the new site will generate more interest from advertisers."They beat YouTube because they understand how to relate to the Chinese," says Dan Mintz, chief creative officer Dynamic Marketing Group, a full service, independent ad agency based in Beijing. "Being successful in China is not just about translation, it's about how people think, write and communicate."According to KPMG's Honson To, China is on the verge of a second digital revolution driven in part because new media is less regulated than its offline counterparts. But there are still hurdles and sensitivities. Earlier this year Tudou, along with 32 other online sites in China, was given warning notices by the State Administration of Radio Film and Television (SARFT) for either hosting illegal content or operating without a licence. When asked about the potential business impact of the warning, Wang looks sanguine. "That's just doing business in China," he says.So far Tudou has been able to stay on the right side of the regulators because a video vetting system checks every upload to the site. Some 100 staff are dedicated to vetting each and every video to make sure it does not contain political or social content that is barred by the government. "There is a 15- to 30-minute gap between when a video is uploaded to the site and when it is shown," says Wang.Wang's biggest headache is managing growth. He may have just raised new finance but he admits that the biggest drain on the business is the bandwidth needed to serve more and more videos. "We are trying to control the growth because serving video is very expensive," says Wang. Tudou owns and operates its own content distribution network, which he says helps keep his costs down. "We don't have a Google behind us so we have to be very careful to grow but not too fast," he adds, referring to YouTube's deep-pocketed parent company.
In a strange town and need to find a public toilet? Or a postbox? Want to know whether that house you're thinking of buying is in that excellent school's catchment area? Or need to plan a cycling route? Or, perhaps, wondering if your local council recycles plastic with a "5" symbol on it?In a few months you might be able to access a website that will do any - or each - of those. They were selected as the final five entries from the government's Show Us A Better Way competition, and will each receive part of the &pound;80,000 prize funding from the Ministry of Justice, Department of Communities and Local Government, and Cabinet Office. The overall winner will be announced on the BBC's iPM news programme on Radio 4 on Saturday evening.Besides the five entries chosen to build a site with their ideas, another five were picked to "improve/mock up" - where the basic idea seemed interesting but needed work. These were: Road Works API, an interface to any and all roadworks so that organisations (such as satnav companies) or individuals could build alert systems; Oldienet, which would tell you about services in your area; Free Legal Web, which would be an authoritative mashup of expert legal commentary and public-sector information; Allotment Manager, for better allocation of garden allotments; and Where Does My Money Go, an interactive web application showing government budget data via maps, timelines, graphs and charts.There were then another four that were declared to be "fully working" already: UK School Maps (showing where the UK's schools are - building on data released for the competition by the Department for Children, Schools and Families); School Guru, which helps determine whether your child could get into a school (in Hertfordshire only at present); Where's the Path, with an Ordnance Survey map and Google Maps satellite picture of any spot; and Wreck Map, showing the location of undersea wrecks around Britain's coast. The competition attracted hundreds of entries, tempted by the prospect both of winning the prize - to fund the building of a site - and to unlock government data that might otherwise sit unused.The winners are:Can I Recycle It?Input your postcode to find out what your council recyclesUK CyclingA one-stop site to plan your cycling route, for those at any skill levelCatchment AreasShows boundaries of school catchment areas, even "fuzzily"Location of PostboxesShows where the nearest one is to wherever you areLoofinderA mobile texting or website that tells you where the nearest public toilet is.• Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
It's the war of the diddy video cameras! Except that Kodak's &pound;130Zi6, the newer of the two - the other being the &pound;120Flip Mino(the new, smaller sibling of the Flip Ultra) - can do a lot more: as well as being able to record in two different high-definition resolutions, it can also take stills. One up to the Zi6.The Flip Mino, however, scores heavily on usability. It's slightly smaller and lighter than the Zi6, and sits easily in the hand. It's got just three buttons: power, the USB plug release (which comes out of the top), and the big, obvious red button that starts and stops recording. Once it's on, small lights come on under the back sheet for zoom in and out, back and forward, delete, and play/pause. There's a tiny speaker for playback, a red light (on the lens side) when you're recording, and a TV-out jack. The onscreen display tells you how much recording time you have left; the rechargeable batteries are sealed inside. On the bottom is a tripod socket. That's really it. As you film, you see how much time is left. Recordings are VGA (640x480) quality, in AVI format (which can be an obstacle to Mac users: the free VLC fromvideolan.orgwill play them, or there's player software included in the Mino). Now, go and make a 60-minute film.By contrast, the Zi6 adds quite a lot more functionality. It too has the minimum of buttons - one for power, another to pop its USB plug, and the red-tipped joystick for recording, zooming in/out, and setting the recording method: HD (that is, 1280x720 pixels), "HD60" (at 60 frames per second) or boring VGA stills (640x480). There's also a macro/distance lens, and two outputs: TV-out (the standard composite) and "HD". You want it all? The Zi6 has most of it. But it can be confusing if you're on the wrong lens, or taking stills, when you just want to point-and-shoot. And it can't say how much recording time is left, because you might use different resolutions. One up to the Mino.The Zi6 saves in Apple's Quicktime .mov format, which might pose a problem for Windows users; but there's viewing software included.A key difference: you have to enhance the Zi6's paltry onboard storage with an SD card, upping the overall cost. The rechargeable batteries are removable (a charger is provided), which is good: when they die, you can replace them. When the Mino's dead, what will you do? Throw it away and buy a new one, probably. Final score? Even.Pros: Zi6: HD; stills; flexibility; Mino: simple, accessible, smallCons: Zi6: needs extra storage; Mino: limited functions, low-res
Was 2008 the right summer for Brian Moyna? As a senior systems engineer at theScience and Technology Facilities Council(STFC), he spent a lot of time looking for cloud but (like everyone else) was frustrated by rain. And that's made it difficult to test a new cloud radar capable of measuring cloud profiles up to 16km (10 miles) high.The use of that? It can tell you much more accurately what the chances of rain are - and tell meteorologists what is happening inside a cloud, not just beneath it, which helps to improve forecasts.Moyna works at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (RAL) in Oxfordshire, where he is project manager in the development of a revolutionary cloud radar. With a background in radio astronomy and remote sensing with millimetre wavelength radiometry, he's worked on the radar for the last couple of years.Satellite spares"Clouds are what we like. But it is a cloud radar and not a rain radar, so when we get rain it does tend to blind the radar somewhat," says Moyna. "Scattered showers with reasonable cloud covering tend to give us the best data."What makes this new cloud radar different? Other cloud radars are powerful "pulse-Doppler" systems with an output measured in kilowatts, which fire a short burst of fixed-frequency radiation and measure the change in frequency of the signal that bounces off water vapour and ice crystals in the cloud."The approach that we have taken is to use a much lower power transmitter - about 0.2 Watt," says Moyna. Originally built from spares left over from a satellite's radar altimeter, this inexpensive but reliable solid-state instrument outputs just 10% of a mobile phone's power.Operating at 94 GHz (that is, a 3mm wavelength), it continuously emits a signal straight up from a reflector on one side. As this signal is "back-scattered" by cloud, it's picked up by a reflector-receiver on the other side. This is displayed as a false-colour graph of returned signal intensity versus altitude by time, to build up a continuous vertical profile.Despite its low power, this radar has considerable reach. It can measure through several layers of cloud up to a height of 16km - nearly twice as high as a commercial aircraft. As well as detecting the differences between water vapour and ice - mapping a cloud's internal density - it provides more immediate answers."You can look at the [radar] return and predict with reasonable confidence if it's going to rain in the next 10 minutes," says Moyna. "The main application is to enable meteorologists to better understand what is actually going on inside the cloud, which will allow them to improve the forecasting model."It's taken 10 years to reach this point. Proof of concept funding came from Clik, the STFC's technology exploitation company, and the Met Office. One prototype is on trial with the Met Office at the Chilbolton Facility for Atmospheric and Radio Research in Hampshire. Another is at a German university, while a third is at RAL.Moyna says the new radar is not designed to work alone. "The radar has been deployed with a number of other meteorological instruments." These include radiometers to measure atmospheric water vapour, Lidar (light detection and ranging technology), for the laser ranging of cloud bottoms, and wind profilers.Dr Alec Bennett, an upper-air instrument development scientist at the Met Office, has worked with the radar since January at Cambourne and now at Chilbolton. "It was recording very well," he says, adding that the record-breaking wet summer meant "we got plenty of case studies".Chilbolton is proving ideal for the new radar trials. The research site has several pulse-Doppler cloud radars, including a 25-metre fully steerable dish."Our cloud radar scans the clouds as they go past - a vertical profile - with a resolution as good as four metres," says Bennett. "As the clouds go past, we can detect multiple levels of cloud which would otherwise be hidden either from the observer on the ground or from the satellite above."Better by predictionThis continuous radar-slice nicely complements, for example, infrared satellite imagery that detects the tops of clouds. Imagine you're a pilot on a dark and foggy night: how do you know what lies above before you take off? Fog interferes with Lidar, and infrared images only show the topmost cloud layer, so the new radar has the potential to make aviation safer.But it's not only aircraft safety or detecting imminent rain that Bennett has his eye on. He hopes to deploy a network of the new radars and combine the data with other meteorological readings. "The final product is going to be more valuable than the sum of the individual parts."That synergy will help build better weather prediction models. Rather than predict the weather for great swaths of the country, Bennett talks about more localised forecasts - perhaps down to half a county."The representation of cloud in our models is really something that we're trying to improve at the moment," he adds. "If we know more about what's going on right now, then we can use the models to better our forecasts both in reliability but also in higher resolution."The new cloud radar already produces valuable data although, unlikeChilbolton'spulse-Doppler radars. Bennett says it's not yet published on the internet."Cloud radars have been around for 10 or 20 years for research purposes. This is the first really good cloud radar that the Met Office have got."Measure by measure16kmThe height into the sky the radar can reach - far greater than existing models0.2WattThe power of the transmitter used - much lower than other radars10minsThe prediction time of whether it will rain or not after looking at he reading
Under legal pressure, Google has terminated the advertising deal that was created as a substitute for Yahoo being taken over by Microsoft. On the Official Google blog, Chief Legal OfficerDavid Drummondsays:after four months of review, including discussions of various possible changes to the agreement, it's clear that government regulators and some advertisers continue to have concerns about the agreement. Pressing ahead risked not only a protracted legal battle but also damage to relationships with valued partners. That wouldn't have been in the long-term interests of Google or our users, so we have decided to end the agreement.Hey, Dave, sorry to disappoint you but you made that decision far too late. The case has already put Google right in the middle of the Department of Justice's cross-hairs, and you've just taught the DoJ that you'll buckle under pressure. They'll be back.TheUS Justice Departmentput out a statement saying:"The companies' decision to abandon their agreement eliminates the competitive concerns identified during our investigation and eliminates the need to file an enforcement action," said Thomas O. Barnett, Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Department's Antitrust Division. "The arrangement likely would have denied consumers the benefits of competition — lower prices, better service and greater innovation."Meanwhile Yahoo, the jilted lover, has put out apress releaseto say just how bereft it is:Yahoo! continues to believe in the benefits of the agreement and is disappointed that Google has elected to withdraw from the agreement rather than defend it in court. Google notified Yahoo! of its refusal to move forward with implementation of the agreement following indication from the Department of Justice that it would seek to block it, despite Yahoo!'s proposed revisions to address the DOJ's concerns.There will now be another million articles speculating on whether Microsoft still wants Yahoo's search business -- or even the whole of Yahoo -- or not. But if that deal is ever going to come off, I suspect it will need Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang to quit, along with many of his board members. Microsoft ought to be able to get the company for, say, $20 a share. Since Yang has already turned down $40 (or so) per share and $33 (maybe $35), I don't see how he could approve $20 a share and survive.Update: For Yang's later comments, seeJerry Yang Speaks At Web 2.0: Our Live Notes, at TechCrunch, and the BBC'sYahoo tells Microsoft: 'Buy us'.
It's been a tumultuous few days here in Washington D.C., where I'm holed up at my mum's working on my PhD, hoarse but happy from a night of election celebrations on U St. &amp; 14th (headherefor more coverage from the phenomenal Guardian team). But in spite of the most important news telegraphing from the headlines of the local paper, there's another piece that my be of more interest to the readers of this blog.Study links violent video games, hostilitysaid The Washington Post (onerous registration required) on Monday 3 November.While other reports have linked localised and short-term aggression with playing violent games, this international, longitudinal study has found that aggression amongst its sample in the US and Japan for months afterward. From the article:The study in the United States showed an increased likelihood of getting into a fight at school or being identified by a teacher or peer as being physically aggressive five to six months later in the same school year. It focused on 364 children ages 9 to 12 in Minnesota and was first included in a 2007 book, "Violent Video Game Effects on Children and Adolescents."Japanese researchers studied more than 1,200 Japanese youths ages 12 to 18. In all three studies, researchers accounted for gender and previous aggressiveness."We now have conclusive evidence that playing violent video games has harmful effects on children and adolescents," Anderson said.I'm not yet ready to be conclusive for several reasons. First, what is defined as an 'aggressive' behaviour? In at least two of the studies identified in the Pediatrics article, this will arguably vary as it is a subjective, non-blind assessment by teachers.Second, what is considered a 'violent' game? No mention in the article, but ascroungeidentified the violent games in the US study as 'Future Cop' and 'Street Fighter'. I'm sure people reading this blog could identify others more violent. Indeed, the Post did; they put a larger-than-life picture of the UK's own controversial hot potato, Manhunt 2, with its article.Finally, there has been little research that has identified what the correlations between aggression and video game violence actually mean. As anyone schooled in statistics knows all too well, correlation does not mean causation. What are the aggressiveness tendencies of the people who choose to play violent games in the first place?Others have also weighed in on the study, published in the most recent edition of Pediatrics. A Texas A &amp; M psychology professor has contributed a formal response to the article, titledWeak Results, Misleading Conclusions. Read up and let us know what you think about these issues.
Consumer Watchdoghas "called on Google's founders and directors to adopt new privacy safeguards that allow for anonymous internet and software use". In avideo, the organisation criticises Google Suggest, and the Incognito mode in Google's Chrome browser. It says:Chrome's Incognito mode lulls consumers into a false sense of security that their actions are completely private and free from prying eyes when in fact they are not."Chrome provides Google unprecedented dominance over the transmission of computer data and warrants higher privacy standards," wrote Consumer Watchdog President Jamie Court and Policy Advocate John Simpson.The site provides aform letteryou can send "to ask Google's board of directors to agree to basic privacy rights for all Web users".You can, of course, turn Google Suggest off. However, its combination of search logs, Google applications such as Gmail, advertising tracking across the  web, the Google Toolbar and Chrome browser enable Google to harvest vast amounts of information about the things users do.Microsoft's Internet Explorer 8 Beta 2 has an InPrivate mode, and Apple's Safari has a Private Browsing mode. Yesterday, Private Browsing was also added to the pre-release (developer) versions of Firefox 3.1, according to a blog post by Ehsan Akhgari:Don't leave a trace: Private Browsing in Firefox. He also explains how to start Firefox in Private Browsing mode. However, as he says:Private Browsing aims to help you make sure that your web browsing activities don't leave any trace on your own computer. It is very important to note that Private Browsing is not a tool to keep you anonymous from websites or your ISP, or for example protect you from all kinds of spyware applications which use sophisticated techniques to intercept your online traffic. Private Browsing is only about making sure that Firefox doesn't store any data which can be used to trace your online activities, no more, no less.It will be interesting to see if it makes any difference. Not many people actually go in foranonymous browsing. Is that because they don't know, or because they just don't care?
Ray Ozzie managed to annoy some fans of the Tablet PC last week in aninterview with Todd Bishopof Techflash by comparing the new multi-touch features coming in Windows 7 with the Tablet format "where it was truly niche".Niche?Niche??That's not the way to please Tablet fan(atic)s, who since the launch of the form factor in 2001 have awaited its ascent to being used everywhere, just like Bill Gates predicted (in one of my favourite of his wrong predictions) at Comdex. Let'sremind ourselves of November 2001:"The PC took computing out of the back office and into everyone's office," said Gates. "The Tablet takes cutting-edge PC technology and makes it available wherever you want it, which is why I'm already using a Tablet as my everyday computer. It's a PC that is virtually without limits -- and within five years I predict it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America."(Then again, that arguably wasn't his wrongest forecast. He also said of the just-released Windows XP: "A key reason for the early success of Windows XP is its incredibly strong security -- it has literally hundreds of security improvements over Windows 98, making it the most secure Windows operating system ever. In addition, our goal of enabling a single code base to operate across both your PCs and your servers offers immense benefits -- it takes the security of your network to a whole new level." As Bill Clinton might say, it depends on the definition of "incredibly" and "strong" and "security".)Anyway, the Tablet PC has never broken out of the niche market. But why? Tablet boosters think it's those Evil Marketing People, or something. Rob Bushway, a Tablet MVP,saysSuch talk concerns me. Instead, I'd like to hear Ozzie talking about why Tablet PC has not spread further than it already has and work to go about changing it - could it be Microsoft's own failed marketing, keeping tablet features in premium SKUs, high manufacturing costs, Microsoft not implementing tablet technology in their own products, including Ozzie's Live initiative - that's right, where is the ink love in all the Live products?Warner Crocker, another Tableteer, ismore positive:While Ozzie may not have intended any deep meaning in his past tense statement about Tablet PCs the fact that Tablet PCs were referred to at all is significant. The fact that they were referred to in comparison to the new touch approach is huge. The future of Microsoft is moving towards the cloud and touch.Tablets have never done well, despite thepromise that Vista would have them a "significant impact" on their sales. The only numbers I can find (from 2006) suggest they made up 1.6% of sales - anyone do better? - and it's likely almost all those went to specialist fields such as medicine.So what's really kept the Tablet back? Two things: cost of manufacture - those big touch screens are expensive to build, and if you have a swing-style screen with a keyboard attached it's even pricier - plus the fact that we're all keyboardists now. Who writes with a pen in the office? We may learn to at school, but even today's primary school children are more familiar with a keyboard than a fountain pen.More likely to have an impact are the small touchscreen internet devices like the iPhone and Blackberry Storm. Those are going to outstrip Tablet PC sales in pure volume - and possibly even revenue - very quickly.The Tablet? It isn't RIP. But it's certainly never going to be the noise Bill Gates thought.
Mobile games - they're an ongoing problem. I've been writing about them for ten years; longer, perhaps, than any other UK technology journalist. There have been some wonderful examples, up there with the better DS titles. But there has also been a lot of unforgivable s**t, contributing to a customer churn rate that would have a console games publishers in floods of uncontrollable tears. According to Nokia, 78% more phone users are downloading games than they were three years ago. But we're still looking at a tiny fraction of the Java phone userbase.So anyway, I was at the Nokia Games Summit in Rome last week, and here's some of what I took away about the future of this much-maligned sector. (The joke around the summit was, if videogames are the new Hollywood, mobile games are the new porn industry - the slightly shadier, muckier step-brother to the real glamour player...)Even if you're skeptical about mobile entertainment, with cross-platform gaming, location-based gaming and augmented reality gaming all bubbling under, it's worth keeping tabs on where things are. A few years from now, this may come in useful...Location, location, locationOne of Nokia's major themes last week was the need to integrate games with all the other services offered by your handset, specifically GPS and music playing. Location-based games are clearly the Great White Hope here. Nokia's executive vice-president of entertainment and communities Tero Ojanperä took to the stage last Wednesday, imagining how, in the near-future, an N-Gage mobile phone could offer location-relevant downloadable content for games.So, say you've just touched down in Rome. Suddenly you get a message offering you a new Rome level for the recently launched fighting game,One. You'll also be told if any of your friends are in Rome, and if they've opted to download the level. The matchmaking system could then set up a VS game between the two of you. Ojanperä even talked about offering prizes to the winner – perhaps a token for an ice cream or coffee at a local café – you'd just need to go up and show your phone display to the staff behind the counter.Later, Ojanperä talked about Nokia's plans to introduce a new game based around each player's local environment, possible using GPS and/or the Nokia Maps application. It's a familiar concept and something that developers and researchers have been toying with for several years. But with N-Gage's global reach, enormous numbers of compatible handsets and embedded matchmaking services, it could suddenly become a mainstream application.Casual is kingOjanperä revealed that right now, the most successful Nokia N-Gage title isHooked On: Creatures of the Deep, a fun fishing adventure aimed squarely at mainstream users. It's actually more like an RPG than a straightforward simulation, allowing you to travel the globe, earning cash and leveling up your equipment while also taking on specific angling quests for various locals. There's also a neat online ranking system that keeps tabs on the total weight of your catches so far.The integration of simple idea, decent 2D visuals and a community element is sort of where Nokia probably should be aiming. Indeed, the two games the company spoke most about at the event wereDance Fabulous, a dancing sim in which you create your own choreography from dozens of motion-captured moves, andYamake, a selection of mini-games that can be completely customised, using photos and sounds from your own phone. And with both titles, user-generated content can be uploaded to the web to share with friends.Embed or dieEA Mobile made a rather controversial contribution to the Games Summit, pointing out a few teething problems with the N-Gage system – remarksleapt upon by the specialist mobile press. Peter Parmenter, director, worldwide OEM, suggested that the N-Gage launch back in April was very much of the soft variety as far as EA was concerned and wouldn't be official until many more devices had the N-Gage app embedded (at the moment several of the ten compatible devices need to download the software before users can begin to download games). He announced that games like Tomb Raider, Pandemonium (why?!) and Sims 3 would be coming to N-Gage, but also reiterated a familiar point – that mobile games are being stifled by a poor retail experience. Importantly, he also revealed that EA makes twice the revenue out of an iPhone game than it does from an N-Gage one.Killer apps and cool communitiesEA Mobile's executive producer, Chris Gibbs, also had a few complaints. He asked for a more powerful SDK to give better access to phone functions like the accelerometer and to the graphics chipset. But he also talked about the need for showcase titles that introduce new concepts like location-based gameing to a wider audience. His suggestion was a version of Sim City that lets you effectively re-design your local area. Great – go and make it!Another thing – EA Mobile sees N-Gage Arena, Nokia's take on Xbox Live, as a 'nod toward community' rather than a fully-fledge service. Gibbs reckoned it's not rich or deep enough – he complained, for example, that FIFA 09 can keep track of around 20 statistics for each player, but only one of those can be displayed and compared on N-Gage. It's something Nokia is surely working on.3D is NOT the answerScott Foe, the producer of Nokia's brilliantReset Generationgame spoke on Wednesday afternoon, providing some compelling insights into where mobile gaming is going wrong… and right. He was enormously skeptical about 3D graphics, pointing out correctly that 3D games date quickly thanks to good old Moore's Law. That's not a problem on the consoles, because the business model is based around a big well-publicised launch window of two-to-three weeks. With mobile games, however, there's no seasonality and no hard launch – good games can sell for months on end. 2D games, he suggested, are non-perishable. Look at Tetris.The future is… non-synchronous multiplayer?Foe talked about recognizing and working with the unique properties of the mobile phone – it's always with you, it's always on, BUT it's also low bandwidth and high latency. So you won't be playing Call of Duty 4 on there anytime soon. Reset Generation's multiplayer mode is built with the bandwidth issues in mind, using various techniques to mask latency. For example, the game map is larger than the screen, requiring the player to scroll around and thereby providing a few seconds of downtime to swap data between his and his opponents' phones.He also had some interesting ideas about future mobile multiplayer interactions that don't even require players to be tackling the same sort of game. "What if one player was playing a match the colours puzzler in which he's able to power up a friend playing a shooting game – the gameplay is connected but they're not doing the same thing" I really liked this idea, because it gets to the heart of mobile entertainment; it needs to be both personal and also social. If you have a whole set of different yet still connectable games, you've got more chance of finding friends willing to play against or with you. Mobile games need to understand that, as phone users, people like to be different, but they like to be different together…
In an election, almost every media outlet has the same story to tell, and if it's the US Presidential Election, then it will probably include using a map of the US to show how the race is going/ended up. How many ways are there to do this? Jason Kottke has made acollection of election maps, of whichjust oneis strikingly different from the rest….[Charles Arthur adds: if you scroll down, Fox seems to have California as aRepublicanstate - which it hasn't been since the Reagan years. That's beyond weird.]ViaWaxy
Yesterday I met up with James Parton fromO2, who was in San Francisco to talk at theMobile 2.0 conferenceabout a new initiative by the British phone network.Litmus, which is unlikely to see daylight until next year, is an odd little beast: an incubator-like app store for developers to shop their stuff to early adopters.According to Parton, there are two parts to the scheme: on one side, application developers will be offered the chance to access crucial bits of O2's infrastructure - such as billing or messaging systems. On the other side, a select number of customers will be invited to join the Litmus program - and offered incentives to take part (though he wouldn't say precisely what those would be). Bringing the two together should, he suggests, create an early stage testbed.The driver? Well, O2 says it wants to develop the goodwill that customers have towards it - but there's clearly an impetus driven by the iPhone app store and Google's G1, which mean operators are desperate to get a slice of the action.Will it work? Who knows. They're keeping a fairly low profile ("we haven't even written a press release", said Parton - even thoughthey did, back in June) but it's clear that there's a greater appetite for mobile development now than ever.It's been several years since I wrote a long essay - which, conveniently, I can't find right now - on how the mobile networks needed to understand the open internet or end up being pushed into insignificance by manufacturers and internet providers. Maybe they're finally starting to wise up to that fact.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Forget who's actually going towinthe US election, the real question is which of the news channels has the most hi-tech coverage. Flashy graphics, high definition, virtual reality: this is the battleground that modern politics is fought on (for blow by blow details you can followAnna Pickard's metacoverageon Comment is Free America).Each of the major US networks is showing off all the bells, whistles, gizmos and gadgets they can lay their hands on. You want enormous touch screens? We got them. You want a virtual representation of Congress? In spades.You wantholograms?Seriously - CNN's big show features a holographic reporter, beamed in live from somewhere else. Wolf Blitzer, the network's grizzled veteran anchor with a voice that would make asking for a cup of tea sound urgent, was full of promise when introducing it: "You haven't seen anything like this before," he said. Suddenly - with a whizz and a crackle - the reporter appeared.Some clever people have already filmed it and stuck it on YouTube - here's one high quality version, or you can lookhere for another onewith more context:Strains, of course, of Star Wars - the lucky reporter Jessica Yellin even mentioned Princess Leia, as she explained (in jerky, bandwidth-restricted fashion) how it all worked. Indeed, the fact that they were doing this seemed far more important to CNN than what Yellin actually had to say about the election.They stressed how the system consisted of 35 HD cameras strung together in a ring around the subject, beaming the image in 3D back to New York. What still wasn't apparent, though, was whether the hologram was actually appearing in the CNN studio or was merely being overlayed on the picture for viewers at home.Personally? Meh. It doesn't achieve anything that a straightforward camera can't. Give me something meaty: data visualisation, representations of what's going on. Still, kudos for trying... over on Fox News they're reduced to handing out cookies "in the form of a hi-def, widescreen Fox TV".
Tony Fadell, the man who more than any other created the iPod, is leaving Apple to spend more time with his family. And you thought it was only politicians who did that?Reports say that Fadell's replacement will be Mark Papermaster, an IBM executive who managed the company's blade server business. (It doesn't sound like a preparation for managing a design-intensive division, but we'll see.) IBM is apparently suing to prevent the move.The Channel Wirethinks this leaves Apple in a right mess:The sudden departure of Fadell, a seven-year Apple veteran, comes at the same time his wife, Apple's senior vice president for human resources, Danielle Lambert, is leaving the company. Apple says Fadell and Lambert are leaving to spend more time with their children.CRN thinks that it hurts the iPod franchise; "puts the whammy on iPhone advances" because he was "instrumental in iPhone development"; means Apple has lost "someone who could go toe-to-toe with Steve Jobs" at a time when that's needed in product development; "it's a big fat Apple morale killer" because he's a technical whiz; and "it leaves Apple without a hardware device engineering chief and a HR chief".Well, up to a point, Lord Copper. Apple's strength has always been that it doesn't rely only on a single person. Jon Rubenstein seemed like he ruled the hardware division (as he did); but he left to join Palm in April 2006, and the sky shows no sign of falling - in fact Apple's doing better now than it was with Rubenstein on board. That doesn't mean he was holding it back. Just that ascribing performance to individuals can be mistaken. It's very easy to overestimate the importance of individuals; the culture within Apple is very, very,verystrong, and gets passed on. The company is now a maker of mobile phones, and music players - oh, and also computers. Fadell has no doubt been important, but nobody's irreplaceable.Fadell'sWikipedia entryreminds us that he first had the idea of a hard drive-based music player, which he took along to Rob Glaser's RealNetworks in 2000 - but left after just six weeks. And then he approached Apple, and started in February 2001 as a contractor. From that April he ran its "iPod and special projects" group; the first version was launched in October 2001. Perhaps seven years was enough.And just to show that journalism offers hostages to fortune all the time,CNN Money offered Fadell as a potential successor to Steve Jobsas recently as June.You can get the history (according to the New York Times) of Fadell's invention of the iPod: in six months he was essential in producing what became an iconic consumer product for this decade.He's gone - but it's hard to believe that this really means that Apple's juggernaut is going to slow down.(There's an interesting comment onCNN Money's story about Fadell's leaving: "Tony was good at getting a product out the door … a valuable talent, but certainly NOT a replacement for Mr. Jobs," claims someone claiming to be a former Apple staffer.)
They are looking for the hockey stick. Hockey sticks are the shape technology startups hope their sales graphs will assume: a modestly ascending blade, followed by a sudden turn to a near-vertical long handle. Those who assembled in San Jose in late October for theSingularity Summitare awaiting the point where machine intelligence surpasses that of humans and takes off near-vertically into recursive self-improvement.The key, said Ray Kurzweil, inventor of the first reading machine and author of 2005's The Singularity Is Near, is exponential growth in computational power - "the law of accelerating returns". In his favourite example, at the human genome project's initial speed, sequencing the genome should have taken thousands of years, not the 15 scheduled. Seven years in, the genome was 1% sequenced. Exponential acceleration had the project finished on schedule. By analogy, enough doublings in processing power will close today's vast gap between machine and human intelligence.This may be true. Or it may be an unfalsifiable matter of faith, which is why the singularity is sometimes satirically called "the Rapture for nerds". It makes assessing progress difficult. Justin Rattner, chief technology officer of Intel, addressed a key issue at the summit: can Moore's law, which has the number of transistors packed on to a chip doubling every 18 months, stay in line with Kurzweil's graphs? The end has been predicted many times but, said Rattner, although particular chip technologies have reached their limits, a new paradigm has always continued the pace."In some sense - silicon gate CMOS - Moore's law ended last year," Rattner said. "One of the founding laws of accelerating returns ended. But there are a lot of smart people at Intel and they were able to reinvent the CMOS transistor using new materials." Intel is now looking beyond 2020 at photonics and quantum effects such as spin. "The arc of Moore's law brings the singularity ever closer."Judgment dayBelief in an approaching singularity is not solely American. Peter Cochrane, the former head of BT's research labs, says for machines to outsmart humans it "depends on almost one factor alone - the number of networked sensors. Intelligence is more to do with sensory ability than memory and computing power." The internet, he adds, overtook the capacity of a single human brain in 2006. "I reckon we're looking at the 2020 timeframe for a significant machine intelligence to emerge." And, he said: "By 2030 it really should be game over."Predictions like this flew at the summit. Imagine when a human-scale brain costs $1 - you could have a pocket full of them. The web will wake up, like Gaia. Nova Spivack, founder of EarthWeb and, more recently, Radar Networks (creator ofTwine.com), quoted Freeman Dyson: "God is what mind becomes when it has passed beyond the scale of our comprehension."Listening, you'd never guess that artificial intelligence has been about 20 years away for a long time now. John McCarthy, one of AI's fathers, thought when he convened the first conference on the subject in 1956, that they'd be able to wrap the whole thing up in six months. McCarthy calls the singularity, bluntly, "nonsense".Even so, there are many current technologies, such as speech recognition, machine translation, and IBM's human-beating chess grandmaster Deep Blue, that would have seemed like AI at the beginning. "It's incredible how intelligent a human being in front of a connected computer is," observed the CNBC reporter Bob Pisani, marvelling at how clever Google makes him sound to viewers phoning in. Such advances are reminders that there may be valuable discoveries that make attempts at even the wildest ideas worthwhile.Dharmendra Modha, head of the cognitive computing group at IBM's Almaden research lab, is leading a "quest" to "understand and build a brain as cheaply and quickly as possible". Last year, his group succeeded in simulating a rat-scale cortical model - 55m neurons, 442bn synapses - in 8TB memory of a 32,768-processor IBMBlue Gene supercomputer. The key, he says, is not the neurons but the synapses, the electrical-chemical-electrical connections between those neurons. Biological microcircuits are roughly essentially the same in all mammals. "An individual human being is stored in the strength of the synapses."Smarter than smartModha doesn't suggest that the team has made a rat brain. "Philosophically," he writes on the subject, "any simulation is always an approximation (a kind of 'cartoon') based on certain assumptions. A biophysically realistic simulation is not the focus of our work." His team is using the simulation to try to understand the brain's high-level computational principles.But computational power is nothing without software. "Would the neural code that powers human reasoning run on a different substrate?" the sceptical science writer John Horgan asked Kurzweil, who replied: "The key to the singularity is amplifying intelligence. The prediction is that an entity that passes the Turing test and has emotional intelligence ... will convince us that it's conscious. But that's not a philosophical demonstration."For intelligence to be effective, it has to be able to change the physical world. The MIT physicist Neil Gershenfeld was therefore at the summit to talk about programmable matter. It's a neat trick: computer science talks in ones and zeros, but these are abstractions representing the flow or interruption of electric current, a physical phenomenon. Gershenfeld, noting that maintaining that abstraction requires increasing amounts of power and complex programmning, wants to turn this on its head. What if, he asked, you could buy computing cells by the pound, coat them on a surface, and run programs that assemble them like proteins to solve problems?Gershenfeld is always difficult for non-physicists to understand, and his video of cells sorting was no exception. Two things he said were clear. First: "We aim to create life." Second: "We have a 20-year road map to make the Star Trek replicator."Twenty years: 2028. Vernor Vinge began talking about the singularity in the early 80s (naming it after the gravitational phenomenon around a black hole), and has always put the date at 2030. Kurzweil likes 2045; Rattner, before 2050.Turning back timeThese dates may be personally significant. Rattner is 59; Vinge is 64. Kurzweil is 60, takes 250 vitamins and other supplements a day, and believes some of them can turn back ageing. If curing all human ills will be a piece of cake for a superhuman intelligence, then the singularity carries with it the promise of immortality - as long as you're still alive when it happens.It is in this connection between the singularity and immortality, along with the idea that sufficiently advanced technology can solve every problem from climate change to the exhaustion of oil reserves, that gives the summit the feel of a religious movement. Certainly, James Miller, assistant professor of economics at Smith College, sounded evangelical when he reviewed how best to prepare financially. He was optimistic, reviewing investment strategies and assuming retirement funds won't be needed.HowStuffWorks founder Marshall Brain, by contrast, explained why 50 million people will lose their jobs when they can be replaced by robots. "In the whole universe, there is one intelligent species," he said. "We're in the process of creating the second intelligent species."The anthropologist Jane Goodall may disagree. She sees a different kind of singularity - the growing ecological devastation of Africa - and worries about the disconnection between human minds and hearts. "If we're the most intellectual animal," she said, "why are we destroying our only home?"If Goodall's singularity comes first, the other one might never happen at all - one of those catastrophes that Vinge admits as the only thing he can imagine that could stop it.
It's been out for a few days now but I only recently downloaded theMirror's Edgedemo. Wow. The first person platform/action game – out on the 14th November – is shaping up to be something a little special. I honestly didn't expect it to play this well. The game – which sees you leaping and runningparkour-style in first person rather than the more typical third – is a world away from the brown machismo of Gears 2 (though contrary to whatKeith thought, I did actually quite enjoy Gears 2, particularly the co-op).  Hurrah for that.  The demo has also ended my concerns over motion sickness and quite frankly I can't wait to play the finished game.Throw in the recently released, and rather excellent,Dead Spaceand you've got two interesting new Electronic Arts IPs launching in the normally sequel-laden run-up to Christmas. Who'd have thought it?  The only worry for EA is that both games get lost in the Christmas release frenzy.So what do you think? Is Mirror's Edge going to make a visit to your console or are there – asI've said before– simply too many good games out at the moment?
All Your Base, Tron guy, the Flying Spaghetti Monster and other internet memes are all featured in theE4 Book of Internet Humour, which has been published online.Yes, the spelling indicates a UK production, from the home of the E4 TV channel. If it didn't, the bad jokes -- credited to Tesco Value Crackers 1997 -- would be a giveaway. And while it's described as "Printed in the UK with cyber pixels," you could actually print it out, if you made a really really big effort. (It's shown online as spreads, so you'd have to work out your own imposition.)The I-Spot format is similar toBritish I-Spy books(not theAmerican I Spy books), which were hugely successful in the 1950s and 60s. You score points for ticking off the various memes. In this case, however, you don't send the result in to Big Chief I-Spy….
This week's Tech Weekly looks at how technology has been a key factor in this year's US election.Barack Obamaproved a huge hit when it came to raising money and getting people out to vote through text messaging and social networking.His rivalJohn McCainfared less well online. Why? The Guardian's blog editorKevin Andersonspeaks toNational Public Radio'ssocial media guru Andy Carvin, Todd Ziegler – vice president of electronic consultancy atThe Bivings Group– and Garrett Graff, editor at large of theWashingtonian Magazine, about the hi-tech weaponry deployed in this year's campaigns.Bobbie Johnsonis your host and is joined byJemima KissandCharles Arthurto scrutinise your blog comments and this week's other tech news.Don't forget to ...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Remember the original Grand Theft Auto games on PC? Remember how the quaint top-down visuals somehow made the psychotic violence all the more shocking, like seeing Mario pull a shotgun on Luigi? Mobile developerTag Gamesdoes, because Car Jack Streets is old skool GTA on a mobile handset. And actually Tag don't just remember GTA 1 and 2, they were there – the company's founders were mission designers at DMA Design, quitting during the 3D renaissance of the series. So this is authentic stuff – unlike the gamut of similar mini-GTA wannabes that have troubled the mobile sector over the past three or four years.Here's aYouTube trailerto set the scene...The narrative premise is simple: you're an inveterate gambler in debt to mafia hardnut, Frankie, to the tune of one million dollars. He wants his money back in daily installments and the only way you're going to get it is – ta da – by carrying out various missions for the city's criminal fraternity. One day that'll mean driving the getaway car at a bank job, the next it'll be hosing a rival gang with bullets or gatecrashing a major drug deal. And as usual, you can jack any passing vehicle you fancy from sports cars to buses and family saloons. There are only about five or six different vehicle types in the game, but you get used to it, and it sort of adds to the miniaturised charm.At the start of the game, you pick up a GPS device that guides you to each mission location via a teeny red arrow. This is sort of where things start going pear-shaped. There's no map display for proper route planning, and the section of road visible onscreen is pretty limited, so you'll often find yourself accelerating down dead ends. Controls are tricky too, especially in reverse, and the collision detection is horribly unforgiving so mission after mission will time out as you struggle with basic navigation and interface issues. Not a good game design feature.The roads are also incredibly narrow, allowing little margin for error when bombing from one mission to the next. And of course, with every squished pedestrian your criminal-o-meter rises, so you'll have cop cars whizzing after you, adding yet more pressure. It took me a whole flight from London to Rome to complete just one successful mission – and that was delivering a pizza. Yep, between criminal jobs it's possible to earn an honest wage driving busses and taxis and making deliveries. It's not thrilling, but hey, at least it doesn't involve you having to get out of the car and shoot at indiscriminate sprites that may or may not represent gangster enemies, passing pedestrian, police officers or the people you're meant to be protecting.There is one brilliant feature though. The game ties in with your real phone clock, so if you're given a mission that starts at 7pm, that means the real 7pm – if you're in an important meeting, or getting married, you'll need to make your excuses and leave. The visuals are also quite stylish, with lots of neat little features like the ability to knock fire hydrants over so they spray water everywhere, or to leave skid marks on pristine lawns.Car Jack Streets is an intermittently entertaining game, managing to produce the odd flash of true GTA anarchy, despite a control system that could reduce a saint to foul-mouthed frustration in less than ten minutes. It's interesting for its DMA/Rockstar heritage, especially to fans of the original Grand Theft Auto titles, but it's a little too flawed in execution to capture the imagination of occasional mobile gamers.Published byI-Play. Available now.
Here's something quite intriguing from last week – just in case you missed it. SCEE has ceased the approvals process for PS2 games in Europe, effectively making the machine an open platform for software developers. The announcement was made by developer relations manager George Bain at the Casual Connect conference in Kiev. It seems Sony is mainly targeting regional developers in countries like India and Russia which will now be able to make, "low-development cost titles and release them in their market".It could be quite a big deal for the indie development community too, though the ramifications are not yet entirely clear...Presumably copy protection will still be in place, meaning that it won't be possible to distribute games on DVD-R discs, or via download. Oh and potential developers will also need a devt kit, which could set them back $10,250 – although Bain says a 500 quid debug unit would be fine for casual units. Perhaps the next step will be for Sony to make all its PS2 libraries and SDKs freely available to the bedroom coding community?Still, it's an interesting development, which runs starkly counter to the company's treatment of the PSP homebrew scene, and recalls the days of Net Yaroze. Of course, it could just as easily mean a huge amount of unregulated shovelware/porn shoved out by low-end distributors, sniffing around the machine's vast installed user base…
Amid all the other coverage (including, of course,our own) one of the fascinating places to watch the US election happen in front of your eyes istwittervotereport.com/, which updates constantly with input from all over the country (at least, where the polls are open) about the length of queues, any problems (or lack of them) in voting, and so on.As Kevin Anderson, our head of blogs who is out there blogging and Twittering the election,puts it: "loving Twitter vote report. People can call or SMS. Fascinating 2008 innovation."Yup - this may be the place where Twitter proves itself. Then it only has the little problem of actually turning a profit. (ThoughI've got ideas on that...)
