This in fromTomKissonTwitter: MGS creator (andGDC2009 keynote speaker) Hideo Kojima is ISO suggestions for his next Zone of the Enders game. The first in the series, hugely anticipated, featured a substantial slice of fast-paced mech on mech shooter action (sorry), received meh reactions from critics, but positive responses from gamers: clearly enough that publishers Konami are ready to release a third game in the series. All reports on the second iteration suggested that Kojima got it right the second time around - "this is the game ZOE should have been" (Gamespot) and "Great" (IGN) - but it appears he's engaging with his audience to make the third game better.According toPlayStation Lifestyle, Kojima mentioned on hislatest podcastthat he wants to see how popular a third game would be. Is this a games-meets-web2.0 moment or is he worried he's about to lose his position on the top of the heap, displaced by a young upstart withfreaky new ideas?Crowdsourcing game ideas and talent may be a good way to open up the AAA games industry silo. As the creative industries reach out to their readers/viewers/participants for their input, it makes sense that the games industry does too. Particularly if they're interested instaying afloatby expanding their audiences. It's possible too; take a look atDave Perry'ssprawling user-generated MMO concept. Throw them a bone and you'll get a deluge of contribution. Everyone's got a great novel idea; everyone's writing a movie script. Surely every gamer has a game idea brewing inside them?Of course, this may not be what Kojima is after. He may simply be looking to suck ideas from the fans because he's stuck in a rut. Another nod should be made here to Perry's topsecret; the beast lumbers on, unappreciated and bloated. What would happen if you gave a million people the task of creating a film? Chaos. I imagine the same would happen in the development of a AAA game.Although I applaud Kojima's apparent transparency (and certainly Perry's chutzpa), I can't help but feel his method is a coat-tails response to the mad rush of user-generated collaboration. A AAA game needs a visionary, so if you're planning on submitting your best game idea ever, perhaps it would be better to make it yourself, and just give Kojima your scraps. Keep the bone for yourself.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
The UK's film and TV industries will fade into insignificance in five years unless the government rapidly steps up its anti-piracy efforts, a leading trade body warned today.In a survey of more than 30 directors of TV and film companies, the Industry Trust found that 94% believe the damage cannot be repaired without stronger support from government and more action from internet service providers, who have been accused by some critics of failing to act against web users who illegally download audio and video files.The trust's director general, Liz Bales, said that although the film industry is not suffering as much as the music sector, the proportion of illegal film and TV content distributed globally online is heading towards 90% of the totall, as experienced by the music industry.In 2007, 95m films were downloaded illegally in the UK, compared with just 158,000 legally, according to the trust.The government's interimDigital Britainreport has laid out proposals for improving broadband speeds across the UK, which will make it possible to download entire films in a few minutes.Commissioned by the UK Film Council, the trust's survey also found that 91% think the industry needs help encouraging consumers to use legal online content services, while 60% think ISPs need to play a bigger role in supporting legal content initiatives."If the current framework hasn't changed in five years, the UK industry will have become insignificant," Bales said."This is a wakeup call for government as well as industry. Digital Britain proposed creating a massive hub in the UK of innovative content creators and publishers, and net-savvy civilians backed up by digital literacy," she added."But in opening the floodgates for business, we need to make sure we are not enabling illegal businesses. We need to clear the undergrowth, in the government's own language."The survey coincides with the Industry Trust's conference today, which will explore specific proposals for encouraging takeup of legal online content services while discouraging illegal downloads.Proposals include watermarking legal content, more research into legal alternatives and increased collaboration to limit the availability of illegal content. Media firms also want to discuss bringing more legal alternatives into the market.Bales said that positive moves for the industry will include the launch of the NBC Universal and Fox web TV service Hulu in the UK, which isexpected later this year, a new streaming service by Lovefilm and uptake of FindAnyFilm, which has built up 1 million users in the 10 weeks since it launched.She added that the industry is moving away from the anti-piracy campaigns based around social stigma, such as "Knockoff Nigel",with a more positive campaign called "You make the Movies"launched earlier this month emphasising that DVD sales and cinema tickets are part of the funding process for high quality content.The trust has also supported a new site called Find Any Film that aggregates to legal download services, cinema listings and archive information, but is looking to the government for significant regulatory support.Bales said the model should be similar to that of Ofcom, which helps to police the largely-self regulatory media industry."The film industry is not interested in end user litigation," she added. "Consumers deserve consistency and to know what the framework is. ISPs need to be more proactive in identifying those people infringing copyright and have a simple, measured system of graduated response."Bales said that despite the attention given to thePirate Bay, the site was "not particularly innovative" but had used the same principle as Grokster and Kazaa to create "a very lucrative business".The Pirate Bay was not concerned with the quality of content, the value for consumers or in creating a business model, she added.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
&bull; Big changes are afoot at MySpace, after it wasconfirmed last nightthat co-founder Chris DeWolfe was stepping down, with former Facebooker Owen Van Nattalikely to be his replacement. Meanwhile Apple -in rude health with $1.2bn profits over the last three months- insisted that unwell boss Steve Jobs would definitely be back in the top job at the end of June.&bull; Desperate criminals are offering up to €25,000 to get their hands onold Nokia 1100 phones, according to PC World. Why? Nokia's not sure - but it could be part of anattempted online banking fraud.&bull; May I remind you that you can pick up a copy of Technology Guardian with today's newspaper at any reputable newsagent (and some less reputable ones). This week's agenda:What Oracle's purchase of Sun really means, the rise ofrobots for the gardenand an interview withAVG boss JR SmithYou can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Apple's remarkable ability to remain unaffected by the downturn seems to be continuing unabated -here's the news story, and Jackmentionedthe results too.The numbers were certainly impressive: $1.21bn of profits on sales of $8.16bn - up significantly on the same time last year.However, it's pretty hard to get an idea of what those numbers mean in context - so we've plotted the company's financials on a graph to show you how Apple's been performing in recent years.As you can see, the numbers follows a pretty straightforward pattern - a slow increase throughout the year, followed by a drastic jump over the period that covers Christmas. Then things come down again, continuing the upward trend.Keeping an eye on revenues (the blue line) there did appear to be a little flattening of growth last year - the spike in December 2007 was huge, largely on the back of the iPhone and iPod Touch. However, it's interesting to notice that the pink line (profits) doesn't move as drastically in comparison to the ups and downs of revenue. It carries on rising relentlessly - and actually at a greater pace than the revenues do.What this shows is that Apple has bigger profit margins today than it did three years ago. You can see that revenues have gone up from $4.36bn for this period in 2006 to $8.16bn for the last three months - that's an increase of 87%. Meanwhile profits have shot up from $410m to $1.21bn, almost three times higher.How? A significant chunk of this must be down to Apple's immense power in the flash memory market - it is now the world's biggest purchaser - and the economies of scale it can achieve when it's selling tens of millions of iPods each quarter. Plus there's the added bonus of things like the App Store (a 30% cut on each purchase) and deals with mobile phone providers - all of which are relatively new.In short, when everyone's margins are shrinking, Apple is using its size and power to squeeze more out of the products it's making: no wonderTim Cook doesn't want to make a netbook.
I want to replace my 7-year-old desktop PC, and I'm considering a slimline Dell. Is there really enough room in these small chassis to put in what's necessary to keep a PC going as long as possible? Also, is 64-bit Vista worth sacrificing my Canon LiDE 30 scanner for?Doug WrightI still buy big tower systems because they are much easier to upgrade or repair, they run cooler, and they are generally more reliable. I don't care if they aren't cute. However, times have changed, and most people no longer open or upgrade their PC's internals, they buy external plug-ins. What they need is the maximum number of usable, easily accessible USB ports.From the future-proofing point of view, you will want to expand the memory, you will probably want more hard drive space, and if you're a gamer, you may want to upgrade the graphics card. A good strategy for maximising price/performance is to double the amount of memory and drive space every two or three years. For example, your old PC probably had 128MB or 256MB of memory and a 40GB or 80GB hard drive, and today's equivalent should have 1GB or 2GB with a 250GB to 500GB hard drive. In another six or seven years, you should be looking at 8GB or 16GB of memory and 2TB or 4TB of drive space. You should therefore make sure the system you buy has a motherboard that can handle 8GB or more, and that you have space for one more hard drive."Cloud computing" uses vast amounts of expensive memory rather than cheap hard drive space, so budget for more memory if you use online applications.As 32-bit Windows can't handle more than 4GB of memory (which means less than 3.5GB is available to the user), and as you can't upgrade from 32-bit to 64-bit Windows without doing a complete reinstallation, it's essential to go for 64-bit Vista or Windows 7. The server market has already moved to 64-bit computing, and sharper suppliers such as Best Buy have also switched. You may lose access to some programs and peripherals, but you can either replace those or, often, run them from a 32-bit Windows installed in Microsoft's free Virtual PC, VMware, or Sun's VirtualBox. It's not clear whether your Canon LiDE 30 scanner will work.Someone on the Canon USA forumsays it will work in 64-bit Vista usingHamrick's VueScansoftware, which I have recommended before.
I am thinking of buying a new computer. Will the File Transfer Wizard transfer the programs and anti-virus protection?Peter BallIf you are upgrading from a Windows XP machine to one running Vista, you will need to use Vista's Windows Easy Transfer program, not XP's wizard. There's a guide at Digital Trends:How To Transfer Your Data from XP to Vista. Microsoft has a FAQ and trouble-shooting advice atWindows Help.In general, it's better to reinstall your programs from scratch on Vista, and then use Windows Easy Transfer to move any personal settings. Don't move antivirus software: Vista versions are not the same as XP versions.An alternative is to useLaplink's PC Mover, which is available for download but is also sold in a box with a cable. PC Mover is not free but it is more capable than Windows Easy Transfer. Note that you will need the64-bit updateif you are moving to the 64-bit version of Vista.
I have a Fuji Finepix F610 digital camera. The instruction book says it takes an xD card but it does not specify Type M or H. Which should I purchase?Ted HughesThe Fuji F610 manual only lists xD cards because the larger Type M and H cards didn't exist when it was announced in 2003 or shipped in 2004. Unfortunately, the original xD card design only provided from 16MB to 512MB of storage, so you won't find any 2GB or 4GB versions on sale. However, even a cheap 128MB xD Picture Card will provide eight times more space than the 16MB version supplied with your camera.Backchat: Dominic Hoy says: "I have used a 1GB Type M card successfully in a FinePix F610 since the cards came out. The only problems are a slightly slower processing time when the camera is saving the photos and a flicker on the movie mode in higher quality mode."It's good to know that it works. The question is whether the benefits of greater storage (compared with approved and tested 128MB or 256MB cards) outweigh the unforeseen risks, which could include losing photos.
It is not a plot spoiler to tell you that in an episode of The Wire, two of the senior homicide detectives take a young suspect to their office's "lie detector" and get him to put his palms on it. What's your name? they ask. He replies. TRUE, says the machine. Where do you live? they ask. He gives an address. TRUE. Did you kill that guy down on the corner? No, no! he insists. FALSE, says the machine. "The machine is never wrong, son," says Bunk Moreland, the cigar-smoking detective played by Wendell Pierce (based on a real-life one from Baltimore's squad of the late 1980s). The suspect is terrified into admission.Oh, I should mention that the "lie detector" is what you and I would recognise as a photocopier, and its answers are sheets of paper pre-inserted in the feeder. And if you think that's just a story in a TV programme – it actually used to happen in Detroit. That's where the writer David Simon first heard about it; but he saw Baltimore cops do it too. (And if you're wondering why the Guardian loves The Wire so much, it's because Simon sends us a packet of biscuits each time we mention it. Our lie detector says that's TRUE.)Our tendency to believe what machines tell us – even if, like the poor kids facing Detroit's finest, we don't understand the machines – still baffles me. Weeks ago, we showed how scientists had torn strips off the idea that seven councils using a "lie detection" system known as "Voice Risk ­Analysis" to analyse requests for ­housing benefit (plus Jobcentre Plus, which used it to analyse requests for jobseeker's allowance)could get any real&nbsp;benefit from it. There was no evidence that anyone had asked the basic scientific question: how did they know that any results they saw were because of the machine, rather than because they told people they were using a machine? In other words, did they have a real lie detector or a photocopier?The week after, we got hold of statistics and analysis of the first trials by the government itself. Their conclusions?As&nbsp;we noted, of the seven initial trials, three would just about pass the "null hypothesis" test – ie, replacing the VRA system with a coin. In four, no difference.So I tried asking the councils whether they'd seen these results and analyses, and if they had anything to say – ­perhaps naively expecting something like "Yes, the science shows we're ­wasting taxpayers' money, and we're suspending its use right away."Too hopeful. Of those that responded, most said they'll carry on. Only JobCentre Plus and Wealden were giving up its use; JCP didn't have a response, and Wealden dropped it on grounds of cost – it had to make savings all over. Other councils? They didn't respond.It's staggering to me, but perhaps it's just indicative of the inertia of big organisations. You've spent thousands and thousands of pounds on a ­technology (plus training for staff – and indications are it's the training that makes this system work at all, because it trains them to listen carefully). Reputations have been staked. And now the raw science demonstrates that it's a waste of time?Faced with that, organisations have two choices: respect the science, or worship the technology. Almost always, politicians, executives and even people like ourselves prefer to worship rather than take the rational route. It's a fabulous waste.Really, the only people who ought to worship technology are those who don't understand it – such as murder suspects, perhaps. But everyone else? Technology should be your servant, not your god. That, I think it's clear, is TRUE. I just checked it with the lie detector.
Chinese hackersThe world is officially doomed (GhostNets in the machine, 16 April). China is effed up.twitter.com/jocularfowlWhat shall we call pirates?For my money, the best suggestion by far (Is it time to stop using the word 'piracy', 16 April) comes from a reader named Derek: "Downlifting. Download + shoplifting. Pretty accurate description that doesn't imply violence. Plus there's a ­little mental double-take with 'down' and 'lift'."freakonomics.blogs.nytimes.com• Pervasiveness of Wi-Fi and broadband has made piracy a cottage industry. Many of us support or actively&nbsp;participate in piracy without even blinking. Here is a dipstick: Do you feel guilty about making copies of the latest music hit that your friend bought (or the other way around) while doing so? You may not feel as sinister as a gang of Somalis taking the captain of Mersk Alabama hostage; it is still about the owner of the "rights" not getting their due share.globalizationandme.com• I'm going to try and come up with a new word for "piracy" – I'll call it copiracy, amalgamation of copyright+piracy.twitter.com/lxxxiiiThe end of Wikia SearchWhen I think about this article in the context of the fire fight now raging about online information and the traditional media (aka "dead tree outfits"), I chuckled. The article does a very good job of making clear that a gatekeeper has to step forward and impose order on the unruly crowd. Indeed. As civil disorder peppers cities from Athens to Zagreb, order is useful.On one hand, Google seems to be the outfit best suited to manage the search side of the world. Whom do you suppose should handle the information side? Mr Finkelstein's approach left this addled goose with the idea that newspapers and publishers are the ideal candidates to tidy up the messy information businesses.I have no idea who will craft "a representative trajectory of web evangelism". I do have a hunch that the dead tree crowd will have some ideas and expect to be paid to perform this valuable service.arnoldit.com/wordpress/2009/04/17/gatekeepers-last-gasp-journalists-know-information/• I think there were two factors that doomed Wikia Search (Read me first, 16 April). First of all it's [a] gigantic undertaking and, what's more, why should volunteers let themselves be exploited to make others rich?dee.tumblr.comWe can work it outI probably won't need to download any Beatles songs, but I am sure so many young people would enrich their musical knowledge by listening to them (Fab Four still waiting for net gains, 16 April). So it is a good thing, as Martha Stewart would say. Now don't throw that CD away – we are going to make a nice Easter photo frame with it. Or a soap dish. Or a table runner.beebalm.wordpress.com• The second biggest-selling album of 2008 was AC/DC's Black Ice ... with zero downloads.twitter.com/pete_taylorMore on free dataI must correct the mistaken impression given regarding the availability of small area data from the census (There's light at the end of a five-year tunnel, 16 April). This (anonymised) data is available for all to use. However, in its raw form, it is not useful for commercial users. It has to be processed to be commercially usable – something that business is happy to pay for, and which does not provide a barrier to widespread usage.A far larger issue is not the matter of freeing target marketing data for the commercial world, but rather one of protecting the security of personal details people have handed over to businesses and government. Here the security standards remain woefully low. There is much talk about protecting personal data, but very little action to improve standards. Initiatives have begun to help organisations benchmark where they stand versus the national norm, and in relation to best practice. But there is a long way to go.Perhaps, as a significant and influential voice in the world of data and IT, Technology Guardian could devote as much time to data protection as it does to data freedom.Peter Galdies,chief technology officer, Datameasures, High WycombeMario who?There's a slightly snippy review of the new Nintendo DSi (Techno­phile, 16 April). The reviewer clearly is the only person in the world apart from Tony Blair (and possibly old Moonface from Keane) not to have a bit of Mario in him!living4pleasurealone.blogspot.comNo more GoogleShould Google run the mobile gateway? (Opinion, 16 April) Victor says "why not?" I say "no thanks".twitter.com/henryhankBenioff saysMarc Benioff chimes in on the "service cloud". Someone gets it, just not sure how that company would price it.twitter.com/bulldogpetuniaSunshine for someGloomy analysis article about Sun in the Guardian – very funny ending though, had me tittering all morning. (Dark days for Sun – and the forecast isn't any better, 16 April)twitter.com/cheesymike• Email us atmailto:tech@guardian.co.uk
Conficker's April Fool's joke –the huge, menacing build-up and then nothing– is a good case study on how we think about risks, one whose lessons are applicable far outside computer security. Generally, our brainsaren't very goodat probability and risk analysis. We tend to use ­cognitive shortcuts instead of thoughtful analysis. This worked fine for the simple risks we encountered for most of our species's existence, but it's less effective against the complex risks society forces us to face today.We tend to judge the probability of something happening on how easily we can bring examples to mind. It's why people tend to buy earthquake insurance after an earthquake, when the risk is lowest. It's why those of us who have been the victims of a crime tend to fear crime more than those who haven't. And it's why we fear a repeat of 9/11 more than other types of terrorism.We fear being murdered, kidnapped, raped and assaulted by strangers, when friends and relatives are far more likely to do those things to us. We worry about plane crashes instead of car crashes, which are far more common. We tend to exaggerate spectacular, strange, andrare events, and downplay more ordinary, familiar, and common ones.We also respond more to stories than to data. If I show you statistics on crime in New York, you'll probably shrug and continue your vacation planning. But if a close friend gets mugged there, you're more likely to cancel your trip.And specific stories are more convincing than general ones. That is why we buy more insurance against plane accidents than against travel accidents, or accidents in general. Or why, when surveyed, we are willing to pay more for air travel insurance covering "terrorist acts" than "all possible causes". That is why, in experiments, people judge specific scenarios more likely than more general ones, even if the general ones include the specific.Conficker's 1 April deadline was precisely the sort of event humans tend to overreact to. It's a specific threat, which convinces us that it's credible. It's a specific date, which focuses our fear. Our natural tendency to exaggerate makes it more spectacular, which further increases our fear. Its repetition by the media makes it even easier to bring to mind. As the story becomes more vivid, it becomes more convincing.The New York Timescalledit an "unthinkable disaster", the television news show 60 Minutes said it could "disrupt the entire internet" and we at the Guardianwarnedthat it might be a "deadly threat". Naysayers werefew(bit.ly/schneier37), and drowned out.The first of Aprilpassedwithoutincident, but Conficker isno less dangeroustoday(bit.ly/schneier41, bit.ly/schneier42). About2.2m computersworldwide, are still infected with Conficker.A and B, and about1.3m moreare infected with thenastier Conficker.C. It's true that on 1 April Conficker.C tried a new trick to update itself, but its authors could have updated the worm using another mechanism any day. In fact, theyupdated iton 8 April, and can do so again.And Conficker is just one of many, many dangerous worms being run by criminal organisations. It came with a date and got a lot of press – that 1 April date was more hype than reality – but it's not particularly special. In short, there are many criminal organisations on the internet using worms and other forms of malware to infect computers. They then use those computers to send spam, commit fraud, and infect more computers. The risks are real and serious. Luckily, keeping your anti-virus software up-to-date and not clicking on strange attachments can keep you pretty secure. Conficker speads through a Windows vulnerability that waspatched in October(bit.ly/schneier48). You do have automatic update turned on, right?But people being people, it takes a specific story for us to protect ourselves.•Bruce Schneieris BT's chief security technology officer
64-bit future?I want to replace my 7-year-old desktop PC, and I'm considering a slimline Dell. Is there really enough room in these small chassis to put in what's necessary to keep a PC going as long as possible? Also, is64-bit Vista worth sacrificing my Canon LiDE 30 scanner for?Doug WrightJS:I still buy big tower systems because they are much easier to upgrade or repair, they run cooler, and they are generally more reliable. I don't care if they aren't cute. However, times have changed, and most people no longer open or upgrade their PC's internals, they buy external plug-ins. What they need is the maximum number of usable, easily accessible USB ports.From the future-proofing point of view, you will want to expand the memory, you will probably want more hard drive space, and if you're a gamer, you may want to upgrade the graphics card. A good strategy for maximising price/performance is to double the amount of memory and drive space every two or three years. For example, your old PC probably had 128MB or 256MB of memory and a 40GB or 80GB hard drive, and today's equivalent should have 1GB or 2GB with a 250GB to 500GB hard drive. In another six or seven years, you should be looking at 8GB or 16GB of memory and 2TB or 4TB of drive space. You should therefore make sure the system you buy has a motherboard that can handle 8GB or more, and that you have space for one more hard drive. "Cloud computing" uses vast amounts of expensive memory rather than cheap hard drive space, so budget for more memory if you use online applications.As 32-bit Windows can't handle more than 4GB of memory (which means less than 3.5GB is available to the user), and as you can't upgrade from 32-bit to 64-bit Windows without doing a complete reinstallation, it's essential to go for 64-bit Vista or Windows 7. The server market has already moved to 64-bit computing, and sharper suppliers such as Best Buy have also switched. You may lose access to some programs and peripherals, but you can either replace those or, often, run them from a 32-bit Windows installed in Microsoft's free Virtual PC, VMware, or Sun's VirtualBox. It's not clear whether your Canon LiDE 30 scanner will work. Someone on theCanon USA forum says it will work in 64-bit Vistausing Hamrick's VueScan software, which I have recommended before.Fairly easy transferI am thinking of buying a new computer.Will the File Transfer Wizard transferthe programs and anti-virus protection?Peter BallJS:If you are upgrading from a Windows XP machine to one running Vista, you will need to use Vista's Windows Easy Transfer program, not XP's wizard. There's a guide atDigital Trends: How To Transfer Your Data from XP to Vista. Microsoft has a FAQ and trouble-shooting advice atWindows Help. In general, it's better to reinstall your programs from scratch on Vista, and then use Windows Easy Transfer to move any personal settings. Don't move antivirus software: Vista versions are not the same as XP versions.An alternative is to useLaplink's PC Mover, which is available for downloadbut is also sold in a box with a cable. PC Mover is not free but it is more capable than Windows Easy Transfer. Note that you will needthe 64-bit updateif you are moving to the 64-bit version of Vista.Card fittingI have a Fuji Finepix F610 digital camera. The instruction book says it takes an xD card but it does not specify Type M or H. Which should I purchase?Ted HughesJS:The Fuji F610 manual only lists xD cards because the larger Type M and H cards didn't exist when it was announced in 2003 or shipped in 2004. Unfortunately, the original xD card design only provided from 16MB to 512MB of storage, so you won't find any 2GB or 4GB versions on sale. However, even a cheap 128MB xD Picture Card will provide eight times more space than the 16MB version supplied with your camera.Backchat• Julian Taylor was looking for a person­al finance program. Matthew Williamson says: "I have used Personal Accountz for several years, as treasurer of two small clubs, and it is extremely easy to use. It&nbsp;does not produce invoices, but the reporting and forecasting are excellent."
Company of Heroes and its mission pack were compelling and memorable RTSs; sadly, Tales of Valour is less of both. Visually, it's still a promising blend of hefty WW2 units and battles, but the limited gameplay soon begins to grate.For single players you get a mere three new campaigns, each containing a paltry three missions. Even worse, those missions are restrictive and linear, with little scope for ingenuity or repeat play. The three new multiplayer modes are better, but hardly compensation for so few new units or maps. Relic seems to have dumbed down and clipped a classic; the big question is why they figured no one would care.
Probably not. BT is tightening its grip on the public Wi-Fi market, having acquired 650 Starbucks locations this week from T-Mobile (which is now out of the coffee giant's stores in the UK and US, where it gave up its franchise to AT&amp;T last June). And monopolists have an ingrained tendency not to lower prices unless something very persuasive - such as a rival that is comprehensively eating their lunch - drives them to. BT now has a growing share of the hotspot market, with more than 150,000 locations in the UK and Ireland, including hotel chains, British Airways lounges and Welcome Break service stations.With Wi-Fi, which still offers much higher speeds at greater reliability than any flavour of 3G, 3.5G or 4G mobile services, BT has an offering that will attract iPhone users and O2 dongle users (who will get access via a special deal) and others seeking to get a fast internet connection away from their offices or homes. That's always been the argument for public Wi-Fi, but for years the divided nature of the market - between offerings such as The Cloud (which claims around 20,000 hotspots), BT and T-Mobile - has held people back from buying anything but the minimum required.Even so, prices have been rising. T-Mobile started offering Wi-Fi as an add-on to its Web'n'Walk offering for &pound;12.50 a month in January 2007; now it's only available (as an "unlimited" option) for &pound;20 a month. (Back then T-Mobile was boasting 1,200 hotspots in the UK, and saying it was "the largest provider of public Wi-Fi in the world"; now, it's retreating from the market.)BT has also been altering its prices, but the intention is clearly to tie people in to long-term contracts. It last updated its price lists last October, when we noted thatBT's prices were still above those for The Cloud. Nowadays, 90 minutes (the minimum available) will cost you &pound;5.88, usable within any 24-hour period; for "unlimited" time in any 24 hours, it's &pound;9.79. Subscriptions start at &pound;5 a month for 500 minutes, but you'll have to sign up for at least 12 months. The Cloud's subscriptions start at &pound;6.99 a month, but offer "unlimited" time; or there's a pay-as-you-go option, beginning with 60 minutes' connectivity for &pound;4.50.For the growing army of smartphone users (principally iPhone owners), the question of whether you want to pay for a hotspot is becoming an increasingly complex calculation. The arrival of Skype on the iPhone means that, in a hotspot, an international call becomes cheap rather than extortionate; but if it's not a BT hotspot, the price of the login makes it extortionate again. The problem with paid-for Wi-Fi as an alternative to mobile broadband (aka 3G and HSDPA) is that prices for the latter are falling. Paid-for Wi-Fi still looks pricey. What's the use of a monopoly that doesn't make money?
One of the benefits of a wireless network is that it turns hi-fi into Wi-Fi. Music and audio from your PC can be beamed around the house, following you from bedroom to the bathroom. Logitech wants to be a leading player in home music streaming. Its latest offering is the Squeezebox Boom - a shiny black box the size of a radio that connects to your wireless router, liberating your music from the PC desktop.The Squeezebox looks and sounds good, with chunky bass and the sort of clear tones you would expect from a full-sized stereo rather than a portable player. Once the Squeezecenter software is loaded on to your computer, any audio file from your hard drive can be played though the Squeezebox. You can select tracks by artist, song, genre and - for a one-click nostalgia trip - by year.The interface is basic: an LED display, scroll wheel and illuminated array help you navigate your selections. The dials are not intuitive, but become familiar with use. Display buttons can save your favourite radio stations.The internet gives you access to thousands of stations, making the Squeezebox a global alternative to DAB. I spent time listening to US National Public Radio, the BBC World Service and several internet narrowcasts. You can also play internet music services such as Last.fm and Pandora, and podcasts.Music streaming can be bad for your carbon footprint - the computer has to be on to play audio files from its hard drive. But Logitech gives you access to radio stations and audio tracks saved to a remote server when your PC is off.The sleek exterior of the Squeezebox hides some niggles. The overcrowded search menu means finding a song can be time-consuming - especially if it's not indexed properly. You can play tracks by clicking them on the computer software, but that rather defeats the object. I found the Squeezecenter software ponderous, and wanted the Squeezebox to work with Windows Media Player.Most importantly, this kind of player should be portable. With no on-board battery, the Squeezebox has to be plugged in at the mains, so it's not designed for wandering around the house and garden. In my version, the tiny remote control only worked some of the time.But there is no doubting its audio credentials; for a compact player, it makes a lot of (quality) noise. For radiophiles it is a good alternative to a DAB receiver. At &pound;199, it's not a cheap entry into music networking, but I found myself rather attached to this little black music box.Pros:MP3s and internet radio away from your computer; quality soundCons:No onboard battery; crowded menu on box's interfacelogitech.com
A few years ago, Colly Myers, the former head of Psion and Symbian, threw his energy into a new company - unmemorably called AQA 63336 - that seemed doomed. It charged &pound;1 for answering questions by text message. Why do that when you can Google it for nothing? But it turned out there was a market, not least in pubs and clubs, big enough to get sales of &pound;4m last year despite competition from a rival,82ASK, now owned by 118 118. AQA even has editorial policies. If you asked how to vote at the last general election, it told you to go for the Liberal Democrats as they opposed the Iraq war.Five years and 18m answers later, the company is offering a new service, AQA2U, whereby anyone can create a special interest community, whether for a local football club or stamp collecting, and earn money. If it works out, backroom publishers will get 7p to 9p out of the 25p cost of each text message (13p is creamed off by operators and the government). I have no idea whether this will be successful but it is the latest example of what we had better start getting used to: the explosive growth of the mobonomy, or mobile economy, that offers exciting prospects for growth in the post-credit crunch era.Mobiles are not only the most versatile consumer device ever invented, gobbling up competing devices from cameras to MP3 players, they have what the internet can only dream of: a built-in payment system. Lots of economists argue that the digital economy - in which the cost of producing extra units is zero - is forcing prices towards zero. Poppycock. If you look at the three main arms of the digital world, it is only the web that has trouble making prices stick. The other two - mobile phones and virtual worlds (where all goods are digital) - have flourishing economies. Why? Because the internet arrived in this world without a micropayment system, whereas the other two have them built in. This is why kids who don't pay for music online will pay &pound;2.50 for a ringtone, why emails are free but text messages can cost 25p. It's why SeeMeTV pays users for uploading their videos to phones while YouTube doesn't. Flirtomatic sold nearly $1.5m (&pound;1m) of virtual roses in 2007 and Second Life expects virtual transactions to soar from $350m last year to $450m in 2009.But virtual worlds are a minority sport compared with mobile phones now that 60% of the world's population have one and even more if you restrict the count to the "economically active". In large parts of Africa where mobiles are driving growth, you need one to be active in the economy. We are already seeing the first fruits of the mobonomy in the volcanic growth of applications - 25,000 and counting for the iPhone/iPod Touch - which is partly down to brilliant design but also to an easy payments system. And this is before Google and Nokia get into their stride. PayPal, eBay's global payments system, reckons that mobile will be vital to its plans to double revenue in the next few years, while Google is now introducing its hugely successful AdSense payments system to mobiles, which will give users a share of income generated by contextualised adverts. Other much smaller payments systems are emerging, such as the embryonicBeem, enabling you to have kind of surrogate bank account in your mobile. Every mobile operator hopes to be a banker by becoming a default payment system.The key factor in all this is that every mobile phone owner is both a consumer and potentially a producer of services because the mobonomy is an integrated network such as has never been seen before. It is a global community in which potentially everyone on the planet is connected to everyone else both for personal communication and transactions. If this doesn't turn out to be one of the biggest marketplaces ever known, why, I'll eat my mobile.victorkeegan.com
The government has kicked into touch a decision on the future of its largest state-owned digital information business. The Communities and Local Government department will today announce that the Ordnance Survey must make more of its data available to re-users - while apparently grooming part of the agency for future privatisation.The new business strategy, published the day after the budget, follows a review by the Treasury's Shareholder Executive. The headline finding is that "a model where a user pays a licence fee for OS data continues to be the most effective way of balancing the need to increase the availability of geographic information to the wider UK economy and society while maintaining the quality of OS data".But in a concession long called for by the Free Our Data campaign and others, boundaries information will be available for free as part of an extended "OS OpenSpace" service. Also available will be some OS products "from 1:10,000 scale through to 1:1 million scale". The MasterMap database will remain proprietary.Intriguingly, the strategy proposes a "wholly owned subsidiary company" to "further OS's ability to offer new and innovative services to government, business and individual customers alike". It will license OS data on the same terms as any commercial rival. The new subsidiary is "part of the drive to ensure that OS is sustainable for the medium term and value is generated for the taxpayer".The use of "medium term" seems to imply the "innovative trading entity" is set up with an eye to privatisation - although that is "absolutely not" the intention, says Iain Wright, shareholder minister for OS.Wright says he understands the free data argument and that "for low level users, community or voluntary based, it is reasonable that data should be free. But if something happens on the scale of a potential Google in the UK, it's right that some benefit flows to the taxpayer."
Deaf people could be a step closer to a much-needed modernisation of the systems that allow them to make phone calls after a minister said last week that Ofcom wanted "the introduction of additional relay services".Responding to a written question from Rosie Cooper MP asking if he would direct Ofcom to take steps to ensure relay services were modernised, the minister for employment relations, Pat McFadden, said that the regulator had commissioned a study of the social and economic benefits of such services."The study is examining the gap between services that are currently available and potential services," he said, adding that there was a universal recognition that disabled users should not be excluded from thebenefits of modern telecommunications.The only government-subsidised service of this kind at present is Typetalk, which relays calls between textphones and voice phones but works on analogue phone lines, not the digital lines now present in most workplaces.The past few years have seen an explosion of relay services based on captioned telephony, which uses voice recognition software to transcribe calls so that deaf people can follow conversations while speaking on the phone.Video phones and webcam technology have also enabled video relay, which enables users to communicate on the phone via a sign language interpreter.While the UK has seen these type of relay services in the past few years, they are prohibitively expensive to the average user and, with no government subsidies, have had to close down. Meanwhile, in the US and Sweden, they have become widely available.TAG, a consortium of organisations that campaign for deaf and hard of hearing people and have been lobbying for new-style services, describes the minister's comments as "forward-looking" and hopes that the study will open the door to existing services held back by financial constraints as well as allowing equality in the workplace.Its chairperson, Ruth Myers, said: "We look forward to the Ofcom report which we believe will highlight the significance of new-style relay services for the life and employment chances of deaf people."Speaking about current services, Myers said: "The existing Typetalk telephone relay service is of huge value to many deaf people, but under the current regulation cannot offer direct Internet access or newer, additional services like captioned telephony."For sign language users, video relay could significantly transform the lives of many deaf people."
So hang on - she's single now?Ah, the comedy of manners that is Facebook relationships. If only they'd had it in the 1950s, Mad Men would be far more comprehensible to those under 25. In fact, it would look like this ...Beelzebub has a CPU set aside ...More fun with making old-skool computers play songs that were written about the time they were built. In this case, Bohemian Rhapsody. The rock section needs a bit more heft, though.Oh, did I think that out loud?What's looked possible for years - turning throat muscle movements into words - is reality. Awesome.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Tweet like a bardThe Royal Shakespeare Company is holding a poetry competition on Twitter for its production of As You Like It.Google Labs does timeGoogle is experimenting with a timeline that lets you search and view news by the day, week, month, year and decadeReturn of the Silver SurfersDigital Unite will be holding its annual Silver Surfers' Day on 15 May, to help older people get online.Lego Rock Band is realLego Rock Band will be released on the Xbox 360, PS3, Wii and DS this year.Charge it at HeathrowHeathrow Airport is installing 47 Samsung-sponsored Power Poles so travellers can recharge their gadgets en route.Stoned netbookBritain's Stone Group (which has bought Rock) will release its 10-inch Neo 101 netbook for &pound;275+VAT on 1 May.Mega Drive revisitedFirebox has a version of the Sega Drive console with 15 built-in games for &pound;39.95.Open source playIn the US, Envizions is now taking orders for its Evo Smart Linux-based games consoles priced at $279 and $350.Eee VideophoneAsus will make a standalone PC-free 7in Skype videophone for about &pound;220.
Traditionally, the garden has been a refuge from modern life rather than an extension of it - the last place you'd look for the latest technology. But as a warmer climate encourages us to spend more time outdoors, our domestic lives move increasingly outside, at least in summer. At the same time, a range of new labour-saving devices are going on sale to time-poor gardeners. Inspired, perhaps, by the science fiction movie Silent Running, Douglas Trumbull's magnificent eco-parable where a trio of robots tend to the last trances of plant life, the garden is about to bear technological fruit.The latest commercial robots go on sale this summer, capable of cutting the lawn or watering and feeding plants. And in years to come, an army of bug-like machines are waiting to tend your tomato plants and dig weeds as you sleep.A cut aboveThe first commercially available robots appeared in the garden as early as the mid-90s. Sweden's Husqvarna, then part of Electrolux, pioneered the domestic robot in 1995 with its solar-powered Automower. Now a separate company, Husqvarna continues to develop cutting-edge lawn robots; its latest model, the 260, can handle up to 6,000sq metres of lawn and send its owner a text message if it gets stuck. "They're better at cutting the lawn than a normal mower," says James Walker,  the after-sales adviser at Husqvarna. "Our mowers use razor blades rather than a big heavy blade and because it goes out every day, it cuts little bits of grass rather than a week's worth of growth. That means that the grass gets used to fertilise the lawn, which creates one that is much healthier and lusher than you would get with a pedestrian mower."Robotic mowers remain expensive. Basic models cost about &pound;1,000 and more sophisticated ones can be three times that, even though they can only cut short grass and don't deal very well with uneven ground. Moreover, owners have to set a boundary wire to mark out the cutting area - a tedious task unless the lawn is rectangular. This spring, the first robotic mower to do away with the boundary wire goes on sale in UK garden centres. The L50 "Mowbot", manufactured by the Italian company Zucchetti Centro Sistemi, has a grass sensor to detect the edge of the lawn. Retailing at &pound;1,160, it can cope with slopes of up to 27&deg;, runs on a lithium battery and automatically returns to its recharging station when its task is done. Like the Automower, it has collision and child-safety  sensors that stop the blades immediately if the machine is suddenly lifted.Still more sophisticated robots are in development. Researchers at the Distributed Robotics Lab of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are developing garden-bots to tend tomato plants. They can locate and pick ripe tomatoes, and even help with pollination. The plants themselves are equipped with local soil sensors to request water or nutrients.According to the lab's Daniela Rus, robotic gardening allows for a "great reduction" not just in time spent but in resources consumed. Her team's robots are being primed to "ameliorate the heavy carbon footprint of today's agriculture", so don't expect them at your local garden centre soon. Working in a similar field, researchers at the University of California are developing a robot to do the weeding, but again it is years away. To find an industrial robot in mass production we must look to the flower factories of the Netherlands, where the manufacter Aris has developed robots that can nurture delicate orchids. These robots, which use optical sensors, are elaborate enough to identify how many petals each flower contains.Other technologies may reach your garden sooner than you might expect. As it becomes less socially acceptable to smoke indoors, people are moving into the garden and taking home comforts with them. Sanyo produces  fully waterproof outdoor monitors suitable for watching television or playing videogames. Some even have a "transflective coating" to cope with direct sunlight. Debbie Pullen, the marketing manager of Techvision, a supplier of outdoor TVs, says orders are picking up, mostly for customers who want to watch TV while relaxing in their hot tubs.Smarter gardening"For the majority of people, gardening has been watering, weeding and cutting the lawn, but what they like doing is relaxing, barbecuing or drinking a cold beer after work," reckons the gardening expert David Domeney, who built a garden of the future for the recent Ideal Home show in London. "This type of technology is enabling people to get great results with little effort so they can spend more time enjoying their garden. It's taking away the mundane but increasing efficiency, too. The biggest issue for gardeners is going away on holiday and finding things are dead when they get back."Which is why serious gardeners are investing in outdoor IT. Hozelock, based in Buckinghamshire, produces the AC Pro, an outdoor computer the size of a mobile phone that attaches to a hose and can irrigate the garden when the owner is on holiday, or be set to turn on in the cool of the night, which wastes far less water.The garden of the future has a precedent in art. A decade ago, the net artist Ken Goldberg established his"telegarden", a patch of grass that could be tended over the internet. "At the time we did it because the idea was absurd," he says. "But 10 years later people want to do things remotely."Goldberg thinks that this move towards automation is a generational shift. "Our parents didn't have to deal with Facebook and Twitter so they had time for the garden that we don't have," he says. "We'll see a lot more of the garden being automated in the future, especially as the price of the electronics is likely to drop."
Pikmin 2 was originally released for the Gamecube, the precursor to the Nintendo Wii. The relative failure of the Cube meant this charming game failed to reach the audience it deserved. This re-release for the Wii should rectify that, although what your average Wii Sports player will think of a game that involves manoeuvring flower people around a garden remains to be seen.If there is any justice, it will be a huge hit – Pikmin is a world away from the derivative tedium that clutters up much of the Wii release schedule. The basic premise sees you guiding your Pikmin around some surreal landscapes and solving the ­puzzles within. Different coloured Pikmin have different skills – some can walk on water, others can withstand poison – and exploiting these is crucial to success.The only major enhancement for this re-release is the addition of Wii-specific controls. Luckily they work well and make it easier to control your little army. Gamecube owners who played the original needn't bother but Pikmin 2 is a breath of fresh air for the Wii.
For the past 20 years or so, the relationship between games and films has been pretty straightforward: blockbuster movie is announced, game publisher buys licence, mind-blowingly mediocre tie-in is released, many thousands of gullible souls go out and buy it. Ah, happy days.But times are changing. Last July, Warner Bros announced that it would be self-publishing a videogame version of its Watchmen movie as an online-only episodic download - traditional games publishers were cut out of the loop. Now Paramount is following suit, announcing that it will produce its own budget downloadable tie-in for the forthcoming Star Trek movie, and won't be putting the rights out to tender. Indeed, the studio is hitting gamers from multiple directions - there's a free iPhone phaser app (forget "stun" or "kill", just set it immediately to "social suicide") and, on Monday, the movie's director, JJ Abrams, and a couple of its stars appeared for a Q&amp;A session on Play Station 3's virtual environment, Home.Movie giants are also making use of their own games as pre-publicity. With the insane Crank: High Voltage, for example, you can head to the official website and play three browser-based mini-challenges modelled on moments from the film. They have names like Touch the Granny and Help the Hooker and they're rubbish, but they point at a future in which studios harness the casual gaming sector much more actively.Why is all this happening now? What's gone wrong with the old model of selling off the rights to the highest videogame bidder, then getting fat and rich on the proceeds? Well, you can be pretty sure it's not about artistic integrity. The main thing is, retail games take bloody ages to develop these days. You can't just whip out a quick conversion in a few weeks - it can take more than two years to produce a PS3 or Xbox 360 title, even a really crap one - and studios don't usually plan that far ahead. In contrast, a downloadable title can be knocked out in a matter of months and then released at a price point that sits well within the impulse purchase bracket.There is, perhaps, a realisation that - duh - people consume their media differently these days; the rise of iPhone apps and digital download services such as WiiWare, Xbox Live Arcade and the new DS Store has opened up a new way to access mildly interested consumers who still want to play, but can't afford &pound;50 on a big film tie-in.I don't think this means the death of the crappy movie game. But, together with the fact that lots of publishers are now making products that work as prequels or sequels to the movies rather attempting to ape the on-screen action (the game version of the forthcoming Terminator Salvation is set several years before the film), it represents an intriguing alternative. Of course, what we now need is for developers to start buying digital camcorders and making their own movie tie-ins to big game releases. I've seen Max Payne the movie - believe me, a low-budget indie flick cobbled together by game programmers couldn't have been any worse.
In his public and his private life, Larry Ellison thrives on winning. The billionaire founder of Oracle races sailing boats, flies fighter jets - and is rumoured to have spent $200m (&pound;136m) building his 138-metre super-yacht, Rising Sun, so that he could win bragging rights over the Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen. That instinct is also evident in the 64-year-old's business dealings, in which he has a reputation for crushing potential competitors - and being vocal about it. During Oracle's brutal 18-month attempt to take over Peoplesoft, he said that if he were forced to choose between shooting his rival chief executive, Craig Conway, or Conway's pet, his bullet "wouldn't be for the dog".As a corporation, Oracle shows a similar edge, shedding staff, killing unprofitable products and dropping weak ideas if better ones come along. This has helped turn it into one of the world's most powerful software companies - but what does it mean for its $7.4bn buyout of Sun Microsystems (which, after Sun's cash and debts are accounted for, will cost just $5.6bn)?Although just a few miles separates the two offices, with Sun's main campus in Santa Clara, California, a half-hour drive south from Oracle's waterside HQ in Redwood City, they feel worlds apart. Born out of Stanford University, Sun has maintained a lofty, academic approach.For some high-profile parts of Sun - such as the Java programming language and the high-end Solaris operating system - the shift could actually be good news."Java is one of the computer industry's best known brands," beamed Ellison during the announcement on Monday. "Java runs on hundreds of millions of personal computers, cell phones and even DVD players ... it's the single most important software asset we've ever acquired."More importantly, Oracle's growing middleware business is all Java-based, meaning that the company can guarantee integration to its customers: perfect for squeezing out more efficiency and profit.Similarly, Solaris - widely lauded by experts - has the largest installation base for Oracle's proprietary software. Ditching it or spinning it off would undermine the core business, and so is not likely."In our opinion, the Solaris operating system is by far the best Unix technology available in the market," said Ellison. "We'll be able to tightly integrate the Oracle database to some of the high-end features of Solaris."Inside contestsElsewhere, competition between the companies' products is more direct. Oracle has built its business on databases, where Sun also has a stake - particularly through MySQL, the open-source database company it bought last year for $1bn.MySQL is the weapon of choice for thousands of internet properties ranging from Google, Amazon and Wikipedia down to the tiniest startup. It is also free."They can kill the business, but I don't think they will," M&aring;rten Mickos, the ex-chief executive of MySQL, told Forbes after the deal. "Larry Ellison is smart."But he is also hungry - and MySQL competes with Oracle's basic business. Although there is profit in services and support for MySQL users, some still fear "end of life": dropping of support to force people to upgrade to a replacement."Oracle has absorbed acquisitions as well, if not better, than most of its competitors," wrote Peter Kuper, an analyst at the Institute for Applied Network Security. "But how much will Oracle push an offering that directly undermines its core database business?" Yet with the MySQL source code widespread, and licensed via GPL, if Oracle ignores it then a community may grow around its development.Meanwhile, buying Sun gives one of the world's biggest software companies control of vital parts of the chain - and even if Oracle can't close MySQL off, it can increase the cost of licences where they exist, or encourage holders to move on to its other products rather than switch to something from IBM or SAP.This may not kill Sun's remarkable - though some argue misguided - commitment to open source. In fact, one expert suggested that it makes sense for Oracle's relationship with open source to become more symbiotic. "While Java and Solaris may appear to be the crown jewels in the deal, the real significance is the entrustment of other parts of the open-source stack with Oracle," says Ray Wang, principal analyst with Forrester Research. "These open source components have been viewed as the alternative to the dominance of the big four."Mark Shuttleworth, the entrepreneur who funded the development of Ubuntu, went further, telling reporters that the deal "cements the idea that free and open source software is the profound driving force in software today".Hard questionsOther areas of Sun's business are more problematic. While Oracle enjoys wringing profit from software - and plans on doing the same with Sun's portfolio - it has always been troubled by hardware.Previous, tentative steps into the business have met with little success, including a partnership with Sun in the 1990s promoting network-based computers.However, the idea of owning the entire food chain - "from database to disk" - has become increasingly appealing, and last year Oracle announced that it was joining forces with HP for an expansion in this area (it has been reported that Oracle and HP tabled a joint bid for Sun last year, valued at around $2bn).Underneath the academic window-dressing, that idea is close to Sun's vision - although the fact that Sun failed to execute those plans independently reflects poorly on Scott McNealy and Jonathan Schwartz, its chairman and chief executive. Their futures hang in the balance, even as McNealy tries to dress up what is essentially a fire sale as a merger. Whatever happens to Sun and its 33,000 staff, the deal leaves Oracle in the driving seat - able to pick and choose the products it wants as it feeds its appetite for growth.And it may not be over yet.Over the past decade, a cluster of big names have gravitated towards each other - buying competitors and going head-to-head more directly for the business software market. The demarcations used to be clear, but now companies such as Oracle, Microsoft, Cisco, IBM, EMC, SAP and HP are increasingly circling each other.Both Sun and Oracle have contributed to that consolidation - gambling on almost 100 acquisitions between them over the past decade - and there is a real chance that the spending sprees will go on until there are just one or two players left.Bill Coleman, an ex-Sun executive and the "B" in BEA Systems (sold to Oracle for $8.5bn last year), says the end is a way off. "I believe that we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning consolidation game," he told the New York Times. "It's not over by any stretch of the imagination, and there are drastic things that still have to happen."Believing you are the one who will win the jackpot might seem like hubris: but no one would put it beyond Ellison to try."I suppose you can say to anyone who wants to win so badly, who am I winning for?" he said in an interview with the US TV show 60 Minutes last year. "I'll admit to it, mea culpa, a lot of it is personal vanity. A lot of what keeps me going and keeps my drive is I'm curious as to how far I can go, how far Oracle can go. They're inextricably linked."
JR Smith, who runs AVG in the Czech Republic, is probably not what you'd expect of the head of a security software company: he's a Seattle-born American and rather than being an antivirus expert, he used to work in the mobile phone industry. In fact, he lived in London, where he co-founded Dot Mobile, a virtual network operator, before moving to Brno two years ago.Even more surprising, when we sit down in the Goring hotel near Victoria station in London, it's not to talk about Conficker, the virus du jour. I suggest a bit of scaremongering might stimulate sales.Smith grins. "We're the quiet guys," he says. "We see lots of things that we could shout about, but that isn't really our thing. As a business, we try not to lead by scare tactics. We have a lot of early adopters and technical people who recommend AVG to their friends. Our success sure isn't based on our marketing efforts, because we haven't really done any. It's a viral business."The business strategy, he says, is "really simple: seed the market with our free product - that's what spreads the goodwill, that's what made the brand known - and then monetise the user base." As AVG now has around 85 million users, converting even a small proportion to the paid-for version is a good business."We're constantly looking for ways to monetise without charging our user base a dime," adds Smith. These range from exploiting the web traffic created by downloads to supplying data about infected websites to third parties.And AVG is finally, after 18 years, expanding into foreign languages. The first 80m or so copies were in English, but "now we are or will be pushing it out in Spanish, Italian, Chinese and so on. We've found the take-up is twice what we thought it would be," Smith says.Microsoft moves inOne threat is Microsoft's free antivirus product, codenamedMorro, due out as soon as June. How will that affect AVG's business?"That is yet to be determined," Smith replies. "At this point, we're watching in Brussels to ensure they don't bundle it with Windows and trigger about a trillion lawsuits. They've hired a lot of real industry experts but they've not had a lot of success with their paid product, so that might have been one of the triggers to give it away - that's purely speculation."The impact it will have on us? In many ways, they'll raise awareness, because of the powerful media machine they are, and that's always a good thing. But I don't think we're going to see our user base migrating over to Microsoft any time soon."Morro's limitation is that it only provides basic antivirus protection, whereas the industry has expanded into areas such as identity protection, anti-rootkit software, anti-spyware, safe surfing and so on. Smith is particularly enthusiastic about AVG's LinkScanner, which it acquired at the end of 2007 by buying Exploit Prevention Labs. Link Scanner is now part of AVG's antivirus software, but Smith says it will run on top of anybody's product."What LinkScanner does is it lets you be in control," says Smith. "The nanosecond you click on a link, we scan that landing page and say it's safe or it's not safe. We're checking the first time and every time, so the false-positive rate is almost zero. We believe it's one of, if not the only, technology that does that today."There are, of course, some drawbacks to the free/paid-for approach to business. One is that free users don't get any support. Another is that most companies limit the capabilities of the free software to encourage users to pay for the upgrade; AVG Free doesn't have a rootkit scanner. This didn't matter when there weren't many rootkits, but now it does, I suggest."The free user base supports itself entirely, mainly through the forum," says Smith. "We've considered putting full-time paid monitors on them, and we're recruiting people for some of those spots, but to date it has been purely organic."Smith says AVG is experimenting with providing paid support in the US, "but 60-70% of the time, it's not AVG that's at fault. People might think it's our software, but it's not - maybe it's the router or something else they did. We don't want to tell a customer: 'Sorry, it's not our problem,' so we'll either get the computer fixed or you don't pay. It'll never be a big money-maker, but we think that, for us, it's just the right thing to do. It's an opportunity for us to be a trusted resource."Rootkit for free? "Funny you should mention that," he says. "The engineers have been pushing for this, so there's a very high chance we will be doing it."Platform to platformWhat about expansion to other platforms beyond Windows?"We've always had a Linux product," he says, "and with Mac and mobile, we're looking for relevant innovation at the right time. The phone will become a relevant platform when more people start to surf and do transactions online, and when it gets enough adoption, then it becomes a target. With the Mac, I think that might happen in the next 12 to 18 months. There are people who want protection [on Mac OS X] now, but they don't have any real grounds for that. We're not seeing a big influx."Apple's very good at saying 'We've got the most secure operating system.' You and I know they don't. They know they don't. But they've have never had the volume to make the bad guys decide they want to hit that platform. They're not seeing 30,000 samples in the lab that are focused on Mac."Microsoft, of course, has made its systems less vulnerable since XP came out, to the point where the top 10 exploits in browsing are now in third-party software, according to its own security report."I don't think the end user differentiates," Smith replies. "Microsoft can say it's somebody else's fault, but the bottom line is, the computer's not safe. End users just want to be confident they can do what they want when they want and not worry about it."That's our aim as AVG. We're not really in the security industry. We're in the peace-of-mind industry."
The clear message from this week's London Book Fair was that UK publishing and retailing are finally ready to embrace the ebook. But don't dump your bookshelves yet. Before the ebook can really challenge its paper equivalent, the industry has to avert a format war a whole lot more complicated than VHS v Betamax."A format war could hold back the development of the ebook market," says Simon Juden, chief executive of the Publishers Association. That's bad news for the book industry, and frustrating for readers waiting to join the ebook revolution.There are more than 25 ebook file formats. Amazon and Sony, manufacturers of the Reader and Kindle devices, both have exclusive formats - AZW and BBeB/LRF. Of the other common formats, Mobipocket is supported by Amazon but not Sony, while Adobe PDF is supported by Sony but not Amazon. Throw DRM into the mix and things become even more complex.Imperfectly boundThe solution, says Juden, is for the industry to agree on a cross-platform file format. The open ePub standard, created by the International Digital Publishing Forum, seems to be the format of choice. "I strongly urge all device manufacturers to implement the ePub format," he says. But while ePub is supported by the Sony Reader, it is not supported by the Kindle - at least, not without the use of unapproved conversion software.Amazon released the Kindle in the US in 2007, but its UK release has been delayed, partly because it relies on its Whispernet wireless network, which Amazon has found difficult to set up with European mobile operators. The Kindle 2 was released in the US in February, still without ePub support, although Amazon will convert individual files via an email exchange. The unofficialKindle 2 app Savorycan convert ePub files, but most consumers will not be comfortable with hacking their devices.The Sony Reader was launched in the UK in September, primarily through Waterstone's. Sony doesn't want to divulge UK sales figures, although Waterstone's says it sold 30,000 Readers in the first three months. For Sony, Kindle's lack of support for ePub, and its delay in reaching the UK, is a huge opportunity.Sony won the most recent format war, when its Blu-ray saw off Toshiba's HD-DVD early in 2007. That victory was largely due to Sony's ability to win the support of film studios, along with its decision to include a Blu-ray player in the PlayStation 3 console. Now it is seeking the support of publishers, using the London Book Fair to push the benefits of ePub and exploit the Kindle delays.Speaking at the Book Fair, Richard Palk, Sony's new business contents and services manager, said the company was ditching its proprietary format in the UK: "ePub has become the de facto UK consumers' format of choice," he said, adding that Reader and ebook sales were above expectations. "We see demand for ebooks and digital readers growing in the UK. It's clear that a reading revolution is beginning."Crucially, Sony has allied itself with Amazon's retail rivals. Waterstone's has been selling ebooks in ePub format since the launch of the Reader. "We strongly believe that there should be a single format available to all," says Neil Jewsbury, Waterstone's commercial director. "We are pleased that Sony and the digital publishing industry agree that ePub is the most accessible and user-friendly format."But ePub may not solve all compatibility issues. DRM for ePub is implemented by individual publishers or retailers, which means that files may not be compatible across platforms. It seems unlikely DRM will be removed while authors and agents seek to protect their content.Price pointsAnother point of confusion is pricing. Despite apparently lower production and distribution costs, ebooks still cost about as much as paperbacks. For example, the bestselling ebook The Blood Detective by Dan Waddell is currently &pound;5.59 onwaterstones.com, just 35p cheaper than the &pound;5.94 paperback. The ebook edition of Homicide by David Simon is &pound;8.79, while the paperback costs &pound;7.79 delivered.Neil Jewsbury argues that the ebook pricing model should not devalue books, and that VAT must be considered. "We continue to work with publishers to ensure that the significant value put into producing books is not eradicated by new formats," he says. "Many customers are unaware that digital books are subject to VAT, while standard books are VAT-free, and we welcome every opportunity possible to lobby for the abolition of this additional tax."When Kindle does launch in the UK, publishers who have put resources into ePub will need to convert books to its AZW format. "Publishers will probably have to produce ebooks in both formats," admits Juden. "For small publishers it could be a real problem."Emma Barnes is managing director of the independent publisher Snowbooks. "While no publisher wants to be dictated to, some industry-wide agreement of intent would be beneficial," she says. "There really is no consistency at the moment. As a result, readers are doomed to be confused for the foreseeable future."
Apple has released quarterly results showing revenues growing by 8.7% to $8.16bn with net profits up by 15% to $1.21bn. The company sold 2.22m Macs, 11m iPods, and 3.79m iPhones during the quarter, all of which met or beat Wall Street's expectations.Apple had a strong quarter mainly because iPod Touch sales doubled and iPhone sales more than doubled.Mac shipments fell by 3% compared to the same quarter last year, with desktops down by 4% and portables down by 2%. However, revenues fell much further: by 22% in desktops and 12% in portables. Presumably this was due to buyers choosing Apple's cheaper models instead of the high-end ones.However, as with other companies, Apple's sales would have been affected by the holidays. To be specific, Easter fell in March last year (so Easter sales were included in the results) and in April this year (so they weren't). Also, last year Apple benefited from the launch of the MacBook Air.
Apple continued to shirk off the recession by posting some of its best-ever results, despite the heavy toll that the financial crisis is taking across Silicon Valley.Announcing its latest quarterly results today, the Californian technology giant posted profits of $1.21bn (£836m) – up 15% from the same time last year.Although some analysts had been concerned that Apple's focus on expensive products would struggle as consumer spending dropped, the company said its quarterly revenues increased to $8.16bn, compared to $7.51bn in the first three months of 2008."We are extremely pleased," said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial offer. "These results exceeded our expectations.While the company's Macintosh computer line saw a 3% decrease in sales, it sold more than 11 million iPods – with sales particularly strong in countries including the UK, France, Germany and Japan.The real success story however was the iPhone, which sold more than 3.7m units worldwide – up 123% from the same time in 2008. Revenues from iPhone sales were valued at $2.2bn, while income from mobile phone networks and other associated services rose to $1.52bn. At the same time last year, the same was just $378m.Chief operating officer Tim Cook – who is running the company while co-founder Steve Jobs takes time off to deal with health problems – pointed out the success of the thousands of downloadable iPhone applications. These programs have been downloaded almost a billion times in the past nine months, with the majority of them paid for by customers – and Apple taking a 30% cut of every sale."The sum of the iPhone and iPod touch is now about 37m units – so it provides an enormous platform for developers," he said. "It unleashes a whole new level of innovation that keeps Apple years ahead of everyone else."But while Apple showed remarkable resilience to the overall state of the economy, not every technology company fared so well.Internet auction giant eBay continued its recent slump by posting profits of $357m for its first quarter, down from $460m during the same quarter of 2008.The figure came on the back of shrinking revenues, which dropped 8% to $2.02bn.Chief executive John Donahoe – who has come under fire from investors and employees at the company alike – said that the results were "solid" given the wider market."We delivered solid results in the first quarter and moved aggressively to strengthen our portfolio for longer-term growth," he said. "With a macroeconomic environment that remains challenging, we are focused on operating discipline and strong execution of our three-year growth priorities."Donahoe has certainly started to bring the company's focus back onto its core business of internet auctions and online payments, rescinding the expansion plan the company went on under former boss Meg Whitman.The internet auction company has recently announced the decision to backtrack on a number of speculative purchases it made during the height of the recent Web 2.0 boom, most notably internet telephony company Skype.The UK-based operation, which it bought for a total of $3.1bn in 2005, has been struggling to integrate with the company's main business – and it is now scheduled to spin off from eBay and float on the stock market next year.That announcement, made last week, was seen by many as an attempt to soften the blow of this week's results.
Just a very quick post aboutScarygirl, a browser-based platform game created by Australian illustrator Nathan Jurevicius. You play the eponymous character, who finds herself washed up in a strange land inhabited by giant rabbits and octopi - these strange creatures offer hints and advice as navigate the surreal realm, tracking down a strange character named Dr Maybe.It's visually astounding, merging kawaii characters, TimBurton-esque gothic touches and lots of lovely icons, menus and illustrations. Just beautiful. There's a little background feature over onEdge Online- have a look and then for heaven's sake play it.
What better way to spend a Wednesday evening eh? Yes UK retailer Game hasreleased lifetime salesfigures of all the current consoles. Data like this is relatively rare in the UK and makes predictably interesting reading. No surprises on the biggest sellers then – yes Nintendo leads the way with 8.8 million DS sales. Next up is – gasp – the Wii with 4.9 million. Perhaps the most interesting stat is next up with the 360 and PSP neck and neck at 3.2 million sales. Yes that's right, the PSP has sold as many units in the UK as the 360. But while the 360 is inundated with new releases the PSP, er, isn't. Surely some mistake? Or do PSP owners simply notbuy games?Last up is the PS3 with 1.9 million sales. The PS3 is doing better in mainland Europe though, with 300,000 more sales than the Xbox 360.Go on then. Grab a coffee/beer/water and let us know what you think these figures tell us.  Me? I'm still a little surprised at how many PSPs have been sold.
"MiniDisc is dead – exclusive look at the new disc format that will bury it," reads the magazine coverline. Intrigued? You will be when you flick inside. Because the format that will beat the MiniDisc is the … DataPlay.No, me neither. But it must have made sense in September 2002, when Stuff magazine proudly trumpeted its latest discovery. "DataPlay is a brand new format that crams 500MB of information on to a disc the size of a 50 pence piece," the magazine said.But who could confidently say that they would always pick the product likely to succeed? Gadget spotting is a tricky thing. "A good gadget either fulfils a need or creates a need," says Jason Bradbury from Channel Five's The Gadget Show. "For instance, once you've tried mobile internet on a device that's really good at it, then you start to need to be connected to the digital ether – whereas before you didn't.""It's definitely not an exact science," says Tom Dunmore, Stuff's editor-in-chief, who has been with the magazine since 1999 – it is now celebrating a decade of publishing in its current incarnation.Cutting through the hype, however, can sometimes make those decisions about what's likely to be a hit more difficult. Pre-iPod, a UK Apple launch "would be 20 Mac journalists in a room in the basement of a hotel", Dunmore says. Consider the equivalent hysteria now. So how can journalists resist the lure of excitement and massive buzz when it comes to choosing which gadgets to feature?Jason Jenkins, editor of the technology review site CNET.co.uk, says quality of reporting is paramount. "Expert knowledge is essential to be able to place the product in its proper context – is an AMOLED screen really a groundbreaking feature on a new phone, for example, or does every other mobile have it already? Come to mention it, what is an AMOLED screen anyway – and why should the reader care?"Of course, there are some products that will end up on magazine covers – and indeed newspaper pages – regardless. The PS3, for instance, Nintendo DS or Wii were not going to be ignored. But Bradbury says he tries to steer clear of ramping up – or mouthing off about – the latest products, preferring to look at what we might be seeing over the next two to five years . "I don't make predictions," he says. "You do get little gadgets that I can tell you are going to sell out, but it's small fry." A new USB device to convert your 80s mix tape from cassette to a digital form, for instance, he says, is bound to be a success.Many technology journalists can cite products they were surprised to see fail. Dunmore points to the Gizmondo games console, and the original Nokia N-Gage phone/gaming system, which Stuff awarded five stars, but subsequently failed to find a market. And in retrospect the magazine's huge support for the Sega Dreamcast – "There's nothing to match it – Dreamcast rules" – perhaps only ever looked convincing in September 1999.For Bradbury, it was the Sinclair C5 (he owns one). "The problem was that they marketed the C5 as a commuter gadget and it's not – it's a go-kart for big boys."As well as backing the wrong product, of course, there is always the danger of missing a big trend. "I recall reading a release years ago about one of the first companies to sell ringtones in the UK and writing something along the lines of 'what a ridiculous idea'," says Jenkins. "A few years and a multimillion-pound ringtone industry later, I was forced to eat my words."But what happens when you buy a product on the basis of media recommendations and then find that it just doesn't catch on? "People don't mind too much unless they buy the wrong format," says Dunmore. "That was a big thing round HD-DVD and Blu-ray – when people get burned for serious amounts of money it can annoy them." Jenkins thinks readers are rather less tolerant. "I would put the margin for error our readers give us at 0%," he says.And in the current economic climate, splurging cash on technology that disappoints is even more unpalatable. In fact, splurging cash on any new technology at all is looking ever less appealing. So what should early adopters be looking for in the coming few years? "Really, really efficient portable power – batteries that provide days and weeks of power for your mobile and also power that you can send, that is transmittable" will be popular, says Bradbury, which should hopefully bring an end to the piles of cables currently cluttering up your television stand.He also tips mind control devices – gadgets to help your computer translate your thoughts into actions, that is, rather than mini-robot Derren Browns – as becoming potentially big.And which products are going to be the next Dreamcasts: left discarded and unloved? "3D televisions. If they think for one minute that families are going to sit down and put goggles on to watch EastEnders they're so wrong," Bradley says.Presumably we'll see you all in 10 years' time to judge that opinion.• Stuff's 10th anniversary issue is out now. Watch The Gadget Show on Five at 8pm, Mondays.
ORACLE (Selected list)Company AcquiredDateAmount PaidThinking MachinesJune 1999n/aTopLinkJune 2002n/aPeopleSoftDecember 2004$10.3bnG-LogNovember 2005n/aTimesTenJune 2005n/aInnobaseOctober 2005n/aSiebelSeptember 2005$5.85bn360CommerceJanuary 2006n/aPortal SoftwareApril 2006$220mSleepycatFebruary 2006n/aDemantraJune 2006n/aSigma DynamicsAugust 2006n/aMoniforceJune 2007n/aAppForgeApril 2007n/aBharosaJuly 2007n/aBEA SystemsJanuary 2008$8.5bnClearAppSeptember 2008n/amValentFebruary 2009n/aRelsysMarch 2009n/aVirtual Ironexpectedn/aSun Microsystems20 April 2009$7.4bnSUN (Selected list)Company AcquiredDateAmount PaidCentram Systems West (TOPS)1988n/aChorusOS1997n/aLighthouse Design (Jonathan Schwartz joined through this acquisition)1996n/aStarDivision (StarOffice)1999n/aTrustbase Limited2000n/aCobalt2000$2bnGridware2000n/aClustra2002n/aPixo2003n/aSeven Space2004$49mSeeBeyond2005$387mMySQL2008$1bn
American officials in charge of the country's foreign relations have turned to web messaging service Twitter in their quest to rebuild Iraq.The inventor of the popular web service is among a group of Silicon Valley executives currently on a trip aimed at helping Iraq regrow its battered technology industry.The five-day visit, which was organised by the US State Department, is intended to link up senior figures from some of America's most important and exciting technology companies with their counterparts in Iraq.Executives from a mix of established names – such as Google, YouTube and US telecoms giant AT&amp;T – are on the trip, as well as representatives from much-vaunted startups such as Twitter and blogging service Wordpress. Also listed on the trip is Blue State Digital – the internet strategy firm that helped propel Barack Obama's online campaign last autumn.In a statement, the US State Department said that the trip reflected the administration's belief that communications technology can foster social harmony."As Iraqis think about how to integrate new technology as a tool for smart power, we view this as an opportunity to invite the American technology industry to be part of this creative genesis," a spokesman said.Many Iraqis are familiar with the internet, among them the anonymous blogger Salam Pax, whose online dispatches during the 2003 invasion lifted the lid on day-to-day life in the country. However, the ongoing conflict has disrupted efforts to expand internet use and today it is estimated that just 5% of Iraqis have web access at home.Despite the difficulties posed by delivering web services to people who do not have internet access, one of the executives on the trip was optimistic that mobile phone technology could step into the breach."There is a ton of SMS usage here, which is encouraging, as it may provide an alternative," Raanan Bar-Cohen, who works for San Francisco-based Automattic.com,wrote on his blog. However, he also noted that the country's communications infrastructure required greater investment if it was going to cope with such plans."Coverage is currently not as reliable as it could be, and is getting overloaded with the huge surge in usage," he said. "There are three networks running through the country including AsiaCell and Zain which is Kuwaiti. This creates a bit of a comical situational where many people carry at least two phones with them from different providers to make sure they can conduct business regardless of where they are."In typical style, Jack Dorsey – the inventor of Twitter who now acts as the company's chairman – has been keeping track of his movements on the popular messaging service."Leaving an amazing conversation with a group of extremely bright Iraqi students," he said earlier today, just a few hours after noticing that the American embassy in Baghdad "has yoga classes and belly dancing".News of the delegation also marks the State Department's growing confidence over the safety of American nationals in Iraq, although security concerns have heightened after a recent string of suicide bombings.
It's unseasonably warm in San Francisco this week. That kind of pervasive heat that keeps you awake til 4am and where you still feel grubby no matter how many cold showers you take. As I write this I'm sitting by an open window, drinking a glass of Diet Coke with enough ice to restock the Antarctic shelf – and yet still I'm too fucking hot to think straight.And it's not just me. Earlier on, I went for a walk near Dolores Park and noticed a huge line of people snaking around what I assumed was some hot new club. It was only as I got closer that I realised these people – maybe 100 of them – were actually queuing out the door of an ice-cream shop, like Soviets queuing for bread. I swear if it doesn't cool down soon, I'm going to organise a Twestival to pay for some ice-cream vans.Part of the problem is that San Francisco isn't generally as warm as other parts of California, and so most people don't have air conditioning. During the cab ride back to my borrowed apartment, the driver – bless him – listened to my sweaty British whining about this fact for a good five minutes before shrugging his shoulders and silencing me with one simple argument…"Well, it could be worse. You could be in Iraq."He had me there. If I were an Iraqi, not having air conditioning would be the least of my problems. The country has been occupied by foreigners for six years, it still doesn't have a truly independent government and nowit seemsal-Qaida has moved in and started recruiting children. As if things weren't dangerous enough, President Obama has also vowed to withdraw American troops and let the country fend for itself. Not that you can blame him; figures published this week show that since the 2003 invasion, more than 4,200 US military personnel have been killed in the line of duty.So, yes, it would be fair to say that the Iraqi people have more pressing concerns than a lack of air conditioning and the prospect of queuing for an hour to buy Ben and Jerry's. And yet, while many are declaring the invasion of Iraq a failure and characterising America's military withdrawal as a retreat, in reality nothing could be further from the truth.In fact, as we discovered this week, it's simply the start of a bold change in strategy on the part of the US government. The Department of Defense may be cutting and running, but their colleagues over in the State Department are getting ready to pick up the pieces and deliver the one thing post-war Iraq really needs to help it get back on its feet. I'm not talking about clean water or safe streets or bomb disposal dogs – that's old fashioned thinking. No, the one thing that Iraq really, really needs,according to the State Department… is Twitter.I amnot making this up. The department has just airlifted Twitter's Jack Dorsey along with representatives from Wordpress, Meetup.com, YouTube and Google into Baghdad to discuss how social media can help build Iraq 2.0.Finally, thanks to what I'm already calling "Operation Fail Whale", ordinary Iraqis will get access to the clean video streams, flamewars and Lolcats that we in the west take for granted. But while they're surely dancing in the streets of Fallujah at the prospect of being able to follow@oprah, the news presents a real problem for me as a columnist. In fact, it has me totally stumped. How on earth can I find something amusing to say about the American government spending taxpayer dollars to fly the founders of Twitter and Meetup.com into a war zone? What possible comedy could there be in Techcrunch's reporting of the trip under the headline "Can Silicon Valley Save Iraq?" I've been sitting at my keyboard, sweating away for hours and I still can't think of a single cynical angle to take on this mission of mercy from the people who brought uskittens on treadmillsand theFail Whale.And so I've decided to admit defeat. Instead, I'm going to take off my snarky hat for once and, with a completely straight face, share with you my predictions for what – with a little help from the darlings of the social web – the future might hold for the all-new web-enabled iRaq 2.0.December 2009:Iraq holds its first truly democratic online elections with voters invited to Digg up or down a list of 10 candidates representing politicians from across the country's political spectrum.January 2010:Following a hard-fought campaign by the users of 4Chan, Seth McFarlane is sworn in as president of Iraq, narrowly beating William Shatner and a dog named Dirty Sanchez.March 2010:Iraq hosts its first Tweetup, in a bar just outside the Green Zone. The mood is soured when the attendees are twurdered by a twuicide bomber.May 2010:A new breed of web 2.0 kidnappers begins to emerge, threatening to disrupt the traditional kidnapping industry. Rather than following a ransom model, the new kidnappers release hostages for free, asking only for their name and email address in return. Despite having no revenue strategy whatsoever, market leader Kidnappr quickly signs up over 4 million hostages after über-bloggers Robert Scoble and iJustine appear in promotional videos, pleading for their lives.October 2010:AOL buys Kidnappr for $850m.December 2010:Radical Islam in Iraq gains its millionth follower, leading early adopters to declare it "over".January 2011:New government installed.February 2011:New government uninstalled after Techcrunch runs a story titled "Did Iraq just hand over voter data to the RIAA?"March 2011:In what many assume is a retaliatory attack, Techcrunch's Erick Shonfeld is critically injured by a road-side Googlebomb.May 2011:Iraq publishes its crowdsourced constitution. Controversial additions soon follow, including the first amendment which is simply the word "first!" and a freedom of speech amendment which, curiously, is closed to commenters.October 2011:Crowdsourced constitution is deleted after editors decide that it doesn't meet the international community's notability guidelines. Pages dedicated to fictional characters from obscure graphic novels remain.December 2011:Kevin Rose and Alex Albrecht host a live Baghdad edition ofDiggnationfor an audience of suicide bombers and religious fanatics. Surprisingly, there is no discernible difference between the baying mob of identically-dressed obsessive loons in attendance and the usual Diggnation audience.February 2012:Sharia law finally enters the 21st century when a woman accused of adultery is stoned to death by an angry flashmob.July 2012:The driver of Google's Street View car is accidentally shot dead at an American checkpoint. Burglary rates in Buckinghamshire plummet.August 2012:With sectarian violence still rife and no sign of a sustainable economic model, America announces plans to close Iraq and relaunch it as a Facebook app.September 2012:AOL buys Iraq, which is never heard from again.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
/.sent me down the internet rabbit hole this morning to Georgia Tech's website, where the institution is running athink-blogon the ways journalism and gaming might interact in the future. Unsurprising that this comes from the mighty mind ofIan Bogost, one of the minds behindPersuasive Games, the development studio that producesexcellent topical-interactive mash-ups.Ian's project and a few  conversations I've had recently have inspired a question to our incredibly creative readers: if you were to mash-up news stories and computer game mechanics, how would you do it? Would you produce a series of quick-fire Flash games, an MMO that challenges players tobalance the budgetin exchange for political XP, a Flower-like game that follows thetrail of a honeybeeto evidence their impact in our everyday lives, and what happens if their number declines?Or, rather than take the editorial as inspiration, how would you create a game thetellsthe news?Check outNewsgamingfor some inspiration.
Following the recent news that veteran games designer Will Wright (Spore, Sims) was leaving publisher EA to form an "entertainment think tank" called Stupid Fun Club comes anupdate of sorts. It seems Wright will still be involved with EA on a consultancy level.I'm spending a certain amount of time every month actually working with the Spore team on future versions of Spore and expansions. So I will [still] be involved with EA on developing the Spore franchise as well.More interesting are Wright's thoughts on how Spore could be improved in a sequel.We're going to probably add more depth to different areas of the game – and we're certainly already doing that with the Galactic Adventures expansion pack – and we're also taking output from the tools in different directions, so you can take your creatures you made in the creature creator and bring them into different experiences.More depth can only be a good thing. I always felt Spore couldn't decide whether it was going for Sims-style accessibility or the harder core strategy market and sort of fell somewhere in the middle. With Sims 3 likely to mop up more casual players – in theory anyway – Spore 2 could go a little deeper and tap into some of the huge potential that was only really hinted at in the original game.But what about a version for the consoles? Unsurprisingly given EA's increased Nintendo focus it looks like the Wii could be the frontrunner.So you can sort of look at a straight port to the PS3 and Xbox 360 and basically have the same game we have on the PC... or we could say, 'What can we do on this platform that will help us explore different parts of the design?' I think the Wii is really unique in that sense, with the things you can do on Wii that you can't do on other platforms right now. It's represented a lot of learning for us in terms of the directions we might take it. So I'd say that's one of the under-appreciated aspects of how we choose to deploy this on different platforms.So what do you think? Like to play Spore on the consoles? And what about Spore 2 – what would you like to see in it?
&bull; Lots of government/military headlines today: the BBC's running a report fromFinjansuggesting thatcomputers inside the UK governmentmay have been compromised by Ukrainian criminals. Meanwhile,  Wired recounts the story ofBrazilian hackers who are piggybacking on US military satellitestoo and Newsweek has an intriguing report aboutUS soldiers being issued iPod Touchesin the field (including ballistics applications for snipers).&bull; Meanwhile, there's a brewing row overBT Mobile's decision to block access to the Pirate Bay. Users are instead pointed towards the Internet Watch Foundation - which told the Register that it hasnothing to do with the decision. Yes, it's mobile broadband - hardly built for peer-to-peer applications - but why are rules meant for child porn being used here?&bull; And finally, because I'm such a nice man I've got a couple of viral links for you today:Danny MacAskill's crazy bike parkour, and thisutterly enchanting stop-motion animation, Wolf and Pig.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The leading neuroscientist and director of the Royal Institution, Lady Greenfield, will today call for ministers to fund a study into the impact of repeated use of computer games and social network sites on the development of children's brains.In a speech tonight she will say there is an urgent need to undertake a study into the impact of the computer environment.Her call follows her previous speeches in the Lords when she warned that children's obsessions with social network sites may leave them with poor attention spans and an inability to relate to others in the real world.She told the Guardian: "To the best of my knowledge, no serious research work had been done anywhere on the impact of repeated use of computers on the development of the brain, yet I know there is huge interest in the subject amongst parents. It is a big change in society that we should try to understand. Think of the money we will be spending on other issues, yet we are taking this big risk with children's lives. It is something parents would like to know more about."The environment of children has been changed in an unprecedented way in the past 10 years and we need to know whether it is affecting them."Greenfield said she was not scaremongering or reactionary: "The job of scientists like myself is to put their heads out of the lab door and engage with the real world. There is very little point in scientists otherwise."She will make her call at a Women of the Year lecture at the Royal Institution. The business minister responsible for digital networks, Lord Carter, will be present to respond to her call for research.Greenfield suggested the study should undertake brain scans of children that spend six hours a week on computers, playing games or surfing social network sites, and compare with those that spent less time on such sites.She said the research should also look into why children find sites so addictive, and whether its attractions could be replicated in the real world.The research should look into whether software could be adapted to make it more like reality - by, for instance, making it clear to a child there are consequences for the way they had played on a computer game.
The eminent Anglo-Polish civil engineer Olgierd "Olek" Zienkiewicz, who has died aged 87, devoted his distinguished career to using a computer-based method for the design and analysis of engineered systems, such as dams, automobiles, aircraft, medical and electronic devices. The "finite element method" (FEM) of computer-aided engineering breaks down complex and apparently insoluble problems into pieces for which equations can be used to arrive at approximate solutions. Those local solutions can then be combined to arrive at global approximate solutions.In 1961 Olek became professor and head of the civil engineering department at Swansea University. In a few years, he made it a leading centre for the research and development of FEM. Many firsts followed rapidly - including the development of new forms of elements for application to design and analysis of shell and arch dams, extension of the method to non-structural problems in fluids and electro-magnetics, and the development of practical methods for error estimation in solutions. An early use of his FEM developments was made in the design of the Clywedog dam in Mid Wales.In 1967 Olek published The Finite Element Method in Structural and Continuum Mechanics, the first book on the subject. Five subsequent editions followed, the last consisting of three volumes devoted to basics, solid and structural applications and fluid dynamics. At the time of his death, he was working on the seventh edition. In 1968 Olek and Professor Richard Gallagher co-founded and served as chief editors of the International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering. This was the first journal devoted to the subject and still leads the field. Olek also served on the editorial board of more than 20 other journals.He never missed an important conference (no matter where it was held), travelled to many countries and everywhere made contacts with leading scholars who became personal friends. Through these travels he recognised a need for an international organisation devoted to numerical methods, and this led to the founding in 1986 of the International Association for Computational Mechanics, which he served for four years as its first president.Following his retirement in 1988, Olek served as director of the Institute for Numerical Methods in Engineering at Swansea and continued his research and supervision of doctoral students. In 1989 he was appointed CBE, and from that year until death he held the Unesco chair of numerical methods in engineering at the Universitat Polit&egrave;cnica de Catalunya in Barcelona. Other honours included election to fellowship of the Royal Society and the Royal Academy of Engineering.Olek was born in Caterham, Surrey, the son of a Polish father and an English mother. When he was two, the family moved to Poland, where they remained, mostly in Katowice, until the beginning of the second world war. It was in Poland that Olek received his early education, with an emphasis on the sciences and mathematics. In 1939 he was in Warsaw preparing for admission to university when the war began. He participated in the early defence of Warsaw, but returned to Katowice when the family received visas to travel through Italy into France. Eventually they joined a Polish ship sailing to Plymouth. The family settled in London, where Olek was provided with scholarships for his university studies at Imperial College.There, he undertook research on dams using relaxation methods, under the supervision of Sir Richard Southwell and Professor John Pippard. He also received a diploma in engineering from the Polish University of Technology, London, and from 1945 to 1949 worked as a consulting engineer, supervising the construction of dams in Glen Affric, Scotland, for the firm of Sir William Halcrow and Partners. Later, at the London office, Olek carried out designs for several other hydroelectric projects.He started his academic career as a lecturer at Edinburgh University in 1949, and from 1957 to 1961 was professor of structural and civil engineering at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. It was there that he began his research into FEM.Olek had a phenomenal memory and, even in his late life, he could still recite long passages of Latin from his schooling, sing the Polish songs of Wladyslaw Szpilman, and recall salient points from any of his publications. In addition to being a distinguished scholar, Olek was an adventurer. While a student in Poland, he constructed his first sailing boat and learned to sail. He continued to sail throughout his life, often enlisting his students, colleagues and visitors to join him for a scenic cruise around Gower or across the Bristol Channel.He was adventurous in the foods he ate - which ranged from very rare steaks, plates of escargot and tapas (heavy on the garlic) to oysters. He also roamed over south Wales searching for fungi, berries, samphire or anything else he deemed edible. Accompanying him on a drive was another type of adventure, as Olek enjoyed a diversion to see a new sight - often over roads that were nearly impassable - all along the route discussing his latest works or current interests. He was a distinguished scholar and good friend to many.Olek is survived by his wife Helen, whom he married in 1952, two sons, a daughter, and his sister Aldona.• Olgierd "Olek" Cecil Zienkiewicz, engineer and educator, born 18 May 1921; died 2 January 2009
Yahoo has justreporteda first quarter net profit of $118m, which is down by 78% on last year, on net sales of $1.58bn, which is down by 13%. Yahoo also said it would cut another 5% of its staff, which probably amounts to about 650-700 jobs.The earnings presentation is atSlideshare.This was the first full quarter under new CEO Carol Bartz, and she set expectations low. It's too soon to tell whether or not she's managing to turn the ship around.
After another short hiatus, 'Best of' is back with Fantomex stepping into the ring to deliver a Tyson-style round-up pummeling. If you want to know what happened when Sorbicol introduced the concept ofpre-wedding photos, or when the Chatterbox regulars found out about the Shadow of Colossus movie plans, read on!Oh and thanks to UncleBen for this week's photo - one of two that arrived last week. Let the floodgates open!Part one: in which Sorbicol complains aboutpre-wedding photography...This is how it started:"Subjected to a whole days worth of being photographed by our wedding photographer for the "pre-wedding" shoot. She's a nice person but after nine hours of having your photo taken, I think that's enough..."Very quickly, opinions were formed, with H1LL015 summing up the general air of disbelief and outright aggression:Nine hrs?!?! Pre-wedding?!? You want to get a handle on that my friend, sounds like the tail is wagging the dog. Had about an hour of photos on my wedding day and even given it was 'the happiest day of my life' etc, etc, the photographer will never know how close to death he was. He wanted to come over to my place the morning of the wedding to take photos of me and the best man / ushers getting ready. Pervert. Not on my watch.Part two: in which Zooey74 gives us the chortles with a few ruminations on Killzone 2...Thanks to Makar for setting up the KZ game yesterday afternoon, had a right good time. Had to duck out quickly at 5 as I'd forgotten to pick up my g/f from her weekend away. Not good. I am still learning the ropes on this game - lessons to mull over from Sunday include:1. A flashing green/red name is a Saboteur and should be shot...2. ...and is usually Chubster.3. Melee is not an effective tactic versus turrets.Was playing this Friday with the g/f in the room and as when attempting to explain the squad mechanic to a friend I used the phrase "you can spawn on me".This caused her much hilarity and since then it's been open season, 'Did you have a nice time spawning on men online dear?', 'Did you spawn on him more than he spawned on you tonight?' etc.Automatic:"Haha, that reminds me of my crazy WoW sessions. I was fighting a boss when a monster resurrected basically 'on top' of my character. In the heat of the moment I shouted 'Oh my God it rezzed on my face' down the mic at him. Yeah, I've never lived that one down."BeardOfBees:"My other half routinely uses the phrase 'Briggsy, have you got the map?' to mock me with after I said this once. Not sure why as it doesn't sound dodgy/particularly geeky but there you go."Makar27:"Yup, that's exactly what I'm talking about - glad it is not just me! Will let my other half know that other girlfriends take the piss out of spawning as much as she does, she will feel justified by that I'm sure. I tried to explain to my other half about all the different classes and squad system, etc, but she got the glazed look in her eye so I didn't go much further. She knows that they are called the ISA and Helgast but that's about it - oh and she doesn't like the officer who shouts at you when playing as ISA - the constant use of the word 'asap' seems to grate after a while..."Part three: in which Lazybones discovers Omegle.com, the anonymous chat service.Played some PES when I got home; then came acrossomegle... That site seems the essence of internet chat - pared down. If this place is like a Roman orgy of chat - where everyone kind of knows each other; then Omegle is like a pseudo-sauna of chat, under the arches of a railway bridge. Rough, one-on-one anonymous encounters with people tagged only as 'Stranger'. It's kind of odd. Kind of compelling.Lots of Brazilians and Americans, a few Europeans. The Finns tend to be down.I asked one if he liked 'Black Metal'. He said he thought it was 'weak', and sonically uninteresting. I looked up one of the bands he said he liked - 'Doom Metal' is where it's at.BeardOfBees:"Omegle? What have they got that the box hasn't? You've already turned your back on Twitter, I get the impression you're flakey, inconsistent. That said I haven't been on Twitter in a few weeks."Riadsala:"I just had a shot with omegle. It really shows you how stupid people on the internet are. First person I hooked up with started with "hey knackerbags," and continued to insult me for a while.The next few were obviously using it as a desperate dating service. What a waste of time. Shame, as chatting to intelligent people could be fun."Automatic:@Riadsala...Isn't that just basically Gamesblog?Lazybones:"That is it: face-to-face with the internet in a one-on-one format. There are loads of Brazilians on there. And quite a few people who disconnect when you say you're male. Having said that I did chat with someone who said she was an opera singer from Paris. And someone who said he serviced U2 spy planes in north California."Part four: in which TonyHayers actually starts what could be called an inspired conversation...Bored?There really is no excuse for being bored. A lack of imagination perhaps?I love not being busy, as it means I can do what I want, and I can always find something to do that I enjoy. Even if it is just watching mostly bad television.CommodoreSchmidlapp:"I think the point was being bored at work, without telly, console, fridge full of delicious food and beverages etc."BeardOfBees:"I agree in principle. At home I am never bored. But at work options are limited. 99% of my time at the desk is working (sad to say that you guys get the odd moment from me only - thus the typos and why it takes an age between me starting a post and finishing it...) and if the work is boring, it's boring.Some people say, I'd hate to not go to work, I'd get so bored. In this day and age especially, I don't know how that's even possible. I've read less then 100 of the Guardian's 'best 1000 books', I've seen only a fraction of the best films in the world, played hardly any games. Even if money were the issue, I've seen only a fraction of England so can always just go out and explore. Only boring people get bored. Apart from at work."Silverfox073:"If I could look at gambling sites, porn, youtube, watch tv programmes at work I'd never be bored. I've never understood these numpties who win a couple of million on the lottery and then go back to the day to day drudgery. Surely the point of the lottery is to get you out of the day to day bollocks so you can do something more interesting."Yeah I just won 1.9 million but I'm going back to work in my factory. I might treat myself to a nice holiday". Saddos If you can't think of anything interesting to do with your money give it away. If I didn't have to work no way would I."CommodoreSchmidlapp:"Depends what you do though. I know a fair amount of scientists and no way would a lot of them give up their work for anything. Personally I'd just spend my time pootling round the world whilst getting ludicrously qualified in something cool. Then world domination."CBPodge:"We were having that exact same discussion in the office last week. We do a lottery syndicate (I did type 'a spectacularly unsuccessful lottery syndicate', but most syndicates are hideously unsuccessful so there's nothing spectacular about it) and we were saying what we'd do if we won £1m each. I said I'd quit in seconds. The 48-year-old guy who I work with said he wouldn't because £1m wouldn't be enough for him. Liar. I'd quit, and if I found in a few years that the money wasn't going as well as I hoped, I'd get another job, probably part-time, doing something I enjoyed just to supplement it. I damn sure wouldn't stay in the job that I do now, that I do purely because I want the money, and I think there's very few people who would."Killerbee:"I'm pretty sure I'd give up my job if I won the big prize. I'd certainly pack it in to go traveling for a bit and spend a bit of time, er, spending. But I also think I'd want something more than just TV to watch or games to play to get me out of bed in the morning. I'd probably go back to Uni and do a degree in something for no reason other than I just find it interesting, like Egyptology. Not sure how well I'd blend in with the students now I'm in my 30s though... That said, I completely agree with the boredom issue - I don't get bored when I'm at home because there's so much to do. Work can be boring, but I kind of need the money...BeardOfBees:"Lottery win, in the situation whereby I got so bored I needed something else to fill my life with, I'd probably collect a few more degrees. Study some things I'm interested in but don't know much about like History, Psychology, or whatever. Sitting around in my underwear on a huge pile of gold probably wouldn't get boring though."Limni:"Of course I'd go back to work after a win, because I'm totally committed to my job. I'm in no way saying that just because Zooey now knows who I am, where I work and can tell my boss I'm on here all day."BeardOfBees:"First purchase for anyone who wins the lottery must surely be a monocle."Part five: in which TonyHayers makes a comment out of a quote, and starts a rampant topic.What's the biggest animal you could kill without weapons?I think I could take down a horse. Hard work, but doable.Automatic:Honestly, the biggest animal I could probably kill with no weapons is myself.Cameroon95:"Horse? You'd be hard pressed there. Sheep would be difficult to get hold of, quite fast. How bout an ostrich? Now that would be a feat, pretty dangerous though."[Keef - this comment was hugely edited due to the distinct possibility of RSPCA intervention]Makar27:I'm thinking Giraffe.[Keef - ditto.]Dizzyisanegg:On land I could take a walrus. That said, on land I could probably take a whale.BeardOfBees:Pretty sure I could bring down a killer whale, in the desert. It's just a matter of time... In their natural environment, a giraffe. Flimsy...[Keef - yeah, this was heavily censored, too]Sorbicol:An elephant, all you've got to do is push it over. They are so....[Keef - I feel like an officer of the stasi]CBPodge:[...] I reckon I could beat a T-Rex in a boxing match, although I would be highly reliant on a strict referee. And I'm pretty certain I wouldn't kill it, but it would certainly die of shame.Craggyisland:I would like to book a ringside seat watching Cameroon fighting a cow.[Keef - that's it. Haven't the animals suffered enough?]Part six: in which bloggers react to the Shadows Of The Colossus movie announcement.Surely the news that Hollywood is lining up a filmic tribute to Team Ico's adventure would be met with intrigue and gentle applause on Chatterbox?HiddenAway:Oh **** NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!It seems not.Regimechange:"Bound to be dreadful. Why can't they make a bloody sequel to this instead? (I'm aware that the movie and the game aren't financed by the same company, but still!) One of the best games I've ever played."Umboros23:"I think this would work very well as an animated or Scanner Darkly style film. I need to go back to the game. Didn't get on well with Ico but think SOTC will be better. No annoying chick to hinder me."Cameroon95:"Is nothing sacred anymore?"Supersmashin:"Film? They're never going to top Bob Hoskins as Mario so why bother?"Crispycrumb:"What's so bad about a SOTC film? Is Mel Gibson in it?"Gomiboy75:"It goes without saying that practically all movies based on video games are terrible."CommodoreSchmidlapp:"If it has The Rock in it I'll be all over this. Maybe with a huge CGI Christopher Walken as a Colossus."CrispyCrumb:"Fair enough. Reckon you'd all be frothing if it was Guillermo Del Toro or Hayao Miyazaki were attached to it though."HumOfEvil:"Del Toro has gone on record as saying he is interested in making games, get him (and his team of designers) on board for a SotC Film and/or sequel and it would be pretty damn sweet I reckon.Wonder what he is going to do with the Hobbit. I want it to be good I really do!"Chubster2010:"'Del Toro has gone on record as saying he is interested in making games' Yep. And he helped out with the making of the last Hellboy game which, I've heard, was fecking awful!"Dizzyisanegg:"*Trailer Guy Voice* "This season one man. And his horse. Must fight sixteen times to save the woman they love", would really appeal outside of a game."BeardOfBees:"Can't see it. What made the game for me was the question over the hero's motivations - why is he killing these things? We know about the prospect of reviving the girl but that's set up as a slim chance at best, and the colossi seem quite peaceful and innocent and their deaths do seem somewhat immoral.But in the game, it's YOU controlling the guy, so it sets up a nice little self-referential thing whereby you're responsible for what's happening even though you may not agree with it. Of course, in the context of the game, it's the only option open to you - the world is deliberately barren of all else - but this question of player/protagonist is what drives the tension. It becomes "Why am I doing this?" and therefore creates a nice little thinking point.It's part of why some people call the game 'art' more than many others - not just because it looks pretty, but because it makes us question the nature of what we're experiencing.You just passively watch a film. The hero of the film will not be the viewer. You'll just go 'Oh, I agree with his actions' or 'I disagree with his actions' and be done with it. A big waste of time."CBPodge:"I personally like films that you can explain as 'Like [film] in/on [blank].''Like Jaws on a submarine''Like Star Wars in feudal Europe''Like Con Air in a library''Like Snakes On A Plane on a train'"Quotes of the week."Grand National: My horse died."Short and tragic from CrispyCrumb."I did post this last week and I can't remember who replied but, who do I need to send the tasteful nude shots to in order to get a KZ2 clan invite?"Loser misunderstands the recruitment procedure. We hope."Why do I get the feeling that snapping a giraffe's neck or scooping out the eyes of cow to get to its brain won't make it into the 'Best Of' this week...?"Wrong, Makar27![Keef - actually, he's sort of right, Fantomex...]How many clementines can you safely eat in one sitting? I've had four.Finally! Limni asks one of the big questions."I heard that the decline in worldwide bee populations is because they're all in your beard?"Limni to BeardOfBees."I still can't quite get my brain to accept that the guy in Short Circuit wasn't actually Indian."Killerbee tackles the sensitive subject of inter-racial acting, rocking several readers to the core."A six foot tall rabbit just walked around our office delivering eggs. I'm scared."MajorDeCoverley regrets dropping that seventh tab of LSD."My snake stories better make it into Best Of. It may seem like they were fictional but I assure you both stories really did happen."Sorry regimechange. Though honestly, I'll never not check my toilet for pythons now.."Playstation 3 = £300Guitar Hero: World Tour = £140Petrol needed to drive to Devon = £50Hearing your mother rapping to 'No Sleep Till Brooklyn' by The Beastie Boys = PRICELESS"Chubster2010 pitches the next Mastercard advert.I think Fanto went a piercing too far. Nasty, cheese grating incident.TonyHayers types words."Could a chimp look after a dog?"Lazybones goes where no animal behaviour expert dare tread.OTHER THINGS THAT HAPPENED IN CHATTERBOX• Vitriol over crappy iPod headphones, and rambling about "my headphones" from all and sundry.• People talked about football, apparently.• Bikes were mentioned, and Halfords decried as "s**t".• CunningStunt and davesm flirted with Automatic. A lot.LINK OF THE WEEKThe Pinocchio Paradox
Cyberspies have broken into computers used for America's most expensive military project ever, according to areport in the Wall Street Journal.The $300bn Joint Strike Fighter program - which is being conducted in conjunction with the UK, Netherlands, Israel and others - has apparently been targeted.Similar incidents have also breached the Air Force's air-traffic-control system in recent months, these people say. In the case of the fighter-jet program, the intruders were able to copy and siphon off several terabytes of data related to design and electronics systems, officials say, potentially making it easier to defend against the craft.The trouble with this trickle of leaked stories is that it's almost impossible to tell whether there is a genuine threat here, or whether it's part of the inter-agency squabbling that ledformer cybersecurity head Rod Beckstrom to resign.The news comes hot on the heels of thepolitically-convenient revelationthat Chinese hackers had apparently found their way into the US electrical grid - and just as Barack Obama's60-day review of US cybersecurityis due to report back.
On this week's Tech Weekly, Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss, Bobbie Johnson and Charles Arthur welcome a host of experts to analyse the Oracle-Sun acquisition deal, the implications of the Pirate Bay results and the practicalities of the Government's electric car strategy.Charles and Phil Dawson, VP of Research at Gartner, tackle the crucial questions about the Oracle-Sun arrangement - what does this mean for the current tech landscape? Has IBM lost out?Jemima gets answers from Jo Oliver, general counsel for the IFPI, on the recording industry's unsurprising view on last week's Pirate Bay trial ruling.Finally, Robert Evans from Cenex talks us through the expectations for battery-operated electric cars, in the wake of the announcement of the £250m strategy to transform Britain's roads into a low-carbon network.Bobbie gives us the skinny on the feeling in Silicon Valley for the USA's new CTO, Aneesh Chopra, appointed by President Obama last week.All this, plus the latest news and your views from the blogs, Twitter and Facebook on Tech Weekly.
What are virtual worlds for? The idea of being able to use a computer to access an imaginary world has been a staple of science fiction since the film Tron, but it's been less clear what you'd do once you were in a computer-generated world; that is, if you weren't having to battle a devious enemy on a Light Cycle. When the crew of the Enterprise weren't getting trapped in their holodecks due to a totally unexpected weekly malfunction, they used the devices for roleplay. Dave Lister of Red Dwarf used his for sex. But in the absence of total-body immersion, do virtual worlds have a point at all?Sony came in for a lot of flak when it launched its "Home" central space, open to anyone with a PlayStation 3. The influential blogPenny Arcadecommented: "This is what happens when your marketing department tries to make a game," and followed up with an even moredamning comic strip.Matthew Ingram of the Toronto Globe and Mailresponded with the simple question: "Can Sony get anything right?"The problem was that Home had the sterility of a corporate-built environment, but without the benefit of lots of corporate-provided entertainment. Users could choose the appearance of their avatars, play some arcade-style games, furnish their houses and wander around the world, but that was about it. Home users in search of entertainment inventedQuincying– a practical joke in which an attractive female avatar flirts and dances before suddenly switching appearance to become a male avatar. While I applaud people inventively making their own fun, this is a rather desperate way of finding enjoyment in a theoretically limitless playground.There's really no point to a virtual world if you can't do things in it that are impossible in the physical world. I cheerfully confess that I'm hopeless at most games that require even mild twitch abilities, but I had a great time messing around in Grand Theft Auto IV just because I could repeatedly crash cars in explosive, exciting ways. World of Warcraft, too, gives players the opportunity to do something that few of us can do in daily life: kill things with giant swords.What GTA IV and World of Warcraft also have in common, of course, is that they're games. That is, they provide a set of goals, even if they don't insist those goals are fulfilled. And Sony has now understood that this is what was missing from Home. At the end of last month it launched the intriguing Xi – a game within Home's virtual world. Marrying elements of point-and-click adventures with alternate-reality gaming,Xi invites Home users into secret areas of the world. There, they discover that Jess, the designer responsible for a mysterious project codenamed "Xi", has disappeared and they need to find out what's happened to her. The game is just getting started, and players have set up acomprehensive wikifor those who want to pool resources.And perhaps after all it's the goals that are the most important thing in creating a satisfying virtual world experience. In the real world, we all have many automatic goals, including our physical needs and our natural desire for friendship and love. But what's the point of a world without desires or goals? Even procrastination feels hollow if there's nothing to put off. But once you have a clearly defined set of objectives to ignore, well, that really does feel like relaxation.
It's nice to start the day by scanning the front pages. In a few cases, these could include a wide range of titles from the Diari d'Andorra, through the Beijing News, Kannada Prabha (from Bangalore), Asahi Shimbun (English Edition), Moskovskaya Pravda and The Straits Times (Singapore) to the Virgin Islands Daily News.This does not require an unusually talented newsagent. TheNewseumwebsite publishes getting on for700 front page images, though about 400 of them are from North America. Visit the site and you can either scroll through galleries, or pick the ones you want from a list.This isn't a practical way to read the news, of course, but it does get particularly interesting whenever there's a story that makes a wide impact. Examples in the Newseum's Archive List include the Columbia Shuttle Explosion in 2003, the Tsunami in 2004, the London bombings in 2005, and the assassination of Benazir Bhutto in 2007.However, the bulk of the website is concerned with the Newseum, which is areal museum in Washington, DC, not far from the Capitol. This month, the Newseum celebrated its first birthday on Pennsylvania Avenue, though it was actually founded in 1997, in Rosslyn, Virginia. It closed for six years before reopening in a striking $450m building in the centre of Washington last year.The building's exterior is dominated by a marble tablet 74ft high carrying the text of the First Amendment, which commands Congress not to abridge "the freedom of speech, or of the press," among other things.The Newseum's exhibits range from a 3,000-year-old cuneiform brick from Sumeria to a Bell Jet Ranger helicopter. It also has newspaper front pages going back almost 500 years, more than a thousand press passes, and sections of the Berlin Wall. Comics and prize-winning photographs are included, too. The Newseum claims to be the world's most interactive museum, and visitors can play at being a TV news anchor.One of the main functions of the website is to provide guides that visitors can download and print out (PDF), so they can plan ahead. Even if you'll never make it to the Newseum in person, the guides and avideo tourprovide some sense of what it's like. There's even a small online shop, which ships things like posters and T-shirts internationally, if you want to pick up a souvenir.The site's Fun and Games section includes quite a good trivia quiz that lets you print out a press pass to document your level of success. However, too many of the questions are US-oriented for an international audience.The Newseum, supported by the Freedom Forum, has a noble aim: to "raise public awareness of the important role of a free press in a democratic society." It incorporates amemorialto 1,913 reporters, photographers and broadcasters who have died reporting the news.And given the rapid decline of the US newspaper industry at the moment, the Newseum could soon become the main memorial to a large number of newspapers.
I've been away for a couple of days so missed out on the big sales story from last week – namely thatGTA: Chinatown Warshas seriously underperformed. The Rockstar developed DS title shifted 89,000 units in the US in March, way below the 200-450,000 analyst prediction. And that's despite the game being rather good and certainly not just the retro remake of GTA 1 or 2 that many feared. So what happened? Is the Nintendo DS audience just not interested in "mature" gaming?Possibly, but it isn't quite that simple. The relatively casual DS audience is unlikely to get hyped for a game launch date like, say, a 360 owner would, meaning DS games tend to sell over a longer term than the short and sweet standard sales period for a game – look at Brain Training. This applies to big name videogame brands too. Call of Duty 4 on the DS sold 36,000 in its first month (Nov '07) but has now shifted 500k. Nintendo, as you would expect, arefeeling positiveabout mature games on the DS. And Alan Lewis from Rockstar owner Take Two is also looking long-term.We are very confident in Chinatown Wars long-term potential for success. We think it will have a long life in the market.But even so, you have to wonder how many more publishers will bring their 18+ games to the DS. If Grand Theft Auto – essentially the biggest videogame brand around – struggles then what hope is there for a lesser tier offering?And it's not just the DS. The Wii is similar. Sega's stylishly bloody MadWorld has shifted a mere66,000 units in the USand has failed to trouble the charts in the UK. Quality is more of an issue here than Chinatown Wars – MadWorld is repetitive and frustrating – but the sluggish sales do little to dispel the myth that mature games just don't work on Nintendo platforms.So what do you think then? Will Chinatown Wars steadily grow sales and lead to more mature games on the DS/Wii? Or is it only family and kids games that sell well on Nintendo platforms?
Last weekwe posted a link to ourgamesblog reader survey. This is your official notice: you have one week left to register your say! We would love to know your opinions on three things - what we're doing right, what we could do better and what you'd like to see more of. A sneak peek based on the 100-or-so responses we've had thus far: opinion is divided on Chatterbox, our daily bin for reader's OT conversations.What do you think?Let us know! Our editorial meeting with the powers that be is next Monday. We'll feed back then. And thank you for your continued readership, enthusiasm and participation. You really do make the gamesblog what it is.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Everyone is still trying to work out what the fallout ofOracle buying Sunmight be; Reuters reports that Steve Ballmeris "very surprised"; Om Malik thinksOracle's taken out its biggest competitor; and Salesforce boss Marc Benioff - former Oracle acolyte - suggests all talk of 'systems'could be a bluff.&bull; A South Korean blogger accused of spreading false financial information onlinehas been found not guilty. Park Dae-sung, known online as Minerva, spent 100 days in jail on the charges - and said he was "sorry for causing any trouble to society" as he left court.&bull; Time for a shameless plug: the Guardian's just announced a new event called theActivate Summitthat focuses on "building a better future through the internet". Confirmedspeakersso far includeAndy Baio,Tom Steinberg,Nick BostromandEthan Zuckerman.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
