Who do I know in Shoreham-by-Sea, I wonder, looking at the postmark on a brown envelope on the doormat. Is that where the Premium Bond people are? Or maybe I have a distant relative who's sadly died in their seaside retirement home but less sadly left their enormous fortune entirely to me?Oh. I know. The Sussex police in Shoreham-by-Sea, and they intend to take proceedings against me, in accordance with Section 1 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1998. Caught on camera doing 40 in a 30.I'm not proud, I'm really not. I've been on the course, I know how wrong it is, what the difference between 40 and 30 means in a&nbsp;collision, what an idiot I am.But in my defence, I would say some of the blame must lie with Citroën for sending me this car. Look at it, it's got an orange roof, for frig sake. Orange mirrors and alloy wheels, too, and inside the dashboard is orange, lest you forget and start to pootle.This is the super-frisky version of the DS3, halfway to rally car. It's been lowered a little, widened, lightened and stiffened. And given some extra horses under the bonnet – 207 in total. All of which makes it a lot more expensive and quite a bit faster.It's still not the hottest hatch of all, but it's hot enough. And with all the carbon fibre, stickers and orange splashes, along with the throaty roar of its engine, it doesn't just whisper, it shouts constantly in your ear: "You are a bad boy." Oh, and mine came helpfully with a special registration number: DS03 BOY. Wonder why the cops picked on me.A boy's car, then, to bring out the boy in you. So I went to Brighton, and picked up more boys. And though we're well into our 40s, we drove along the front with sunglasses and the windows down, lapping up the respect we got from some girls in a Mini. Or maybe it was pity.And yeah, OK, we weren't really cruising, we were doing something very middle-aged and middle-class: going to buy sea bass and scallops from the fishmonger at Hove. But it didn't take long to get there, and we didn't slow down for the corners (whoa, that feels nice).When we'd got everything for the barbecue, and to the consternation of our fellow shoppers, we did burn-outs and doughnuts in the car park. Midlife burn-outs maybe, and perhaps not doughnuts, something a bit posher and middle-aged… brioches! We did brioches (this is a French car, after all). Then, to the sound of screeching, rubbing and pumping dubstep, with the sea bass thwacking about in the back, we went home. A little bit too fast, according to this letter. Sorry.Citroën DS3 RacingPrice£23,100Top speed146mphAcceleration0-62 mph in 6.5 secondsAverage consumption44.1mpgC02 emissions149/kmEco rating5In a wordOrange
Government plans to curb illicit filesharing under the Digital Economy Act will have cost rights holders, Ofcom and internet providers almost £6m by the time the controversial legislation is implemented next year, according to figures released under the Freedom of Information Act.The communications regulator Ofcom spent £1.8m investigating the filesharing measures last year. It expects to spend a further £4m in the financial year to March 2012, Ofcom confirmed inresponse to an FoI request on Thursday.The costs are incurred as part of the regulator's process of researching a base level of copyright infringement, setting up an appeals body, and assessing a nationwide education campaign run by the rights holders.However under the deal between the government and the industry, rights holders and internet companies – such as Sony Music, the Premier League, BT and Virgin Media – will effectively pay back the £6m once the anti-piracy scheme is up and running.Ofcom has also spent £100,000 investigating one of the act's most contentious aspects – blocking access to websites accused of illicit filesharing – asrequested by the culture secretary Jeremy Huntin February.The Department for Culture Media and Sport, which has undertaken most of the work on the act since it was passed in April 2010, is expected to disclose its costs under FoI laws in the coming days.A DCMS spokesman said: "We will respond to the FoI request shortly."Separately, BT and TalkTalk have been ordered to pay 93% of the government's legal fees of the judicial review of the Digital Economy Act, understood to be about £100,000.The act is expected to come into force in the first half of next year after being held up by the legal review. BT and TalkTalklaunched a third challenge to the act last monthat the court of appeal.In March, Ofcom announcedit was to cut its £142.5m budget by more than 20% this year, to £115.8m, as it implements a four-year saving plan as part of the government's comprehensive spending targets.The implementation of France's so-called "three strikes law" – which requires that ISPs disconnect alleged filesharers after three written warnings – is thought to have cost about €12m (£10m).Ofcom declined to comment.
Spotify has raised $100m (£61m) in a funding round that values the European music streaming service at $1bn ahead of its imminent US expansion.The Anglo-Swedish company this week sealed its biggest funding round yet withFacebook investor Digital Sky Technologies, Twitter backer Kleiner Perkins and Accel.The funding round has been interpreted as a sign that Spotify's long-delayed US rollout could be announced within weeks.Spotify hasreportedlyfinalised deals with three of the four major music labels – Universal Music, Sony Music and EMI – with Warner Music apparently close to sealing terms.Since its 2008 launch, Spotify's free online jukebox has attracted more than 6 million users in the UK and Europe, with more than 1 million customers paying for the service. Numbers of paying customers are understood to have soared recently asSpotify restricted the amount of free listeningavailable to users.The $1bn price tag comes just days after rival music streaming sitePandora rocketed to a $4.2bn valuation on its market debut on Wednesday. However, Pandora's Wall Street party was short-lived as its shares plunged to $12 – half the opening day high of $26 and well below the $16 per share price it started its first day of trading.Spotify's general manager, Jonathan Forster, did little to dampen down the anticipating surrounding the service's US expansion this week. He told an Omnicom conference in London on Tuesday that it would not make the move "before 5 July" – the first time a Spotify executive has put a firm date on the plans.Forster also confirmed that deals with the music majors were almost completed. "We're signing the remaining deals as I speak," he said.Spotify's US challenge has been threatened by the three internet giants – Apple, Google and Amazon –  which have launched competing cloud music services.However, unlike Spotify, the US-based services do not allow users to play music that they do not already own.Only Apple has been able to agree terms with the music majors for its iCloud service, unveiled last week, with Google and Amazon shunning the deals as unnecessary and unduly expensive. Google has not ruled out linking up with the music majors in the future.It is thought that Spotify's freemium business model – in which about 15% of its active users actually pay for the service – has hindered negotiations with the labels.The most recent audited annual accounts for Spotify, for 2009, show it lost £16.6m in the UK on revenues of £11.3m.Spotify declined to comment.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter at http://twitter.com/#!/mediaguardian and Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/mediaguardian
What will it take for mobile augmented reality to become mainstream? Big brands are starting to experiment with AR features in their own apps and partnerships with startups such as Layar, Wikitude and Metaio, but there was a strong sense at yesterday's AR Summit conference in London that much work remains to be done to take the technology beyond early adopters."One of the worst things about this industry is the name," said Nick Brown, chief executive of AR technology provider Crossplatform. "Augmented reality? What does that mean to the public?"Layar's AR strategist King Yiu Chu suggested that the key may be a shift in the way people think about AR. "Augmented reality is not a technology: it's part of everyday life," he said. "It will be embedded in televisions, cars ... everything that has to do with vision. You don't want to be aware of that, you just want to experience."There was no shortage of case studies of interesting AR apps and marketing campaigns. Agency Acrossair showed its work on apps for Condé Nast Traveller, UEFA and Stella Artois, while Somo showed its Le Mans app for Audi, which lets people drive virtual cars around their desks.Layar's Chu showed an urban treasure hunt to promote the Splinter Cell console game, but also stressed the potential for using AR for historical and artistic purposes, rather than simply brand campaigns. Qualcomm – which is making a significant investment in a software development kit for AR applications – suggested that gaming, visual search and instructional how-to applications will also be hotbeds of augmented experiments."It's important to create good use cases," said Andy Gstoll, chief marketing officer at Wikitude. "It's not about the technology itself, but about what we do with it ... Right now we're very early-age: it's the beginnings. Eventually people will catch onto the concept of AR if they see value in it."Event chairman Ken Blakeslee, from WebMobility Ventures, suggested that video eyewear from companies such as Vuzix and Innovega will become more popular in 2012, freeing mobile AR from being something that happens on the smartphone screen itself.However, Acrossair founder Chetan Damani said that the idea of walking around the real world holding a phone in front of you may be replaced earlier than that. "It's not really about holding your phone up and spinning around," he said. "It's more about seeing something and saying 'What's going on there?'."One issue raised was whether there is a long-term future for AR browsers such as Layar, Wikitude and Metaio's Junaio, if this kind of technology makes its way into the default browsers from Google, Apple and other handset companies."We already recognise that the threat of standard browsers is so big, we are finding a new business model," admitted Layar's Chu. "I cannot say anything about it just now." Wikitude's Gstoll suggested that his company and other startups are likely to be acquisition targets if the handset firms are serious about making augmented reality a standard feature on their smartphones.Judging from the demos on show at the AR Summit, mobile augmented reality technology is improving rapidly. Startup String Labs unveiled its new String platform at the event, which claims to cut down the time and complexity of developing AR apps – albeit for iOS only at this stage.The various technology companies hoping to popularise mobile augmented reality are certainly buzzing, but it remains to be seen whether their efforts to court brands and agencies will translate into wider awareness and interest from mobile users."The evidence here is there are real applications, real brands involved, and digital agencies not just technology companies," said Blakeslee. "Big brands are experimenting and doing important things. It's early days yet, though."
The psychological theory of "thin-slicing" suggests we are adept at forming accurate impressions of new situations, and more importantly, people, within two seconds of being presented with them. There may soon be a lot of data to prove it, thanks to a fascinating new Facebook game.Launching on Monday after a successful beta run, Mr Fante's Games of Judgement is essentially a much deeper and more refined answer to the early web craze "hot or not", in which internet users could rate images of strangers for physical attractiveness.Styled as a sort of Victorian sideshow, Mr Fante allows players to try out a series of mini-games in which they have to make snap judgements about other users of the social networking site. These games will get participants to decide whether someone is straight or gay, single or taken, or how old they are. Other quizzes involve whether they have tattoos, dye their hair or work out regularly.To take part as a subject, users simply have to provide access to their Facebook profile; the game then uses data from inputs such as age, sex and relationship status. Volunteers are given accesss to a range of graphical "O-Meters" that show how they are being rated in the game in terms of age and attractiveness. These animated meters can be posted to your Facebook wall and shared with friends.Mr Fante is the work of Sheffield-based developer Rattle, which specialises in using data to create products and services for companies like the BBC and Umbro. Director James Boardwell says the studio has been inspired by our very modern relationship with social networking tools, but has also drawn concepts from earlier research."The idea stems from the work of American teacherJane Elliottwho, in the 1960s, found that she could judge the life chances of pupils just by looking at them. In an exercise she ran with her class, she found that eye colour could be used to create positive or negative ideas about racial characteristics and from this showed that prejudice was critical to life chances."Boardwell also mentions Malcom Gladwell's book Blink as an influence. "It's the idea that people make judgements about others within milliseconds and these judgements tend to be more accurate the more experience you have of the experiences that that person has had. So people who were initiated into the Bullingdon fraternity at Oxford, could probably distinguish other Bullingdon members more easily than people who were not part of that group. And so on. This led us to the fundamentals of the game, using profile data as a means to ask questions about people, to see how well you can read people and, conversely, how well you present yourself as you intend to!"As all Facebook obsessives and fans of the movie The Social Network will realise, this whole concept harks back to the origins of the site, which started out as a method of comparing the attractiveness of students at Harvard University. Mark Zuckerberg originally called his invention FaceMash, andhacked into the university's websiteto get the images.The fact that the game tells subjects how others perceive them is likely to be the key attraction. "When we researched the idea, that's what people wanted to know," confirms Boardwell. "They wanted to find out how their Facebook profile presented them to the world."Of course, there's a narcissistic element to this, but it might also have practical benefits. With more and more employers allegedly combing social networks for information on job applicants, it might prove extremely valuable to get an idea of the kneejerk reactions your Facebook presence instigates.At the heart of it though, there is a worthwhile experiment about the accuracy of those all-important first impressions – even though the findings may not be popular."Early on we found that judging other people feels morally questionable. People judge others' all the time, often unconsciously, but when asked to do it some felt uncomfortable. From the sample of testers we had, Social Workers particularly, because of their training, thought it was wrong to make presumptions. However, the same Social Workers found the game compelling."Apparently, Rattle is looking into ways of extending the game element in future iterations of the title, and providing a sense of progression to the experience. For now, willing volunteers should simply brace themselves for the instant judgements of the social networking community. It might not be pretty.•Mr Fante's Games of Judgementlaunches on Monday
The numbers came in from Canada's Research In Motion (RIM) on Thursday night, and some parts make disquieting reading.Revenue:up 16% year-on-yearto $4.91bn (but below the forecast RIM had given at the end of the last quarter).Profits:down 9.6% year-on-yearto $695m (below the forecast given last quarter).Handset shipments:up 18% year-on-yearto 13.2m.PlayBook shipments:500,000in their first quarter (much better than the 336,000 analysts had expected. Note of course those are shipments, not actual sales).When reporting its fourth quarter in March, RIM had forecast revenues in the range of $5.2-$5.6bn and profits of between $770-812m.Instead, they both came in lower. Now, you might look at that and say that revenues are up, and shipments are up - so what's the worry?First, it's in the gap between those two - which led to the fall in profits. Basically, you can see clearly from those numbers that RIM must be getting less money per phone. Quite substantially less, if you take into account the average cost of a PlayBook (which is going to be a lot more than a BlackBerry).We would have been able to tell you exactly how much it was getting per handset - but following its results last time, RIM said it would stop giving out both average selling prices (ASPs) for handsetsandthe total number of BlackBerry subscribers, which it had been doing since the beginning of 2002. And another financial point: the company is to buy back 5% of the outstanding shares. I won't go into the mechanics ofwhy share buybacks are bad(two quick reasons: the company should have better things to spend its cash on, such as R&amp;D, and buybacks featherbed executive share options). Butwhen a company circles the wagons by reducing the amount of data it gives outanddoes a buyback, something is wrong.Here's what's wrong:RIM's platform is burning. Except that this isn't thefully-fledged conflagration that Stephen Elop perceived at Nokia. It's more of a smouldering. But it's happening nonetheless, and it's been happening for a long time: RIM hasn't released a major new phone sinceAugust 2010. (Yes, that's nearly as long as Apple.) It sort-of showed off a new version of the Torch in May; that will actually be released in September. (Way to kill the sales, people.)RIM's management knows it has a problem, but doesn't seem to be able to make the shift - the very difficult shift, it should be noted - from the old BlackBerry OS to the new QNX platform that is going to power forthcoming BlackBerrys (and already powers the PlayBook).QNX-based phones have been much promised; RIM hasn't however delivered. And what's more, they won't be arriving until the end of this current quarter (which runs to the end of August), according to Jim Balsillie, the co-chief executive (with Mike Lazaridis; we would love to know of any other companies that have joint chief executives - tell us in the comments) in theearnings transcript on Seeking Alpha.Here's what he said: "Forecasting the second quarter is challenging given that we're planning two significant new product introductions that will likely bridge the end of Q2 into Q3. The specific time of these launches will have an impact on how much of these products shipped in Q2 versus Q3. These products also have higher ASPs, so a shift in the percentage of these products in the mix for Q2 also has a meaningful impact on our revenue and earnings forecast."He adds: "We have an exciting line of products, services and promotions expected to be introduced between now and the end of the fiscal year, and we believe that these together with the introduction of new tiered service pricing in the U.S. and around the world are setting the stage for an acceleration of growth in Q3 and beyond."Always good to be positive. But analysts don't buy it: The forecast "means new devices won't make it into the second quarter," said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst at MKM Partners in Stamford, Conn. "This is a quarter they really needed new devices to get them in there and they won't." (Amazingly, he has the stock at "buy" - perhaps after its 15% fall following the announcement. But the stock is down nearly 40% this year.)Stockbrokers Nomura aren't too positive either: Stuart Jeffrey says that the forward guidance "implies that RIM's deteriorating competitive position is accelerating through the first half of the fiscal year" and that "to meet full-year [profit and revenue] guidance, new products still have to perform strongly in [the] fiscal second half." His comment: "Its products are no longer good enough to meet the demands of the smartphone user, which combined with increasing competition at the enterprise is resulting in the collapse in share being seen... margins are now beginning to come under pressure and this will accelerate the unwinding of earnings estimates, making the stock not look nearly as cheap as it does. We see no reason to get involved and see further downside." Nomura prefers the prospects of Samsung, HTC and LG.RIM revenue, profit, BlackBerry shipments "normalised" to Jan-Mar, April-June etc quarters, plotted against iPhone shipments. Click for larger version.My analysis: RIM is being pushed down in the smartphone market as the iPhone and high-end Android handsets (and perhaps even a few Windows Phone handsets) take away the top-end share it used to have. By my calculations (trying to align RIM's out-of-kilter quarters with the usual Jan-March ones), Apple has outsold RIM for phones for the previous three fiscal quarters (July-Sep, Oct-Dec, Jan-Mar) and is all but sure to do the same this quarter. That's an entire year in which it's outselling RIM not only in numbers but also revenues (and profits). And of course Android is wiping the floor everywhere else, now being the largest smartphone OS by share.RIM is getting hammered because its phones are now, in OS terms, old. RIM's share of US smartphone subscribers dropped 4.7 percentage points to 25.7% in April compared to three months earlier, according to ComScore. None of that is good. And because the phones are old, it can't persuade the carriers to buy them as it did before; so ASPs tumble. Matt Richmanhas a stab at calculating the phone ASPand reckons it fell from $302.26 (official, Q1) to $268.56 (est Q2). "In 90 days the ASP of RIM's biggest product went down by more than 11%," he comments. I think he's overstated it: things aren't quite as bad as that, because he gives the PlayBook an ASP of $554 ($50 less than the ASP of an iPad in the first quarter). However, RIM won't have got anything like that, because the PlayBook range doesn't include 3G, which bumps up the ASP of the iPad somewhat. That lowers the ASP of the PlayBook, and so lifts the ASP of the phones. In the earnings call the ASP is "approximately $300", but that may include the PlayBook.However the root problem remains: RIM is trying to change horses in mid-stream. For that it needs to have its developers on board, writing apps that will be ready for the shift to QNX.Judging by my experience on RIM's App World through its PlayBook, they haven't exactly been beating the doors down. By comparison, the BlackBerry app experience is quite fruitful - something like 15,000 apps. (I'd guess that there's something like one-tenth that in App World.)What's completely unclear is whether apps written for BlackBerry will run on QNX. TheRIM Developer pagesseem to make them either/or. If there's no way to run BB apps on QNX, things are going to get ugly indeed.This, though, is the problem of abandoning platforms. Nokia at least has the benefit that a huge number of its users are in emerging markets, so the 125m or so Symbian smartphones that it's going to sell over the coming couple of years will have some lifetime. RIM, by contrast, is getting squashed, and doesn't have a low-end handset business to rely on like Nokia does.So we're going to see both Nokia and RIM come under incredible pressure over the rest of this year: Apple is going to have a new iPhone, Android is going to rage like a forest fire, and there doesn't seem to be anything to really stop either of them. Although Stephen Elop talked about the prospect of three ecosystems - Android, iOS, and Windows Phone, completely discounting RIM - it's looking like it'll be more like a two-horse race, at least temporarily, by the end of this year.One analyst did try to broach the key question in theearnings Q+A(which makes quite painful reading because of the amazingly evasive responses):Q:"I think the fundamental question that a lot of us and investors are grappling with this, what will help RIMM regain U.S. market share? But it seems that AT&amp;T channel is very strongly aligned with Apple. And Verizon and Sprint seem to be aligning with Android. So where does that leave RIM? So the specific question I have is, what will motivate customers to buy a BlackBerry 6.0 product instead of say the new iPhone 4.0 or new Android products?"Jim Balsillie:"Well, I mean, be careful about your implicit assumptions in your question, or shall I say explicit assumptions in you questions. Yes, I think you guys just have to watch and see what the plans are.I think there's a lot of implicit and explicit assumptions, and that maybe should be examined. And part of that is the question of how powerful is their innovation is a good question, what's the timing of it, it's a good question. I think an important question to ask is, how much does constructive alignment matter to a carrier, because that's been just an enormous issue throughout Europe and Asia, and definitely coming on in Europe.And I think how much does efficiency matter, and when you look at these pricing plans, I think that that should tell you something. So I mean, you watch and see. I mean, we have unprecedented campaigns and device programs and commitments in our history. And I'm just not going to talk anything more about our products and our launches until their time.And that, folks, is what a burning - smouldering - platform sounds like when you put it into words.How about you? Is RIM still on the agenda? Your next purchase? Your last purchase?
Sega has announced that it is opening a new studio in Solihull, dedicated to innovative gaming projects. The first release is set to be an as-yet unnamed PlayStation Vita title.The announcement comes at a time in which many larger publishers are moving development operations from the UK to Canada, where tax breaks have created a tempting environment for games production. The studio will join Sega's other British developers – Sports Interactive, the developer of Football Manager, and Creative Assembley, creator of the Total War titles.According to new studio head Gary Dunn, the initial members of the team are from Sega Europe's technology group, six veteran staff who previously worked at Sega's Racing Studio before it was sold to Codemasters. The group was then tasked with travelling to Sega studios throughout the world, helping teams to get to grips with new technologies such as the Kinect, Move and 3DS."When exploring new platforms their philosophy was always, don't just get it out of the box and try to draw squares on the screen, make a prototype, use the feature set if the hardware to do something innovative," says Dunn."One of the prototypes was so entertaining that it sped through our green-lighting process and we decided to make it. We considered our development options and we were quite passionate about placing a new studio adjacent to the technology group – the idea being, we have this centre of innovation and as great ideas come out, there's a production team there that can take them and get them onto the shelves. So it's a deliberate plan to work on innovative concepts."The studio will apparently remain small, with a staff of 15 planned. When production ramps up, the idea is to bring in specialist contracters."It's starting to feel like the movie industry," says Dunn. "You run your core team as a pre-production studio, and as you move into production, you bring specialists in from outside to do the shoot. These days, if you're going to be innovative, if you're going to work on new IP, this is probably the only way you can do it."On the subject of bucking the trend and setting up in the UK rather than Quebec, Dunn is bullish: "We've got a favourable pound at the moment, and it doesn't look likely to change any time soon, so economically Britain is not a bad place at all for games development, compared to other hubs in the US and Japan. And we have a great talent pool too."Although the first title is aimed at Vita ("it really uses the control feature-set in a unique way" says Dunn), Sega isn't ruling out conversion to other platforms later on.
I would like my browsing and Google searches to be private. I don't want targeted advertising and I don't want to feel that anonymous companies are harvesting my clicks to learn all about me. I'd also like to avoid being filtered as described in Eli Pariser'sHow the net traps us all in our own little bubbles.What's the best combination or (preferably free) tools I could use?Andrew WhiteWhen the web was young, and a lot less shiny, web pages were fixed (static) and – barring browser quirks – everybody saw much the same thing. Today, much of the web is dynamic, which means that what you see has been adapted or possibly constructed on the fly just for you.A site may use dozens of pieces of information to do this, including where you appear to live (geolocation), computer details such as your browser and operating system, and knowledge of other sites that you have visited. Among the most important sources of information are the small text files known as cookies – or, perhaps, the dozens of cookies – that sites have stored on your hard drive. These record any preferences that you set in earlier visits.From your point of view, the advantage is that the websites you visit will be personalised to suit your needs and tastes. From the website's point of view, the advantage is that it can also personalise its prices and advertising to try to suit your needs and tastes, and increase your propensity to click and buy. This is, after all, the quid pro quo for your free access to a vast amount of expensive information. If nobody buys anything via web-based advertising, most of the web will die.On the web, the rule is: if you're not paying, then you are what's being sold.Still, there are lots of ways to reduce the amount of personalisation and the number of advertisements. These include using a proxy server, blocking cookies, using an ad blocker, using secure (https) connections whenever possible, and turning off JavaScript programming. You may also be able to delete some of the information that is held about you online, such as Google searches.Probably the simplest way to reduce personalisation is to use an anonymising service. Instead of accessing the web directly, you access it via a third-party proxy server, so your that requests are mixed in with thousands of others. These services usually allow you to control cookies, turn JavaScript on and off, withhold "referrer details" and so on. Also, all data between your PC and the proxy server should be encrypted so your internet service provider won't see it either.However, companies that offer anonymous browsing services also need to protect themselves. Most have strict rules about what you can do, and you can expect their terms to ban you from accessing pornography, sending spam, using "hate speech" and similar practices. Free services will prevent you from using too much of their shared bandwidth and will probably ban access to videos and downloads. Even with paid-for services, sites that use Java or JavaScript apps may not work.Nonetheless, it's often useful to have access to an anonymous proxy service, and everybody should find one they like. Examples includeThe Cloak,Megaproxy,ProxifyandID Zap. There are also networked open source privacy systems such asTorandI2P.If you have a Google account, click the cog icon, select Web History, and log in. Click the link that says "Clear entire Web History", which will also pause the collection of data about your searches. But bear in mind that you can use other search engines that either don't collect information, or delete it quickly, or allow you to manage your privacy better than Google. Examples includeixquickandStarting Page,DuckDuckGo, andBlekko.Google also tracks your progress across hundreds of thousands of websites via Google Analytics. To opt out of this, install theGoogle Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on (Beta), which Google offers for Microsoft Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari and Opera. However, some sites use different analytics software or track visitors in other ways you will be unaware of.Ghosterymay help reduce these.When it comes to cookies, you can useCCleaner(free) to clear out existing cookies, then set your browser to ban them or only allow certain types. Some sites will not work properly without cookies, so it's a good idea to run your browser in a sandbox such asSandboxie, which insulates it from the rest of your computer. It also makes your computer much more secure. (Chrome and IE9 have sandboxing built in.)If you use Chrome, Google has an extension calledKeep My Opt-Outsto reduce cookie tracking, while Firefox 4 hasDo Not Trackto block third-party cookies. IE9 lets you installTracking Protection Lists. IE8 lets you control cookies using a slider: go to Tools, select Internet Options and click the Privacy tab. Firefox users can also install an add-on calledBetterPrivacyThe European Union passed a "cookie law" (Privacy and Communications Directive) in 2009, and from last month, sites were supposed to get your permission to install cookies. However, the law has been widely ignored, and the UK government has given companies another year to comply. The Americans are still trying to passS. 913: Do-Not-Track Online Act of 2011.Finally, Facebook Connect is a potential privacy problem because it "allows users to 'connect' their Facebook identity, friends and privacy to any site". You can turn it off usingFacebook settings. However, have a look for browser add-ins and extensions that prevent it from working.Examples for Chrome includeFacebook Disconnect,Facebook Blocker,Facebreak. Firefox has a limitedFacebook Blockerbut AdBlock Plus and some pointers fromTom Hermannmay help.In general, the more you do online – social networking, cloud computing etc – the more your privacy and security are at risk. Reducing that risk involves effort and inconvenience, so it's up to you to find an acceptable compromise.
How lucrative are iPad book-apps? UK studio Ustwo revealed some figures at Thursday's Futurebook Innovation Workshop conference in London indicating that gold-diggers should probably focus on other app categories for now.The company's Nursery Rhymes With StoryTime was the highest grossing app in the App Store's Books category for a couple of weeks earlier this year, at a time when it was making around £2,000 a day. Not peanuts, by any means, but not the cascade of riches some optimistic publishers might be hoping for on Apple's store.The Nursery Rhymes app has received a lot of press attention and repeated promotion from Apple, but Ustwo co-founder Mills told the conference that having spent £60,000 making the app, it has so far sold 37,339 copies for a total of £24,048 in revenue.Ustwo was the only company to reveal its download and sales figures at Futurebook, which was notable for publishers showcasing innovative book-apps but remaining tight-lipped about the money those apps were making (or not making)."Innovate now, don't think this is about making money now," Mills told the audience. "It's about pushing the medium forward. Have a lot of fun, and you'll benefit in the future."One publisher that is currently making money is Faber, which has seen its iPad app for TS Eliot's The Waste Land ride high in the App Store charts, even with a £7.99 price. The app took Faber and its creative partner Touch Press just over a year to make, and includes audio readings, a video performance by actor Fiona Shaw, notes and original manuscript scans.Faber's head of digital publishing Henry Volans voiced a key theme of the conference: the importance of partnerships between publishers and app developers. "Touch Press is not a developer and we are not their client," he said. "This is a partnership. If anything, we are both publishers."Random House digital editor Dan Franklin agreed. "What creative agencies bring to the table is a completely different way of thinking about digital – more of a native way of thinking – and some of the partnerships like Touch Press and Faber are blowing everyone out of the water."Authors loomed large in the discussion too, with publishers agreeing that the best book-apps come from collaboration with an engaged writer. Penguin's MyFry app for Stephen Fry was one example shown off during the event, while Pan Macmillan talked about working with Ken Follett on an ebook version of his Fall Of Giants novel with binaural sound accompanying the text.HarperCollins Children's Books digital publishing manager Tom Conway outlined some of the challenges. "Working with the author is absolutely key, but it's also key that the author understand that it's not a book: it's a new storytelling thing," he said.This principle is seen when turning original watercolour illustrations into animation for apps: Conway showed a clip of Paddington Bear as an example. "It's still the illustration, it's just a little bit magical and doesn't distract from the story".The enthusiasm for the creative potential for book-apps was clear to see during the Futurebook event. However, the conference's final panel session showed that higher up the publishing chain, apps remain a sideline to executives' core focus on grappling with the wider shift to digital business models.Apps were barely mentioned at all during this final session: hammering out ebook deals, restructuring internally and getting to grips with Kindle Store pricing and metadata still has more impact on a publisher's bottom line than releasing an innovative app.
The US defence agency that invented the forerunner to the internet is working on a "virtual firing range" intended as a replica of the real internet so scientists can mimic international cyberwars to test their defences.Called the National Cyber Range, the system will be ready by next year and will also help the Pentagon to train its own hackers and refine their skills to guard US information systems, both military and domestic.The move marks another rise in the temperature of the online battlefield. The US and Israel are believed to have collaborated on a sophisticated piece of malware called Stuxnet that targeted computers controlling Iran's nuclear centrifuge scheme. Government-authorised hackers in China, meanwhile, are suspected to have been behind a number of attacks on organisations including theInternational Monetary Fund, French government andGoogle.The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa), which developed Arpanet, the forerunner of the internet, in the 1960s, is working on a number of fronts to boost the US's defences against computer-generated attacks. Barack Obama has asked Congress for more than $250m (£154m) to fund Darpa's cyber initiatives in the coming year, double his fiscal 2011 request.The National Cyber Range is expected to be working by mid 2012, four years after the Pentagon approached contractors to build it at an estimated $130m.One of these companies is Lockheed Martin, the Pentagon's No 1 supplier by sales – anditself the targetof what it called "a significant and tenacious" cyber-attack in May.Lockheed, the US government's top information technology provider, was awarded a $30.8m contract in January 2010 to continue to develop a prototype. Johns Hopkins University's applied physics laboratory won a similar deal at that time.Darpa will this summer select one of them to operate a prototype test range during a year-long test.It will also help train cyberwarriors such as those in the American military's Cyber Command, ordered up by the secretary of defence, Robert Gates, in June 2009 after he concluded the threat of digital warfare had outgrown the country's existing defences.The "firing range" actually will be a collection of "testbeds" that can carry out independent drills or be woven into one or more larger pieces, depending on the challenge. The range is to test such things as new network protocols, as well as satellite and radio frequency communications. A key goal is to run classified and unclassified experiments in quick succession "in days rather than the weeks it currently takes," said Eric Mazzacone, a Darpa spokesman.That would require a system capable of being completely reset after an experiment, in which it can be reconfigured and all data purged from related memory, hard drives and storage devices. That ability to reboot and start over is central to the plan, keeping the facility available "at all times for both experimentation and training," without fear of corruption or compromise, Mazzacone said.Darpa is also working on other plans to advance the US's cyber defences. A program known as Crash – for Clean-slate design of Resilient, Adaptive, Secure Hosts – seeks to design computer systems that evolve over time, making them harder for an attacker to target.The Cyber Insider Threat program, or Cinder, would help monitor military networks for threats from within by improving detection of threatening behaviour from people authorised to use them. The problem has loomed large since Bradley Manningallegedly passed confidential state department documentsto WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy website.Another is a Cyber Genome, aimed at automating the discovery, identification and characterisation of malicious code. That could help figure out who was behind a cyber-strike.The US defence department, meanwhile, is preparing an expanded pilot programme to boost the sharing of cybersecurity information with the companies that provide it with arms, supplies and other services costing some $400bn a year. The new effort, like a predecessor that began in 2007, is voluntary and is aimed at protecting sensitive but unclassified information on or passing through computers owned by companies that make up what the Pentagon calls the "defence industrial base", or DIB.About 35 companies took part in the initial programme, including Lockheed Martin, which said last month its computer networks had become "a frequent target of adversaries around the world".The expanded "DIB Opt-In" program will be open to many more companies. It is "vital to the nation's military readiness and the government's overall efforts to enhance cybersecurity," air force lieutenant-colonel April Cunningham, a defence department spokeswoman, said in a statement to Reuters.Ultimately, the new programme may be a step towards putting major Pentagon contractors behind military-grade network perimeter defences, like those that protect the Pentagon's own classified networks.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBit O'Money: Who's Behind the Bitcoin Bubble? &gt;&gt; The New York Observer"Most of the activity around Bitcoin right now is pure speculation, however, due to the violent price fluctuations and limited adoption by merchants."HTC to cut apps to upgrade Desire to Gingerbread &gt;&gt; HTC UK"To resolve Desire's memory issue and enable the upgrade to Gingerbread, we will cut select apps from the release. Look for status updates starting next week. We apologize for any confusion."Also interesting: HTC UK uses Facebook to put out its notifications. Not press releases.Android Tablets Get OS Update &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch Blog"It's been evident that the early Android-based tablets aren't selling as well as many expected, and some brands we spoke to indicated that the late arrival of the OS could be a good thing. One brand said its engineers saw a significant difference between 3.0.1 and 3.1, so instead of coming out earlier in the year, the brand decided to wait until 3.1 was ready to release a device. Dell recently went as far as to say it would only come out with its 10.1" tablet in China because executives felt that the position of Android in the US was still unclear and that the platform was still immature..."The apps run more reliably and consistently, and the platform hasn't crashed yet. There are still some issues with running Adobe Flash, and the update process wasn't as seamless as it could have been. Based on some forum postings, other users had similarly uncertain update experiences."O2 won't touch BlackBerry fondleslab for now &gt;&gt; The Register'Fondleslab' being El Reg talk for 'tablet'.Research In Motion Limited stock &gt;&gt; Google FinanceHeavy selling of RIM's stock (down 15%) after its results indicate a slowdown (despite those 500,000 PlayBooks shipped - note, not necessarily sold) and no new smartphones until the "end of August". Plus job cuts. Still, it's cash-positive.Microsoft finalizes Windows Thin PC; available July 1 &gt;&gt; ZDNet"In a blog post on the 'Windows For Your Business Blog', Microsoft officials noted the approved uses for WinTPC:"'WinTPC is designed to be a thin client device, and therefore only applications that fall into the certain categories are enabled. These categories include security, management, terminal emulation, Remote Desktop and similar technologies, web browsers, media players, instant messaging clients, document viewers, NET Framework and Java Virtual Machine. If customers want to locally run productivity applications such as Microsoft Office, or any other application that does not fall into the categories mentioned above, they would be better off using a PC, as thin client computing may not be the best fit for their scenarios.'But how much is the licence? That's the key, and unanswered, question.Chromebook From Samsung Has Its Head in the Cloud &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue tries to use a Google Chromebook as his main computer; fails. In itself, this shouldn't be regarded as surprising.Video: Apple iPad 2 vs. RIM BlackBerry PlayBook comparison &gt;&gt; MobileBurnTo see the browser speed comparison, scroll forward to 3:30. Hard to see how the PlayBook can be described as the "fastest tablet ever" based on this. (Thanks @carniphage for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Chatterbox at 7.30am - again! Come aboard and get the chat while it's fresh!
In late May, the US media group PBS ran a strange story on its website."Prominent rapper Tupac has been found alive and well in a small resort in New Zealand,"it reported. "The small town – unnamed due to security risks – allegedly housed Tupac and Biggie Smalls (another rapper) for several years."For two reasons, this was a surprising piece of journalism. First, Tupac died in 1996. Second, the piece wasn't written by PBS. It had been planted on their site by a group calledLulz Security, a loose collective of anonymous hackers who wanted revenge for a recent PBS programme that criticised WikiLeaks."Greetings, Internets,"Lulz wrote on their own website, by way of explanation. "We just finished watching WikiSecrets and were less than impressed. We decided to sail our Lulz Boat over to&nbsp;the PBS servers for further . . . perusing." Above the message read the&nbsp;tagline: "Set sail for fail!"It was an extraordinary episode, but by no means isolated. In March, hackers stole a database of email addresses from the marketing group Epsilon, in what one commentator called the largest email addressheistin history. Then computer security firmRSAhad their servers breached, an attack that may have led to the hacking of defence giantLockheed Martin, an RSA client. In April, person unknown cracked Sony's PlayStation network, and stole77 million users' data. And in the past month, the IMF, CitiBank, the Spanish police, Google, the Turkish and Malaysian governments, the US Senate, and, just two nights ago, the&nbsp;CIA have all beenhackedin one&nbsp;form or other.It is tempting to consider this a kind of hackers' high noon. But, saysRichard Clayton, a prominent computer scientist at Cambridge University, conflating these different attacks is a "bit like treating knife crime as the same as burglary". In simple terms, there are three kinds of attack taking place. Hacktivism is the most prominent: raids by amateur groups such as Lulz (who took down sites belonging to the CIA, the Senate, and the Spanish police) orAnonymous(PayPal, PlayStation, MasterCard, and Visa), either for fun, "for the lulz" – or, increasingly, as an act of political protest. Then there's the criminal kind – professionals hunting for credit card details, or email address directories, with the aim of selling them on for profit. While the PlayStation systems were first hacked by hactivists, a second breach was made by cyber criminals who had more commercial ends. And finally, there's state-sponsored espionage, or even cyber-warfare. "Google, RSA, Lockheed Martin, IMF – the strong suspicion is that all those were state-sponsored, or state-approved," saysDave Clemente, a cyber security expert at Chatham House, the international affairs thinktank. "Whether it's Chinese, or&nbsp;Russian, or eastern European, a lot of these hacks seem to have been given&nbsp;a wink and a nod of tacit approval from states."Are all three categories really on the rise? Well, possibly. "It's difficult to substantiate whether there's more going on or not," says Rik Ferguson, director of security research at computer protection firm,TrendMicro. "What's certainly true to say is that more attacks are being publicly disclosed. Victims are more willing to come forward and say 'something bad happened to us'." Disclosure laws obliging companies to come clean about data breaches have been in place in many parts of the US for several years. But the real turning point, says Ferguson, came only a year ago, when Google went public with the news that it had been hacked byChinese sources. "That got the ball rolling," says Clemente. "It suddenly seemed more permissible to report a hack. Getting hacked doesn't seem to have the stigma that it did several years ago, and&nbsp;there's not a feeling now that you're on your own if you get hit."But even if increased openness is in part to thank for the apparent hike in hacking, there has still been an exponential rise in the number of cyber threats. In 2008, security giant Symantec counted 120mmalwarevariants; last year, that figure had risen to 286m. Symantec security strategist Sian John has also noted a large increase in what are known as "targeted attacks". A decade ago, a hacker would usually have intended a single virus to reach millions of people. Today, the average number of computers infected by an individual malware is just 15, and that is because hackers are using a new tackle called spear-phishing, which enables them to be more specific about who they target. "In the past, if you got a phish attack, it&nbsp;would be from a Nigerian offering you lots of money," says John. "Now it'll be from someone saying: 'Oh, we saw you at that conference last week. Here's some minutes of that conference.'" And contained within those minutes will be a virus.This kind of targeted attack – known asspear-phishing– has become so dangerous because of the amount of information we divulge on the internet. "One of the first places a&nbsp;hacker will visit is LinkedIn," says Ferguson. "What do we do on there? We make our entire CV available for the world to see. You can see everywhere I've worked in the past. You can see all my connections, see everyone I've worked with, everyone I know. So a hacker can assume one of those people's identities and reference things that have happened in my professional life. And I'm far more likely to open an attachment from your email, because it's far more credible." Unsurprisingly, then, Ferguson's job involves not just&nbsp;infiltrating black-hat hacking communities online, but training office workers to be more aware of social engineering ruses such as these. (Security experts have also been known to test a company's defences by&nbsp;leaving infected USB sticks lying around and seeing whether anyone picks them up out of curiosity. In 2008, USmilitary computerswere breached in this way, according to rumour, after hackers scattered USBs across a car park at a US base in the Middle East.)Targeted attacks are also popular because they enable cyber-criminals to go after individuals with access to large banks of information. "Criminals," says Ferguson, "have realised they can get more bang for their buck if they can penetrate a large aggregation of data in one single successful attack, rather than trying to compromise multiple individual PCs." Hence the hacking of Epsilon, which at a single stroke may have given hackers access to millions of email addresses.The most audacious example of a targeted attack is thought to be an act of espionage rather than criminal activity. Last year's Stuxnet worm supposedly worked its way through theIranian military computer systemwith a single goal: to damage the centrifuges that controlled the country's uranium enrichment programme. But while, according to John, "Stuxnet is the most sophisticated piece of malware we've ever seen", most hacking techniques have not necessarily changed much in recent years."They sound rather complicated," says David Whitelegg, who blogs atITSecurityExpert.co.uk, "but really they are often no more sophisticated than they've ever been." The malware that led to the hacking of security giant RSA may have been a"zero-day attack"– ie, it had never been seen before – but the method of infection was nothing new. "At the end of the day, a user within that company opened an email. It went into his spam box, he opened it, and that launched the attack. And that's the way it's always been."Distributed denial of service attacks (DDoS) – the method employed byAnonymousto take out PayPal, Mastercard and Visa by overloading them with hits – are also nothing new. "DDoS has been around for years," Whitelegg says. "There's nothing you can do about it."But even if their methods are old, the arrival of groups such as Anonymous and its offshoot Lulz Sec does mark a changing of the guard. "Hactivism is definitely on the rise," says Ferguson. "Anonymous were previously quite a cliquey underground community. But as the WikiLeaks thing unfolded, and they gave their support to Julian Assange, and they began to attack organisations they felt were treating WikiLeaks unfairly, they have garnered a lot of coverage. They've associated themselves very cleverly toV for Vendetta, a&nbsp;popular film with a popular image and well-known taglines such as 'We are Legion'." New members have also realised how simple it is to join the group. "If they want to participate, it's very easy for them to download a tool that hands over your computer to Anonymous" – and which then allows them to take part in DDoS attacks.Yet if their rise is partly down to greater exposure and clever associations, it is also undeniably linked to a growing political consciousness throughout the cyberspace community. The anarchist collective Deterritorial Support Group recently posted an essay entitled "Twenty Reasons Why it's Kicking Off in Cyberspace", which aimed to explain the recent rise of Anonymous and Lulz. "Make no mistake," they wrote, "this is&nbsp;not a minor struggle between state nerds and rogue geeks – this is the battlefield of the 21st century, with the&nbsp;terms and conditions of war being configured before our very eyes . . . At&nbsp;the heart of it is a newly politicised generation of hackers who have moved from a lulz-based psychic-economy to an engaged, socially aware and politically active attitude towards world events, primarily as a reaction to the way governments and multinationals dealt with the fallout of WikiLeaks."Such political development engagement raises new moral questions. A&nbsp;Lulz attack on, say, the CIA, is primarily an act of protest – a web-based sit-in, if you like. "And if the police are wary of arresting people for taking part in a real-life sit-in," asks Ferguson, "then why are they so willing to arrest people for the digital equivalent?" In other circles, however, such actions are considered less protest, and more acts of war. "Cyberspace," read aChatham House cyber security reportfrom last year, "should be viewed as the 'fifth battlespace', alongside the more traditional arenas of land, air, sea and space". Significantly, the report also noted that "in cyberspace the boundaries are blurred between the military and the civilian, and between the physical and the virtual; and power can be exerted by states or non-state actors, or by proxy . . ."It is tempting to think of this kind of debate as irrelevant to our everyday lives. Symantec says mobile phone technologies will be hacking's next target, and perhaps it is physical problems such as this that we should be more concerned about. But as we increasingly live more of our lives online, and as that boundary "between the physical and the virtual" is increasingly blurred, perhaps it is the conceptual questions posed by hacking that will ultimately prove more significant.A hacking glossaryKnow your malware from your DDoSAnonymousAnarchic coalition of hackers who rose to prominence after committing DDoS attacks(see below)against MasterCard, Visa, and PayPal last year. Previous targets included the Church of Scientology and the government of Zimbabwe.DDoS – distributed denial of serviceBombardment of a website with internet traffic, until it stops being able to cope and crashes.HackingCommonly refers to those who attempt to breach computing systems, but is also a catch-all term for people who simply try to adapt or enhance computer programs.Lulz SecurityProlific new hacking collective whose targets have included the US Senate, the CIA, Sony and PBS. Their actions are characterised by humour: their name is a neologistic twist on the slang-term "lol", meaning "laugh out loud".MalwareCatch-all term applied to malicious forms of software that are created to disrupt operating systems.Spear-phishingEmails that target specific individuals. They use social engineering techniques to get recipients to open infected attachments.RootkitSoftware that hides the fact that a computing system has been hacked.Trojan horseMalware that masquerades as non-malicious software.White-hat hackingExperts hired by companies to test their websites or email systems for vulnerabilities. Conversely, black-hat hackers hack for dishonest reasons; grey-hats hack systems illegally, but with the intention of notifying the system administrator of the flaws in their network.Virus Software that can replicate itself and compromise a computer.Zero-day attackComputer threats that prey on software weaknesses developers had not identified.4ChanNotorious internet chatroom from where Anonymous supposedly originates. Famous for its /b/board, where users post random and often offensive images and comments – most incomprehensible to outsiders.
Max Mathews, who has died aged 84, wrote the first computer music program and influenced the conception of HAL 9000, the computer in Stanley Kubrick's film 2001: A Space Odyssey. In the 1968 film, HAL gives a&nbsp;memorable rendering of an old song about a bicycle built for two. This was the result of a series of coincidences.Mathews had been working on synthetic speech at AT&amp;T's Bell Laboratories, in New Jersey, where a&nbsp;song entitledDaisy Bellhad an obvious appeal. The researchers at Bell Labs used their IBM 704 computer and a vocoder (voice synthesiser) to sing it, withMathews programming the musical accompaniment. Although this was serious research, the output was also used to entertain visitors, including Arthur C Clarke, who used the idea in&nbsp;his novel, and the screenplay, for 2001, in which the astronaut David Bowman shuts HAL down as it sings the song. The scene became part of cinema history and popular culture.People had been using computers to play tunes for a few years, but Mathews was the first to write a computer music program. He said that "computer performance of music was born in 1957 when an IBM 704 played a 17-second composition on the Music I program, which I wrote". At the time, computers were too slow to play compositions in&nbsp;"real time". It took an hour to create 17 seconds of music. Mathews recorded it to tape and then speeded up the tape to play it back.He wrote improved versions of his software, up to Music V, which he created "to give the musician the tools to make his own instruments". He also developed Groove, the first computer system for live performance, and Radio Baton, a system for controlling music in standard Midi (musical instrument digital interface) format. Radio Baton used two "wands", prefiguring the sort of controller now used with Nintendo Wii games. Later, Max, a widely used visual programming language for music, was named in his honour.Mathews was born in Columbus, Nebraska, the son of college teachers. After graduating from high school, he&nbsp;joined the navy, where he trained as&nbsp;a&nbsp;radio technician. He gained a degree in electrical engineering at the California Institute of Technology in 1950, and a doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1954. He&nbsp;joined Bell Labs, and served as director of its acoustical and behavioural research centre from 1962 to 1985.While at Bell Labs, Mathews worked with a number of composers, including Edgard Varèse and John Cage, and in the 1970s he helped Pierre Boulez set up the avant-gardeInstitut de Recherche et Coordination Acoustique/Musiquein Paris. He also contributed short pieces to a Bell Labs record, Music from Mathematics, and to Decca's Voice of the Computer: New Musical Horizons.His paper The Digital Computer As a&nbsp;Musical Instrument was published in&nbsp;the journal Science in 1963. He joined Stanford University's music department as professor of music (research) in 1987, and made San Francisco his home.During a conference panel on the future of musical instruments at theSF MusicTech Summit in 2010, Mathews said: "When I first got some – I won't call it music – sounds out of a computer in 1957, they were pretty horrible. Almost all the sequence of samples – the sounds that you produce with a digital process – are either uninteresting, or disagreeable, or downright painful and dangerous. It's&nbsp;very hard to find beautiful timbres. A violin may be beautiful but it always will sound like a violin. The computer can sound like anything."Mathews was a keen amateur violinist and developed a number of electric violins, including one made of sheet metal. One of his instruments appeared on the cover of Playboy magazine's "sex&nbsp;and music" issue in 1998.Mathews is survived by his wife, Marjorie, their sons, Vernon, Guy and Boyd, and six grandchildren.• Max Mathews, computer programmer, born 13 November 1926; died 21 April 2011
"For most artists," as the famous Tim O'Reilly aphorism has it "the problem isn't piracy, it's obscurity." To me, this is inarguably true and self-evident – the staying power of this nugget has more to do with its admirable brevity and clarity than its novelty.And yet, there are many who believe that O'Reilly is mistaken: they point to artists who are well-known, but who still have problems. There are YouTube video-creators who've racked up millions of views; bloggers with millions of readers, visual artists whose work has been appropriated and spread all around the world, such as the photographerNoam Galai, whose screaming self-portrait has found its way into everything from stencil graffiti to corporate logos, all without permission or payment. These artists, say the sceptics, have overcome obscurity, and yet they have yet to find a way to convert their fame to income.But O'Reilly doesn't say, "Attain fame and you will attain fortune" – he merely says that for most artists, fame itself is out of their grasp.And fame is necessary – but not sufficient – for a commercially successful career in the arts.That quality of "necessary but not sufficient" surfaces again and again in discussions of the transformative power of the internet. It's also the source of much of the controversy about just how transformative the internet actually is.Take the Egypt uprising. Western political leaders and sloppy journos characterised the uprising as a "Facebook revolution" or a "Twitter revolution." Critics countered that most of the millions in the streets were poor, illiterate labourers who didn't have computers or internet connections, and that they couldn't possibly have been mobilised by Facebook, and they certainly weren't writing the English-language tweets that western net-heads thrilled to as a window into the unfolding revolution.Egypt endured brutal dictatorship for decades, and the rich, educated elite had enjoyed access to Facebook and other social media for years.So what, exactly, created the uprising in January, 2011 – why hadn't it come in the first years of dictatorship, why hadn't it come in the early years of Facebook's explosive growth in Egypt?The answer, I think, is that networked communications were necessary, but not sufficient, to a successful Egyptian uprising. The emails and tweets and status updates coming from Tunisian revolutionaries inspired their comrades in Egypt (some of whom they'd met face-to-face in regional meetings organised by the likes of the Open Society Initiative, but whose social connections were continued and reinforced by the net).Al-Jazeera, a "traditional" TV network whose success is largely a result of their net-savvy business and communications strategy, mobilised the working poor. First-hand, English-language accounts from radicals in the streets garnered western sympathy and forced Cameron and Obama into confronting their nations' complicity in the Mubarak regime instead of sweeping it under the rug with excuses about Arab exceptionalism and regional stability.Word of the YouTube footage of the fatal beating of Khaled Saeed spread via Twitter and Facebook, which made al-Jazeera and western blogs. At the same time, Egypt's bourgeoise lost patience with the corruption and bureaucracy of the Mubarak regime, and expressed and magnified its discontent through social media, often via loops that included members of the Egyptian diaspora in the west, such that these complaints could be filtered through and reflected back to western liberal sympathisers.Taken at their whole, all these factors (and more – Goldman Sachs' rapacious gambling in the global food market, post-WTO employment malaise, and other circumstances too numerous to enumerate or even know) created the circumstances in which an Egyptian uprising could succeed.My corollary to O'Reilly's "piracy/obscurity" quote is "fame won't make you a success on its own, but no artist ever got rich on obscurity". That is, being widely loved isn't sufficient for attaining fortune, but it is necessary to it.By the same token, a global network that allows loosely coordinated groups of people to discover each other and act in concert while exposing their cause to the whole planet (especially its richest, most privileged residents) is not enough to overthrow a dictator — but I'm sure I wouldn't want to try to stage a revolution without such a network.
Imagine, if you will, an unlikely meeting between classic action RPG Landstalker and The Big Lebowski. This was my immediate impression on playing Bastion, an Xbox Live action RPG, developed by indie start-upSupergiant Games.Don't get me wrong, Bastion is not a role-playing game about a laidback bowling fanatic who blunders into a surreal kidnapping plot (although that would be awesome). No, it's an isometric fantasy game, with a fairly straightforward plot about a young hero waking up to find his world in chaos thanks to an event named The Calamity. His job is to put it back together, or at least find his peoples' safe haven, the eponymous Bastion.The Big Lebowski bit is the voice-over. Throughout the game, the Landstalker-style isometric visuals are accompanied by a continual narration that captures all the laconic charm of Sam Elliot in that cult Coen Brothers flick. And cleverly, this voice comments on every player action: bump into enemies, draw a sword, or fall off the side of the gameworld, and the story-teller seamlessly builds it into his drawl.It's a lovely system that marries story and interactivity in an innovative and charming way. It also conjoins perfectly with the presentation, in which the game environment physically builds itself just in front of you as you move, as though your actions are prodding the world in to life. Perhaps it's a smart metaphor for the gaming experience, the whole interplay between designer and player. Or it could just be a nice graphical effect. Whatever, it works.On the route to Bastion, there is much to explore, plenty of enemies to dispatch and, of course, a hefty armoury to discover. "There are over 10 different fully upgradeable weapons in Bastion, each with its own unique mechanics," explains creative director, Greg Kasavin.The first you encounter is called the Cael Hammer – a reliable melee weapon. In another area of the E3 demo, you were able to use the War Machete, a very fast melee weapon that can also be thrown. Later, there's a Scrap Musket ("essentially a shotgun which can cause great damage up close and hit several foes") and the Brusher's Pike, a long-range melee weapon. These can all be upgraded via an intuitive system that lets you fully mould the hero, opting for super tank-like destruction, sneakery or distance killing.But what got me on the E3 showfloor were the lovely hand-drawn 2D visuals, a rich re-interpretation of the classic tactical and action RPGs of the 16- and 32bit eras. "The style came really naturally," says artist Jen Zee. "When I joined the team, Greg told me that the story is post-apocalyptic, but that they also wanted to emphasise the fact that, in the face of destruction, there's often beauty as well."That resounded with me, because I've had my share of grey and brown apocalyptic games. I wanted to introduce rainbows into the post-apocalypse! The rich and colourful style was informed by that, but also, strategy RPGs were a big part of my gaming childhood – Final Fantasy Tactics, for example, and the Shining Force games. I was self-consciously trying to project what those artists would have done with 1080p HD visuals."The good news is, Bastion has been chosen for this year's Summer of Arcade, the annual promotion in which Microsoft highlights five of the most interesting new XBLA titles (you should also check out Ubisoft's fascinating From Dust when the season kicks off in July). It's a strong start for this small San Jose-based team."We're just seven guys working out of a living room," says Kasavin. "We all have Triple A backgrounds. Several of us worked at EA LA on the Command and Conquer franchise and another team member worked on Modern Warfare at Infinity Ward. We have a lot of experience, but we decided to break off and do something on our own. So we kind of moved into a house together and started on this…"It seems, then, that Bastion isn't just an interesting riff on the action RPG genre, it's also a fascinating sociological experiment – can a team of developers live and work together? We'll await the game – and the reality TV series – with considerable interest.•Bastion is due out on Xbox Live Arcade this summer
A cartoondoing the roundson Twitter on Wednesday compared the way we listen to music, watch films and read the news 15 years ago to today. Now, of course, those are all things we do alone while plugged in to a computer. Beyond the punchline, is there some truth in the assumption that despite our hyper-connectedness, we are potentially more isolated than ever?Research byPewclaims thatonline social networksdo provide genuine emotional support and well-being, including advice, information and companionship. Using an established system of measuring well-being, Pew found that internet users felt it provided significant emotional support for them, particularly through social networks and particularly through Facebook.There's an important distinction there; it was not that they found that users of Facebookwerebetter supported emotionally, but that they reported that theyfeltthey were, and in two key categories of emotional support and companionship. Pew described the sensation of well-being as equivalent to around "half the boost in total support that someone receives from being married or living with a partner".The average American, Pew found, has 634 social ties from family and close friends to colleagues and acquaintances. But the average internet user has 669 compared to 506 for those who do not use the internet. Nearly half of all US adults, or 47% of the population, use at least one social network, and 56% of those are female.Facebook is by far the most dominant, used by 92% of people who engage with online social networking, with 29% (still) on MySpace, 18% using LinkedIn and 13% on Twitter. In the popular imagination MySpace might appear to be dead, yet according to Pew's research it still has more than half the user accounts of MySpace.But in terms of frequency of use, the majority of Facebook users said they used it several times every day, compared to the majority of MySpace account holders who said they never used the site any more. For LinkedIn, 35% of users said they used it less than every few weeks, while 20% of Twitter users accessed the service several times each day.Pew also found that Facebook users reported having more close relationships and friendships and of being more trusting of others than non-Facebook users, with heavy users 43% more likely than other internet users to trust other people. What this doesn't reflect, though is the likelihood that more socially engaged and outgoing people are likely to join Facebook in the first place. If you're suspicious of the internet and social networking, or introvert and not interested in socialising, you're not likely to be drawn to Facebook."The likelihood of an American experiencing a deficit in social support, having less exposure to diverse others, not being able to consider opposing points of view, being untrusting, or otherwise being disengaged from their community and American society generally is unlikely to be a result of how they use technology, especially in comparison to common predictors," concluded the report. "A deficit of overall social ties, social support, trust, and community engagement is much more likely to result from traditional factors, such as lower educational attainment."
Just a quick note to let you know that the third Call of Duty: Black Ops DLC pack has been announced. Entitled Annihilation it'll feature four multiplayer maps – Hangar 18, Drive-In, Silo and Hazard – as well as a zombie experience named Shangri-La. According to Treyarch studio head Mark Lamia, the latter is set on, "an exotic and mysterious map filled with deadly traps, dark secrets and innovative gameplay that will challenge even the most daring Zombie hunters." I don't know, we have some pretty daring zombie hunters among the Gamesblog readership...The pack will hit Xbox Live on June 28 as a timed exclusive. PlayStation 3 owners can expect it a month later. For some reason best known to Bobby Kotick, Activision isn't releasing any screenshots until 6pm (you see, this is what I mean bythe obsessive drip-feed of information), but I'll update the story when I'm allowed to show them.By the way, Activision will also be holding a Double XP weekend, starting Friday July 1. I might even get up to rank 20 at this rate!
Dear consumer: the PlayBook, the tablet from Canada's Research in Motion (RIM), is not for you. You might as well stop reading now. It's intended for enterprises, and all the signals I've been getting are that they're the organisations that will be buying it. So move on.No? Still there? OK, then. Here's the thing. The PlayBook has gone on sale from Wednesday in the UK, through Selfridges, and from all sorts of others starting from Thursday. Are consumers going to be storming the store? Will they line around the block? No, they won't.The fact is that the PlayBook is far too limited, especially in applications, to be any good to the average consumer, who would be better off buying an iPad or Android tablet. (Pay your money, take your choice.)It has virtually no apps, barely any functionality (you can only do email and calendaring if you already have a BlackBerry, or if you're prepared to use a web-based system which might or might not work), and a small screen. What it's perhaps useful for is doing presentations onto HDMI screens via its HDMI output, because it can drive that while viewing something different on its own screen. Standard enterprise stuff.But of course, you could take the view of Currys, which says that it is "slick, stylish and luxurious" and that it is "reported to be the 'fastest tablet ever'". (Nice use of the arm's length there.)GeneralBrowserEmailCalendarOffice documentsApp store (aka App World)Video outMusic storeVideo chatBattery lifeSummaryProsandConsBoring box-ticking technical specificationsPrice comparisonGeneralThe PlayBook looks like a zillion 7in Android tablets, but in fact it's using RIM's own QNX operating system. This brings a new gesture-ish interface: from the home screen you start an app by touching it; then you swipe up to bring up the menu of running apps, or to choose another. You can swipe along between the running apps. If in this "between apps" state you swipe one of them upwards again, it is killed. Or choose it with a touch (or swipe it down) to go into it. Inside an app, yousometimesfind that there are extra options which are brought up by swiping down, if you follow me.It's quite neat, though the borders of the device screen (which you need to contact to make the swipe count) are really surprisingly wide, which subtracts from the screen, and the desire it to swipe the screen, not the border. You get a tutorial of how to use the device the first time you turn it on. I sometimes forgot which direction I should be swiping. But there weren't many apps to switch between anyway.BrowserSince this is pretty much the only app you're going to be using if you don't have a BlackBerry, it needs to be good. In this case, it's good enough. Multiple windows (not tabbed as such), and a good-enough keyboard. It has the familiar "double-tap to resize text" that you get on the iPad and Android. The default search engine is Bing (following the deal between Microsoft and RIM. One suspects money changed hands RIM-wards, and that RIM was glad of it. Sure hope Microsoft knew what it was doing.) You can't edit Google Docs words, or look at spreadsheets, because Google's mobile detection steps in and stops you doing anything useful.And – saints above! – it can play Flash video! Yes, the USP that separates it from the iPad and makes it only exactly like pretty much every Android tablet out there. When the PlayBook was first announced, wayyyy back in September, this made it different from the iPad. Now, it makes it the same as everything else.EmailDoesn't do it if you don't have a BlackBerry (I don't), though an update is promised in the summer. For enterprises, this is actually a benefit: it means that if someone steals a PlayBook, it's not full of detailed information.CalendarSee email.BlackBerry PlayBook screen: you use gestures to move between apps. Photograph: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty ImagesOffice documentsThanks to RIM's purchase of Dataviz (which for years helped Apple Mac users out of trouble by being able to open Microsoft Office documents when the Mac versions of Office couldn't), you can open pretty much anything that comes your way (assuming you have some way of receiving email or documents – see Email). That's nifty. You can edit them and send them on (if you can email).App WorldYes, the PlayBook has an app store, just like every other tablet out there! But what makes the PlayBook's special is that it has something else that Apple and Android can't boast in theirs: enormous empty spaces. Seriously, it should be called Appski Worldski, because the last time you saw empty shelves like this was in a film of a Soviet supermarket before the Berlin Wall fell.News? There's a paid-for app which retrieves the RSS feeds from various organisations and then sells them to you. No thanks. Navigation in the store isn't very clever: you have to press a button to go back a page, rather than swipe. So are we being taught to swipe, or press UI widgets?I tried a news app called BizNewsReader, which is free (we can't go splashing the Guardian budget on just anything). A very quick and painless business that was. And there it has all sorts of content, including the Times Online! From June 2010. Ohhh-kay. But the BusinessWeek feed was at least current. Oh, look, it's an RSS newsreader which doesn't give you the full content. When you press "Full Content" you go to … the web page.Here's the canonical example: the sort of app that you would expect would be available onanyapp store is one for Twitter. Sure, Twitter has told developers not to bother, but come on, a Twitter app is surely what any consumer or enterprise person would want? (Not a Facebook app, though there is one of those. There isn't a LinkedIn app. See, I told you it was Soviet.)Anyway, I searched for a Twitter app. Look, there it is! A quick stab and … we're in the browser, looking at mobile.twitter.com. SERIOUSLY, RIM? The experience isn't even very good; the desktop version would be preferable (and even feasible, if RIM chose to set the browser ID). I searched some more. There were some more Twitter apps, including one called Tweedless. Oh, a review: "Doesn't work. Can't sign in". Oh pshaw, I thought, of course it will work now – the developer will have seen that.Downloaded. Run. "Get a PIN from Twitter." Over to Twitter authentication. Get PIN. Enter PIN. "PIN not recognised." Gaaaah.My advice to run: the "NO RESULTS FOUND" box is remarkably unfriendly and bright. You might want to ease off on that one – it's an eyeburner and lots of people are going to see it.BlackBerry PlayBook interface when switching appsWeirdly, while there's a definite dearth of useful apps, there's no shortage at all of games. This is of course comparative – there might be a couple of hundred, but it makes it look like a Toys'R'Us warehouse compared to the Arctic wastes of the rest. Some games have the most vicious reviews ("total waste of money so far") and there's no way to see just the five-star apps – you have to wade (well, skip) through the ones that are there so far. At least that isn't too difficult.The key problem that RIM has is that QNX is too new – meaning that apps written for the BlackBerry won't run on it. This is going to cause some huge problems in the not-so-distant future as it shifts its smartphones over to QNX too. Are the developers on board? If so, why aren't they writing for it?Video outIs HDMI. This is nice, but what video are you going to put onto it that you're then going to output? Presentations, that's what. Hilariously, RIM tried to convince me that you'd get a common household scenario where someone would be playing video – a film, maybe? – from the PlayBook onto the TV screen, which would be avidly watched by the family, and the PlayBook user would then swipe over and do their own thing on itwhile the family kept watching the video on the TV. Besides the fact you'd need an enormously long HDMI lead to do this, it simply doesn't match how families, TVs and tablets function.Hopefully this sort of "we can find a case for consumer use" delusion doesn't permeate the organisation. Think enterprise, people.Music StoreYes, it has one, powered by 7Digital. Prices are the same as the iTunes Music Store (in my limited searching). Puts the Appski Worldski to shame.Video chatVideo chat! Yay! With other PlayBook users. Boo. No Skype, no other VoIP services. Can you feel time passing? We did tell you right up at the top of the page this wasn't for consumers.Battery lifeTolerable – I generally got a day or two if I left it around and didn't actually do anything with it (the temptation to pick it up truly was not strong). In use, nothing like the 10 hours you'd get from the iPad – closer to five or six with Wi-Fi on.SummaryYes, we've reached that point already. There really is barely anything to say about the PlayBook. It's a nice piece of kit and comes with its own neoprene cover in case you want to take it to the executive pool with you. For a consumer, there's no point. For enterprises, there may be.Those in favour:interesting gestural interface; good-enough browser; ability to open and edit Office documentsThose against:Soviet-era app store; lack of native apps; so-so battery life.Technical specifications:7in screen; Wi-Fi only but 3G version promised later this year; 16GB, 32GB or 64GB versions; ARM Cortex A9 processor; front and rear cameras; 425g; 10mm thick; micro-USB; micro-HDMI; own chargerPrice comparisonLet's see how the PlayBook stacks up.Prices from Curry's online.PlayBook: £399 (7in, 16GB Wi-Fi), £479 (7in, 32GB, Wi-Fi), £559 (7in, 64GB, Wi-Fi).Apple iPad: £399 (9.7in, 16GB, Wi-Fi), £479 (9.7in, 32GB, Wi-Fi), £559 (9.7in, 64GB, Wi-Fi)Motorola Xoom: £480 (10in, 32GB, Android Honeycomb)Acer Iconia tab: £449 (10in, 32GB, Android Honeycomb). There isn't a 16GB version.Asus Eee Pad Transformer" £380 (no optional physical keyboard, 10.1in, 16GB, Android Honeycomb).Conclusion: if you want apps and screen size, the iPad is still the best deal in this sector. If you want screen size and Android (and so Flash), the Asus looks the cheapest. If you have a BlackBerry and a corporate expense account, there's always the PlayBook.Email section restored, lost due to wayward quote mark in hyperlink. Apologies.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's Retail Secret: Full Service Stores &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"More people now visit Apple's 326 stores in a single quarter than the 60 million who visited Walt Disney Co.'s four biggest theme parks last year, according to data from Apple and the Themed Entertainment Association."Apple's annual retail sales per square foot have soared to $4,406—excluding online sales, according to investment bank Needham &amp; Co. Add in online sales, which include iTunes, and the number jumps to $5,914. That's far higher than the sales per square foot and online sales of jeweler Tiffany &amp; Co. ($3,070), luxury retailer Coach Inc. ($1,776), and electronics retailer Best Buy Co. ($880), according to estimates."Simply amazing. In 2001, when the stores were launched, they were expected to be a flop within a year - perhaps two - because companies such as Gateway had failed with them. Dell tried them and didn't thrive. Intriguing view from behind the counter.Thieves Found Citigroup Site an Easy Entry &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"In the Citigroup breach, the data thieves were able to penetrate the bank's defenses by first logging on to the site reserved for its credit card customers.&#10;"Once inside, they leapfrogged between the accounts of different Citigroup customers by inserting vari-ous account numbers into a string of text located in the browser's address bar. The hackers' code systems automatically repeated this exercise tens of thousands of times — allowing them to capture the confidential private data."GET considered harmful.Linked Data API Configuration &gt;&gt; reference.data.gov.ukOh, wow - government department data as real proper RDF. This is amazing.HOWTO: create a 100% secure Bitcoin walletAfter the theft of 25,000 Bitcoins (possibly by Lulzsec, though unproven - both the theft and the thief), how to make sure it never happens again. Only involves Linux LiveCDs, encryption, fireproof safes and regular rebooting into that LiveCD.Yup, Bitcoin is untraceable electronic money for the elite, all right.Duke Nukem's PR threatens to punish sites that run negative reviews &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"A large part of my job is dealing with people who work in public relations. The vast majority of those whose do PR for video game companies are polite, well-intentioned, and extremely professional. They need us to get their games coverage, and we need them for access to the developers and early code to review games in a timely manner. The press and PR relationship may sometimes be strained, but it's rarely adversarial.&#10;"That is, until the Redner Group's official Twitter account posted something you almost never see: an open threat stating that outlets who reviewed Duke Nukem Forever poorly may not receive review copies of games in the future."Now games are bigger than Hollywood, some publicists are trying to act like they're Hollywood publicists. Bad idea, really.2K Games does not endorse comments made by @TheRednerGroup &gt;&gt; Twitter..and has fired them. So be as rude about Duke Nukem Forever as you like. You'll still be allowed to review the sequel.Did we say sequel?Android is 45% of total tablet market in Russia in Q1, iPad the rest &gt;&gt; Vedimosti.ruA total of 180,000 devices sold through official and unofficial channels in 1Q 2011, according to IT Research, of which 55% (99,000) iPads, 45% (81,000) Android, from about 15 companies (average: 5,400 each). Official imports: 115,000, of which Android made 60%, iPad 40% (46,000). The second measure suggests an average of about 4,600 average per Android tablet maker.Most Common iPhone Passcodes &gt;&gt; Daniel AmitayYou can tell there isn't a large UK sample because "1966" isn't there.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Told you! It's Thursday, it's 7.30am, it's today's Chatterbox!
They called it Titanic Takeover Tuesday. Over the course of several hours on 14 June, the hacker group Lulzsec orchestrated distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks against three online games – Minecraft, Eve Online and League of Legends – as well as the gaming news site, Escapist.The victims were knocked offline, websites went down, login servers collapsed, and viaits Twitter feed, the culprit(s) reported on the chaos with undisguised glee.Lulzsec is on a roll. Earlier this month the teambroke into the Sony Pictures website and took the personal details of 1 million customers(although Sony laterclaimedit was closer to 40,000).This was followed by a breach of Nintendo's site, and then a more concerted onslaught against game publisher Bethesda. This time, Lulzsec kicked off with aDDoS attack, but when the inherent weakness of the system became clear, the team shifted into a more penetrative smash-and-grab raid.A press release issued onthe group's websitegoaded: "After mapping their internal network and thoroughly pillaging all of their servers, we grabbed all their source code and database passwords, which we proceeded to shift silently back to our storage deck."And that's besides their apparent attack against the CIA's website, which theyclaimed to have brought down on Wednesday evening.In the meantime, UK publisher Codemasters and the Gears of War series creator Epic Games have also had their websites compromised by unknown hackers. Some have blamed Lulzsec, but it is unlikely they were involved – they haven't had a laugh about it on Twitter yet. Another group could well be at work out there.So what is going on? And why is it happening now?Hotz to trotThe answer to the latter question almost certainly lies with one company, Sony. Earlier this year, the consumer electronics giant brought a court case against hacker George Hotz, a leading light in thejailbreakcommunity, for circumnavigating the security systems of the PlayStation 3 console and potentially opening the machine to pirated software.The move generated considerable anger within the hacking underground, especially when Sony gained access to the IP addresses of visitors to George Hotz' website.Calling this move an "unforgivable offence against free speech and internet freedom" thehacker group Anonymouseffectively declared a cyber-war on the company. Two weeks later, thePlayStation Network suffered a major intrusion, and the service was offline for more than a month.Anonymous claimed not have been responsible, but it certainly helped put Sony on the hacking agenda. Lulzsec's own campaign, wittily titled Sownage, kicked off in late April with the Sony Pictures attack.Some theorise that Lulzsec is an offshoot of Anonymous, a splinter group tired of the politicising of the older organisation. It certainly carries the same anti-Sony resentment. A later hack was accompanied by the press release declaration: "Konichiwa from LulzSec, Sony bastards!"Of course, the video games industry has faced hackers for many years, and the security systems of its consoles and web infrastructures have always faced attack. But this new wave is different."What Anonymous brought to the online party was the democratisation of hacking," says Steve Gold, editor of Infosecurity magazine (and himself famous as a former hacker in more innocent times). "The collective developed various hacking tools, starting with a distributed denial of service package calledLOIC (Low Earth Orbit Cannon)late last year. This allowed the Anonymous collective to automatically pool their computing power to wage attacks on companies the collective did not like – Sony, Visa, MasterCard etc."LulzSec is the natural evolution of the trend that Anonymous started – focused online hactivism. Its membership is born from the online gaming community, and guess what – they resent large corporations like Sony charging them for services and 'ripping them off' as they perceive it. So they stage collective hacking attacks. The collective decides on the targets, votes on it, and takes action."So what we have is a loose, decentralised group of like-minded computer users, who are almost impossible to track down (although hacker arrests in Holland, Spain, Turkey, the UK and US suggest that's not completely impossible). They communicate via arcane forums and Internet Relay Chat, they use the anonymous sitePastebinto post images and "press releases", and they speak through websites and Twitter accounts that will no doubt prove untraceable.Cheekily, Lulzsec has even set up a phone line through which angry gamers and interested journalists are invited to talk to its "French elitists" whose given names are Pierre Dubois and Francois Deluxe. On Wednesday, it claimed to have 5,000 missed calls and 2,500 voicemails.They're self-publicists, in a sense, with a chaotic sense of humour – the group's website plays the theme tune from 1970s series Love Boat, and their tweets are peppered with references to piracy (of the nautical rather than software kind). The group has a logo, a monocled gentleman, which reflects their self-consciously austere communications.There are also interesting parallels here with the imagery used by Anonymous. In a YouTube video publicising that group's war on Sony, a character on screen is dressed as V, the masked anarchist from Alan Moore's dystopian comic book V for Vendetta. Here too, is the subversive mix of anarchy, historical allegory and twisted humour. In a way, Lulzsec has become a self-perpetuating graphic novel, an alternative reality game that's somehow segued into real life.Non-fictionBut it isn't a fiction and it certainly isn't a game. "One of the attributes of hacker groups is a fairly firm understanding of what it is they believe in and what they don't," says Dr. Tim Watson, head of De Montfort University's computer forensics and security group."As a hacking group you have to be both creative and precise in the work you're doing with computer programming, and you tend to let that spill out into the rest of your life; you form views about what's right and what isn't. More than most social groups, these are ones that will embrace activism."If you look at groups like Anonymous and Lulzsec, only a small part of what they're doing is with the games industry. With these particular groups, profile raising and publicity seeking activities is more likely to be about raising issues that they have concerns about. Just like journalists, hackers need to find a forum that's going to connect with as many people as possible, and the sweet spot is gaming. Millions of people are connected online via games, and these aren't like online banks: the security isn't as good, yet you give them a lot of personal details."Indeed, it would seem that Lulzsec's modus operandi is to raise awareness about lax security rather than to destroy games companies or steal and sell credit card numbers. After theraid on Bethesda, the group stated on its website that it would withhold from publication the personal details of more than 200,000 gamers: "We actually like this company and would like for them to speed up the production of Skyrim, so we'll give them one less thing to worry about."Later, its DDOS attacks on Eve Online and Minecraft were designed to disrupt services rather than break them completely ("We didn't hack any games," went one tweet. "We just DDoS'd them with our not-to-be-messed-with Lulz Cannon.")So is Lulzsec a sort of vigilante group, out to secure online safety for gamers? Or is it just a laugh at the expense of gamers as they sometimes claim?Certainly the Titantic Takeover Tuesday attacks had no altruistic motives ("let's all laugh together at butthurt gamers" one Tweet on Tuesday night declared). Whatever the case, the organisation has highlighted the possibility of security deficiencies.As Sanjay Sarathy of Vindicia, a company that creates billing systems for various games publishers, argues: "If what I'm reading is true, particularly about the second Sony breach in June, LulzSec are outraged at the poor security standards of game publishers. They're quoted as saying, 'Every bit of data we took wasn't encrypted. Sony stored over 1 million customer passwords in plaintext, which means it's just a matter of taking it.' And this, just after millions of credit card numbers were stolen through Sony's PlayStation Network in April."It's mind boggling to think that a company like Sony is not meeting basic security standards. How is it possible, in the digital age, for corporate culture around security to be so lax? Whether we agree with the vigilante activity or not, the hackers have sent a lot of senior level-types back to double-check what level of security their business provides customers. This is outrageous – they should know, they should be sure their company is Level 1 PCI DSS compliant (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard)."Watson agrees, and predicts significant ramifications for games publishers. "We're going to see – excuse the pun – some game-changing activity. The people running online games have realised now that security is a competitive advantage. If you're trying to persuade someone to type in their credit card details in order to play a game, being able to say our game is safer than the next company's is a selling point that's on the public consciousness. So what we should see is what Lulzsec and Anonymous wanted all along, which is more secure environments for people to play safely online."Mutating targetThe problem is, that hacker groups tend to mutate and evolve quickly and their impersonal, dislocated nature means keeping tabs on members – and their motivations – is all but impossible, even from the inside.As Watson says: "The difficulty is, this is not a highly organised group that meets up in a room above a pub and comes up with a manifesto and a series of collective agreed beliefs. It's much more of a cloud organisation – not just because they're all on the internet, but because you may find two people within the organisation who will have remarkably different views."It's like any organisation that strays into the public arena where governments get involved; if you think about somethinglikeCND [the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament], for example, you may have fantastically well-meaning people who are trying to do the right thing, mixed in with terrorists and subversives. And of course, it's far easier for infiltrators to come into groups like Anonymous or Lulzsec."Gold agrees: "What we are seeing is the true democratisation of the internet. The power is truly in the hands of users who are young, enthusiastic and pissed off. Instead of demonstrating, however, they cause trouble online. The danger with this is that – like demos, which can turn into riots – online trouble can escalate, especially if various political factions infiltrate the collective and quietly steer or even take control."The $64,000 question, of course, is where the evolution of Anonymous and LulzSec ends. Like all collectives, as the authorities arrest one batch of malcontents, others step in to fill the breach. Furthermore, governments do not truly understand the rapid evolution that is happening on the internet."Presently, Lulzsec is laughing about infiltrating game sites and upsetting a few role-playing fans. But the group has also recentlygained access to the US Senate websiteand then some passwords in the NHS.If security is tightened within the games industry, and if Lulzsec can spin it into a success story, where do they go next? It might not be so benign; the darker forces within this ghostly democracy may win out.And if it is not Lulzsec it will be a splinter group, or a rival looking to piggyback its way into notoriety. Today, this is a story about MMORPGs providing better customer security. Tomorrow? Who knows where hackers will get their lulz.
The CIA has become the latest target of self-styled "pirate ninja" hackers LulzSec.TheCentral Intelligence Agency websitewas unavailable for a few minutes on Wednesday evening as the groupannounced the attack via Twitter: "Tango down – cia.gov – for the lulz"."We are looking into these reports," a CIA spokeswoman said.The hackers, who describe themselves as "the world's leaders in high-quality entertainment at your expense", have gained international notoriety this month with a series of security breaches.Over the weekend LulzSec broke into a public website of the US Senate and released data stolen from the legislative body's computer servers.Last week they hacked the website of an unnamed NHS organisation – one of England's primary care trusts. The Department of Health said no patient's medical records were accessed during the incident, which it described it as "a local issue" and "quite a low-level" lapse in IT security.Earlier this month LulzSec broke into the website of Sony Pictures Entertainment and exposed information from 37,000 users, including names, passwords, birthdates and email addresses. It also hacked into a webserver belonging to Nintendo in the US.The name of the group is derived from "LOL" (laugh out loud) and "security".In Malaysia, at least 51 state-linked websites have been hit by cyber-attacks in recent days, the country's telecommunications regulator has confirmed.The sites are believed to have been targeted by the Anonymous group of hackers, who had threatened to disrupt Malaysian sites in protest at a crackdown on entertainment piracy.
A burst of 12 apps for your considerationDiscovr AppsEarlier this year, Discovr Music brought a flowchart-style user interface to music discovery on iPad (and subsequently iPhone). Now it has an app-focused follow-up for both iOS devices. Users can search for an app, then browse others similar to it, tapping through for more information and purchase links.Music UnlimitedSony Network Entertainment launched its Music Unlimited cloud music service earlier this year, but it's only just getting its first mobile application, for Android. The service offers streaming songs from a seven-million strong catalogue, as well as the ability for users to listen to their own collections in the cloud. Its scan-and-match feature means Android has a direct rival for Apple's upcoming iCloud service.Betfair Racing On Your MobileBetting exchange Betfair's latest smartphone project is an HTML5-based mobile web app for iPhone and Android, rather than a native download. Working with racing form company Timeform, it offers race cards, star ratings, tips and results for the horseracing industry, as well as full betting features.Bungie MobileConsole developer Bungie has launched its official iPhone app, enabling gamers to keep tabs on their Halo: Reach Challenge and Commendation progress, while also getting the latest news from the company.Tinker Bell and the Great Fairy RescueDisney's latest book-app for iPhone and iPad focuses on Tinker Bell and her fairy friends, based on the movie of the same name. The "magical storybook app" offers narrative and interactivity, including a feature to sprinkle fairy dust by blowing into the microphone.NME Icons: Jack WhiteThe White Stripes may have split up, but Jack White continues to make music with a blizzard of collaborators. The NME is celebrating his career with a new iPad app, which for £3.99 offers archive interviews, photo galleries and videos.CheckAbleCheckAble is one of a growing breed of iPhone and iPad apps aimed squarely at business users of Apple's devices. It's a way to create checklists of repeated tasks, to ensure they're done in a consistent way. Videos, notes and PDFs can also be attached to tasks – designed for users instructing colleagues on how to do something.Chuck and Friends: Friends for the Long HaulRuckus Media has won plaudits for its iOS book-apps, with Chuck and Friends the latest to appear for iPhone and iPad. Described as an "interactive reading adventure", it has more than 70 virtual pages of story and interactivity.Mindjet for iPadMindjet's MindManager software is already used for mindmapping – brainstorming or organising concepts on the fly. Now there's an iPad app for that, which can import existing mindmaps from the desktop version, and export directly to Dropbox.JeegoJeego is a new e-greetings app for Windows Phone 7, which keeps memorable dates and then reminds users of them on the app's live tile on the homescreen.Call of Mini: ZombiesAs its name implies, Call of Mini: Zombies owes a debt to the undead-themed Call of Duty iPhone game, but with characters seemingly inspired by iOS dual-stick shooter Minigore.Angry BungaAnd finally, for some light-hearted satirical relief, Android game Angry Bunga is an Angry Birds clone inspired by the recent headlines made by Silvio Berlusconi's private life.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
In the past, we've tended to dismiss Saints Row as a less well-executed clone of Grand Theft Auto. At times, the first two games felt uncomfortably as though they had been put together by middle-class white boys (and it takes one to know one) indulging their gangsta fantasies. But judging what we saw of the third instalment at E3, it's time for a major reassessment of the franchise. Because this time, developer Volition has really gone for it, abandoning all pretence of gritty realism and aiming to create: "The biggest, most over-the-top guilty pleasure in the world of gaming." The results were impressive and constantly hilarious to behold, if likely to generate more than a soupcon of controversy when Saints Row: the Third comes out on 15 November.The E3 demo opened with some open-world action in a new hood for the Third Street Saints: having achieved total dominance in Stilwater, they've moved on to a new city, Steelport – a once-great industrial hub reduced to a giant den of iniquity by the shadowy Syndicate. Not that the Saints exactly intend to clean the place up. By now, they are bona fide celebrities, with their own branded trainers, energy drinks and bobble-head dolls (at last, a game with the nous to take the mickey out of the 21st century's dread celebrity culture).That status has an impact on Saints Row the Third's gameplay: because you're starting from the top, you have access from the get-go to a ridiculous array of toys. The E3 demo began with a cruise around town (instead of fiddling around picking the locks of parked cars, Saints merely leap, feet-first, through the driver's window), where we were introduced to the Luchadores, a gang comprising Mexican wrestlers. A foray on the streets provided an opportunity to investigate some of the weapons on offer – a random hobo, for example, was bludgeoned to death with a giant purple dildo, and we donned the Apocafist – a giant pair of fists that fragged anyone unlucky enough to get in the way of a single punch. Being Saints Row, you could change into all manner of bizarre outfits, or get naked whenever you wanted.More sandbox action involved jumping into a tank for a mini-game in which you tried to cause as much financial damage as possible to the city before the tank was destroyed. A whole gang of Luchadores were taken out by an air-strike – handy when you're feeling a bit lazy. You could even jump into a VTOL hover-plane, equipped with lasers and homing missiles, earning points for stunt-flying. Plus we saw a clownish van equipped with a giant cannon, which you could hop into and, at the press of a button, send a human flying out of the cannon (invariably to splat into the side of a skyscraper). Or you could jump into the cannon and launch yourself.Finally, Volition launched a story/mission, in which the Saints set out to rob a bank. This involved action sprinkled with cut-scenes, but you could tell from the cut-scenes, many of which were laugh-out-loud funny, that the developer has really gone to town with the idea of the Saints being celebrities, and pretty much everything in the game is done for comic effect. We saw the Saints bickering as they prepared themselves for the job, before running into the bank wearing giant bobble-head masks in the image of Johnny Gat, gang-leader of the Saints.All went well until the tellers started shooting back, at which point it became clear that the bank was merely a front for some nefarious Syndicate operation. Which raised the intensity of the resulting firefight several notches. Making their way into the bank (and pausing occasionally to sign autographs for those they were robbing), the Saints found the vault, but couldn't get into it, so set an explosive charge on the floor above and lifted it clear of the bank with a helicopter. You were left hanging on to the vault, firing a powerful machine-gun with one hand while beset by an entire squadron of Swat helicopters .That joyously over-the-top, cinematic action was enjoyable enough merely to witness – we're really looking forward to participating in it. One thing is for sure: the mediocrity which often pervaded previous iterations of Saints Row has been well and truly banished from its third incarnation. Given that there will be no Grand Theft Auto game this year, Saints Row: the Third looks beautifully placed to step into the breach and satisfy our perennial craving for gang-based action this Christmas. And to satisfy a certain sector of the press's perennial craving to work itself into a lather about the iniquities of videogames.•Saints Row the Third will be released for Xbox 360, PS3 and PC on 15 November
London-based minicab company Addison Lee expects to generate more than £20m of bookings from its iPhone app this year, having taken 75,000 bookings in May for a total value of more than £1.4m.The figures wereannouncedby the company's technology partner Haulmont Technology, which says that since the app launched in January 2010, it has been downloaded more than 70,000 times, and has generated more than £10m of cab bookings.More than 47,000 people have booked an Addison Lee cab using the app – one wonders what the other 23,000 downloaders have been doing – and it now accounts for an impressive 11% of the firm's bookings. Android and BlackBerry versions have recently been released, with a version for Nokia handsets due in the third quarter of 2011."Most customers now use smart phones with GPS and we've seen a huge surge in demand for mobile app bookings," says IT director Peter Ingram. "We've recently been testing our Blackberry and Android Apps and getting very positive feedback from customers via Twitter, so we're confident both new versions of the iPhone app will be a big success."Much of the coverage of money being made from smartphone apps focuses on direct revenues from paid downloads and in-app purchases. Addison Lee joins a select list of companies that have revealed how their apps are having an impact on their non-mobile businesses, though.Back in November 2009, Pizza Hutannouncedthat its iPhone app had generated $1m in sales in its first three months of availability. Restaurant reservations firm OpenTablesaidin May 2010 that it had processed more than three million bookings through its apps, too.More recently, eBayannouncedthat the value of goods sold through its mobile apps and sites topped $2bn in 2010, and is expected to double to $4bn in 2011 – although the company only takes a slice of those payments. Previously, Amazonsaidit had generated more than $1bn of mobile purchases in the year between July 2009 and June 2010.There is no shortage of developers boasting about millions of app downloads, but the figures released by companies like Addison Lee, Pizza Hut and – on a grander scale admittedly – eBay and Amazon offer a different take on the moneymaking potential of apps.
After years in which it insisted that it had no intention of competing directly with Microsoft, Google is parking its tanks front and centre on Microsoft's lawns. TheChromebook- a "thin client" laptop that will have virtually no local storage - launches today, Wednesday, and is the first serious challenge to the Windows/Office hegemony in two decades.The Chromebook doesn't run Windows; it runs Google's second operating system (after Android), ChromeOS, which is stripped down so far that it just runs a browser and associated programs. No Windows. No Microsoft Office. No Microsoft anything, in fact.ChromeOSis a Linux-based system that Google has been working on since 2009. And now it's becoming real, through "Chromebooks" from Samsung and Acer (and also, unofficially, from the Australian company Kogan, which issellingthem in Australia and the UK).Yet to begin with, the threat to Microsoft, and the promise to Google, from Chrome is minimal. First, the Chromebook is not aimed at the average consumer. It's aimed at the enterprise customers who are Microsoft's bread and butter. Google, with the Chromebook, is aiming to eat Microsoft's lunch - and its dinner and breakfast too. How? By nibbling away at Windows and Office revenues by finding the companies that have finally had enough of Office upgrades, and aren't that keen on the Windows upgrade cycle - and associated costs - either. The other target: schools - where Microsoft first gets its customers.Chrome is, make no mistake, a dagger poised over Microsoft's heart. The only question is whether it's made of steel or rubber.Google claims that the total cost of ownership (TCO) for ChromeBooks is 50% less than for an equivalent Windows PC - about $1,500 per Chromebook compared to the estimated $3,000 per PC figure that Gartner puts on it (which includes the cost of the machine, software, and especially of support). "We've corroborated that $3,000 figure with enterprise customers," said Sundar Pichal, the senior vice-president at Google of the Chrome project.I asked the team what their targets are for sales; they replied that they don't have any (which I don't believethat; you've got to have targets because otherwise the manufacturers won't take the contract, and Google works to targets all the time internally). They said they're more interested in "how much users are using it, and how much they like it. If we focus on that, then more and more units will ship."In case you haven't had the memo, here's the detail about the Chromebooks:• 12.1 in laptops• 16GB SSD storage (the Kogan models offer 30GB)• 2GB RAM (1GB on the Kogan model)• Intel Atom 1.66GHz• made by Samsung or Acer (or, unofficially, Kogan)OK - so far, so like a big-screened netbook. And now some more detail:• 8-second boot time• 6-week update cycle for the OS and the browser• will be available in the US, UK, France, Germany, Netherlands, Spain and Italy from 15 June• price in the UK: £349 for Wi-Fi model, £399 for 3G-enabled version. (Kogan: around £225).Essentially you can have some local apps that sort of run through the browser, but Google's idea is that you'll doeverythingthrough the browser. It says that it already has companies interested in going with it."Obviously", says the web page, "you're going to need a wireless network, be willing to use it subject to the provider's terms and conditions, and be ready to put up with its real life limitations including, for example, [the network's] speed and availability. When you do not have network access, functionality that depends on it will not be available."Google doesn't really have its eyes on consumers - though if they happen along then it will happily lap them up. The real people it wants to take these laptops up are the companies that are already using Google Apps for Your Domain (GAYD) to run things such as Google Docs and Spreadsheets. Yes, it's absolutely true that Google Docs isn't a patch on Microsoft Office if you need to do something complicated. But lots of companies and lots of staffdon't need to do anything complicated. And they are the low-hanging fruit that Google is after.To those enterprises spending $3,000 per year on a PC, once you factor in the cost of helpdesks, antivirus, firewalls, backups and so on, Google says: we'll rent you the machines, including support, for $28 per month per unit (in the US; UK prices not yet announced), or $20 per unit for students. That works out to $336 per unit per year for business or $240 for education.For that, Google's argument is that you don't need to bother about antivirus (argue about that later) or firewalls, or backups. The thing about a Chromebook, Google says? Destroy one, and all you need to do is log in to a new one. All your data is still there. If a corporate one gets lost or stolen, there's no data on the hard drive to get stolen, and no way to break into the cloud-stored data. All that's lost is a bit of easily replaced hardware.For enterprises, this is a stunning pitch. Yes, many people find the idea of cloud storage hard to believe. But it's entirely possible to shift businesses - and schools - over to it in many cases. (Disclosure: the Guardian uses Google Apps. Other UK national newspapers, including the Telegraph Media Group, do too.)Where's the profit for Google? "Users who use them use the web more," says Pichal. "And where people use the web more, it's great for Google. That's on the consumer side; then our profits improve. On the business and school side, it's a clear revenue business. So we hope to have a successful business."Companies don't even have to use GAYD: "we debated this quite a bit," says Pichal. "But we found that in many cases customers don't want Google Apps but do want this, say if they're in retail or call centres, where they're using a helpdesk app." (Imagine a giant call centre switching from Windows to ChromeOS. That's a vision to chill a Microsoftie's blood.)Now let's get down to the numbers. Google says it has 3m businesses using GAYD, and more than 30m business users actively using Google Apps every day. Businesses replace their desktop machines roughly every three years, laptops every two years. Business sales make up around half of the 350m PCs sold every year. The key question then is how many of those are in the "mature markets" - North America and Europe - and so might be targeted in the longer term by ChromeOS.Fortunately,we have those numbers, provided by IDC: 54.9m desktops this year, 105.4m laptops, of which half of each are businesses: so 27m desktops, 52m laptops being bought this year will be replacements in the business market. (This is in an installed base in the mature markets of 740m PCs.)Initially, you wouldn't expect many businesses to put Chrome systems in; it'll be experimental. But once they're in, that's revenue that's lost to Microsoft both from Windows and from Office, and the latter could be the more painful loss over the longer term.But even if all 30m GAYD-using users were to switch over to ChromeOS (which isn't going to happen, because lots of those businesses use their PCs for functions that can't be done through the browser; they need native Windows apps), it wouldn't have a big impact at first on Microsoft. 30m PCs represents about $1.69bn of revenue and $1.2bn of profit for the Windows division, or about one-third of one quarter's revenue and profits. And that's if every single GAYD customer shifts over.So ChromeOS isn't an immediate, or perhaps even medium-term threat to Windows. A bigger threat, in fact, is the fact that it is now the emerging markets such as China which are driving PC sales growth, and Microsoft has found that piracy there reduces its revenues to 5% of what it gets in the West. That bothers Steve Ballmer far more.The danger though will be in the longer term if consumers start to pick up the idea that Chromebooks are nifty, and if big PC sites such as call centres do start using them because of their low price and replaceability.. Here's where the simplicity/antivirus arguments might kick in. ChromeOS is allegedly virus-free because on boot up if runs a self-check called Verified Boot, which can detect corruption in the software, and repair it as necessary. The browser tabs all run in their own sandbox, so nothing should escape from there anyway.This is of course enormously disruptive to the security companies that have turned antivirus protection on Windows PCs into an industry worth tens of billions of dollars. The effect on them will arguably be much greater if ChromeOS gets any traction inside businesses. Of course. ChromeOS won't stop people from clicking on phishing sites, but it should shortcut many of the simplest scams out there. And the fact that everything gets funnelled through Google's servers, which will scan for malware of all sorts, suggests that the real benefits may come from the level of protection far more than anything else.
Acer, the Taiwanese company that is the second-biggest PC maker in the world, will cut 300 jobs in Europe and has slashed its full-year shipment target for tablets by almost 60% to around 3m units. The company also said it expects lower notebook shipments this year as it struggles to clear excess inventory.The job cuts in Europe will come in "the next few months" and follows huge losses in the region, including a $150m writeoff for excess inventory and disputed payments in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region.The company said earlier this week that it has around 3m laptops that will be sold at large retailers. At the start of June the company said in a statement that it had "discovered abnormalities in terms of channel inventory stored in freight forwarders' warehouses, and in the accounts receivables from channels in Spain".The company is in the midst of upheaval after the abrupt departure in March of its chief executive Gianfranco Lanci, who clashed with founder Stan Shih over the company's direction. Shihfavoured a tablet- and smartphone-oriented strategy, seeing them as offering higher profit margins than PCs and especially the imploding netbook market on which Acer rose to prominence from 2008 onwards.The company has missed its last three quarterly revenue and profit forecasts, but said it expected overall shipments to improve later this year. "The third quarter will be considerably more stable. It will be similar to the second quarter or better," chairman JT Wang told a shareholder meeting on Wednesday. "The fourth quarter will be even better."Wang told reporters after the meeting that the new target for tablet shipments this year was 2.5m to 3m units – dramatically lower than the 5m to 7m units target set at the beginning of the year. Acer now expects to sell 800,000 tablets in each of the second and third quarters.Wang said he expected total shipments in the second quarter to fall less than 10% from the previous quarter, better than had been feared. Last month, the company posted a 29.2% drop in total sales.In April, the PC maker cut its forecast for shipments in the second quarter to a 10% decline from January-March, citing its recent reorganisation, inventory adjustment and a seasonal slowdown in the PC industry. That would take it down to around 9.8m machines shipped in total, and could mean that it will lose its second place in the PC sales rankings to Texas-based Dell.Shares in Acer have plunged 30% since March 25, when the company first cut its first-quarter PC revenue outlook and followed by the sudden management changes.
How did I messthatup? Okay, for the rest of the week, Chatterbox will definitely be online at 7.30am. Definitely.
It appears there's something rotten in the state of games. Journalists returning from last week's E3 extravaganza in Los Angeles have been discussing it, tweeting about it, blogging about it – but you wouldn't realise it from the largely ecstatic coverage of the online gaming press.For many, this year's event has come to symbolise a growing malaise in the mainstream industry. It isn't about a lack of originality or business guile; it's not a fear about what "games as a service" actually means. It is all of them combined. And more.A central complaint has been the lack of genuine breaking news at the event. We already knew almost everything about Sony's PS Vita and Nintendo's Wii U before E3, we just needed the names and a few launch titles. As for triple-A game announcements, well, there was Halo 4, and … not much else.Returning from the show, Rory Buckeridge, associate editor of Nuts, tweeted: "It's going to be increasingly difficult for mainstream chaps like me if we go out and return with no news. Worrisome."On Tuesday, he told me: "The show seems to be segueing from a news-based expo to somewhere where the media is drip-fed slightly more information about already-announced games, something that can be easily done, off spec, in our respective countries by the local PR departments."All this is fine, of course, for the specialist press, who think that a box art announcement is a top-line story, butwehave to justify our valuable time to our increasingly time-poor editors, and it seems the sheer volume of specialist press coverage is swinging the pendulum away from mainstream media, whose audience it could well be argued is more key in creating blockbuster franchises."Indeed, building excitement in mainstream publications such as Nuts, Shortlist, the Sun and a dozen US and online equivalents is key to driving pre-orders of those big Christmas releases – and that is what E3 is about now. The show's days as a vertical slice of the whole industry are long gone; it is there to support Q4 retail sales, and in doing so it steadfastly ignores the mobile, social and casual sectors which represent by far the largest areas of growth and innovation.And if E3 can't excite beyond the specialist press, it is not working as an event. As Patrick Garratt of industry news site VG247 put it inhis indictment of the show:What we saw at E3 this year was a mid-cycle dead-zone. With digital sales now accounting for more than 40% of all games revenue and set to go past the halfway mark this year, where was the acknowledgment? Where was the day-date download release, the cross-platform integration? Where was the excitement of the next frontier?If E3 was built on a bedrock of selling discs to stores for Christmas, how is it maintaining relevance in a world where we're about to see the majority of sales go to digital distribution and the year has become a homogenised release schedule?But then the whole concept of the digital gaming has turned into something of a bête noire. In his recent and rather apocalyptic critique of the games industry,Six Ominous Trends In Video Games, David Wong wrote this about the transition from the traditional 'packaged goods' business to "games as a service":The thing is, publishers ultimately want to get to the point where you're connected to their servers at every moment. This way they can continually check to make sure you have a non-pirated copy of the game and can then sell you downloadable extras and monthly subscriptions to play multiplayer. They also want you to buy all of your games via download so that you won't trade a physical copy in to GameStop (who will resell it and not give a penny to the publisher).After that, they will move to a model like OnLive, where you never get a copy of the game at all – you simply play it off their machine, streamed over your internet connection. For this, you pay a monthly fee, hopefully for the rest of your life. All of this requires a constant connection. Which requires constant security. Which requires constant bullshit. Ask any PC gamer, they're already there.His simplistic doom-mongering has (rightly) drawn criticism, but over the past fortnight we've seen Call of Duty: Elite, Battlelog and the EA Sports Football Club. Currently, these are sideline social networking services aimed at encouraging players online. But how do we know they're not just Trojans for constantly connected subscription businesses?Wong writes about how Starcraft 2 players find their access to the single-player campaign compromised if they don't log on to Battlenet; we've already seen with EA's Online Pass how consoles can similarly restrict activity.We like the idea of seamless gameplay integration between single- and multiplayer; Autolog isfun. But do we want to be continually connected to the unreliable servers and back-end infrastructures of the major game publishers?Quite apart from the effect this could have on game content (a Farmville-like distopia of endless grinding), do we trust them? Hacker groups like Lulzsec are currently harvesting customer details from companies like Nintendo, Epic and Bethesda for fun. Who's next? When we're constantly connected, will we just be opening our bank accounts to every smart amoral kid with a basic knowledge of internet security systems?Even if we're not, might we be entering an era in which even single-player campaigns are plagued by disrupted connections, endless buffering and game saves that evaporate into the cloud?Others have balked at the lack of originality on show at E3. Of course, we all know that the mainstream games industry thrives on the safety of the brand-based business model – just as Hollywood does. Sequels and tie-ins are easier to market, have a built in fanbase and don't require months (sometimes years) of technology development, focus testing and awareness building.But E3 was just an endless production line of familiar names with many of the key series' in double figures. Let's not kid ourselves, this has always been the case for hardware launches: Nintendo continually re-packages its Mario titles for every generation, while in the nineties, every new machine had to boast a range of arcade conversions.But for third-party publishers facing declining retail sales and an uncertain digital future, many journalists have been asking, "well, where is the fresh 'IP' to see us through?" One thing is certain – everyone is complicit. The game sites and the gamers are writing about and buying sequels.E3 can't help here – unless the nature of the event changes. As Garratt argues, "there's an opportunity to throw off the shackles of the 'old' E3, move it to a more suitable location – like Las Vegas – and embrace the gamescom and TGS format of a business event coupled with a consumer show. The North American games market is the biggest in the world: it needs to be excited. Video gaming is becoming less about platforms and all about content."I'm a little ambivalent. I got out of E3 what I expected and nothing more. I'm more worried about where the industry itself is heading.The apathy shown by some of the big players toward the exhibition hints at its demise, but that will be a death knell not just for a ludicrously noisy show, but for a whole way of thinking about games – as epic, landmark events. Some see the dripfeed of marketing information naturally transmogrifying into the dripfeed of content.Games as services? I don't want to be trapped inside a virtual Skinner Box, on a treadmill of subscriptions. I want Red Dead Redemption and Heavy Rain. Everyone says those experiences won't go away, but somebody probably once said that about silent films and drive-in movie theatres. Was E3 2011 the Last Picture Show of the traditional games industry?
Rapper Pitbull has become an ubiquitous presence in the US music scene lately, thanks to some high-profile featured spots on singles by other artists. His latest guest appearance comes on Apple's iPad though, with a big-budget tablet application called Pitbull – Planet Pit.The app weighs in at a startling 660.1MB file size, with a price point to match of $9.99 – for now, it's only available in the US. For that, fans get 30 high-definition videos and interviews, more than 300 photos of Pitbull and his collaborators, and a wealth of interview, sound samples, biographical info, producer notes, interactive lyrics and links to exclusive online content.Wait, sound samples? Yes, what's seemingly missing from the app is the actual Planet Pit album: its App Store listing promises "the ability to purchase music" from the iTunes Store, and makes clear that it "complements the CD release" rather than replaces it.The app is the work ofROBA Interactive, a US start-up set up earlier this year by a group of music industry veterans with the specific aim of making rich iPad apps for music artists. Its website suggests that the Planet Pit app isn't due for release until 21 June, but it appeared on the App Store Tuesday night –here's AppShopper's listing.iPhone apps based on artists are 10-a-penny, and thanks to companies like Mobile Roadie, they're spreading to Android and BlackBerry too. iPad has been a different story though. The only comparable app to Pitbull's isSwedish House Mafia – Until One.Released by EMI in March 2011, it included videos and photos, but also the full Until Now album by the Scandinavian dance music collective. That app also had a $10 price point and a similar file-size to Planet Pit (659.4MB). Bjork is also about to release a series of iPad apps for her new Biophilia project, although they will be focused more on interacting with the music itself.The idea of an iPad album-app – whether it includes the actual album or not – is clearly in its early days. It's tempting to wonder why these apps don't stream content in to keep the file size down, something that would also allow content to be refreshed without the fan having to download a (presumably just-as-enormous) update.There has been a burst of innovation on iPad around music discovery, as shown in apps likeDiscovr Music,AweditoriumandMusic Hunter. Meanwhile, services including Pandora and Vevo are exploring tablets as a way to consume music.In the listing for his new app, Pitbull is quoted as saying: "This platform gives the fans an eye in my life, a birds eye view in watching 360, full spectrum, from every perspective, and how I give it to you street, give it to you business, and give it to you Pop." His peers (and their labels) will be eager to see if fans flock to its rich features.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCouncil spends £10,000 on iPads despite cuts &gt;&gt; ITN YouTube channelIf you can't be bothered to click, it's Havering council. Pick your answer: this is (a) farsighted (b) stupid because(a) they spent the money on iPads &#10;(b) they didn't spend it on laptops &#10;(c) they didn't spent it on Android tabletsYeah, yeah, go fight it out in the comments. Cosmo never has this much fun with its multiple choice quizzes.Mobile PC shipment growth to slow down in 2011, but market set for mid to long term push &gt;&gt; DisplaySearchFrom April: "Despite the turbulence, tablet shipments are expected to reach 52.4 million units in 2011 with shipments into mature markets remaining strong, but weakening in emerging regions. Consumers in emerging regions continue to search for performance-oriented PCs and are tending to prefer notebooks over convenience-oriented tablet PCs."Second lesbian blogger exposed as a man &gt;&gt; The GuardianAll the other lesbian bloggers who are really men must be quaking in their boots. Note the amazing care with this one, though: a fake persona going back as far as 2007; daily updates to a web site.Still, it shows that there's life after construction work.I just got hacked - any help is welcome! &gt;&gt; Bitcoin forums"Hi everyone. I am totally devastated today. I just woke up to see a very large chunk of my bitcoin balance gone to the following address:&#10;"1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jg&#10;"Transaction date: 6/13/2011 12:52 (EST)&#10;"I feel like killing myself now. This get me so f'ing pissed off. If only the wallet file was encrypted on the HD. I do feel like this is my fault somehow for now moving that money to a separate non windows computer. I backed up my wallet.dat file religiously and encrypted it but that does not do me much good when someone or some trojan or something has direct access to my computer somehow.&#10;"The transaction sent belongs rightfully to this address: 1J18yk7D353z3gRVcdbS7PV5Q8h5w6oWWG".The allegedly lost (untraceable, encrypted) bitcoins would be worth about half a million dollars. We're worried, of course, that this is another male blogger posing as a lesbian.. well, something like that.Yorks PC maker goes titsup owing £1m+ &gt;&gt; Channel Register"The Cube Enterprise directors' report leaked to El Reg blamed its demise on long term deflationary pricing; shifting consumer demand to tablet devices; a failed attempt to move into component reselling and households' falling discretionary spend.&#10;"In spite of these glaring issues, director Robert Drye had pinned all his hopes for the future on developing a hardware configuration tool to let customers spec PCs individually."Another one bites the dust. Perhaps Alan Sugar could make 'creating a PC business' a challenge in The Apprentice. We could do with a new British one.2011 Computer Reliability Report &gt;&gt; RescuecomFrom January 2011: "HP/Compaq remained the most popular buyers' choice as the company took not only 25% of the total market share but also the top spot in reliability. The HP/Compaq computer repair reliability score especially stands out in 2011 as it is nearly double the score of the second place winner, Apple."While Dell also represented a high percentage of total computer market share at just under 24%, Dell's reliability score was too low to make it one of the top 5 most reliable manufacturers."Reliability: Desktop PCs &gt;&gt; Which? TechnologyStatisticians may like to play with these numbers: "Sample sizes: Novatech (56), Apple (488), Compaq (92), Dell (1224), Packard-Bell (107), Acer (186), Medion (92), Hewlett-Packard (409), Sony (54), Mesh (123)". The Compaq devices must be old-ish (interesting that they're counted separately from HP). Also not clear if this really is just "desktop" computers, or whether it also includes laptops.Whitebox Tablet PC Market, Here to Stay? &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch Blog"Apparently panels deemed A-minus or lower are being rejected by top brands, but they are being picked up by local Chinese players. A quick search of 9.7" tablets for mainland China on Alibaba.com reveals over 4,000 products. Further searching suggests that many of those 4,000 models are intended for markets outside China. A search of 9.7" tablets on Chinese version of Alibaba.com shows over 1,500 models in the China market.&#10;"So can we expect whitebox markets to be a recurring influence on the tablet market? The verdict is still out, but what we're hearing in China is that many of the whitebox players are regretting their foray into the tablet PC market and are considering withdrawing their tablet PC business. While they aggressively moved into the category, sales have been far below their expectations, taking several months to clear out inventory."That huge number of white-label tablets pushing Apple to 54% (also a DisplaySearch stat) may have just been a blip.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Well, this is awkward. The social networking site that allows you to "edit friends" was quietly dropped by 100,000 people in Britain last month, according to Inside Facebook. Facebook dismissed the figures, but just in case the thought has crossed your mind, just how do you log off permanently?▶ Don't get sucked in. Go to the account menu on the top righthand corner of the page and click on  account settings, then deactivate account. But whatever you do, don't look at your news feed. Yes, your friend just got back from working as a child psychologist in Uganda, but I'm sure it was really boring. That YouTube link to the mayor of Oslo singing Simply the Best while promising to buy a polar bear won't be funny. Ask your friends to send you nice invitations through the post instead.▶ Harden your heart. Facebook will confront you with a set of pictures of your friends laughing winningly. The captions read "Anna will miss you", "Daniel will miss you", "Adrian will miss you". Nice try, Facebook. When you look closer you will see you only met Daniel once at a party and Anna's picture is an old school photograph of you in braces, which a true friend would have burned. The last one is your husband. He will not miss you.▶ Never explain. Facebook insists you tell them why you are rejecting them. Have they not shown you enough affection? (Option: "I don't find Facebook useful.") Feel smothered?  ("I get too many emails, invitations, and requests from Facebook.") Adjust your privacy settings. Best to cut to the chase and tell them you have found Twitter.▶ Remove temptation. Opt out of receiving future emails and confirm and submit to disable your profile and remove your name and picture from anything you've shared on Facebook. Or take the nuclear option and permanently delete your account. Click on help, then search for "delete my account", follow the link and click on "submit your request here".  The account will be deleted immediately, but it can take up to&nbsp;a fortnight for Facebook to clear your information from its&nbsp;cache.▶ Hold your nerve. Ignore the sudden giddyness and disorientation. Scrabble to log back in.
Perhaps Google should change the wording of its "Guess it for me" button from "I'm feeling lucky" to "I'm feeling psychic". The search giant has unveiled a new feature that will predict which page a user will choose from a list of search results and begin fetching its data – even before they have clicked on the link.Designed to shave between 2 to 5 seconds from the overall search query time, "Instant Pages" builds onGoogle Instant, introduced in September 2010, which produces a page of search results before the user has finished typing their query or pressed the entry key.Google fellow and search scientist Amit Singhal introduced the new features at Google's Inside Search event in Mountain View, California.Instant Pages employs the user's Google search history together with the relevance of each search result, and around 200 other algorithmic factors, to determine which link they are most likely to click on, and begins contacting the server to load that page in the background as soon as the search results appear.Singhal said that on average, users spend 9 seconds entering a query and 15 seconds sifting through results, while Google's processing between the two only takes 1 second."We're obsessed with speed," said Singhal. "We call speed the killer app. None of us have enough time, and last year's Google Instant was one of the biggest improvements we've made in getting information to users quicker."Singhal also announced that Google's voice search, which currently allows mobile phone users to speak their search query, will be extended to desktop searches. The feature will be accessible for Chrome and Firefox users later this week, via a small microphone symbol beside the Google search box. Initially the feature will be in English only, but other languages will be added later.A new image search feature will also invite users to upload, drag and drop, paste a URL or use a browser extension to provide a reference to an image. Google will then identify the image by comparing it to its database and publishing the subject, location and details.Singhal said however that facial recognition was not part of the image search process and that all images shared during searches, including those that are uploaded, are anonymised, not publicly accessible and are treated in the same way as text search results."If you uploaded a picture of John Lennon, it might find other similar pictures of John Lennon, but it wouldn't know it was John Lennon," he said. "It's an engine for analysing colour, lines and texture, not for facial recognition."
The Finnish phone-maker Nokia could receive a one-off payment of more than €800m (£700m) from Apple and receive further royalties of €8 per iPhone sold in future, after winning a settlement in a long-running patents dispute.The company subsequently hinted that it may pursue makers of smartphones using Google's Android mobile operating system, of which 36m were sold in the first quarter of 2011.The settlement signed on Tuesday related to patents for mobile technology that helped Apple to revolutionise the phone industry in 2007 when it launched the first iPhone.Although terms of the settlement were not disclosed, previous patent licensing deals in the phone industry have been worth up to 5% of the price of the device involved. At €8, or $11.50 (£7), they would represent about 4.5% of the estimated average $264 cost price of an iPhone, which Apple sells to retailers and phone networks for an average of $660. Apple has sold 108m iPhones since their launch.Nokia's shares rose by 3% as it said that the one-off payment, whose size was not revealed, will have "a positive financial impact" on its upcoming quarterly results.At the end of May it forecast that its mobile phone division, which for years has been the biggest in the world, would see reduced revenues and might not make a profit for the first time in a decade. The one-off payment should push it back to its usual quarterly profit levels. Ongoing royalties from Apple of about 1% of the average sale price of a handset would be worth about $430m to Nokia this year, analysts estimated.Nokia may now also choose to sue makers of handsets running Google's free Android mobile operating system if it decides that they have also infringed its patents.Nokia's chief executive, Stephen Elop, said: "This settlement ... enables us to focus on further licensing opportunities in the mobile communications market."A spokesman for Apple said: "Apple and Nokia have agreed to drop all of our current lawsuits and enter into a licence covering some of each other's patents, but not the majority of the innovations that make the iPhone unique. We're glad to put this behind us and get back to focusing on our respective businesses."Florian Mueller, an independent specialist and blogger on patent battles, said that "the deal structure – a one-time payment as well as running royalties – suggests a fairly good outcome for Nokia". He added: "Maybe Nokia could have continued to play hardball and got an even better deal if it didn't face the challenges it undoubtedly has. But this looks like a fairly important victory."He suggested that Apple would benefit if Nokia pursues Android handset-makers, because they have smaller margins and would be less easily able to afford royalties. Android dominates the smartphone market with a 36% share, ahead of Nokia's Symbian with 27% and Apple's 17%,according to the research company Gartner.Financial analysts had mixed views on the outcome. Mikael Rautanen, at Inderes in Helsinki, said: "This is the first positive news from Nokia for a long time. They can both focus on their businesses now, and the dispute was settled to Nokia's advantage."But others remained bearish on the group's longer-term prospects. "This [the Apple deal] could cause the stock to have a bit of a relief rally, but does very little to address the stark reality that the company is facing," Richard Windsor, analyst at Nomura, said.On Monday, Nomuraforecast that Nokia will be passed by both Samsung and Apple in the smartphone marketworldwide over the next four months, and that its phone business will shrink by about 20% over the next two years as it tries toshift from Symbian to Microsoft's Windows Phone on smartphones."We see no reason to remain anything other than negative on the stock," said Windsor.Nokia's shares are still down about 25% since 30 May, representing a €5.5bn fall in market capitalisation for one of Europe's biggest technology companies.The case settled on Tuesday was filed in 2009 by Nokia, which said it had filed a patent 10 years ago that covered the use of touchscreen technology in phones.Ironically, announcing the iPhone in 2007, Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said of the multi-touch screen interface: "Boy, have we patented it!", in a warning to would-be rivals.Elop said: "We are very pleased to have Apple join the growing number of Nokia licensees. This settlement demonstrates Nokia's industry-leading patent portfolio and enables us to focus on further licensing opportunities in the mobile communications market."• This article was amended on 15 June 2011. A heading - Apple to pay Nokia big settlement plus royalties after losing patent case - was changed so it could not be read as suggesting the settlement payment resulted from a court ruling.
In this week's Tech Weekly podcast, Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur look at the technology that seems so far away, but that now lives in the palms of our hands: touchscreens.They also dissect the latest news stories, from the decline of social network site Facebook to the rise of cyberwarfare.Also, as Samsung is expected to become the world's biggest smartphone manufacturer, we ask: what's happened to Nokia?All this plus the headlines and a good deal of high-res banter.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Independent developers for Microsoft's platforms are increasingly concerned about the lack of clarity from the software giant over the future direction of its programming platforms such as Silverlight, Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and .Net compared to non-proprietary platforms such as HTML5, CSS3 and javascript.The worries have grownfollowing the demonstration of the Windows 8 interfaceat the AllThingsD event earlier in June, at which it emerged that there will be new APIs for writing apps for the touchscreen tablet-style form of the interface. In a video, Julie Larson-Green, the product manager for Windows – who determines which features are included and which are not –suggeststhat the APIs for the new touchscreen form of Windows will be "HTML5 and javascript".That has worried developers, who devote a lot of time to choosing the best Microsoft tools to develop in, because it implies that if they want to program for the tablet form – which Microsoft is implying will be a key format in the future as it tries to catch up with Apple, Android and other tablets in the new form factor – then they will have to learn a new set of skills and perhaps abandon all their expertise.Developers using Silverlight – a browser plugin similar to Adobe's Flash – have besieged Microsoft's support boards demanding clear answers. Jan Hannemann simplyasked"Windows 8 apps going html5, wtf" and complains "I don't like that we are supposed to write Windows 8 apps in html/js. Wow, thats the stupids thing I ever heard. Microsoft has a first class cross-platform application framework called Silverlight and they want us to write freaking javascript. Really!? Probably the next version of WindowsPhone will run HTML5 as well. C'mon, I'm really disappointed." His post had more than 7m page views.On another Microsoft developer forum, Nicholas Petersen of Eclipsoftcalledfor Microsoft to explicitly include "full support" for WPF and Silverlight as well as HTML5 in Windows 8: "WPF and Silverlight developers have valid reasons to be concerned that the Microsoft .NET UI platforms they have grown to love and support – because they're the best in the world – are being demoted in Windows 8 in a way that could relegate them to a place of obscurity. This place of obscurity could even be a way of letting them 'die on the vine,' if indeed they were no longer put forth as platforms of the future, and supported as such. We would like to know: Do Silverlight and WPF have an integral, irreplaceable, and front-facing role to play in Windows 8 and in the future?"Peterssen pointed out that "In all of the officially released statements concerning the upcoming Windows 8, there has not been one prepared statement that even mentions the future role of .NET, WPF, or Silverlight in Windows 8, contrary to all of the statements concerning the integral role the new HTML5 platform will play. Only after Windows president Steven Sinofsky was asked what role Silverlight played in Windows 8, was it stated that it would continue to run in IE and on the desktop. Clearly then, our concern is not that these terrific platforms will be terminated, but that they might be left to 'dry on the vine'."He articulated a worry that Microsoft will draw a distinction in Windows 8 between "web-connected apps" – which will be built with HTML5 – and "existing Windows Apps", which will use WPF and Silverlight: "We do not want Silverlight and WPF apps to be relegated to a 'classic' (if even a "legacy") category". The worry is that .Net and Silverlight apps will be pushed down to a second-class existence and be unable to use the touch interface, and that developers would have to learn an entire new programming lexicon for HTML5/CSS3/javascript rather than their familiar ones of Silverlight, WPF and .Net.Hundreds of developers havebesieged the Silverlight forumsseeking more information. But Microsoft has not responded – except to say that it will not respond before the Build conference for developers in September.Peter Brown, the Microsoft community program manager for WPF, Silverlight, XNA, Windows Phone and others, posted: "This whole thing has blown way out of proportion. Base your information on our primary sources (like our press release), not on third-party speculation. That's not to minimise how everyone feels, but keep in mind that Windows 8 itself is still a way off from retail, and even much further away from internal IT adoption. The eight weeks untilbuildis a pretty small amount of time to wait in comparison."He added: "You all saw a very small technology demo of Windows 8, and a brief press release. We're all being quiet right now because we can't comment on this. It's not because we don't care, aren't listening, have given up, or are agreeing or disagreeing with you on something. All I can say for now is to please wait until September. If we say more before then, that will be great, but there are no promises (and I'm not aware of any plans) to say more right now. I'm very sorry that there's nothing else to share at the moment. I know that answer is terrible, but it's all that we can say right now. Seriously."This radio silence is a normal mode of operation for many companies 365 days of the year. Unfortunately, since we're so open with plans, since we share so much, and since we have such a solid history of helping and listening to our developer community, it's extra obvious when we're being quiet."For good measure, he described his position: "[rock]Pete[hardPlace]".That lack of clarity has upset some. Matt Baxter-Reynolds, director of AMX Software, told the Guardian: "In the past, Microsoft used to be clear about how they felt about developers. Developers knew that they were of critical importance to the company – including Ballmer's famous 'developers, developers' mantra-cum-outburst. Deprecating an entire platform as they did with Windows Phone 7 would have been unthinkable just five years ago."The company's clear lack of direction, which I believe is down to their lack of clarity as to just how to tackle Google and Apple is now bleeding into the messages that developers are getting. No one really knows if Silverlight is important going forward. Developers are having to assume that a fully fledged version of .NET will be available on ARM, but they might do something silly. No one knows if new tools are going to come down from the Visual Studio team to help build new these new, immersive Windows 8 apps. Perhaps more importantly, no one really knows if career decisions that tie a developer to the Microsoft stack will yield good salaries going forward."We all know that Bill Gates is not coming back to Microsoft, but at least because he was a developer and led the business in such a way that was friendly and supportive to developers we as developers did know that we were being looked after. This isn't the case under Ballmer. All that's happening is a fostering of fear, uncertainly and doubt."Tim Anderson, an IT journalist with extensive experience writing about and with Microsoft's developer tools,observesthat while .Net may not be under immediate threat "Windows has lost momentum to Apple in mobile, in tablets, and in high-end laptops, making Windows-only clients less attractive. In that context, the decision of the Windows team to favour HTML5 over .NET is a blow, in that it seems to concede that the future client is cross-platform, though I expect there will be some sort of outcry when we see all the proprietary hooks Microsoft has implemented to get HTML5 apps integrated into Windows 8. Therefore these really are difficult times for .NET. I do not count Microsoft out though; it still dominates business computing, and amongst consumers the Xbox may prove an important new platform."Mary Jo Foley, who follows Microsoft closely,says that it is working on a WPF-like XAML layer for Windows 8 called "Jupiter". She noted: "Immersive apps are not meant to be Windows desktop apps. Nor are they necessarily pure web apps. They are applications that will be built using C#, visual basic (and maybe C++). These apps will be developed using the new Windows 8 app model and take advantage of its inherent servicing and packaging technologies and that will be available via the anticipated Windows 8 app store."But others think the concerns are overblown. Manan Kakkar, an external developer,insistedthat "the reason why we're having this discussion is because Steven Sinofsky did not mention Silverlight or WPF. Instead [he] said HTML5 and javascript will be the platforms of choice for the rich Windows 8 apps. To be clear, he was referring to the tablet interface. If only the pundits understood that Windows 8 will have two UIs, web crawlers would've had less crap to scan. Back to Silverlight, in my opinion this was Microsoft's way of telling the new college grads that using those snazzy new tools for HTML5 and JS you can still create apps for Windows."However one developer commenting on his blog remarked that "the thing developers want to know is that you can create Silverlight for the *new* UI. Not for the desktop. There is utterly zero doubt that you'll be able to create out of browser Silverlight apps for the classic desktop UI."Tim Acheson, who develops apps on Windows, told the Guardian: "I await clarification from MS before jumping to any conclusions. I think all developers including the .NET community buy into HTML5/JS/CSS and most will welcome this opportunity on Win8."The dev tools used by .NET devs already support HTML5, CSS3, etc very well indeed and these topics are always high on the agenda at official MS events. We're already building HTML5 apps. I've been doing so myself. IE9 supports HTML5 very nicely. It's reasonable to expect that we'll find that Silverlight runs on Win 8, at the very least in IE, and bear inmind that's essentially a compact .NET virtual machine. Even if development on Win 8 is radically different compared to previous versions, there's no great problem here, it's progress ... I can understand people's frustration, but really it's being triggered by uncertainty and the lack of detail, rather than the actual content of the recent presentation."Even so, some developers are likely to keep pressing for more details up to Build – and, likely, beyond it.If you're a Windows developer, we'd be interested to hear your views on Silverlight/WPF/HTML5-CSS-JS.
Deep down, this is what many Batman fans have always wanted. To actually be the Dark Knight, perched atop a skyscraper, looking out through the night-time drizzle, at the sprawl of Gotham. Out there, lurking in stinking alleyways, are criminal gangs and super-villain loonies. Every direction is violence – but it's up to us where to fly.Although 2009's Batman: Arkham Asylum was a brilliant action adventure that captured every contrasting aspect of Bob Kane and Bill Finger's iconic character, it was also a claustrophobic experience, housed within the corridors of a gothic madhouse. The big sell with Arkham City is that Batman is free to explore.There is a guiding narrative, about Harvey Dent's rise to power within a new prison town that has been carved from a chunk of unwanted Gotham real estate. But Batman can pursue other interests on the way. The Riddler is out there, marking the city with his symbols and laying out a series of tests for our hero. The Penguin, too, has shuffled grotesquely into play. The Dark Knight must joust with them all.But, daringly, it's not Batman we first inhabit when Asylum City kicks off. At the start of the game, we view a sequence set in Harvey's campaign office, with two cronies investigating the psycho-lawyer's safe. A window shatters and, through it, flies Catwoman.Suddenly, we're in control of the Caped Crusader's sexy nemesis as she takes on the Two-Face cronies. As with Batman, the combat controls are pared down and smoothly contextual – for now, she just needs X to strike and Y to counter. But there's an immediate contrast: while the Bat packs a deliberate, almost lumbering weight behind every attack, Catwoman feels fast and athletic, she leaps and spins through the combat environment with exotic beauty, cranking out a succession of high kicks and scratches.In her skin-tight leather, and with an astonishingly supple animation system, it is like some sort of S&amp;M ballet performance – the sort of thing they put on at the Sadler's Wells theatre in London to shock the middle classes, but many times more compelling."It is quite sensual," says Rocksteady Studios' marketing manager, Dax Ginn, understating dramatically. "Sometimes she'll kiss her opponents before breaking their legs." Yes, Rocksteady understands the Batman universe alright, and with control over Catwoman, we get to experience it from an even more morally ambiguous standpoint.But when she's caught inevitably trying to crack that safe, Harvey hangs Catwoman over a vat of acid in an abandoned courtroom. It is here he intends to hold a dramatic show trial, a PR event designed to recruit as many thugs as possible to his cause. He wants to rule Arkham City, and Batman has mere hours to prevent a murderous election campaign opener.From here, we get the same gameplay section that Rocksteady Studios showed off at the Microsoft Showcase back in February (see our preview). Batman raids the court, takes out dozens of wise guys and saves the girl; although up in a nearby church tower, the Joker has Catwoman in the sights of a sniper rifle. "It's dangerous around here," she purrs as Batman thrusts her out of the line of the incoming bullet. "I like it." Apparently, we'll enjoy plenty more flirtatious interplay like this.But rewind. Back out on the rooftop overlooking the courthouse we can survey the entire city, a mass of darkened tenement buildings and flickering neon signs; a vision as breathtaking and detailed as anything conjured by Christopher Nolan's art team. From here, we can hit the triggers to open the cryptographic sequencer and listen in on communications between a security chopper hovering above and Hugo Strange, the warden of Arkham City. The A button decodes the frequency and lets us know that Catwoman is in there with Harvey. A Bat Signal illuminates the rumbling grey sky above the building. We know where to go.So I hold the A button and leap from the roof, initiating Batman's flight mechanic. With wings outstretched, the Dark Knight can swoop over the city streets, using the left analogue to pitch up and down. The right trigger drops him into a power dive, and then pulling back on the stick just before he hits the ground lets him glide straight into an attack. Alternatively, targeting a higher point on a building and hitting the right bumper button fires the grapple hook; Bats can then land on the building or double-tap A to get a grapple boost and zoom higher into the night sky.It takes some practise, but it becomes a wonderfully fluid 3D navigation system, and as in Neversoft's excellent 2000 incarnation of Spider-Man, the city quickly transforms into a joyous aerial playground."It's something the Batman movies have done well," says Ginn. "Every now and again there's a massively high production shot of Batman gliding through a city. We wanted to take the promise of that and transform it into an interactive experience."Inside the courthouse, I can use detective mode to scan the main courtroom and pick out any weapons Harvey's chanting thugs are concealing. Looking up I spot a machine gun-toting guard hiding out on a platform overhead, so I climb the ladder, hit the right trigger to crouch, then X to perform a silent takedown – in this case a handy knockout smash. As in Arkham Asylum, all the combat set-pieces are structured in this way, allowing players the choice between smashing straight in, or properly scoping the area for stealth attacks.Down on the floor, it's a total scrum as baddies charge in from all angles. Always versatile and seamless, the combat engine feels even more fluid this time round, with Batman working the whole crowd simultaneously, a thudding kick here, a jab there, a nose-crunching elbow somewhere else.The counter attacks are brutal too, with Batman chucking back projectiles or snapping an enemy's swinging arm like so much brittle kindling wood. While the X and Y buttons do their job just fine, combos can be unlocked to provide a more devastating arsenal of accessible moves. The fights twist imperceptibly between player skill and choreographed excess; the system flatters you. It is thrilling to watch.This scene ends with Dent temporarily vanquished, and Batman heading off to confront the Joker in the cathedral. The Microsoft Showcase demo took this further, getting us to a twisted reunion with Harley Quinn and finally to that bell tower, where the Joker has left a sniper rifle, a gloating video and – naturally – a bomb.During my demo, there's also time to track down a couple of Riddler icons, which are hidden around the city and lead Batman into a confrontation with the sadistic trickster. Some are protected by traps, others are hidden – I find one by smashing through a false brick wall into a dank alleyway. Here, an image of the Riddler projects across the background scenery, informing me that I am close to finding the doctor he has taken prisoner – but that I am unlikely to find him alive.It's a sadistic game, of course, and it adds another layer of darkness to the proceedings. "In Arkham Asylum, the Riddler wasn't physically there, but he still had this amazing presence," says Ginn. "Well, he is present in Arkham City, but he's always like smoke, he's like a ghost haunting you with projections. If you solve all his puzzles, though, you actually get to put your hands around his neck – which is a lovely feeling …"And of course, we will also have the Penguin, battling his corner in the super villain turf war. "We don't add characters for the sake of a head count," says Ginn. "The Penguin is a really nasty bastard, but he's also a collector. He resides within this massive museum in Arkham City and his exhibits include human beings as well as art and antiques – he also collects weaponry and has a huge military-grade artillery."You know when you come up against a gang of Penguin thugs, they're going to have sniper rifles, they'll have automatic machine guns – and for Batman that's a significant threat; he's a mortal guy after all. It allows us to deliver a very different kind of combat."Ginn is keen to point out that, although Arkham City is set to feature an extended roster of familiar characters (there are more to be announced), it's not going to feel like the later pre-Nolan Batman movies, where these great characters were reduced to bit-part heavies forming a homogonous threat. The Riddler, Penguin, The Joker and Catwoman all have their own objectives, and these are explored separately throughout the reported 50 hours of gameplay.As Ginn explains: "Catwoman, for example, has heard a rumour that Hugo Strange has taken all of the prize possessions from all the super villains and stored them in one vault deep underground. From Catwoman's perspective, that is the ultimate score, that's what she wants – so her story is about breaking in and stealing all of this loot."And there is another force hovering in the background: Hugo Strange, the not-altogether-trustworthy warden. He commands a security team named Tyger and at first, they just patrol the city providing Batman with convenient intel; he can also grapple hook onto their helicopters to get around the city quickly. But that role will apparently develop."The deeper you get into the game, the more Batman and Hugo Strange's paths start to collide," says Ginn. "And that's when the Tyger guards start to take more of a role. There's a moment where people are going to go, 'Wow, that's amazing!' – there's this whole switch in pace and it's all to do with Hugo and the Tyger guards."He won't say more. I'm left with that opening vision of Batman crouched above the city, surveying the gangs, the Riddler signs, the swooping searchlights. There is such a sense of potential. Rocksteady needs to get a tight storyline into this open environment, while still providing a true sense of potential discovery – we have to feel like this grand vision is really worth exploring beyond the sub-plots and icon collections.But with the combat mechanic updated and seemingly sorted, and with a fascinating selection of characters to compete against, we're already in intriguing territory. I know this much: on the second morning of E3, with a packed timetable of Triple A mega-sellers ahead of me, I had to be virtually manhandled away from the controller by Warner's PR manager. The Dark Knight has returned.Batman: Arkham Citywill be released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in autumn 2011
The delectable, feisty Lara Croft is one of the games world's best-loved characters but, frankly, in recent years her starring vehicles haven't come anywhere near to doing justice to her iconic status and tangible charms.The rot set in a while back – original developer Core Design (based in Derby) never got to grips with developing for the PlayStation 2, and its first effort for that platform – 2003's Angel of Darkness – was such a mess that publisher Eidos handed the franchise to San Francisco developer Crystal Dynamics, whose subsequent iterations, while at least not being riddled with bugs, have hardly set the world alight. All of which can mean only one thing: time for a franchise reboot.And here it is. Tomb Raider, due out at an unspecified time next year, is notably unlike its predecessors. Square Enix – the Japanese publisher which absorbed Eidos after it struggled financially – has shown teasers of it before and, while we didn't get hands-on experience of it at E3, we did at least see a detailed demo.Lara's roots Tomb Raider goes back to the first stirrings of the Lara Croft myth: a 21-year-old Lara is on her first archaeological excursion since graduating from University. Naturally, being Lara, the ship she's aboard is wrecked, on the shore of a small island somewhere off the coast of Japan.The action begins in a mysterious cave, in which Lara is imprisoned – hung from its roof by her feet, to be precise. Her first mission is to get free, which she achieves by swinging, in order to come into contact with a convenient flaming torch (interaction between the physics engine and virtual fire is clearly a key mechanism, at least in the game's early stages) that burns off her bindings.She then plummets to the ground; when she lands, her side is impaled by a stake, and she shrieks and swears. This time around, Lara is supposed to be more human and believable than before, and the rebooted Tomb Raider edgier and grittier than its predecessors.Emotion and Smart ResponseStaggering to her feet and looking to escape from the cave, Lara continued to show flashes of emotion – not something she was allowed to do in previous games – and demonstrated a new gaming mechanic Crystal Dynamics calls Smart Response.It's essentially a fancier version of what are generally known as Quick Time Events, where you have to respond quickly to an in-game happening by hitting the prescribed button. For example, Lara was scrambling through a narrow passageway only to have her legs grabbed by one of her captors; you had to free her by waggling the left joystick.We later saw her crawling up a ramp using the left and right triggers. Fear not, though, Tomb Raider die-hards – this sort of gameplay won't be at the game's core, but will feature during scripted events, probably mostly in the game's early stages.Puzzle timeNo Tomb Raider game would be worthy of the name without puzzles, and the ones we saw were physics-based – something Crystal Dynamics has dabbled with in its recent Tomb Raider games, but in Tomb Raider, appears to have committed to.After Lara grabbed a torch, enabling her to burn her way into a previously inaccessible chamber, she found that she couldn't do the same to get to the next chamber, as water gushing over the exit put her torch out.But a bit of leaping around and pulling a lever that tipped up one of two suspended cages – her captors had assembled all manner of objects from the flotsam washing up in the cave – enabled her to send a pile of flaming rubbish towards a collection of gas canisters which blew an exit hole to the island above.Island survivalFinally, Lara made it above ground, and we got to see some of Tomb Raider's more characteristic gameplay. Making her way towards an abandoned, semi-ruined village, she found a new character in the franchise, Roth, who was the captain of the expedition's wrecked ship.Having fought off an attack by wolves and sustained a leg injury, Roth revealed that his assailants had taken his medical kit back to their lair before passing out. Lara, still unarmed, set out to retrieve it, aided by another new feature, Survival Instinct: essentially a pathfinder, which revealed the wolves' tracks and can generally be used to assess different paths to Lara's objectives.Having acquired the kit and a crucial radio transmitter, Lara had to fight off a wolf with her bare hands. In contrast to her previously offhand dispatching of wild animals, Lara actually apologised to the dead wolf, saying: "It was you or me."Lara's first mentorThus she was able to revive Roth who, it was revealed, was her first mentor, and the man who taught her survival skills. We saw the very beginning of that process, as he sent her to place the transmitter at the highest point of the island.After a period of classic Lara-style roof-jumping and swinging, Roth gave her two axes, which she could use to climb rock-faces. Crystal Dynamics was keen to emphasise that Tomb Raider is a proper multi-path game, with many ways of getting from point to point (a refreshing change from Tomb raiders of yore).And finally, they spoke about the Base Camp system, which lets you teleport quickly to different parts of the island, buy upgrades for weapons and gadgets and even fashion new ones via a salvage system.What we thinkWith its emphasis on survival, and chronicling of how Lara acquired her semi-superhuman skills, along with the extra sense of realism engendered by the fact that Lara, for once, actually show a credible range of emotion rather than being merely kick-ass and full of bravado, things bode very well for this franchise-reboot.It has what is required to tempt disillusioned Tomb Raider fans back into the fold, and providing its execution matches its ambition, ought to attract a new generation of fans when it arrives next year. Nice to see the old girl back on form.
Have you ever taken a Spirograph to a rave? No? Then hold tight to your coloured Biros and pack your glosticks, because that's very much what on-rails shape-shooter Child of Eden is like – and it's a blissful, beautiful thing to play.It's pegged as a spiritual successor to 10-year-old trancey lightshow Rez, and in terms of gameplay, it's virtually a remake. That doesn't mean there's anything tired or predictable about it, though; that decade has been kind to designer Tetsuya Mizuguchi's ideas, and it feels as though technology has finally fallen into step with his curious mix of gunplay and rhythm action.Levels consist of swirling corridors out of which malevolent shapes rush you. These are the "infected" and it's your job to cleanse them. Thanks to Kinect, you do this by swishing and jabbing to lock onto targets and activate your lasers.The option to revert to the control pad is there, but it's hard to know why you'd want to when the motion control feels so good, and so right. Kinect can be floaty and frustrating, but that's not an issue here at all. Partly, that's because the gesture-control is sharply implemented and satisfyingly instinctive. And partly, it's because the game sucks you right in.This is despite an opening that looks like a high-end shampoo commercial, and a fairly disposable story – Lumi is a human intelligence struggling to be born inside the internet (that's Eden), and you have to defeat the virus that threatens her. That's all, by the way.What matters is that this throws you into a world of glittering geometry, soundtracked by the ecstatic music of the band Genki Rockets. Even if you start out resistant to the concept, it's nearly impossible not to become absorbed, because the game is designed to make you a part of it. Every shot adds another beat to the music; every arm sweep, another explosion of colour and light.As you approach the end of a level (there are five in all), everything comes together. The soundtrack pulses to joyful climax, the visuals dazzle, and you're there, arms in the air, making it all happen. When you triumph and the music drops away to a gentle, satisfied rhythm, it feels like you've really accomplished something.Calling something an "experience" rather than a "game" is generally one of the nobbier cards a reviewer can play, but there really is some truth to it here. Child of Eden even offers a no-damage difficulty level that encourages you to play for pleasure rather than play to win – and it's not just a patronising sop to the aiming-impaired, but a different way of being in the world, and satisfying in its own right.There's a lot that's not included in Child of Eden, and it would be easy to miss the game's point if you wanted to. It isn't about character or narrative. It doesn't make you feel like a mighty, hooah-ing bullet sponge. You don't solve puzzles or collect items (barring the unlockable backgrounds and videos you can win as you progress).That's fine – all of those needs are well served elsewhere on the games shelf. In Child of Eden, you justdo, and out of that sleek simplicity comes a game of giddying depth and potentially endless replayabilty, because every time you take on a level, the interaction of visuals, sound and motion makes it something slightly different. The best thing you can do is let the music take you with it.• Game reviewed on Xbox Kinect
If companies were valued by hype, then Facebook could certainly claim to be worth $100bn. But is it really worth that in cold, hard cash?A report fromCNBCovernight claims the site is preparing for an initial public offering early next year at an eye-watering valuation ofat least$100bn.A 2012 IPO has been expected for some time. CNBC said athe company would be obliged to go public in the first quarter of the year because it is likely to reach the 500-shareholder limit in October, and would then be required to release financial results to the US Securities and Exchange Commission every quarter. The first of these would be due in April, prompting speculation of a first quarter IPO just ahead of that.Further pressure may be coming from within, with some employees pushing for an IPO so that restrictions on cashing in on their stock will be lifted.We asked Facebook about the report and they declined to comment. But this follows various remarks from chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg last month when asked about Facebook's IPO. In late May at the Reuters Global Technology Summit,Sandberg describedthe Facebook IPO as "a process that all companies go through. It's an inevitable process for us, the next thing that happens. No one is buying us, we're going public."At thePOLIS lecture, the Wall Street Journal'sBen Rooneydescribed her answer as non-committal, but she referred to "theIPO" rather than "anIPO", which was seen as further confirmation. And though she joked she'd give out the date, she didn't.Over the past six months, estimates of Facebook's value have rocketed from $50bn whenGoldman Sachsinvested $1.5bn in the firm, to $85bn based on trading throughprivate marketssuch as SecondMarket.One transaction in January, where a traderbought Facebook shares at $55 each, put the site's value at $124bn – that's 62 times greater than Facebook's estimated revenues of $2bn last year.If more concrete evidence emerges of aslowdown in Facebook's growththat would confirm the company is peaking, it makes sense for the company to cash in soon. And it's definitely in the air, withLinkedIn's IPOat $4.3bn andGroupon recently filingfor its IPO at a valuation of$750m$15bn.
On Monday EA Games president Frank Gibeau talked to us about the strategic direction of the company, as well as its disagreement with Activision over charging for social connectivity.In today's concluding section, he covers transmedia entertainment, the need for original games and the rise of digital. There's also more on the company's offensive against the Modern Warfare machine ...We've currently got this transmedia concept blooming – the idea that games are part of an entertainment package that includes "linear media" such as books and movies. Is this a serious part of the EA strategy, too?The expansion into linear is more tactical than strategic for us. It's about getting the intellectual property into more hands and exposing more people to it. If you do a film and it's good, everybody has a great time, but it doesn't change our value as a company.What we have thought about differently though since last year is the idea of games as IP universes that then express themselves across different platforms. What's really important is thinking about, say Need For Speed as an intellectual property – real cars, real fast – but you can play it as a free-to-play title on the PC, you can play it on a mobile device or a console, but they're interoperable, they talk to each other. Because, on the server side, I know from your nucleus account how you registered, where you're coming in from, what you like, what type of games you enjoy, how long you play, and other titles you'd potentially be interested in – and I can offer those up to you to opt into if you want.So when you think of an IP universe you stop thinking about 'what are my Xbox 360 sales?' and you think about "how big is my worldwide audience?" Now, linear media plays a little bit of a role in there, because if you have a TV show or a comic, it expands the IP, but what happened with Need for Speed last year is far more interesting to me – we got Criterion in on the game, we put it out as Hot Pursuit, we grew the audience, grew the sales on console, but at the same time we launched Need for Speed Online as a free-to-play title and quickly had 5 million registered users. And what we found was, the majority of those users were new to NFS, because we could see if they'd ever check in with a nucleus account before. And our top markets were Russia and Brazil, where we don't even sell packaged goods – they just get pirated!Amid all this talk of intellectual property, where do original games fit in? Can they still remain a key element of your strategy?Look, this is an entertainment business, sequels have to start some place. This industry has a very fickle and demanding fanbase and you have to constantly bring in new ideas both within established franchises, and in new IPs. Big console new IP starts are something that we will continue to do, but what we're really interested in right now is starting new IPs that are direct to consumer, where the cost of entry is cheaper from a development standpoint, we can succeed faster – or fail faster! – then, if customers liked it, we can build it up bigger. What you'll see from EA is a lot more IP starting with mobile games, social games or even on Xbox Live and PSN, and these may evolve into larger console games. But wewilldo large console new IPs, but probably not as many as we have done in the last two years.Why did you put out more in the last two years, then?We had to re-stock the shelf a little bit! We let go all these properties such as Lord of the Rings and James Bond – we had to replace them with something. We've gone through that process and we need to be selective about what we bring to market.Meanwhile, looming over the whole of E3 is this big face-off between Modern warfare 3 and Battlefield 3, you may have already been asked about this…It has come up once or twice… (laughs)Peter Moore always said he took these sorts of things personally. Do you? Or is this just corporate machinations as far as you're concerned?No, you're talking about hundreds of hours of people's lives, building and working on these things! If you don't have total commitment and passion to the craft and the art of games, you're not going to be a particularly effective competitor. It's the same for sport, and it's the same for business. I can tell you from the top down that we're going after them, we're leaving nothing behind. We're going all out. Whether it's PES vs Fifa or Madden versus 2K Sport, we take these things very seriously – frankly, we enjoy them. We like to compete. It's good for customers – they get innovation that might not have been there otherwise. They get more buzz, more choice, and it will grow the category.The interesting thing about Battlefield versus Modern Warfare is, they're very differently shaded games, they're very different experiences; it's not like buying two football games, where it's all the same teams. You can buy and enjoy both experiences. We're proud of what we have in Frostbite – it's a generation ahead of anything else that's out there right now. Dice has been together for 10 years, it's a tight team and they know what works.How do you prepare your creative teams for a future in which retail isn't going to be as important? With almost half your sales coming from digital content, is this a transition that dev teams have to be carefully prepared for?It's exciting to the game designers, they find it liberating from the standpoint that they can now really see what gamers are doing. In the old days they'd work many man months on a game, ship it, and not be able to tell what's happening in the game, except anecdotally. Now they can actually see the telemetry data; they can say, "okay, 50% finished the game, 35% played 10% of the game …" they find it liberating – they can go live with less and learn what gamers like, then build accordingly. Battlefield Heroes is a good example: we put out the idea of a cartoon shooter, but then learned what items and modes players like, the fact that they wanted more maps, less vanity items, so we tweaked our development. From our perspective, it's like live theatre, when you have live feedback from the crowd you know what you need to do more or less of.So our developers aren't necessarily bummed that they're not working on a disc-based property any more. But it does mean they have to exercise new muscles, they need to figure out new talents and techniques for how you think about compulsion loops in a live product, about free-to-play versus payment up front, about how to build telemetry systems and tag them into the content so you can see what happens. The good thing is, we've been doing that for the last two years, and we can see the results. Customer satisfaction is way up.Is there a worry though that relying on telemetry data can sometimes stifle creativity? If you're always worrying about the majority of users, it might put developers off from trying new, offbeat ideas.I completely agree. That's why we use research for deciding how to value the choices that the design team makes rather than having focus teams to tell us what to build.With all due respect, you can't think out loud in those groups. "What makes a great movie? What movie would you like to see next week?" "Wait, I don't know!" We're not slavish to research or telemetry data – we use them as decision aids about the decisions we want to make and the stories we want to tell. We do make creative calls on IPs that we believe in. You have to have a ix of both – if everyone is always looking backwards at what worked before, you'll never get anything new. You have to take those risks, to try a different type of story, to break through.Which of the nine games you've shown off at E3 2011 are you most concerned about, in terms of the decisions you've made and the potential rewards? Which do you feel is the biggest gamble?Look, I'm a great believer in the Andy Grove quote, "only the paranoid survive"! I've been in the entertainment business for a long time and opening night you never know how it's going to go. You can have the pre-orders, the buzz indicators, but until those numbers start rolling in, you legitimately don't know. So I worry about all of them, quite frankly!I'm convinced that we're building great games, but I'm still thinking, can I release an awesome game? Can I release it on the day we told everybody?! Can I get great marketing behind it? I think the answer behind most of these games is yes – it's to be announced on Star Wars in terms of date (laughs). But in general, we're trying something innovative in each category – and Battlefield is going into a heavyweight fight where the competitor has a 25m unit head start. They all have their unique challenges. I sweat 'em all.Last year, you were pitching Medal of Honor against Call of Duty – that possibly didn't work quite as well as you'd hoped. What did you learn from that?We learned that it's a tough category. We also learned that Medal of Honor did sell well, we were proud of it, but we wished it had done better from a quality standpoint. The key learning was, we wanted to get on to a common technology – the Medal of Honor and Battlefield teams are now operating in the same group together so they can share tools, technologies, innovations, without feeling like the same games.Battlefield and Medal of Honor will be part of a rotation that we go after the shooter category with, and this year, with Battlefield 3, I think we have a generational breakthrough in terms of technology. We have a team that's been together for ten years. The Medal of Honor team was fairly new, they were using middleware and software that had already been out there, so… They're a great team, and we're going to continue to invest in them, but we're going to approach it slightly differently than we did before.One thing Medal of Honordidachieve was a more mature and emotionally resonant story. Do you think that element is going to become more important?Oh absolutely. As gamers become older and more sophisticated they're expecting deeper more complex characters and stories. In the case of Medal of Honor, it was more about comradeship than "yeah, let's go kill the bad guy". You'll see that in Star Wars: The Old Republic – it's more about your story and how it unfolds. That is a calculated business decision: if you tell an engrossing, engaging complex story, it's a better game, which leads to better sales and better player engagement, which allows you to sequel.LA Noire was a really good example – it's story-driven, it's about character. The Mass Effect 3 demo playing downstairs (in which a small boy is killed by Reaper fire while aboard an escape craft) has stuck with a lot of people – it's much better than a soldier at the top of a mound of dead aliens, waving a flag. Games are an artform and they are evolving in terms of the types of experiences they offer and the stories that they tell ...
Still recovering from E3...
Nokia and Apple havesettled a long-running patent dispute, with the US company agreeing to make a one-off payment and continuing royalties to the struggling Finnish phone maker.But the end of the row could now mean that phones using Google's Android software will come under fire from Nokia over the same set of patents it has just licensed, suggests one observer.Nokia said that the payment will have a "positive financial impact" on its second-quarter financial results, where it warned at the end of May that it may only hit break-even in its mobile division. That suggests the amount runs to many millions of dollars. Terms of the deal remain confidential.Nokia had taken the dispute, which began in October 2009, to the International Trade Commission and attempted to ban the import of Apple iPhones into the US on the basis of patent infringement. Apple made a counterclaim. Both sides asserted a large number of patents in the case.Under the agreement, both sides are withdrawing all their complaints to the ITC.Commenting on the result, Florian Mueller, who hasfollowed the row between the two and detailed the elements of the dispute, observed: "This is also very significant with a view to Android. Given that Android is in many ways a rip-off of Apple's operating software, Android-based devices are highly likely to infringe on largely the same Nokia patents that Apple now felt forced to pay for."The deal structure is very telling: a combination of a payment for past infringement as well as running royalties is a clear indication that there's serious money in this for Nokia."Mueller thinks the outcome is positive for Apple: "This is a sweet defeat for Apple because its competitors – especially those building Android-based devices – will also have to pay Nokia, and most if not all of them will likely have to pay more on a per-unit basis because they don't bring as much intellectual property to the table as Apple definitely did."So from a competitive point of view, I don't think Apple loses much. On the bottom line its profitability may even benefit from this because Apple's margins face no greater threat than Android-style commoditisation of smartphone technologies."In a statement, Stephen Elop, president and chief executive officer of Nokia, said: "We are very pleased to have Apple join the growing number of Nokia licensees. This settlement demonstrates Nokia's industry leading patent portfolio and enables us to focus on further licensing opportunities in the mobile communications market."
More than 6.4 million people in the UK used the Google Maps mobile app in April 2011, according to new research published by comScore and mobile industry body the GSMA. That made it the most popular connected app in the UK, with Yahoo Weather (3.6 million) edging Facebook (3.5 million) into third place.A Yahoo app more popular than Facebook? Actually, this should come as no surprise. Google Maps is preloaded on iPhone and Android handsets, while Yahoo supplies the data for the embedded weather app on iPhone. For Facebook to run the latter so close despite lacking such preload deals is pretty impressive.The chart is being published to mark Tuesday's IAB Engage for Mobile conference in London, and is taken from comScore and the GSMA'sMobile Media Metricspartnership. It has has been running since February 2010 with the aim of giving the British media industry better data on the popularity of mobile websites, and now "connected apps" – defined as apps that transfer data over an operator's network.That rules out for now games like Angry Birds, despite the fact that these games increasingly use connected features like Apple's Game Centre community, or in-app purchases. It also has implications for apps used entirely or mainly over Wi-Fi rather than operator networks. The BBC's iPlayer app would be one prominent example.ComScore's vice-president of mobile, Jeremy Copp, admits that the new chart is mainly "the usual suspects", with Google Mobile, YouTube, eBay and Yahoo Stocks (also preloaded on iPhone) all appearing in the top 10.News that Sky has more than 1 million users of its Live Football Score Centre app is interesting, along with just over 730,000 users of its separate Sky News app. The figures also show the UK popularity of cross-platform messaging app WhatsApp Messenger, which had just under 800,000 UK users in April.Here's the full Top 20 chart:Connected Mobile Apps, UK, April 2011 (comScore / GSMA)PositionApplicationTotal Unique Visitors1Google Maps6,419,5032Yahoo! Weather3,567,0473Facebook3,456,4424Google Mobile2,554,3295YouTube2,438,3486eBay1,195,4967Sky Sports Live Football Score Centre1,004,0858Yahoo! Stocks959,2899WhatsApp Messenger798,65610Sky News732,37411Skype609,09112Shazam562,41013BBC News495,39414Sky Sports482,13015Talking Tom Cat452,39616Sky+303,27517Rightmove App289,22118Google Earth269,50219IMDb Movies & TV251,62420TuneIn Radio227,343Source: GSMA Mobile Media Metrics connected applications reportIt's also interesting to compare comScore's connected apps chart with its UK mobile websites rankings. "What we're seeing is that some media owners are following an app-centric strategy," says Copp."For Sky, the vast proportion of their mobile content is consumed through their apps, and very little through the mobile browser. The BBC is at the opposite end of the spectrum with a mobile web-centric strategy, while eBay and Facebook mix up apps and browsing."According to comScore's separate mobile browsing chart, just under 9.1 million people in the UK accessed Facebook's mobile site in April. A comparison for Google and Yahoo is harder, since their sites are grouped together for the company's rankings – Google's sites attracted 11.3 million British mobile browsers in April, while Yahoo's attracted 3.6 million. That month, the BBC's mobile web reach in the UK was 4.3 million people.One thing that the connected apps chart isn't measuring how much time people spend using the apps. ComScore does track that for mobile sites: the average Brit visiting Facebook through their mobile browser spent nearly 11 hours – 346.8 minutes to be precise – using the site in April. For now, there is no equivalent statistic for the company's app.One final curious thing about the data. According to comScore's new data, there were nearly 8.8 million UK users of connected apps in April. However, the company's separate MobiLens research claimed that the UK had 19.7 million smartphone owners that month. Does this mean that 10.9 million smartphone owners did not use connected apps at all?Copp says not. "The MobiLens consumer recall survey and GSMA Mobile Media Metrics operator network census products both use very different data sources and methodologies and hence the data cannot be directly compared without caveats," he says.That includes the fact that the Mobile Media Metrics research used for the connected apps chart "only counts users of those apps that have been characterised in our media dictionary", and also the way it does not include non-connected apps like Angry Birds.ComScore's data is still valuable for media companies trying to get a handle on the most popular apps (and sites) in the UK. However, as time goes on, increased use of Wi-Fi connectivity and the continued blurring of the boundaries between connected and non-connected apps may pose further questions of the methodology for research like this.
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy I love and hate having a smartphone &gt;&gt; The OatmealIt's funny because it's true. No, wait, it's true because it's funny. Oh, what the hell.One case for Apple bringing the cloud to average users at the right time &gt;&gt; One FPS"A little birdie says that about 50% of Apple Store customers who need to get their iPhones swapped have never plugged them into iTunes after the initial activation and sync. This is a big reason, according to this birdie, for why Apple Store Geniuses are excited about iCloud.&#10;"Backupophobes can get away with never touching iTunes after activating an iOS device. But folks obviously need to plug them into some kind of power source to recharge which, combined with a reachable WiFi network, is what triggers iCloud's automatic backup feature. ..&#10;"I'm surprised to hear this number pegged at 50%. If true though, I find it interesting that it is still much lower than just about any statistic you will hear about how many traditional computers users backup."How to Load 10,679 Songs Into Google Music in 2 Days Using AWS &amp; Dropbox &gt;&gt; sogrady.meYou read the headline and say "Wow! This can be done that fast??" Then you read the first paragraph: "Don't get too excited: unless your music collection's already in the cloud somewhere, this isn't going to help you (with one possible exception, discussed below). In my case, that was Dropbox. The majority of my music - audiobooks and not yet unlocked DRM'd iTunes content excepted - was up in the cloud already."Grrrrr.Acer to dump 3m laptops onto European market &gt;&gt; Channel Register"Expect some great deals on Acer laptops in coming weeks. The Taiwanese giant has huge amounts of unsold stock to shift and looks set to flood Europe with more than three million machines.&#10;"Where will the stock be dumped and at what cost? We will we know only when they turn up in store at prices too true to be good - for rival notebook vendors. But we understand that negotiations with large retailers have already started."Why did Apple choose Twitter over Facebook? &gt;&gt; Betanews"Apple and Facebook actually have several conflicting strategic objectives, and their platforms are juxtaposed. Apple wants to push users' content to the device, whereas Facebook wants to pull content to the cloud. The differences will be starker when Apple rolls out iCloud, presumably concurrently with iOS 5 and iPhone 5 in the Fall. Contrary to some Net punditry and commentary, iCloud is not an online storage service. It is fundamentally a synchronization service, using the cloud to help Apple customers better manage their content on iOS and Mac OS X devices."User-generated content is important to both companies, but in dramatically different ways that create, in some respects, incongruous customer priorities. Apple wants user content flowing freely among the devices it sells, while Facebook's priority is content going into the service -- and not easily coming out."Score 5: Insightful.Hi-tech crime and sexual partner surveys 'biased' &gt;&gt; BBC NewsMicrosoft report on "Sex, Lies and Cybercrime Surveys": "In the case of sexual partner surveys, such self-reporting produces totals which suggest that men have had far more female sexual partners than women have had male sexual partners. This, according to the researchers, "is impossible".&#10;"The truth is that in these surveys men over-report partner numbers and women under-report. Plus, said the researchers, some men tell "whopping" lies about their sexual lives and, as a result, vastly inflate the final results.&#10;"The same is true of cyber crime surveys, in that respondents tend to over-report. Also some wildly overestimate the financial loss they suffered or the time it took to resolve problems caused by theft of login details, credit card numbers or other valuable data."Welcoming Microsoft Into Your Livingroom &gt;&gt; Ricky CaddenXbox Live/Kinect all gets integrated. Not quite perfectly: "If Microsoft is really going to take over the entertainment duties for my household, they're going to have to do better than that. I have an HTC HD7, which is powered by Windows Phone, so why can't I let the phone scan my contacts to see if there are any matches? Why can't I tweet or update my Facebook status automatically when I unlock achievements? If I have a game that one of my Xbox friends starts playing, there should be an option to let me know that, either via email, SMS, or an in-game alert, so that I can decide if I want to invite him/her to play."eG8 Publishes Report in Noninteractive, Nonquotable Format &gt;&gt; WSJ Tech blog"You could not come up with a better illustration of the clash of cultures that was the eG8 than the post-forum report.&#10;"Was the output of the two-day gathering in Paris published on a website so people could link to it? Or perhaps a blog so that people could comment on it? Or even a wiki, so the people who attended could contribute and correct mistakes?&#10;"No it wasn't. The report is a book.&#10;"Or rather it is an eBook. Except it isn't even an eBook, in the sense of something that you can read on your Kindle or other eBook reader.&#10;"It's actually a Flash-based page turner, the sort of thing that was all the rage five years ago. It is a digital facsimile of a book."Usability of iPad Apps and Websites: Research Findings &gt;&gt; Nielsen-Norman GroupFree download by the usability experts, which includes their first version (from 2010) and 2011, which updated it. From the latter: "A common characteristic of all this iPad use is that it's heavily dominated by media consumption, except for the small amount of production involved in responding to emails. About half the users carried the iPad with them frequently; the other half used it mainly at home or on longer trips."We've come far in just a year. iPad usability is much improved, and people habitually use many apps. As always, this is no reason to relax our vigilance; new usability problems have appeared and the old ones haven't been totally vanquished. Mainly, though, the future is bright for touch-driven tablet user experience."It would be interesting now to see their take on Honeycomb, the PlayBook and (when it arrives) the HP TouchPad. (Thanks @rquick.)Top 9 Mobile Browsers in Antarctica on May 11 &gt;&gt; StatCounter Global StatsBefore you click, see if you can guess which platform is top.. OK, you're allowed two guesses.IBM's centenary: The test of time &gt;&gt; The Economist"IBM's secret is that it is built around an idea that transcends any particular product or technology. Its strategy is to package technology for use by businesses. At first this meant making punch-card tabulators, but IBM moved on to magnetic-tape systems, mainframes, PCs, and most recently services and consulting. Building a company around an idea, rather than a specific technology, makes it easier to adapt when industry "platform shifts" occur (see article).&#10;"[But...] An elegant organising idea is no use if a company cannot come up with good products or services, or if it has clueless bosses. But on the basis of this simple formula—that a company should focus on an idea, rather than a technology—which of today's young tech giants look best placed to live to 100?"Interesting question.How will mobile carriers react to iMessage? &gt;&gt; QuoraLots of interesting comments; takeaway: "More concisely: this is a pricing arbitrage hack, not a change in the economics of the network, and so, after a brief period, any price advantage will be squeezed out of existence by adjusted tariffs."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
PlayingChild of Edenmay foster feelings of inadequacy. Not because it's a serious test of gaming reflexes – though it absolutely is – but because no matter how colossal the TV or how  expensive the surround-sound setup, it doesn't feel sufficient to do this extraordinary game justice. Tetsuya Mizuguchi has crafted a spiritual successor to Dreamcast favouriteRezthat provides such a spectacular audiovisual experience that standing before it in jeans and a T-shirt makes you feel rather unworthy.The shift fromRez'sthird-person viewpoint to first person adds to the immersion and the life bar and score meter can be removed to further enhance the sensation of floating in its beautiful world. The task is to zoom through five enormous internet archives of the future, purifying corrupted data in order to recompile the persona of Lumi, the first child born in space. As outre as that might sound, the game follows the rules of a standard on-rails shooter: sweep your gunsight across enemies and fire.Any dissection of the game's mechanics cannot do the experience justice. The foes you face aren't faceless soldiers but butterflies, lotus flowers and gigantic disco balls. Two enormous, glowing runners jostle against a background of swirling nebulae, clashing and barging in a never-ending race. A humpback whale swims in a tranquil space ocean before suddenly and joyously transforming into a shimmering phoenix with fibre-optic wings. Meanwhile, the soundtrack thuds and pulses, bursting into euphoric life as you time shots to the beat of the music.Mesmerising with a control pad, it becomes something truly astounding with Kinect, the responsive motion controls bringing you closer to this ethereal cavalcade of imagery. Sweeps of the hand target multiple viruses, with a forward push eliminating them in one fell swoop. Clapping your hands switches to the Tracer, the only defence against projectiles, while raising both hands activates Euphoria, an explosion of light particles that clears the screen when things get hectic.Meanwhile, Lumi's sporadic visual – and vocal – presence is a reminder of the human element in the midst of this kaleidoscopic chaos. As you surf through Earth's collated memories, including images contributed to Mizuguchi by fans, there's a sense of poignancy that much of our communication these days is virtual, the yearning for that physical connection oddly exemplified by the Kinect controls. It's a rare game that can make you think quite so deeply about the human condition and it speaks volumes for how affecting this genuinely transcendental game can be if you surrender to its otherworldly brilliance.
It didn't take long for Facebook to dismiss what it says is an incorrect story about its growth stalling in a few key markets, based on questionable data.Inside Facebookclaimed the site has seen significantly less growth for the US and Canada for two months. Data is gathered by Inside Facebook's own metrics tool, with which they acknowledge 'bugs' that can reflect seasonal quirks, and that is in turn based on Facebook's own advertising metrics tool. At their most dramatic, this data shows a drop of 6m users in the US between the beginning and end of May 2011, dropping to 149.4m."From time to time,  we see stories about Facebook losing users in some regions," said Facebook in a statement, also referring to a similar post a year ago and another two years ago. "Some of these reports use data extracted from our advertising tool, which provides broad estimates on the reach of Facebook ads and isn't designed to be a source for tracking the overall growth of Facebook."We are very pleased with our growth and with the way people are engaged with Facebook. More than 50% of our active users log on to Facebook in any given day."More interestingly, the latest biannual collage of ramshackle data by Italian bloggerVincenzo Cosenzahas produced some delightful Risk-esque maps of the world's biggest social networking trends. Consenza's first-past-the-post system doesn't even give Twitter a look in on its colour-coded maps, but the most interesting trend is the consolidation of sites in a relatively short space of time.In June 2009 he mapped 17 social networks dominating their local markets - in just two years that had dropped to 9 as Facebook became more and more popular. This data is based on combined Alexa and Google Trends for Websites data, which makes Facebook as the most popular social network in 119 of 134 countries.
The number of people using Facebook has dropped in the UK for the second month in a row, mirroring similar falls in the US, Canada and Norway, giving the first signs that the social network's popularity may be waning in the west.The website continued to grow worldwide, hitting an all-time high of 687 million users, according to data from the tracking company Inside Facebook, which uses Facebook's own advertising tools to determine the number of people using the site every month. Growth slowed however, having risen by 13.9m accounts in April and then just 11.8m in May. Typically in the past year it has grown by 20m a month. That slowdown could thwartfounder Mark Zuckerberg's ambition to reach 1 billion users worldwide, despite his prediction last June that "it is almost a guarantee that it will happen".Growth in Facebook use seems to peak in any country once the site is used by roughly half of those who have internet connections – though with more than2 billion people online worldwide, the site could still reach the 1 billion figure. However, it would need people who have joined the site to stay with it – and that hasn't been happening in some countries.Magnus Hoglund, chief executive of the law media portal Law360.com, who has worked on digital media companies for the past decade, said: "From my experience, I get the sense that being on Facebook is not cool anymore. The early adopters and trend setters are moving away. [But] these are also exactly the type of people brand advertisers want to reach; if they are leaving, it doesn't look good for Facebook."The site has been criticised in the west for its approach to users' privacy, with repeated protests about the way in which controls on data access are relaxed. Last week the revelation that it hadextended an automatic facial recognition system for tagging photosbeyond the US without asking people if they wanted to opt in drew criticism from privacy groups and security consultants.A spokeswoman for Facebook said: "We are very pleased with our growth and with the way people are engaged with Facebook. More than 50% of our active users log on to Facebook in any given day."The drop in use was most marked in the US, where numbers fell from May's 155.2 million, just under half the 239m people online, to 149.4 million at the start of June.  It marked the first time in a year that the number of people logging into the site over a month had fallen. In the UK, the fall was smaller at around 100,000 users to 29.8 million, or 58% of the 51.4 million people online. Canada saw a fall of 1.62 million to 16.6 million, while Norway also saw a fall of around 100,000 users over the month.The fastest-growing countries, including Brazil and Mexico, grew at a maximum of 10% over the month.The fall in users is most marked in those developed countries where Facebook first launched to the public in September 2006, after its first two years when it catered only to US college and high school users.Eric Eldon, one of the researchers at Inside Facebook, said that it was hard to see how the social networking site could hit its 1 billion target except by getting into China, which has 420 million internet users but just 391,000 Facebook users as of March. The site has been banned in China since 2008, while cloned versions abound inside the country.Zuckerberg visited China in December 2010, which led to speculation that he was working on a way to get the site approved by the government, but there has been no further detail on whether that is happening.Facebook still dominates the world in terms of social network use, with Russia and China marking the biggest holdouts where home-grown networks are the most popular.Hoglund added that following thestock market flotation of LinkedIn,YandexandGroupon's plans to go public, this summer could mark the high-water mark for media and technology market offerings as firms rush to cash in before their capital runs out.Meanwhile, reports in the US suggest that Facebook may have to make a public share offering at the beginning of 2012 because it will have more than 500 shareholders. US securities exchange commission rules oblige companies to make a listing once they passed this threshold. Facebook did not respond to the Guardian on the issue.
The global battle between hacker activists and police intensified Monday with 32 arrests in Turkey and an admission from Spanish police that the group Anonymous had successfully attacked their website in response to arrests made there.Turkish police arrested 32 suspected local members of Anonymous, including eight minors, according to state news agency Anatolian. The arrests followed a complaint from Turkey's directorate of telecommunications, whose website was taken down on Thursday.Members of the Anonymous collective said that attack was carried out as a protest against internet censorship by the recentlyre-elected government of prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, of the moderate Islamist Justice and Development party (AKP).Turkey is due to introduce an obligatory nationwide internet filtering system in August that will see users forced to sign up to one of four filters.These are labelled "domestic", "family", "children" or "standard", but hacker activists gathered under the Anonymous umbrella claim they will lead to state control of individual internet use, and allow authorities to keep records of such use.The police operation in Turkey followed the arrest of three alleged leaders of the so-called Anons in Spain on Friday.Spanish police admitted that Anonymous had claimed responsibility for blocking their main website briefly in the small hours of Sunday morning in retaliation for the arrests. Police claimed the three detainees jointly formed the "leadership" of Anonymous in Spain. They had allegedly been involved in attacks on the websites of the Sony PlayStation, several banks, an electricity company and the governments of Egypt, Algeria, Libya, Iran, Chile, Colombia and New Zealand.A server allegedly used in the attacks was taken away when police raided homes in Gijón, Barcelona, Valencia and Almeria. Spanish police said the group had also launched attacks on the Catalan regional police, a trade union and the country's electoral administration.They said a 31-year-old from Gijón, northern Spain, had been a core member of the leadership. "This person provided infrastructure for the group with a server in their home, from which major international attacks launched by Anonymous were co-ordinated," police said.But a videoposted on YouTubeby purported members of Anonymous denied that the three people were leaders."The police have lied. They cannot detain our leadership because we have no leadership," they said in a video that featured a "spokesman" wearing the group's Guy Fawkes-inspired mask and peering down from a digital billboard on Madrid's central Gran Vía street. "The server they took did not belong to Anonymous but was a small internet relay chat (IRC) server that we annexed."The Guy Fawkes masks, which originate from theV for Vendetta graphic novel by Alan Moore and David Lloyd, have become popular among protesters who have gathered in recent weeks in Spanish squares to demand social and political reform.The Anonymous video stated that the group backed the non-violent protest movement, which finished dismantling its tented city in Madrid's Puerta del Sol square in the early hours of Monday morning – ending several weeks of occupation.A minority of hardcore protesters remain in the Puerta del Sol and in Barcelona's Plaça Catalunya square, while the movement itselfconcentrates on spreading its popular assemblies to city neighbourhoods and organising one-off protests.A joint protest in city squares around the globe has been called for 16 June.Anonymous members cripple websites by overwhelming their servers with traffic in so-called denial of service attacks.The group says it is not involved in credit-card fraud, but has been held responsible for attacks on the servers of both Mastercard and Amazon.Spanish police claimed their arrests were the first major action against Anonymous outside the United States and Britain, where several people were detained in January.The British government has admitted to recent cyber-attacks at the Treasury and, in the words of defence secretary Liam Fox, to a "sustained attack" on the Ministry of Defence.
