The crop of new gizmos and gadgets at this year's 3GSM Congress in Cannes - the mobile phone industry's annual bash - may have been paltry when compared with previous years. But behind the products that did appear lies one very important point: mobile data is upon us.Texting was a runaway success but the new generation of phones - some of which did see the light of day on the French Riviera - will take using phones for something other than making voice calls to a whole new level.After last year's small batch of phones with built-in or clip on cameras - Sony Ericsson's T68i, Nokia's 7650 and Sharp's GX10 being the prime examples - the handset manufacturers have run away with themselves.German mobile phone giant Siemens showcased a new smartphone with built-in camera called the SX1, which is definitely funkier than the 7650 and less clunky than the Sharp phone that Vodafone has made central to its Vodafone Live! service.Siemens is hiding a new phone under the table which some in the industry believe will give the 7650 a real run for its money, but it looks as if   the media will have to wait until CeBIT next month to get a look at it.Nokia was rather quiet about new phones using current network technology but, like some if its rivals, was willing to talk about phones for the new 3G network technology, which will allow video downloading as well as video conferencing.Nokia's 3G handset is on track for delivery in the first half of 2003. The Finnish handset giant has already shipped about 10,000 to operators and network equipment suppliers for testing and believes that the phone will make a major splash once the operators start rolling out 3G networks.SonyEricsson used Cannes to unveil its first 3G handset. The handset manufacturer does not yet have an operator signed up to supply the phone, although perhaps the fact that the model shown in Cannes on Tuesday was painted red is a nod towards Vodafone, which will be launching its service next year.Rival Motorola, of course, is already one step ahead, selling its own 3G handset through 3, the UK's fifth network operator which will go live next month.Motorola's current 3G  handset, the A820, is rather on the clunky side but according to the head of 3G handsets, Bob Schukai, the company already has plans   for a smaller version which should be available next year.Despite its size the Motorola phone is a better piece of kit than 3's other   phone - the NEC e606 - for one simple reason: it gives much better quality video. Out in Cannes this week, Motorola was showing off video downloads at 15 frames per second. That's not the same as VHS video but at least you really can see the ball when you watch a Premiership highlight.As for whether 3G will actually work, Bob Schukai is adamant: "There are no major issues to overcome, all we are trying to do now is fine tune the service and the network."But perhaps the most exciting thing to come out of the Motorola stable at Cannes was the first glimpse of the A760. This PDA-like phone is going to cause others in the industry some sleepless nights. It has a see-through flip up cover rather like the Handspring Treo, full colour touch screen, built-in camera, MP3 player and Bluetooth."So what?" I hear you ask. Well, it will also be the first phone produced using the Linux open source operating system. It opens up a whole new front in the battle for   sontrol of the so-called smartphone market.Motorola decided to adopt Linux earlier this year in something of a shock move. The US company is a shareholder in Symbian, the software joint venture which created the operating system that powers phones such as the SonyEricsson P800 and Nokia 7650.Symbian is locked in a battle with Microsoft for dominance of the operating system market but the US software giant has had little success to date. Now Symbian has to battle one of its own shareholders as well."It is a terrible disappointment to that they have decided to go Linux/Java," said Symbian's chief financial officer Thomas Chambers. "But I think it is a regional play in the Far East more than anything else."But privately, Symbian insiders admit that they are concerned that is if Motorola can make a go of its A760 phone - which unfortunately is only going to be made available in the Far East - then the company will start offering its new Linux based technology to other handset makers. If true, next year's 3GSM Congress could play host to a new breed of open source phones.
n an interview for Guardian Unlimited's Voices on Iraq projectwww.guardian.co.uk/iraq/voices, Noam Chomsky said: "There's never been a time that I can think of when there's been such massive opposition to a war before it was even started."This ground-swell of public sentiment against an attack on Iraq quickly became evident on the web. We decided to set upa special reporton the anti-war movement as a home for Guardian Unlimited's news stories, comment and analysis about opposition to war. Theguide to anti-war websiteswas set up to provide a permanent information source for people wanting to find out more about anti-war groups, not just protests against an Iraq conflict.I decided to give my email address so people could suggest other sites. I've done this kind of thing before. When I wrote a guide to household recycling I got less than a dozen responses to my requests for information on schemes I had omitted.So I wasn't expecting to arrive at work the day after the anti-war websites guide had gone live to find two dozen messages waiting for me, all suggesting links. I have now had more than 350 emails since the guide went live on January 28. In fact, several more messages have arrived since I started typing this.Guardian Unlimited's global audience was reflected in the range of nationalities represented in my now-bulging inbox: Americans, Belgians, Australians, Irish, Swiss and Bermudans, among others.Some of the sites nominated featured organisations set up decades ago, such asWar Resisters InternationalandCND. Others were only months - or even weeks - old: for examplewww.humanshields.orgwas set up after activist Ken Nichols O'Keefe posted a message on the alternative news networkwww.indymedia.orgsaying he was going to drive to Baghdad with a friend to act as a human shield. Within days he had dozens of people clamouring to go with them. The viral power of the internet turned what started as a two-person protest into a global movement for peace.At the centre of many of the sites is a simple idea that utilises the web's plus points rather than aping traditional media outlets. For example,www.poetsagainstthewar.orghas produced a series of electronic chapbooks of anti-war poetry available as pdfs to be emailed or printed out and passed on.Waketheworld.orgwas set up a week ago to provide downloadable posters for anti-war protesters and allow people to submit their own designs. The site received more than 30 new posters last weekend.Humour also plays an important role: this"error page"is one of the more subtle sites I was sent, while several sites make clever use of Flash, likeMark Fiore'sandwww.takebackthemedia.com. The list goes on. And on.About five or six of the messages I received asked why I had not included pro-war sites. The reason was that the guide was set up as part of a special report on sites about the anti-war movement, rather than as a general information resource about the Iraq conflict: we already have special reports on Iraq and on the military, which include a range of links to sites about war on Iraq.However, I plan to set up a separate page to house some of the prominent pro-war sites, not least those of the warbloggers, such as www. andrewsullivan.com, www. instapundit.com andwww.blogsofwar.com. (In the endlessly referential world of blogging, there is, of course, a blog that watches the warbloggers:warbloggerwatch.blogspot.com.Pro-war websites seem thin on the ground; search for "war" and "Iraq" and you'll scroll through reams of protest sites but few that back military action.Americans for Victory over Terrorism, which presents pro-war comment, analysis and news, is one exception. Another isPatriots for the Defence of America, which describes itself as "a national activist organisation promoting moral clarity on the war".People also emailed me to suggest sites that gave users the opportunity to debate the rights and wrongs of war without presenting its own stance, such asWar Debate,On the RailingsandOpenDemocracy.This brings me back to where I started: the growing public doubt about the morality of an attack on Iraq. Anti-war arguments debated online were made manifest in the physical world last weekend as millions of people joined more than 600 peace protests around the globe.Meanwhile, the emails keep coming and the pages will continue to expand. I am trying to keep up with the demand. Speaking of which, I'd better get back to work.
How did you get involved in cyber-security?I was taking a shower around the time when theMichelangelo viruswas occurring  ) and I started to envision what would happen if you had several viruses and they were really planned? That was the genesis of how to model an information warfare army.How real is the threat of cyber-warfare?The militarisation of a lot of this stuff has already occurred. You have some perception problems with the media. For example, theNato sitewas attacked but that's meaningless - as is the Palestinians and the Israelis defacing eachother's sites. What astounds me is that solving that problem technically is child's play yet none of them are bothering to do it. It's basically just graffiti.Is the virus becoming mightier than the sword?I think that the most sophisticated stuff they'll use early on will be theDEW weaponsin order to remove critical infrastructure capabilities from a command-and-control standpoint. That can be done with non-kinetic weapons _without any bloodshed!Are home computers at risk of cyber-terrorism?Only as unwitting participants. When I was at my accountant's he asked me to look at his computer. The security of his machine was atrocious! All of his files were accessible through openTelnet, openFTPor &lt;A HREF="http://www.webopedia.com/TERM/H/HTTP.html" TARGET="_NEWopen http. It is worth making sure you use good anti-virus software and update it daily _ anything less is stupid. I useNorton SystemWorks. Also ensure you've got a personal firewall -www.zonelabs.comis free.Should our emails be private?If you're really paranoid go crypto! The only way to get around encryption is to go after the "keys". A good security tip is to never loadVisual Basicor if you're using IE don't useOutlook) - I useEudoraso that there's no cross-pollination problems between the two. If you use IE and Outlook and leave VBS on - you're in a whole world of hurt!Will our beloved net freedoms be curtailed?If you're doing nothing wrong then you've nothing to hide. Surveillance is about more than just the internet. It's about a lot of what's called INW - indications and warnings. If I started usingcryptographyeveryday I'd quickly find myself on the "he uses crypto list"!Favourite sites?www.drudgereport.comandwww.securityfocus.comVisit:www.infowar.comor download a Pdf version of Information Warfare at:www.interpactinc.com/iwar.html
DIYMy ambition is to build myself a PC from scratch. Is this a realistic prospect for a relative layman? Are there any particular books, manuals or web resources that you would recommend? Finally, what operating system would you recommend?Leo CarrollJack Schofield replies:There are a lot of websites that explain how to build your own PC, and it is not difficult to assemble a machine from standard parts. The most useful sites includewww.buildyourown.org.uk,Hardware Centralandwww.daileyint.com/build/buildtoc.htm.A Google search will find many more. Consult Tom'sHardware Guideto find the best parts. Make sure all the parts you choose are on the Windows XPcompatibility lists. Also, run a Google search on each part to find out if other users have experienced compatibility or installation problems (eg search for Asus+P4PE+problem). Conflicts are common.I suggest you start with Windows XP, because Windows has the most software and hardware available, and works with almost all websites. However, if you partition the hard drive to start with (ie create drives C: and D:), there is no reason why you should not install GNU/Linux on the D: drive. If you plan to do this, you should also check parts for Linux compatibility, and avoid products such as Winmodems or "soft modems" and Winprinters. See: http://hardware.redhat.com/hcl/ andwww.idir.net/~gromitkc/winmodem.html.Upgrade nowMy Windows 98 PC, from 1998, has a terminally ill motherboard, and must go.   I am replacing it with a more up to date computer, but, as all my software dates from 1998 (Word 97, etc) should I install Windows 98SE so I can run all my applications satisfactorily?Simon AbbottJS:If you were just swapping the motherboard then I'd suggested you left the rest alone. If you are buying a new PC then XP is the way to go - preferably XP Pro with 256MB of memory. XP Home and XP Pro are based on Windows NT/2000 code and no longer include the MS-DOS operating system, though they still offer a command line emulation. If you think you might have compatibility issues, check here:www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/pro/how tobuy/upgrading/compat.asp.Everything, or almost everything, should work, because the shift from DOS to NT has been under way for a decade. Every software house should have noticed. If not, it is time to move on. You don't have to be on the leading edge, but nor should you fall too far behind.Activate itI have a new computer with Windows XP Home, and I am being asked to register my copy. Firstly, why should I have to register? It seems to me to intrude on my   privacy. Secondly, what happens if I don't?Isabella RamsayJS:It is not registration, it is "product activation", and it is anonymous. It is included as an anti-piracy measure. You can also register Windows XP separately, and at that point you can provide an email address, if you want. However, registration is optional. If you do not go through the product activation routine, over the internet or by phone, then you will not be able to log in to Windows XP. You will therefore be unable to access your PC. Seehttp://masl.to/?X20B12863.Porn linkA site listed in the November 28 edition of Webwatch, which is supposed to lead to a cartoon/animation site, actually leads to a porn site. The address was www.toonzone.com but it leads to www.whitehouse.com. I wonder how many other hapless (and innocent!) males had to explain this away to an eyebrow-raising partner.Rod BushellJS:In this case you mistyped the address, which iswww.toonzone.net- a mistake that can be avoided if you go to the online version of Webwatch and click the link. But porn companies often buy addresses close to popular    sites to exploit this very common mistake. For example, www.whitehouse.com piggybacks offwww.whitehouse.gov.Nonetheless, you may well find that some old links do lead to porn sites. Lots of popular websites fail, and porn site purveyors buy up their old addresses.AutokorektI used the "search &amp; replace" facility when doing a Christmas round-robin. Now, whenever I write "Peter", Microsoft Word automatically substitutes "Dad".Penny SalkeldJS:Go to Tools and select AutoCorrect. There you will find a Properties sheet with a list of all the corrections that Word will make. Select the one that you don't want and click the Delete button.Backchat&#183;Last week, a parent was trying to protect his 12-year-old son from porn spam on AOL. Jocelyn Cole, from AOL UK, says he could set up mail controls to stop him from receiving emails from anyone other than designated friends and family. "For more information, members should go to AOL Keyword: Parental Controls or AOL Keyword: Mail Controls."&#183;Annette Ray asked about a spam email that told her to phone a certain number. This scam can generate profits if the number provides a kickback to the provider (eg 0871) or is a premium rate number beginning 090. Someone wrote in from a component supplier saying: "We recently received a phone bill for over &#163;1,000 for over two days of calling an 090 number. We were not sure if someone had hacked into our network or this was caused by a virus of some sort. The dial out was done over our network through our server. Has this happened to anyone else?" Complaints about the abuse of premium rate services are handled byICSTIS, which operates a compensation scheme.
Standby PC"My laptop takes 10 minutes to start up," says Richard Dineen (Tune into the wireless, February 13) - well Della takes about a minute, but the last time she was cold-started was at least three months ago, so who cares? Maybe someone should take Richard quietly to one side and tell him about the standby key?He also seems to have missed out on the PocketPC world. I can have a Wi-Fi card for my Jornada for &#163;64 at current prices, and CEcil is very usable out of doors. This machine may be cunningly disguised as a personal organiser, but it is a remarkably versatile little computer, once you get the hang of the pointed-stick mode of data-entry. Quake could be a bit of a challenge, but I am sure   someone has got a "tap and shoot" network game just waiting to be the killer app when the coverage fills out.Adrian Smithadrian@causeway.co.ukWhy I love Wi-FiInteresting article by Neil McIntosh but I am astonished that it failed to mention PDAs. I just got the amazing new iPaq 5450 with integrated Wi-Fi - such a beautiful device. I have all but abandoned my laptop. Had been using wireless LAN with iPAQ 3850 and Cisco Aironet card for some time - the benefits are fabulous. I haven't attempted to add telephony yet, though you can do it all right now. I'm certain the future lies in devices like the iPAQ - and I think Wi-Fi will be more significant than 3G. If you had a voice call, or even video, enabled PDA with the kind of speedy web and network access Wi-Fi delivers and, in our dreams, voice recognition to get around the keyboard problem, then what else could you want? Even more brilliant PocketPC apps? You're really just talking about size and styling, the iPAQ is still too big, but have you seen the screen on the HP   model? Point is, even what's available now is very cool.Nina Blountnina.blount@ntlworld.comDial a meetRecent events call for an urgent re-think about the role of telecoms in our lives.  If we want to fix or cancel a meeting or arrange a party we ring up the other end or send an email. Only a tiny minority among us use telecoms actually to have the meeting or to hold the party and thus avoid the traffic jams and rail, tube and air delays that are making such trouble for us. A public videophone service, which enabled us to see one another in a really lifelike way, would encourage this on a massive scale. We have all the technology for such a service - it's just a question of getting it organised.Ken Livingstone's congestion charges and the terror threats highlight the possibilities as never before. Instead of facing the expensive horrors of travel in the City or West End, fighting through appallingly congested suburbs or risking bombs and rockets, Londoners could do a lot of what they have to do in comfort and safety without   ever leaving home by using telecoms.Please, Ken, ring up the chief executive of BT, Ben Verwaayen, and ask him to start a videophone service for London as soon as he can; and then to get it going for the rest of Britain. After the experiences of February 2003 it would make money for sure.John Harperberry@pavilion.co.ukOrange helpIn response to Robin Weston's letter in last week's Online, I feel I need to clarify Orange's relationship with Locust.OrangeImagineering - an R&amp;D division of Orange - has been working closely with Locust creator Jon Anderson for the past year to explore commercially viable ways to keep third party communities such as Locust alive on the Orange network. From the start, Jon was aware that for Locust to continue, he needed to move his traffic either to an existing tariff for SMS (which we have spent time exploring with him) or over to a GPRS service. We have dedicated time to exploring alternatives for Jon because we want Locust to succeed. While doing this, we also provided   network support for his community.Rich MinerDirector of OrangeImagineeringSmart moveKeypads apparently identical to those described by Theo van de Bilt (Adding up, Feedback, February 13), have been fitted to Post Office counters nationwide. This is to cater for the change in state benefits which, for claimants without bank accounts, will no longer be paid by order books but by smart cards.Ron Gravesron.graves@btinternet.comBid for itBill Hodgson (Feedback, February 13) should check out eBay, where he'd have no difficulty finding a neanderthal - which is to say, perfectly good if a bit bigger and heavier than the latest jewellery - mobile (a Nokia 3110, say) for as little as a fiver. Add a pre-pay sim card - also from ebay - for &#163;5-&#163;10 or so, and he'd have "the equivalent of a public telephone he can carry with him" for well under &#163;20.Alan Patersonalan@wherewordswork.com
This weekend's anti-war demonstration was almost certainly the largest coordinated political protest the world has seen. Events began in Melbourne, Australia, and then erupted in hundreds of cities across the world like a global Mexican wave before ending in San Francisco 48 hours later.While estimates range from six to 12 million people taking part, February 15 - or F15 in activist parlance - underlines the extent to which the dynamics of protest politics have been   transformed by the internet.As a press officer for the Stop the War Coalition in the run-up to Saturday's march, I experienced first-hand how the internet has allowed tiny political groups with virtually no resources to mobilise millions of people.The press campaign would not have existed without the internet. By using email for press releases, we could send immediate responses to government statements at no cost. We could direct journalists to our website. And the internet provides a vital   resource for checking discrepancies in government statements. The revelation that a government dossier was cut and pasted from a 10-year-old thesis would never have made the headlines had the original author not read the dossier on the internet. The web exposes government information to unprecedented scrutiny.The internet has dramatically   effected the way Stop the War Coalition is organised."A major part of campaigns in the past was stuffing envelopes. That used to take literally days," says Andrew Burgin, one of the founders of Stop the War. "So campaigns in the past always required a much bigger labour force."Using mailing lists and its website, the central office communicates with a rapidly growing network of local groups that provide much of the movement's organisation. Those local groups communicate with their members and the wider movement through their own mailing lists, group text messages and local websites. The groups also run their own press campaigns with local media.My local group is in Dulwich, South London - hardly a hotbed of revolutionary fervour. But meetings draw people from every ethnic background, class, age and political persuasion, who you could hardly imagine meeting in any other circumstance.The founder of the group, Mike Healey, has also researched the social effects of the internet as a lecturer for Westminster University."We've used the internet to build the group," he says. "There's a lot of talk of virtual communities and what's happened here is one example."But the community only exists to mobilise - not to just chat online."This distributed structure has proved to be infinitely extensible, with more and more local groups continuing to be formed and the central office remaining minimal - it is run by less than 10 people.But for the anti-war movement the internet is only a means to an end. The reason people get involved is not for online discussions, but for offline protest such as Saturday's march. The internet simply makes that process more accessible to people who would not normally get involved in politics.Now we're about to launch a global anti-war website linking the national groups together so we can coordinate further protests in the coming months.The web has allowed Stop the War to connect with people in a way politicians have failed to do. The much hyped age of online politics has finally arrived .
Chances are that people will first learn about a war on Iraq via the web, email, instant messages or text message. Things were different during the last Gulf War. Then, memorably, CNN relayed real-time pictures of the first air strikes direct to the world. Cue the age of 24/7 rolling news. However, the present moment is dominated by a different kind of "networked news", one in which the net is integrated into the mainstream media, where online communications play an unpredictable but influential role.People used email and IRC (internet relay chat) channels to relay frontline news from Kuwait and Baghdad during the last Gulf war. With the mainstream news media so tightly regimented, the idea that the net might represent a more open channel to the reality of war began to form.   That idea took hold during the conflicts in the Balkans, peaking during Kosovo, the first real net war. Then, during the allied bombing campaign, reports on its effects were circulated via mailing lists, discussion groups and web pages.However, the ease with which all this information could be accessed led to a more sceptical attitude online. People realised that such reports could be easily faked, that the internet wasn't some sort of inherently "pure" channel, but could be used by all sides to spread disinformation and propaganda. We began to conceive of the internet as one of the places an information war might happen. In a way, that's where we are now. The upcoming conflict will be a full-blown information war; it is already a networked conflict."The Pentagon's current gospel is network-centric warfare," says    James Der Derian, director of theInfoTechWarPeace Projectat Brown University and author of Virtuous War: Mapping the Military-Industrial-Media-Entertainment Network. "Obviously the internet will be part of that battlespace, with plans to flood Iraqi servers with propaganda and disinformation."In the run up to the war, the US has been spamming Iraq, sending emails to every address in the country, advising citizens not to deploy chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. Saddam has responded by closing down the internet and purging all such communications."But other networks will also be part of an all-out infowar," Der Derian says. "Command-and-control systems, like the air defence networks, will be taken out with smart missiles and possibly even electro-magnetic pulse weapons. Primetime/ cable networks will be red hot with war fever and coverage. NGOs will roll out humanitarian networks. Anti-war networks will send out marching orders. Soldiers, sailors, and airmen will email stories back home. This war will be started and ended by networks."Since September 11 2001, and the declaration of a war on terror, we've been living through a kind of low-level infowar. Many people used blogs to think through the destruction of the World Trade Center, with a more distinct group of warbloggers using their sites to argue for war, first in Afghanistan then  Iraq. In response, anti-war bloggers and peace activists have gone online. As the events of the weekend showed, they have used the internet to spread information and coordinate action.There has been an explosion of information from all sides about the war on terror online. Attention has recently focused on"Salam", an Iraqi blogger, whose site features reports on life in Baghdad and whose "authenticity" has been much discussed. But sometimes this can be confusing.The upside offered by the internet, suggests Der Derian, is that "it takes less capital and technical know-how to both collect and disseminate information. The downside is that net literacy - in the sense of distinguishing noise from signal - has not kept up with the explosion of information." Chris Hables Gray, a professor at the University of Great Falls in Montana, author of Postmodern War, and a specialist in modern techno-war, points out that "the internet has always been as good a place as any to put out white, black, and grey propaganda. But in moderated listserves and chatrooms there is more chance of feedback so that a careful reader can actually get better information than one can from print media, by tracking down sources and interrogating rumours."There have been suggestions that during a conflict, the internet could now be used by "moblogging" journalists, who could now, in theory, upload photos and video from the frontline direct to the net. Der Derian has doubts about this. "The mistake of the antiwar movement against the first Gulf war was to think that you could mobilise, as with Vietnam, after the war had started." But modern war happens too quickly. "'We shall overcome someday' is already a day too late in modern warfare," Der Derian says."If things go wrong in Iraq, the first news most will get will be through the web," says Chris Hables Gray. "It's one thing to restrict a handful of reporters to sanitised news opportunities; it's another to keep all soldier/civilian accounts off the internet. Impossible really." Hables Gray points out that, during Vietnam, the underground   press and the stories of the soldiers coming home helped spread anti-war sentiment along with TV news. "Now, the underground press is the web, and the stories of soldiers and civilians who experience the war will spread much quicker than they did 35 years ago."Given that, it's highly likely that the authorities will seek to exert more control over the web. Hables Gray points out that, in the recent past, infowar has been associated with "the wildly unrealistic claim that real war would be fought in cyberspace." But the idea of infowar was developed in response to the rise of "an international civil society" that used networks to organise against the established powers that be. "The real focus of infowar practices remains the international public, not the military enemy, who, relying less on computers and networks than the US and Nato do, is actually almost always less threatened by attacks on them."With the US government floating ideas such as Total Information Awareness (the plan to develop ways to track and data-mine all internet traffic to find terrorist activity), this side of the info-war is hotting up, says Der Derian. "You can be sure that the defense department has contingency plans to control information on the net."According to some, exaggerating fears over a possible cyber-terrorist attack is part of that attempt to exert control over the internet. Clearly, hacking and viruses targeted at the west are possible, says Hables Gray. "But the good news is that Saddam Hussein is an uninspired, if not incompetent, military leader who fought the Iran and Gulf wars as if they were the first world war. It seems unlikely Iraq will even attack the internet." That doesn't mean that "secret allies" might not launch attacks though a slowdown online rather than a major disruption, he adds.The internet will continue to play an unpredictable role as the conflict intensifies. Although wars may be started and ended by networks, they impact on ordinary people's bodies and lives in a much more basic way. "Cyberspace is part of this," says Chris Hables Gray. "But isn't the locus of war all its own? In the end, war is about killing and maiming people and that can't happen in cyberspace."
ZD Netsays "Viglen will use Transmeta's Crusoe processor in its new eXaro" pen-driven tablet running Microsoft Windows XP Tablet PC Edition. Transmeta has struggled since its chip was launched -- an event that was overhyped mainly because one of its workers happens to be called Linus Torvalds. Microsoft's Tablet PC initiative gave Transmeta a boost, but Intel is targeting that market with its lower-power Banias version of the Pentium and Wi-Fi friendly Centrino chip set, which is being launched on March 12.
Microsoft will launch a beta test version ofThreedegrees, a new instant messaging application, next week, reportsCNet. The idea is to let up to 10 kids share a peer-to-peer space, which includes animations and legally-shared music playlists. Newsweek's Steven Levy (author of Insanely Great, about the Mac) thinks it's cool, but then, he got theinside story. The software is also likely to be bad news for America Online, which is not exactly short of reasons to be tearful.
Microsoft has taken over Connectix's Virtual PC products, includingVirtual PC for Mac, which lets Mac owners run Windows and therefore Windows applications.
Advance warning of what's inOnlinetomorrow: something of a conflict with Iraq special. The net has played a particularly interesting role in the last few months, informing (and sometimes mis-informing) readers, being used to organise protests and, of course, sustaining an enormous world-wide debate. Jim McClellan predicts a "full-blown information war" (and says it's "already a networked conflict", whileInstapunditauthor Glenn Reynolds explains why the traditional media is struggling to keep up with the weblog world. Dickon Ross asks if we should be worried about online terrorism, and Jane Perrone casts an eye over websites about war.
Spam - the unwanted email which clogs up mailboxes with offers of anything from porn to miracle diets - could be made illegal in California.Debra Bowen, a Democratic state senator from Marina del Rey in Los Angeles, has introduced a bill to allow recipients to sue for $500 (&#163;312) for each unwanted message."Spam isn't just annoying," she said. "It burns people's time and money by forcing them to wade through millions of messages that cost spammers virtually nothing to package and fire off."Although the bill may be welcomed by everyone weary of opening their mailboxes to find a parade of offers for bestiality porn sites, Viagra variants or improbably generous mortgage rates, it would not be all-embracing.It could punish spammers resident in California but it could do little to control the many messages beamed in from around the world, often with bogus return addresses.The problem is growing. According to a recent study the number of spam messages received in the US rose by 86% between 2001 and 2002.The average number of spams received by each computer user is now 6.2 a day.Some computer experts argue that software that blocks spam is the answer, rather than legislation.Bowen claims that technology has had little effect so far. "The spam problem is getting exponentially worse, not better, despite all the ads for 'foolproof' spam filters," she said.She introduced a state law in 1998 which required spammers to include in their messages the ways in which people can ask for no more unsolicited mail to be sent. The law provides for a $1,000 fine, but it has been difficult to enforce.California's attorney general, Bill Lockyer, is using it to sue a Los Angeles marketing company but the case has yet to be heard.
BBC Newsunveils its new look today. It's always a little risky to depend on first impressions of a new design, especially when the old one was very familiar. But at the moment it feels like clarity, especially on the index pages, appears to have been sacrificed in the name of... width? More links? It's hard to scan your eye across, to suss what's going on at a glance (which the old look allowed you to do very well). It reminds me a lot of the horrific guddle of links that is theWashington Posthome page, and seems a step back from the trend towards clean lines and clarity on the web. Anyone any thoughts?
A computer hacker has gained access to the credit card details of more than 5m Mastercard and Visa holders in the US, sparking fears of fraud on a potentially massive scale.The two companies yesterday said the hacker had got the information by accessing the systems of an undisclosed third party firm which processes payments for retailers.Both credit card firms said they had immediately informed the issuing banks after the problem was first detected two weeks ago. "This is not something regional, it was throughout the nation and could be any bank," said Visa spokesman, John Abrams.The companies are working with US law enforcement officials to track down the culprit and discover how he or she managed to crack the system's security.Identity theft and credit card fraud have become an increasing concern among consumers, particularly with the number of transactions now taking place online. But it is more common, as in this case, for fraudsters to attack host computers where credit card details are held on file by retailers rather than get access to them while the payments are being made over the internet.None of the information in this hacking, which would include the credit card numbers, appears to have been used fraudulently so far. Around 2m Mastercard holders are affected and 3.4m Visa holders.Plastic card fraud is booming in Britain - it has grown by 50 per cent in the past two years to &#163;430m. As well as hacking into computer databases, common scams include copying card details when purchases are made, cards going missing in the post, or charging twice for items.There are more than 560m Visa and Mastercards in circulation in the US. In a statement, Visa said: "High profile companies, government agencies, internet programs and websites will always be targeted by criminals."Visa and our vendors are no exception."But the company tried to reassure customers. "Visa's fraud team immediately notified all affected card-issuing institutions and is working with the third-party payment processor to protect against the threat of a future intrusion."The companies said customers would not be liable for charges incurred as a result of fraud.
For a decade I was making political TV programmes or writing political columns and leaders for national newspapers. And through all that time, I nursed a guilty secret: I don't know much about politics.But it appeared that I did. And that - in the modern age - is what seems to count.With the advent of the net, its even easier to access those crucial nuggets. You, too, can talk like Andrew Adonis while really knowing as little as (for example) me - and all from the comfort of that chair you're in now.One obvious error would be to monitor the UK politics discussions  on the newsgroups. Don't. You'll get sucked in to a vortex of loony obsessives and conspiracy theorists.There are plenty of places to start your blagging career. First,Hansard. It's actually a bloody good read, although unless your mouse has got a scroller which can help cut through the crap, its quite a slog. Get a good mouse. And its not just the debates you want to trawl, the written answers are a goldmine.The parties have jumped on the bandwagon and have all got their own websites.Labour,the Toriesandthe Lib Dems.  As you might expect, they're all dreadful, though you can pick up some handy stuff to drop into conversations - like the location of future conferences. "Are you going to Brighton this year?" always sounds better than "Will you be going to the Liberal Democrat Autumn Federal Conference?"When Labour came to office, they were enthused by this internet thing that Tony had heard so much about from Al Gore. In 2000 Tony promised to do weekly fireside web chats, likeUS presidentsdo. After a couple of years, he packed it in - due to a lack of interest - but the old (worthy) ones are stillout therein cyberspace.The sanitised civil service version of thelobby briefingsare also available from theNo 10site. Sceptics may decry the dullness of these transcripts, but having been in the lobby for a few years, I can assure you that the real thing's pretty snoozy too. They've got it spot on.Tony enthused the MPs, too - and there is a website even for your most indolent backbencher. Best of the bunch is probablyTom Watson MP's site- which promises to get a question at PMQs if enough readers sign his anti-tuition fees petition.The best stuff to have lying around your flat is the unedited transcripts of inquiries. OK, so printing them out uses lots of paper - but they're a real babe magnet. Wanna score tonight? Pop down to Rymans for some paper and a highlighter pen. A fistful of pages from theSaville inquiryhearings on the Bloody Sunday massacre - with a few random sentences highlighted in yellow or pink (preferably both, to confer an impression of a system) - could work wonders for your reputation. If foreign affairs is more your blag, try theMilosevic trial.By now, you'll look just like a seasoned policy wonk. You're almost ready to embark on a glittering career in politics. The final piece of the jigsaw is policies - you'll want a few. Really rightwing ones are in vogue at the moment, so nick a few from the ultra-right thinktanks like theAdam Smith Instituteor theCentre for Policy Studies. These outfits always call themselves "independent" or "centre-right" but don't be fooled.Now you're well on the way to special adviser status. Your very own page onRed Star Research. What more could you ask for?blagblog@hotmail.com
From time to time the net adopts a big idea. The collective intelligence absorbs a new concept and, for a while, no one talks about anything else.The latest idea is from the glamorous world of statistics. It's called "power law distribution" and it promises to explain how a tiny minority of web sites get to be super-popular and the rest never make it past first base.The last time statistics and I crossed swords properly was when I failed my 'O' Level Mathematics in 1979 so I won't be troubling you with a lot of detail here but, to summarise as best I can, the law describes the way that, in a list of web sites organised by popularity, the top site will usually be twice as popular as the second, tens times as popular as the tenth, one hundred as popular as the 100th... and so on.Visualise the list using a graph and you'll see a curve falling away sharply from left to right and then leveling out almost to a straight line at a very low level.A small number of really popular web sites will be high on the curve at the left of the graph and almost all of the rest distributed quite evenly along the flattening line at the bottom. This is called a "law" because it's repeated all over the place - in fact, wherever a lot of people are able to choose from many options. Pretty much anything that has an audience and some competition will wind up somewhere on a graph like the one I describe and, by definition, since so few can be high on that curve, it's very very hard to get there. Becoming popular is difficult.So far, so common sense. Everyone knows that some web sites float to the top and are then quite difficult to displace. The difference with power laws lies in the "law" bit. You might say "I fought the law and the law won". The power law describe the distribution of audience (or links or reviews or almost any measure of popularity) for a group of heavily interlinked properties (like web sites) in a way that permits no variation.Power laws of one kind or another have been known to economists and statisticians for a long time. This is the first time this kind of thinking has been applied to audiences for weblogs, though.This kind of statistical thinking can be pretty useful. Among other things, by exposing the patterns in otherwise opaque phenomena like web site popularity, it helps us to understand how we can intervene (and how we can't) to influence things - when you should jump in with a huge advertising budget and when you'd be wasting your money, for instance.But it also has negative effects. For instance, it makes it difficult to think about what else is important. The popularity or otherwise of your web site is handily reduced to a formula.Even the most egg-headed advocate of the power law is unlikely to suggest that it's enough to explain the way web sites produce and share audiences - let alone relationships - but the bloggers have picked up on the idea and are busy turning it into a fully-fledged meme. As ideas go it's bound to be a big hit. It offers an easy explanation of something so ineffable that it defies interpretation.Richard Sennet, in his new book Respect: The Formation of Character in an Age of Inequality, reminds us that there's a lot going on outside the realm of statistics. In fact his thesis is that in societies (and in social systems like the net), these statistical models can illuminate only a tiny part of the story and must remain entirely mute on the real business of connection, interdependence and mutuality. The power law enthusiasts have jumped onto a theory that focuses entirely on the mechanical operation of a massively interdependent system.But these systems - the blogosphere, mailing lists, forums and newsgroups - are much more than machines. They cannot be reduced to a statistical model for the production of currency, popularity, "inbound links" or traffic.This misdirection of energy is typical, though. We all do it in all areas of life. But it's a kind of frantic displacement activity. It's like trying to account for a very complex, higher order social phenomenon like a City by counting the paving slabs and manhole covers.Sure we can learn something from these curves and distributions but this knowledge is unlikely to advance our understanding of human interdependence - how bonds of respect are made and broken. How, for instance, the inherently generous activity of blogging can influence our relationships, our personalities and our societies. How change can be effected.For Sennet, these visible, statistical aspects of a society are the grease in the machine, not the machine itself. Discussing the invisible exchanges that make up the fabric of our social lives, he says "Still, I don't believe mutual respect is merely a tool to grease the gears of society. This art has consequences for the people who practice it; exchange turns people outward - a stance which is necessary for the development of character."
So the first day of Cannes and the first fight, Microsoft versus Symbian, a  no-holds barred rumble.Microsoft took the early lead by pre-briefing as many people as it could get  hold of about plans to take over the operating system market. Then Symbian hit straight back with its Samsung deal.The Korean firm is taking a 5% stake for £17m, which places a nice valuation on the joint venture of £340m.     But anyone who thought Samsung was coming completely off the fence would be   wrong. The company, the world's number three in the handset market, has signed up with Microsoft for a new PDA.Symbian has taken a knock as well. The smart new 3G handset unveiled yesterday by Sony   Ericsson - also a Symbian shareholder - does not use Symbian but SonyEricsson's own proprietary technology. Perhaps Symbian 3G is having as many teething problems as the network technology itself?So who is that lurking on the sidelines? That would be Motorola. The US giant is   also a Symbian shareholder but has yet to make a Symbian-based phone.Some in Cannes, however, say the company is showing off a prototype phone using the   Linux operating system.A phone based on the Linux platform would go down well in China - where Motorola has   a major market share - as the Chinese government has made it clear it prefers   open source technology to the rather more closed shop that both Microsoft and   Symbian run.
The chief executive of Yahoo, the internet portal, yesterday attacked the share options culture that characterised Silicon Valley during the boom of the late 90s.Terry Semel, who joined the company in 2001 after running a film studio, called for a rethink of the rewards that showered millions of dollars on workers at internet firms.In an interview with the Financial Times, he said: "In the long run, it's not a healthy way to reward people. Some people became very wealthy and some people struck out."He called for a the development of a "more intelligent way of rewarding people". He said: "We and many companies throughout the world have to pay more attention to how many options &#91;we&#93; pay."Yahoo, like many internet firms competing for staff during the boom, lavished options packages on employees. But investors have become increasingly intolerant of large compensation packages as they nurse losses from three consecutive years of stock market declines. The potentially ugly results of excessive compensation have also been laid bare in a series of financial scandals in the US over the past year where balance sheets were allegedly manipulated to keep share prices high, and options and bonuses rolling in.There is increasing evidence that the big US companies have begun to listen to investors' concerns. Citigroup's Sandford Weill last week agreed to forgo his bonus because of the bank's relatively poor performance over the past year.Ernst &amp; Young, the accounting firm, last week changed its stance and said it supported treating options as an expense.Yahoo issued 1.4% of its shares in options last year, compared to 10.6% of its stock in the year Mr Semel arrived.The company has not yet bowed to the growing pressure to treat share options as a cost. Doing so between 1999 and 2001 would have resulted in Yahoo recording total losses of $2.5bn instead of $26m in profits.
One senior executive of a mobile phone business describes the industry as a primordial soup."All the bits are in there swilling around, the question is whether they will coalesce into some super being or whether there will be several types of device in the future," says Alan Thompson, head of Toshiba's mobile phone business on this side of the world.Mr Thompson is one of thousands of executives from across the mobile phone industry who will descend on the French coastal town of Cannes this week for the industry's annual shindig, the 3GSM world congress.The question on everyone's lips is what exactly is the mobile device of the future? Every mobile phone network, handset manufacturer, software designer and applications developer has a slightly different take on what people want of their mobile devices.Will customers want a personal organiser with a phone attached or should it be a multi-media device capable of making calls, sending text and picture messages, downloading video and playing music? Is there a place for the phone as handheld games console or will people just want a phone that matches their outfit?The industry is certainly ready for a major shake-up. After two years of pain, brought on in part by the huge sums that operators were forced to pay for licences to run new 3G services across Europe, executives are at last seeing some stability.Layoffs among handset and network manufacturers are drawing to an end and mobile phone operators have seen revenue per user stabilise after a year and a half spent cutting out uneconomic users attracted during the late 1990s.There is a small but growing sense of confidence reflected in the fact that share prices in parts of the industry have recovered slightly. But no one is going to get carried away.Ben Wood, senior analyst at Gartner, has seen a very definite shift in the Cannes experience over the past three years. "In 2000, the wardrobe was full of the emperor's new clothes, while this year everyone needs to have a tangible product that will make a return quickly."The problem is that in certain markets everyone who needs a mobile phone already has one. Operators need to start offering new services in order to increase revenues, while the handset manufacturers need new devices to persuade customers to trade in their old phones.Mr Wood says: "Device diversity will hit with a vengeance in 2003 as vendors try every possible combination of technological and design features to entice buyers in already saturated markets."With this new era comes a new set of players to challenge the dominance of Europe's clear market leader, Nokia of Finland.Already, South Korean import Samsung has made a tremendous splash. Its T100 flip-top colour screen phone last year transformed it from an also-ran, with third place in the UK market - behind Siemens and Nokia.Pamir Gelenbe, director of business development at mobile marketing experts Flytxt, who will be speaking in Cannes this week, believes a range of Far Eastern manufacturers as well as some home grown talent will seriously challenge Nokia.Nokia is not taking this lying down, of course. Earlier this month the company launched its N-Gage mobile gaming device, which looks rather like a Nintendo Gameboy. Serious quantities of the device will hit the shops in time for Christmas. Before then, the Nokia 6800 flip-over keyboard phone will hit the high streets. Rumours are that the company is planning its first ever clamshell phone.Siemens, of Germany, will be out in force this week, trumpeting its new Xelibri range of phones for the fashion conscious. The company plans to bring out new limited edition phones on a regular basis in the same way as fashion houses have their seasonal collections.Perhaps the fiercest battle this year will be at the top end of the market, among the so-called smartphones. Here the fight is not so much among the makers of the phones - which look like handheld computers - but among the companies that want to produce the software that powers them.The greatest threat to Nokia, and its smartphone operating system joint venture Symbian, in the smartphone space is Microsoft. Its initial handset joint venture - with Sendo of Birmingham - collapsed last year. Sendo is now dragging Microsoft through the US courts.This week Microsoft will announce new deals within the mobile industry. Its one smartphone, the SPV, is already being sold by Orange and the French-owned operator will be joined this year by German rival T-Mobile.Microsoft plans to announce that it has found a manufacturer for a new smartphone which uses Intel chip technology.Simon Wilkinson of Magic4, which provides the core technology that allows many of today's phones to do such things as picture messaging, says: "There needs to be segmentation of the marketplace and you will see a range of different types of device over the coming year. It is not a one-size-fits-all market and anyone who tries to do that will fail."
Mobile phone manufacturer Samsung yesterday paid out &#163;17m for a 5% stake in Symbian, the mobile phone software joint venture part owned by British technology firm Psion.The deal, announced at the 3GSM World Congress, is a slap in the face for Microsoft which is trying to compete with Symbian in the market for software that powers so-called smartphones, which can send picture messages and receive video as well as make calls.Last year Microsoft fell out with its first handset partner, Birmingham-based Sendo, which instead opted to use a Nokia system that operates alongside Symbian's software. The US company's first smartphone, the SPV, is being manufactured by HTC, a Taiwanese manufacturer, and sold in Britain through Orange. T-Mobile yesterday signed to take the new version of the phone this year.The T-Mobile signing was one of a number of deals announced by Microsoft yesterday but Samsung's involvement in Symbian, which many in the industry see as dominated by Finnish mobile phone group Nokia, stole the limelight."Samsung's deepened commitment to Symbian underlines the industry-wide adoption of Symbian operating system as the global standard operating system choice for smartphones," said David Levin, chief executive of Symbian.Microsoft had hoped that Samsung, the world's third largest mobile phone company, would be the first high-profile manufacturer to sign up with it.While the Korean company announced yesterday it would use Microsoft's software to power one of its handheld computers, Samsung's decision to take the 5% stake is a setback.The fight for Samsung's allegiance is by no means over, according to Ben Wood, an analyst at Gartner. "To be honest, I think they are continuing to hedge their bets on multiple solutions."Symbian is also seen as a potential candidate for flotation once technology firms return to favour in the markets. Yesterday's deal places a valuation of &#163;340m on the company. Psion will realise a &#163;4m gain from the deal, and shares in the company picked up 10% yesterday.Symbian is not getting everything its own way in Cannes. SonyEricsson yesterday unveiled a phone which uses 3G technology, and can make and receive calls over existing 2G networks.The clamshell phone, which will be available later this year, does not use Symbian technology but SonyEricsson's own software.Symbian has been developing an operating system for 3G phones but SonyEricsson's surprise decision to go it alone has raised concerns in some quarters that Symbian's operating system is not yet ready.While Symbian and Microsoft battle it out for dominance in the European and US smartphone market, American handset manufacturer Motorola recently signed up with rival software group Linux.Motorola, which is also a shareholder in Symbian, is yet to produce a phone using the venture's software but is rumoured to have a prototype handset which rival Linux will make available for inspection in the south of France this week.
Ziff's Rupert Goodwins commemorates the start of theBBS (bulletin board system)in 1978. Later, various BBSs were linked together in networks, starting withFidonetin 1984. Me and Rupert used one of the early UK Fidonet nodes, Compulink, and we're both still members of theCoSything it became:Cix(Compulink Information eXchange).
The GSM Congress is being held in Cannes this week, and the Guardian's Richard Wray reports on the opening blitz fromMicrosoft, which is signing up smartphone partners.IDG Newsalso covered the story. The loss-making Sony Ericsson combo unveiled a 3G phone, reportsReuters, with much more to come this week.
Did you watch Evan Williams breaking the news of Blogger's sale to Google at the Blogosphere in Los Angeles on Saturday? You could have done -- I provided a link to the live coveragebelow. Hm, no, I didn't watch it either.... :-)
Just like those annoying people who queue up at the EasyJet desk even though the plane has yet to arrive so they get the best seat, Microsoft has attempted to grab the best position at the 3GSM World Congress with a raft of announcements before most journalists have got off the plane.Microsoft is going to be out in force this week, schmoozing and boozing as many operators and handset manufacturers as possible.One of the big fights to look out for this week will be over the operating systems for smartphones, those devices that do everything except make a cup of tea. Here the battle is between Microsoft, Symbian - the joint venture dominated by Nokia - and Linux, which recently signed up with Motorola.First blood at Cannes seems to have gone to Microsoft but rest assured that Symbian has some deals up its sleeve - according to the buzz it will announce its involvement with a new 3G phone for the European market.But back to Microsoft. Firstly, it has signed up T-Mobile to sell its SPV smartphone from the summer. Orange is already selling the Windows-powered device but T-Mobile is getting a new version, codenamed Tanager, which is made by the same people - HTC - but, thank God, has a bigger keyboard than the old model which was a pain to text on.Microsoft also has a range of new partners. Last year it teamed up with Intel and separately with Texas Instruments to release new reference designs for two new phones. While the Texas Instruments phone is still on the shelf, the Intel-based phone will be made by Wistron Corp, the guys that make Dell's PDAs. It does not yet have a name but could be in the shops in time for Christmas.Microsoft has also signed up Samsung to produce the Windows-powered SGH-i700 which is basically yet another personal digital assistant (PDA) but has a very robust in-built camera for picture messaging.Microsoft's operating system will also be used by MiTac of Taiwan in its new clamshell smartphone which also comes with a built-in camera as standard. So far the phone has no operators signed up so we will have to wait and see whether there is a market for the first clamshell smartphone.Germany's T-Mobile has also linked up with Microsoft's MSN operation to use its Pocket MSN suite of products which means customers will be able to use Instant Messanger, Hotmail and the usual Windows contacts book on their phones.Finally, Microsoft also announced that Orange will be the first operator to join its Mobile to Market programme designed to bring operators and developers together.But with other operators such as Vodafone - with its Vodafone Live product - trying to bring as much expertise in-house as possible, cynics might suggest that joining up with Microsoft is a convenient way for Orange to save its cash-strapped parent France Telecom a bob or two.
Evan Williams: "It's been an interesting ride. I have a feeling it's about to get moreso."
I was curious to see what Dave Winer would eventually say about the Blogger deal, because he is behind the rival weblog building tool Radio Userland. As itturns outhe's broadly supportive of the deal, hopes the Pyra folk made lots of money, and hints that he's got a similar deal with someone else in the pipeline.But I suspect he's wrong about one thing: Google didn't do this deal to "just help out the internet" having seen that Blogger was "struggling, and that it's a good thing, and they should support it, much as they support Usenet". There are plenty of good business reasons for Google to do the deal, and an altruistic desire to do the right thing by the net probably didn't figure too high in their reasoning. Or is that harsh?
The weblog world is abuzz with speculation and comment on Google's deal to buy Blogger, and my ownanalysisis up on Guardian Unlimited today. Elsewhere, there are (at the time of writing, according to Blogdex) no fewer than243 linksto Dan Gillmor's piece which broke the story on Saturday night, which makes this story easily the most linked-to in the Blogosphere.
Most web designers know that if there are a few teething troubles when they launch a new site, it won't be the end of the world - or even their business. Niggling problems can be ironed out in the first few days and, with a bit of luck, most customers will never know anything was amiss.Martin Gill doesn't have that luxury. As one of a team of designers behind the Comic Relief Red Nose Day website, he has only one chance to get it right. If the site goes down - even for an hour - the charity could lose millions of pounds in donations.For the first time this year, Comic Relief has set up a separate website for Red Nose Day. It went live on February 7 and will focus on the events leading up to and around March 14, providing extra footage not seen on television, as well as education packs, competitions and fundraising ideas. More importantly, it will be the focus for online donations.With a television audience of 10 million, many of whom will choose to donate via the internet in the 48 hours around the programme, the site cannot afford to crash.Comic Relief has been taking online donations since 1997 when, privately, it was stunned to raise £40,000 this way. Two years later, this rose to £400,000, showing the public was becoming more comfortable with the internet. In 2001, they surpassed all expectations when 84,000 hits raised £3.5m - 6% of the £55m total.While they were prepared for a substantial increase two years ago, Gill admits that the site nearly crashed a couple of times. "It was close to the wire at certain points," he says. "We had allowed for a tenfold increase on 1999 and we were pretty bang on with that."But there are many more factors to take into consideration this year. "We don't know what effect the recession will have on donations, or the fact that we might be at war by March 14. We do know that there has not been a significant increase in the number of people with web access, compared with the rise between 1999 and 2001, but we don't know whether that will make a difference to the level of online donations."So they started by assuming another tenfold increase in the number of hits, and have built a site to cope with that level of demand. They teamed up with some of the leading companies in new technology, including Cisco Systems, Energis, Hitachi Data Systems, Macromedia, Oracle, Retail Logic, Sun Microsystems and Zeus Technology.The resulting site, rednoseday.com, is one of the most sophisticated systems for online donation that has ever been set up. The designers, who have all given their talents for free, are confident that it will provide a model for the future."The key thing is that it has to cope with huge variations in traffic," says Gill. "People will be responding to the television and if Lenny Henry suddenly shouts: 'Everybody, get online now and give us your money,' then the site has to be able to cope with 10 million viewers logging on at the same time."To cope with these user spikes, the site will be run by a sophisticated and state-of-the-art system of servers which are designed to balance the load evenly between them. Should one crash, another will automatically take over. There is even a third set of servers in a separate building eight kilometres away from the first."The separate building is just extra back-up if there are big spikes - it means we can run things more smoothly without sweating, but it can also take over if a major disaster strikes the main system," says Gill. "We have generators and back-up systems but if the building were to explode then we could transfer the technicians to the other place and keep taking the donations."Amanda Horton-Mastin, marketing director of Comic Relief and the project manager for new media, says the site will also be an interesting way of observing people's attitude to the internet. By including lots of unseen footage from behind the scenes, as well as stuff that didn't make the final edit, Horton-Mastin is hopeful that people will be so familiar with the site by March 14 that they will have it bookmarked. Unseen highlights of Celebrity Driving School are one such treat for those who can't get enough of Gareth Gates, Paul O'Grady and Jade Goody. The BBC's Fame Academy is also up for the celebrity treatment, and discussions are still continuing about whether there will be 24-hour live streaming and online voting."New media is now a fundamental instrument for fundraising and one that Comic Relief intends to fully embrace," says Horton-Mastin. "We want to be at the forefront of that new technology and take advantage of it."She also points out that online donations are "hyper-efficient". Any money given on the internet is instantly authorised and processed to the Comic Relief coffers.By the following day, the money will already be in the charity's bank accounts. Telephone donations, by contrast, have to be individually transcribed and processed and can take months to arrive at their final destination, giving many donors who pledged £100 in a fit of excitement a nasty shock when it finally disappears from their current accounts three months later.Over-the-counter donations at the bank still make up the most significant part of the total, with around 22% raised this way through the sponsored events that take place up and down the country. Much of this money won't come in to Comic Relief until weeks after the event."We know from last year that there was a huge spike in traffic when the news came on," says Horton-Mastin, "so it has to be really resilient and also work quickly so that people don't get bored waiting for it to load."The website will be capable of taking 200 transactions a second - roughly what a major bank would process in the last hours of Christmas Eve when shoppers hit panic mode. The Comic Relief team isn't taking any chances with extracting the nation's money.www.comicrelief.com
Last Monday, the British Phonographic Institute, the trade association for the music biz, announced 2002's sales. While the overall market for albums declined by 0.1%, sales of CDs by volume rose 1.4%.According to Frukt, a music consultancy, these are surprisingly good numbers. The total market of £1.18bn is the second highest ever - not bad for an economy in the midst of a downturn.But in recent years the announcement of these numbers, especially in the light of an 11% decline in singles sales, brings the spotlight back to the question of file sharing on the internet and the effect it will have on the music industry.Coincidentally, on that same day I was travelling to Switzerland. Like many travellers, I idled through Heathrow's shops looking for some music to accompany my snowboarding trip. I was looking for "2-Many-DJs" and album by Belgian DJs Soulwax . The album mixed incongruous and desperately unfashionable sounds to create a genre known as bootleg.Soulwax had created mayhem across Europe's dancefloors in 2002 and succeeded into turning this popularity into album success. They became the ambassadors of "bootleg" and 2-Many-DJs was tipped by the New York Times as the best record of last year.But the store in question didn't carry the album. Soulwax had run into copyright problems with the album. Their mixing and sampling had brought them face-to-face with several lawyers. The CD was taken off the shelves shortly after its release last year. After some more work behind the scenes, Soulwax were allowed to reissue it. It was due in the shops on the day of my journey but the Heathrow outpost hadn't yet received it.Fortunately, my friendly record salesman volunteered a suggestion: "Just download it from the Net. It's much better anyway. You'll find four or five different versions of it." And there we have it. The footsoldier at the very frontline of the business where the value exchange between the consumer and the music industry occurs, had defected.His defection - and the inability of the record industry to supply me with the product I wanted, when I wanted - highlights the three main problems facing the business faces.First, copyright constrains creativity: The Soulwax album originally crammed excerpts from 187 different tunes into little more than an hour of playing time. It took the label several hundred phone calls and emails to get clearance for two-thirds of these: an enormous economic  cost.And for what? Bootleg hardly cannibalises record sales of the music sampled. If anything it adds a new veneer of cool to Michael Jackson or Britney Spears and is more likely to encourage marginal sales of their albums to new audiences.As new genres emerge through the creativity of individual artists, the existing framework of copyright will start to restrict new forms of expression. These will demand new frameworks for intellectual property, like theCreative Commons.Second, physical distribution constrains consumers: by demanding that music is distributed on a physical CD, the music industry makes consumers hostages to the inventory management of the retailer and the retailer dependent on the margins the labels let them get away with. So while sales of physical CDs grow slightly, sales of DVDs exploded.DVDs are attractive for consumers because they offer us something we can't get elsewhere and because during the early years of market adoptions, a back catalogue of films is a must-have accompaniment to a new DVD player. For retailers, it makes more sense to push DVDs in their stores because the margins offered are two or three times higher than those on CDs.Thirdly, and most importantly, the culture revolution is in full-swing. The 65m people who regularly use file-sharing have done so of their own volition without duress or cajoling. And those file-sharers include the music lovers staffing record stores. Like a general unable to control an army in revolt, the heads of the music business will find it hard to control the sentiments of the people selling their products.The defector I met is an important indication of the cultural shift. It means that file-sharing is becoming as much a part of music as CDs are.Now it is time for those who run the music business, not just those who actually sell the records, to accept it.Azeem Azhar is atazeem.azhar.co.uk
Googlehas snapped up weblog software makerBloggerfor an undisclosed sum, reportsDan Gillmorin the San Jose Mercury News. If there was a story to get the blogging community aflutter, it would be this: the combination of two of its most significant companies. You can safely assume we'll be covering this story tomorrow onOnline on the web. To the word processor, let's go...
But if you really do fancy a quick game, thenCubiSshould provide you with a little thought-provoking entertainment. It's a bit like a cross between Pengo and Bust-a-move (two pioneering three-in-a-row games). And for an online game, it is pretty well executed.
OK, it's not actually agame, but neither is the real thing.
The New York Times [free reg req'd] has had a look at a couple of pens thatcapture your handwritingso you can transfer it to a PC. The Logitech Io is actually theAnoto, from Sweden, which won a Best of Comdex award in November 2000. (The Sony Ericsson Chatpen is also an Anoto.) The other product in the NYT review is theSeiko Ink Link, which came out last year. There's a more useful reviewhere.
Are you ready to goLIVE to the Blogoshpere?It starts today at 7:30pm (local time) at the Electronic Orphanage 975 Chung King Road Chinatown, Los Angeles.
"Salon Media Group Inc. on Friday warned that it may not survive beyond this month if it can't raise more money to pay its rent and other bills," reportsAP. "The company said it lost another $1.2 million during the final three months of 2002, bringing its cumulative deficit to $81 million." Last month, Salon offered anew dealwhere you could either subscribe or click through some ads to read the content.
Pro BMX biker Dave Mirra is sueing Acclaim for more than $20 million in damages, claiming that a "pornographic" game featuring strippers on bikes hurt his image, reportsReuters. The lawsuit claims that Acclaim "used Mirra's name and likeness to promote the game BMX XXX after the two sides signed an agreement to disassociate Mirra from the title." The Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX series of games have been very successful on games consoles.
Intel has finally released its "wireless Internet on a chip" processor, codenamed Manitoba, as thePXA800F. It combines two different processors plus Flash memory -- all of which are normally made using different techniques -- on a single piece of silicon. The PXA800F has a 312MHz Intel XScale processor (ARM-based) with 4MB of Flash memory and 512K of SRAM to hold the software, plus a 104MHz digital signal processor with 512K of Flash and 64K of SRAM. If you are buying 10,000, they only cost $35 each. Products using the new chip should be on sale towards the end of this year and during 2004. Intel will have a tough job breaking into the phone industry, which isdominated by TI(Texas Instruments), whose similar OMAP processor is already on the market.
"A project to develop a promising new astronomy imaging technique that can also denude a fully clothed human or see through thick fog has generated its first picture. A so-called T-ray image of a human hand, taken through a 1/2-inch (15 millimeter) pad of paper, is the first product of the new terahertz camera. The technology is poised to revolutionize imaging in astronomy, medicine and airport security, proponents say." SeeSpace.comfor more.
Here's an interesting paradox. The computer industry is widely acknowledged to be one of the most brutally competitive markets the world has ever seen. So why are most segments of the market dominated by a single supplier?IBM's previous dominance of corporate data-processing is a classical example of this "winner takes all" phenomenon. IBM wasn't just bigger than its closest rivals, it was roughly twice as big as the rest of the industry put together. Although it's more than a decade since IBM lost control of the market, it is still much bigger than Intel and Microsoft put together. Today, a conglomeration of giants, including Intel, Microsoft, Cisco (communications equipment) and Hewlett-Packard (printers), dominate the markets IBM used to own, but there are hundreds of examples of programs, such as Adobe Photoshop and Autodesk's AutoCAD, that dominate their respective markets.This is not a new phenomenon. Wang used to own the dedicated word-processing business, Cray owned supercomputing, and Novell's Netware dominated networking. Netscape had a monopoly market share of the browser market, while RealNetworks had almost all the streaming media market. Intuit owned the home accounting market with Quicken, and Creative Labs owned the PC audio business with the SoundBlaster.Not every market is dominated by a single supplier, even in computing, but so many IT markets tip towards having one giant and a lot of also-rans, that there must be more to it than appears at first glance. Something must be going on, beyond technical merit, advertising and marketing, distribution, price and other traditional factors.One obvious reason why some IT companies become dominant is a traditional one: economies of scale. The more you make, the cheaper it gets. This is unusually important in computing, because research and development, and the construction of manufacturing plants, can represent a significant slice of the price. If it costs $100m to get a product to market and you sell 100m of them, the development cost is $1 a copy. If you only sell a million, it's $100 a copy. Now ask yourself if you want to invest $2.5 billion in a chip plant to attack Intel.Microsoft has exploited economies of scale to the hilt, typically launching products at half or a quarter of the price of rivals. When PC databases cost $400-500 (£250-300) each and dBase II owned the market, Microsoft came in with Access at a special offer price of $99. Vermeer sold its web development software, Front Page, for $695; Microsoft bought it and relaunched it at $149 (and threw in a $40 rebate coupon).Academic research has shown that, in 1988-1995, prices in the applications markets where Microsoft competed fell by 60%, whereas in those where it did not compete, prices fell by just over 10%.But it is certainly possible for products to dominate their market even if they are expensive or, indeed, if they are not. Adobe PhotoShop 7.0, for example, costs more than $600, but has no serious rivals in the professional market. In the GNU/Linux arena, the Apache Web server, OpenOffice suite, The Gimp graphics program and GNU C also have no serious competition, and they are free. There must be other issues besides price.One increasingly popular explanation is the idea of "network effects", which was invoked in the US Justice Department's case against Microsoft. The idea is that something becomes more valuable as more people use it. The classical example is the telephone system. One phone is no use, and two phones are of limited use. If there are a million phones, however, then the number of possible conversations is vast. At some point on the way to 100m or 1bn phones, it becomes hard to live without one.Fax machines, instant messaging and the internet have benefited from the same phenomenon. Clearly, network effects are important in computing, too, even if there is not literally a network in place. For example, if everybody is using the MP3 file format for music, then products that support MP3 files become more attractive. Their development then makes the MP3 format even more attractive, with the feedback creating a "virtuous" circle. Network effects thus help generate things that become an important part of "the whole product", including software and peripherals, magazines, training and support. (SeeSchofield on Saturday, January 25 2003.)However, while network effects can support a format, they cannot prevent it from being displaced. Market dominance did not stop Wang word processors from being replaced by personal computers running WordStar for CP/M, which in turn gave way to WordPerfect for DOS and then Microsoft Word for Windows. All that is required is for the benefits of switching to be greater than the switching costs. Dominant products are therefore at greatest risk when users are switching platforms - the cost of switching hardware platforms makes it easy to switch software, too.This phenomenon is visible in its purest form in the games console business, where successive platforms are rarely compatible with what went before. Thus we have seen a series of temporary monopolies, as Atari VCS consoles gave way to 8-bit Nintendo Entertainment Systems, followed by the triumph of the 16-bit Sega Genesis/MegaDrive, which was displaced by the 32-bit Sony PlayStation. With the PlayStation 2, Sony has been the first company to win two stages in a row.Of course, users resist switching platforms, because the costs can be enormous. (You don't just have to buy a CD player, you have to buy all your favourite albums again.) Users prefer evolution to revolution. This is why Microsoft - which is keenly aware of this particular issue - is trying to execute its revolutions by evolutionary means, and thus win three platform battles in a row: DOS, Windows, .Net.A third and much better way to dominate a market is by setting a standard. Users sensibly prefer agreed, open standards, even if they are negotiated by cartels in back rooms. Even Americans are now recognising that Europe did better by having a common standard for mobile phones (GSM) than the open competition that resulted in an expensive, incompatible mess.Unfortunately, standards have a poor record in the computer industry. It's a standing joke: "of course we believe in standards: that's why we have so many of them". Standards committees are often dominated by representatives from the leading suppliers, who have a vested interest in getting their patented technologies and products included, even if it is to the disadvantage of users. And the sheer length and expense of the standards-making process means that users can't afford to wait for them. In other words, while users would prefer open standards, they vote with their wallets to create de facto market standards, as was the case with SoundBlaster compatibility.But the truth is that computer companies don't want standards unless they own them. What they really want is "lock in", which avoids competition by preventing users from having a free choice. This phenomenon was much in evidence during the Unix wars at the end of the 1980s.European and American governments were prepared to back Unix - defined as Posix - as an open standard in preference to the expensive mess created by proprietary competitors such as IBM's System/38 (AS/400), DEC's VMS, HP's MPE and so on. However, factional in-fighting and self-interest prevented these companies from either agreeing or implementing a compatible Unix platform with Unix suppliers, such as AT&amp;T and Sun Microsystems, even though this was what users wanted.The Unix wars left the door wide open to Microsoft Windows, not just on the desktop, but on the server, where its market share was zero. Microsoft enforced what the hardware manufacturers were desperate to avoid: a software standard that obliged them to compete on a more or less equal terms, and therefore cut their prices. IBM used to make a 90% gross margin on hardware, and even Apple made 55%. In the PC industry, Dell's gross margin is 17.6%.As I explained last week, the great advantage of the computer industry's horizontal layering is that you get competition at every level: chips, operating systems, languages, applications and so on. This encourages innovation and drives prices down. The disadvantage is that it's difficult to get all the layers to work together in a coherent way when there is little or no formal standardisation. The market's compromise is evidently to choose "winners" at each level, to get most of the benefits of standardisation without sacrificing the benefits of innovation and competition. It is an uneasy and unsatisfactory compromise, but it works.Borrowing from Winston Churchill on democracy, it's probably the worst way of managing an industry, except for all the others.
The first thing you see, close to where the old Victorian public library used to stand, is a cafe. It sells latte, five varieties of gateaux, and prominently advertises business lunches.The next thing you see - in the run-down east London district of Bow - is a "Surfing Space" for internet terminals, "Sight &amp; Sound" stalls for DVDs, videos and CDs, and a sign pointing to the creche. Invisible round a corner, tucked away at the side and back, are learning laboratories and well-stocked shelves with books on them.This is Britain's first "idea store". According to the government, it is part of the wave of the future for the country's 101 year-old public library system. It does to the traditional library what an advertising agency did in the 1980s when it controversially promoted the Victoria and Albert Museum in west London as "an ace caff with quite a nice museum attached".The gimmick did not radically increase the V&amp;A's attendances. In contrast, the Bow branch library's &#163;2m makeover has quadrupled its usage in less than two years. It has achieved this near one of the most depressed high streets in the south-east, full of moneylending shops and cutprice clothes stores, in a borough which had a library use rate of only 28% compared with a national average of 55%.It is to be followed by six more idea stores in Tower Hamlets within the next five years, costing a total &#163;20m. These will replace five conventional library buildings and three adult education centres.The project - described as retail-inspired - is based on the conviction that "in our increasingly retail-focused and lifestyle-conscious world" commerce is now the ruling influence on the lives of younger people. This group, it is felt, is far more likely to borrow books or use educational services if the ambience reminds them of a superstore or, as with the colours and signs at Bow, the departure lounge at Gatwick airport.In its 60-page blueprint Framework for the Future published this week, the Department for Culture, Media and Sport singled out Bow - commending it as a prime "example of how libraries are renewing themselves around a new image, service and sense of purpose".But its glamorous example cannot be followed by many libraries. Though full of advice, the guidelines offer no new money to local authorities struggling to improve services from existing revenues. Fifteen miles away from Tower Hamlets, at Romford central library, Havering council is as usual "trying to cut our coat to fit our cloth" as it plans its library service for the next financial year. "Cafes and creches are very, very desirable," says the council's leader for cultural services, Andrew Curtin. "But can they be put into the buildings we have? Our focus is on a bread and butter library service. I would not be keen to divert officers' time to these subjects."Havering's scope for improvement is small. Next year it intends to earmark 0.5% (about &#163;400,000) of its council tax increase for culture. For the first time in recent years &#163;100,000 will be spent on refurbishing libraries. A further &#163;100,000 will be used to increase the book-buying fund.The noticeboard at its 1960s-built concrete central library at Romford invites readers to scan official figures on the borough's performance. According to estimates based on these, its spending on book buying is only just below the national average. But only 313 books a year are borrowed for every 1,000 people in its population, a rate well below the national average of 502. Its chief librarian, Robert Worcester, said he and his colleagues were trying to improve this by buying more paperbacks, which were more popular than hardbacks.The first thing you notice when walking into Romford library, unlike Bow, is the sheer tonnage of books on the shelves. But the bright shelf signs and the noticeboards reflect systematic efforts to implement earlier government guidelines aimed at making libraries more popular and socially inclusive.Internet spaceThere is a complaints board, a checklist on the introduction of more convenient opening hours, a suggestions box, a publicity stand for the 18 Plus Group, and notices in six languages. The generous internet space includes a terminal for the blind. But Romford library has only a hard-to-operate service lift for elderly and disabled access to its third-storey reference section. The borough's other big library, at Hornchurch, has no lift to its internet terminals.Tower Hamlets' leap into the future was made possible by proceeds from buildings sales, by a package of grants from national and European agencies, and by private sponsorship chiefly from Sainsbury and Lloyds. Eric Bohl, its corporate director for customer services, said: "To be sure that what you are doing is right means an enormous amount of work in communicating with and consulting the public. If the public is not going to support it, it's not going to work."Meanwhile - like their readers - Havering and other library services face the prospect of struggling on. "We will get there slowly," Mr Curtin said.On his way out of Romford library this week, Andrew Townley, 35, a local government worker, said: "The lack of cafes and creches here doesn't worry me, really. There is an excellent variety of books, and good service. I have nothing but praise for the librarians. They always do their best to help. I would not be without my library in my life."
Ever thought about sharing your car journey to work? Thousands of people already do it: informal networks operate all over the country as workers cut the costs of driving into town for work.You might even be setting off this morning for the Stop The War march in London in someone else's car. Hundreds of people have tapped into Liftshare.com to find people living close to their home who can give them a ride.The company, started in 1997, has 35,000 users logging on to its site each month. Its bread-and-butter business is a database linking people in local areas who regularly drive to the same destination. For commuters it can be a massive cost saving.It has recently launched a spin-off site designed to provide villages with information about car-sharing and the ways in which it can benefit rural communities (www.villagecarshare.com)."Many parts of the countryside suffer from poor public transport and high levels of social exclusion. Car-sharing is a cost efficient and effective way of addressing both these problems, which takes advantage of the high levels of car ownership in many villages, and enables local people to reduce their travel costs," the company says.A similar scheme for students -www.StudentCarShare.com- provides a dedicated site that allows them to share journeys with other students to similar destinations, "whether they're travelling to and from university or visiting friends and family". All the services are free, you just share the costs of the journey.A similar service fromwww.shareajourney.comonly allows corporate membership, which means you can use the system if your children's school (for the school run) or your employer (for commuting) is a member.If you baulk at the idea of travelling with a stranger and are too shy to ask your neighbour if you can join them on their run into town, there is always the local car club.They are not for the regular commuter, but if you need a car just once or twice a week to go shopping, visit a relative or take children on a trip then a car club could be the thing.These clubs have been springing up all over the country and next month the latest will kick off in Camden, just to the north of the congestion charging zone in central London and Kensington to the west.They work on the basis that a group of people, not less than 20-25 get together, lease a couple of cars, park them nearby and hire on a first-come first-served basis.There is more to it than that, which is why most big schemes are run by private companies - most of them are subsidised by local authorities.For instance the Camden and Kensington schemes are benefiting from Ken Livingstone's Transport for London quango, along with five other borough schemes that are due to go live before the end of the year.Smart Moves operates Britain's largest car club in Edinburgh. It has 200 members and 15 cars. After residents expressed an interest in setting up a club, the company approached Edinburgh council to see if it would set aside parking facilities in the city for the club's cars.It agreed and now there are 15 parking bays across the city centre reserved for club members. It also arranges the car leasing through Vauxhall, which is sponsoring the scheme.Smart Moves, which started life in 1998 and is the largest club operator, says members must pay a returnable deposit of &#163;100 and annual membership of   &#163;100 and a one-off joining fee of &#163;25.Booking a car can be done over the phone or using the firm's website. Hire costs &#163;2.20 an hour with a 15p a mile charge to cover petrol, insurance and VAT costs.Cars are parked near your home in designated bays or streets. You use a smartcard to open the car and punch your pin number into the in-car computer that will keep a log of your mileage. For an overnight trip lasting 24 hours members pay &#163;24.50.Another solution that will help the environment, if not cut car use, is the switch of fuel from petrol to liquid petroleum gas (LPG). Jobs &amp; Money recently examined the advantages of converting existing cars and found there are significant cost savings to be made.If you are looking for a new car, Honda is one of the first car companies to launch a car with a hybrid engine that runs off petrol and electricity. It has been incorporated in the Civic family saloon.
Before you give up your car, check if you will receive a full refund on your motor insurance.Jobs &amp; Money has recently highlighted two cases where readers were surprised at how little they got back.One reader was shocked to find she was charged one month's insurance premium when she decided to sell her car without buying another. She had paid by direct debit, and effectively had to pay an extra month.Another reader who paid his insurance premiums upfront at the beginning of the year was told that he would not be refunded the final three months' worth of insurance when he sold his car.So we contacted the main car insurers for a guide on what they will charge you if you cancel early.Admiral/Diamond/Elephant:"We are looking at this case by case. If people are selling due to congestion charges it is worth mentioning it to us. We have a lot of customers in the south-east, but so far we haven't seen many people selling up. Our cancellation charges, based on a 12-month insurance policy, are calculated as a percentage of the full premium and depend on how far into the policy it is cancelled. If you've paid for your insurance in full, you will receive a refund on the remainder after a percentage deduction. For customers paying by direct debit, charges are offset against the amount that has already been paid against the outstanding balance."Direct line:"Customers wish ing to cancel their insurance cover with us in the first year will have their premium calculated pro rata plus one month's premium. Those customers who have been with us longer than a year will simply have their premium calculated pro rata."CIS:"If someone voluntarily cancels a policy we work out repayment on a short period basis. So for every complete month that has not been used a refund would be given in full." That means if you sell your car halfway through a month you have to pay for the full month. There are exceptions: where a family has suffered a bereavement, CIS would consider a pro rata repayment, where refunds are calculated on a daily basis.More Th>N:"Customers can celling their motor insurance before the end of the term are required to send back their insurance certificate. We will refund the customer the outstanding amount on a pro rata basis - which means that the customer will receive the unused proportion of the premium. So if the policy is cancelled after 11 months, the customer will receive a refund of 1/12th of the annual premium."Tesco:"Our refunds are based on a daily rate rather than a monthly one, which benefits the customer as they are not penalised if they go one or two days into a following month."If a customer has been with us for more than a year, the refund is pro rata. If a customer has been with us for less than a year, the refund is pro rata minus 8%."
How much does it cost to run a decent family car? &#163;1,000 a year? &#163;2,000 a year? The true cost, according to motoring organisations, is closer to &#163;5,000, And on Monday anybody wishing to commute into central London can add another &#163;1,300 a year to their bill."If people added up what cars really cost them, they would have a shock. Not until they come to sell their car do they realise how much they have lost," says Bob Blackman, whose company, Emmerson Hill, prepares motoring cost data for the RAC and big car fleet operators.Put another way, the &#163;5,000 running costs of a 1,500cc car means that even a basic rate taxpayer has to earn nearly &#163;6,500 a year to cover the cost, while someone on 40% tax will see around &#163;8,300 of their pay eaten up in car costs.When questioned, most car owners name petrol and insurance as their major costs. But as the RAC figures reveal, the biggest costs are finance charges and depreciation. The figures on the right show that a typical 1,500cc car priced at &#163;10,850 in the dealer's showroom will cost its new owner &#163;14,726 over three years.Buy a larger car and the costs spiral up frighteningly. The RAC reckons that a 1.8 litre will set you back nearly &#163;20,000 over three years, with a 2.5 litre car costing &#163;35,000. The estimates assume the driver covers 12,000 miles a year.Figures compiled by the AA paint a similar picture, and its website, theaa.com, has an interactive section entitled 'What is your car costing you?'. The site allows you to input your car model and its annual mileage to calculate how much it is setting you back.For some, the costs and the hassle of car ownership are becoming too much."Three years ago my partner and I moved into central London," says design and art director Roger Whiting, 37. "Our insurance costs went up and we were forced to pay for residents' parking (though in the area we live there were far more residents' cars than spaces for them)."We quickly realised that our car, which neither of us needed for work, had become an expensive luxury. To make matters worse it was dented several times by careless drivers using our narrow street as a rat-run."So how has he coped without a car? "The adjustment to non-car life was made easy for us by the proximity of several tube stations, a supermarket, a cinema, art galleries, restaurants and a number of bus routes. Whenever we go away for a weekend we either catch a train or hire a car."Taking into account depreciation and running costs, we are saving thousands of pounds a year even with the extra we are now spending on public transport, taxis and car rental."But Mr Whiting is rare. As the graph on the right shows, sharply rising costs and congestion have done nothing to stop our appetite for four wheels. Since the   mid-70s, an extra 10m cars have somehow squeezed on to Britain's roads, with most of the new drivers being women.In 1975 only 6m women held driving licences, but the figure now tops 14m, according to the Department for Transport. Over the same period the number of males with driving licences has gone from 13m to 18m.Falling prices combined with a strong economy have fuelled a car sales bonanza. Last year sales hit a record 2.5m, making Britain the second largest car market in Europe after Germany.In its 2002 Annual Report on Motoring, the RAC said: "Everyone adapts to regular congestion and is unwilling to switch to public transport or give up the journey to avoid it."When it surveyed drivers, it found that 83% would find it very difficult to adjust their lifestyle to being without a car. Willingness to use public transport was just 36%, and 7% lower than when Labour came to power in 1997."All these point to the difficulty of persuading drivers out of their cars, despite the increase in traffic and the resultant congestion," concluded the RAC.When Jobs &amp; Money asked drivers in the two congestion charging zones, Durham and London, the responses echoed the RAC survey. Even where drivers agree with con gestion charges, they were near unanimous in saying that the extra costs will not dislodge them from their cars.But there are organisations which are trying to find a third way through the sterile car vs public transport debate. One such is the Environmental Transport Association, (www.eta.co.uk) which likes to describe itself as "the green AA".Its chief executive, Andrew Davis, admits that he has two cars. All its 20,000 members own cars; the organisation offers nearly all the same breakdown and recovery services provided by the AA or the RAC. It even charges roughly the same as its bigger brethren.But the organisation also campaigns for car-free days, reduced car dependency, slower speeds initiatives and car sharing schemes. It is opposed to new road building as a solution to congestion, believes that car-only, out-of-town shopping developments should be stopped and works with local councils, schools and businesses towards environmentally sustainable transport systems."I may live in a two-car household, but I walk my children to school every day and use the public transport whenever possible. People need to step back and decide: do I really need to make that journey by car?"How the costs mount upWhat you must pay for a 1500cc car over three years and 36,000 miles:Typical cost delivered new	&#163;10,850Average value after three years	&#163;4,250Depreciation	&#163;6,600Financing charges	&#163;2,062Fuel cost @ 74.9p/L	&#163;2,914Servicing &amp; maintenance	&#163;565Tyres &amp; replacement parts	&#163;410Insurance premiums	&#163;1,380Excise licenses	&#163;300RAC membership	&#163;495Total cost	&#163;14,726Annual cost	&#163;4,909Cost per mile	40.9p&#183;Figures prepared for RAC by Emmerson Hill Associations. Assumes car is in insurance group five with fuel consumption of 42mpg.What they say in the congestion charge citiesAaron Barbeau, 33 is a sales rep from Romford. He isn't put off by the congestion charges as he says: "I don't own this car - the company does and they pay for all the costs."If it were his own car he says the charge would make him think twice about driving to London. But he adds: "The only reason I come in to London is because I have to."I'm here four times a month - which costs the company around &#163;40 in parking. They wouldn't be put off by an extra &#163;20 for congestion charges."When asked if he would scale down the size of his car - he said he wouldn't. "The amount of time I'm on the road I need a comfortable car," he says.What would make him give up the car? "Not much - it's a necessity. You get so used to it. It would be difficult to give up - especially when I don't pay for it."Peter Shepherd, 48, is a structural engineer from Hemel Hempstead. He regularly drives to London in his company car and says the congestion charge hasn't changed his mind about that. "I need my car for business and the company pay all the expenses."He spends about &#163;150 a month on petrol then has to pay for his tax, servicing and MOT on top. Would he trade down to a smaller car? "My car isn't that big at the moment - it's only a Ford Focus. Plus if I got a smaller one I wouldn't be able to fit my golf clubs in it."Gordon Hogg, 35, is a self-employed jeweller from Fulham, London. Would the congestion charge affect him? "Yes, I'm going to stop driving in," he says. "I'll either cycle or be back on the Tube again. I just won't drive in to work any more unless I really have to."But he won't give up his car or scale down the size. "There's no point - it wouldn't make any difference to the charges." He estimates he spends between &#163;4,000 and &#163;5,000 a year on his car.What would make him give up his car? "My car keeps my sanity - it helps me get out of London at the weekend."Alison Shell, a lecturer in English from Durham, owns her own car. The congestion charge has not changed her mind about having it. She says: "We live sufficiently near to the city centre to walk in. I wouldn't give the car up. We have to keep it because I have an eight-month-old daughter and public transport is not easy." She finds owning a car expensive but "affordable".&#183;Interviews in London and Durham by Juliet Shedden and Sarah Sheridan
The price of fame has finally been quantified. A BBC internet trading game that turns celebrities into commodities puts Michael Jackson at &#163;15.56 a share, P Diddy at only &#163;1.98.Modelled on the stock exchange, Celebdaq has become a cult hit among office workers and students around the country. There are no big prizes, yet it has attracted 100,000 players despite minimal publicity in the eight months since it launched. An accompanying TV programme began on BBC3 last night.Players are given 10,000 notional "showbiz pounds" when they sign up; after that, profit and loss is down to the ability to spot a winner. The price of shares goes up or down according to the volume of trading in a given stock; "dividends" are paid according to the level of press coverage achieved by each personality.There has already been criticism. In a column for Broadcast magazine this week, the Guardian's Emily Bell questioned whether "gambling on Sadie Frost's post-natal depression and marital breakdown has a place in a publicly funded organisation".The TV version is modelled on business programmes such as Working Lunch: real-time information about celebrities' share prices scrolls across the screen while the presenter, Patrick O'Connell, a former BBC Wall Street correspondent, interviews pundits from firms of stockbrokers, financial journals and the tabloids.Len Porter, 73, from Burgess Hill, West Sussex, who believes he may be the oldest trader, said lack of celebrity knowledge was not a hindrance: "I have learned a lot of names I didn't know before."Executive producer Chris Wilson said it was the first TV show that could genuinely be described as interactive.
Some linguists are, apparently, worried that text messaging "will enforce sloppy, undisciplined habits among American youths", reportsAP. The examples given are, of course, extremely old hat. Abbreviations such as BTW and AFAIK have been in use for at least two decades in computer communications, and the Purple Prince of Paisley Park has been using U for you for as long as I can remember. Surely a few linguists at least heard the Sinead O'Connor version of Nothing Compares 2 U. Either way, I'd take the contrary view: I think text messaging stimulates linguistic awareness and creativity. I'm just sorry it hasn't produced anything as good as the humble postage stamp, which got people writing things like NORWICH (Knickers Off Ready When I Come Home) on the outside of envelopes.
A spat between Norwegian web browser company Opera and software giant Microsoft has taken quite a surreal turn today.Context: earlier this month OperaclaimedMicrosoft had deliberately set out to break its browser. It said Microsoft's MSN.com sent a rogue file to its browsers any time someone wanted to look at an MSN.com website. The file made it look as if Opera's browser was not displaying the page properly (CNETcovered the story then). Microsoft has since stopped sending the file to Opera's newest browsers, but still sends it to older versions.Well, in a retaliatory strike today, Opera has unveiled a new version of its browser: one that transforms any MSN.com webpage into the language of the Muppet Show's famous Swedish Chef, Bork (thus increasing its entertainment value by an almost incalculable degree)."Hergee berger snooger bork," says Mary Lambert, product line manager desktop, Opera Software, in apress releasetoday.Marvellous stuff. Many thanks to readerNeil Turnerfor the tip.
Dell Computer is the top technical firm, coming ninth in the Harris Interactive Annual RQ 2002 poll, reportsTechnology Marketing. The poll takes products and services, financial performance, workplace environment, social responsibility, vision and leadership, and emotional appeal into account. Microsoft's performance was spectacular, as it plunged from second to 11th place. Intel fell even further, from fourth place last year to 19th. However, it wasn't all bad news for tech firms. Microsoft ranked first again in Financial Performance and in the Vision and Leadership categories, and Apple Computer actually climbed the chart, from 39th to 37th, just behind Gateway.The top firms this year were Johnson &amp; Johnson (as always), Harley-Davidson and Coca-Cola. The lowest rated company, setting a new record low score, was Enron. Full results are in the press release,here.
Wired has a fairly dull interview withMarc Andreesson, the father of the Web browser (or: one of the men who produced a market-breaking implementation of Tim Berners-Lee's browser, if you prefer. Wired is simply wrong to say Mosaic was "the first browser to navigate the World Wide Web"). Andreesson says: "If I had to do it over again, I'd probably show some sort of graphical representation of a tree, so you could see what path you're traveling on and could backtrack. I'd also include thumbnail renderings on the tree to show where you'd been." Seems a pretty obvious but good idea, and curiously enough, it's one that I saw in action inside Microsoft Research a couple of years ago. Of course, getting something like that shipped in IE is a different matter, but I don't see why it couldn't be done as a BHO [Browser Helper Object]. Has anyone done it?Oh, if you want to know how many BHOs do you have in IE, you cancheck.
Dell released itsQ4revenue figures yesterday. Sales grew by 21% to $9.7 billion, while profits jumped 32% to $603 million. In the full fiscal year 2003, Dell made a profit of $ 2.1 billion, including charges, on revenues that reached $35.4 billion. Total PC sales are expected to reach about 140 million units this year, andZD Net Newsquotes founder Michael Dell saying: "With 15 or 16% market share, we see wonderful opportunities for us to grow our business."
When most people think of Kentucky they probably think of fried chicken. But now it may be celebrated for another reason. It claims to be the first US state to make it compulsory for all new homes funded by the Kentucky Housing Corporation to have high-speed access to the internet. By insisting that broadband access, like electricity and water, is among the "inalienable rights" of low-income residents, Kentucky is setting an example to the rest of the world about how to tackle the "digital divide" between the haves and the have-nots of the information revolution. They are right. Although people who adopt it often become blase, there is no doubt the net gives a huge advantage to subscribers. It provides access to knowledge about almost everything there is to know plus extras like email, music, videos, auctions and shopping.Although access to the internet in the UK is still rising by 9% a year - with a surge of new broadband connections making up for a slight decline in slow dial-up connections - there are danger signals in the air. Poorer people are put off by the still-high cost of buying a computer. There are other routes to the web - like interactive TV, personal digital assistants, BT public kiosks and mobile   phones - but they haven't taken off yet for web access. There are also fascinating new ways of getting high speed web access. There is a boom in Wi-Fi "hotspots" around the country in homes. offices, coffee bars and hotels offering high speed access to laptop computers through local wireless networks. Ironically, the spectrum enabling this was given away free by the government while the 3G spectrum for which mobile phone companies paid &#163;22.5bn, has yet to be activated. Scottish Hydro-Electric claims it has completed a successful technical trial delivering high-speed web access along existing power lines. Since virtually every home has electricity this could provide a solution to one of the stickiest problems of the digital divide - rural access. This won't solve the problem of the cost of computers but that may be resolved eventually by the acceptance of digital TV. Meanwhile, despite BT's latterday conversion to a speedy broadband roll-out, there is still a massive job to be done. Sadly, the government can't impose a Kentucky solution because it doesn't build houses any more. But there is another way. It could make broadband access a condition for planning permission for all new houses.
