California has passed legislation to allow use of electric skateboards and other motorised, wheeled devices such as “hoverboards” anywhere bicycles are allowed, reversing earlier legislation which banned the vehicles.The bill was signed into law on Sunday, the same day that London’s Metropolitan police servicerestated earlier guidancethat hoverboards are banned from the British capital’s roads and pavements.The Californian law,which takes effect on 1 January 2016, undoes a previous ban on motorised skateboards dating from the 1970s, enacted when the motors were petrol-powered.The new law,named AB 604, defines “electrically motorised boards” as a new legal category (characterised by moving no faster than 20mph, carrying only one person, and being no bigger than 60 by 18 inches), and allows people to ride them on public streets. It also requires the rider to wear a helmet, and bans use of while under the influence of drink or drugs.The bill does leave it open for individual localities to decide to ban the use of the devices in their own area.The bill is specifically aimed at legalising electric skateboards, manufactured by a number of Californian companies including Boosted, ZBoard and Intuitive Motion. But it also legalises other devices which match the description, including the popular “hoverboards” (or “self-balancing scooters”).As in Britain, the lack of legal clarity hasn’t stopped the devices taking off. While some manufacturers had complained of lost sales (withthe Wall Street Journal reportingthat “some [Intuitive Motion] customers cancelled their orders when they learned it wasn’t legal to ride the boards”), the devices are increasingly common on city streets.The legislation does nothing for hoverboard owners who want to ride their gadgets on private land, however. Landowners still have the right to bar use of the devices, meaning that Wiz Khalifa – whosescuffle in LAX airport in August over his hoverboardis widely seen as ground zero of the current craze – would still have had trouble even under the new law.
Twitter trending hashtags: a chance to show how witty you can be with the remaining characters left. Today, a particular meta hashtag is doing the rounds –#GiveTwitterASlogan. But what is Twitter to you? We’ve rounded up some of our favourite examples, and now we’re opening it up. Leave your comments in the #thread #below.A cool place to tell strangers about your medical history#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Michael Baggs (@Baggsy)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASloganThe tree that falls in the forest when no one is around.pic.twitter.com/uWlrOSxCMA&mdash; Jeffrey Galperin (@JeffGalperin)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASloganSomeone did that joke already&mdash; Greg Jenner (@greg_jenner)October 13, 2015Twitter. One edit button away from a good time!#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Leah Wall (@LeahMWall)October 13, 2015If it&#39;s not worth saying, put it on Twitter.#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Duke Silver (@dribblingfram)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASlogan&#10;&#10;Want complete strangers to explain jokes to you and correct your grammar? Then we’ve got just the place for you!&mdash; Amanda (@Pandamoanimum)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASlogan: &quot;Facebook is full of people you know and don&#39;t like. Twitter is full of people you like and don&#39;t know.&quot;&mdash; laura (@lauravstheworld)October 13, 2015Because you&#39;re already on the toilet#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Sarah Morgan (@sarahlmorgan)October 13, 2015The revolution will be Tweeted#GiveTwitterASloganpic.twitter.com/rIae5pJ7ut&mdash; Gordon MacMillan (@gordonmacmillan)October 13, 2015The place for Facebook statuses you don&#39;t want your relatives to see.#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Grace Mitri (@thot_catalogue)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASloganHome of sarcastic retweets and Peirs Morgan.&mdash; Jordan Roberts (@Jordawr)October 13, 2015Replacing productivity since 2006!#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Rabeeya (@HedwigRabeeya)October 13, 2015People you were afraid existed, all in one place!#GiveTwitterASloganpic.twitter.com/SbXIKs9WD6&mdash; Em Baker (@therealembaker)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASloganBecause you haven&#39;t lived until an egg has called you a cunt&mdash; Dean Burnett (@garwboy)October 13, 2015
“Hoverboards” are the latest tech craze sweeping the globe. Central London shop Spy Master is one of the few retailers in the UK that stocks the device in-store. Among drones, Go-Pro action cameras and encryption equipment, the two-wheeled, brightly coloured gadgets apparently fly off the shelves. “Thousands” have been sold at the shop this year says the company’s director, Julia Wing. They offer a row of different models – including a blue IO Hawk, a large graffiti-adorned board, and a bright-green transporter with Bluetooth speakers – ranging between £500 to around £1,500.Guardian reporter Aisha Gani balances on a hoverboard.“I think they’re so futuristic – it’s the first time we’ve seen anything like this,” Wing says. “Because celebrities have them now, it’s the thing to have.”Hoverboards are mostly sold online, yet the fact that more people are uploading photos on to Instagram of themselves riding the devices, combined with the small amount of major retailers actually stocking them, has made them even more sought after.The popularity of the hoverboard – otherwise knows as an e-board, “swegway” or self-balancing scooter – has increased recently and particularly since stars includingWiz Khalifa, 2 Chainz, Usain Bolt, Justin Bieber and Kylie Jenner have been spotted travelling around on them. The increased interest in hoverboards has led to the Metropolitan police highlightingCrown Prosecution Service guidance that it is illegal to ride them in public in London.On most days, Spy Master sells around four hoverboards. Perhaps one of the most desired is the gold edition e-board, that sits on a glass shelf on the window surrounded by electric cycles, monocyles and handled Segways with large black wheels. “One Middle-Eastern customer came in this summer and bought 10,” says Wing, who also points out the strange coincidence that 2015 is also the year in which Marty McFly rides a hoverboard in Back to the Future Part II.Most of our customers interested in the hoverboards have their own large private propertiesJulia Wing, director of Spy Master“Another customer said their grandchild is always trying something new on the board, and trying to see if they can balance on one leg,” she adds.Ikram Al Yacoub, a hoverboard owner from Dubai, says when the boards first started to become popular, they were unavailable on the market. “Most kids were trying to order one through Amazon and so teenagers then started to imitate one another until it became the coolest thing, for now,” she says. Her nine-year-old nephew now has one too, receiving it two months ago on his birthday. “The kids like it because you don’t use your hand to balance,” she says. “My nephew should only use it in the playground, and his mum will take it away if he plays [with] it on the streets outside.”A hoverboard usually has to be charged for two to three hours and rides last up to 20km with a top speed of 10 kms per hour. It operates by stepping on to a gyro-stabilised platform, and the direction of travel is controlled by pressing down on the rubber footpads while standing up straight.“We tell all our customers that they can’t use this on the roads or pavements – but most of our customers interested in these have their own large private properties,” Wing says.Around the corner at the department store Selfridges, a sales assistant of Red5 gadgets wheeled around the shop floor on a hoverboard. “You can do anything”, he says, while demonstrating he can juggle or operate a remote-controlled helicopter at the same time as using the product.A sales assistant at Selfridges juggling while riding a hoverboard.Photograph: Aisha Gani/The Guardian“Everyone wants one, and there’s a buzz around it,” he says, as two young women tried one out, adding that he tells his customers that they are not allowed to ride one on the street, only on private property.Hoverboards are made in factories in China, but due to difficulty in enforcing copyright in the country, there is no single company or distributer for retailers to deal with. The main difference between the varieties, from cheap knock-offs that can be purchased online for a few hundred pounds to ones that cost thousands, is mostly down to the label plastered on to the board, says the sales assistant.He pulls out two hoverboards from different distributors that are visibly identical – same rubber foot pads, colour, wheels, star-shaped detail on the hover cap, motors and lights – save for the boxes the devices were sold in.Factory costs are around £150, he said, and the company sells each board for around £600. “But by Christmas, we’ll be selling them for much cheaper, around £400,” he said. The most successful day of sales was in September around Eid-ul Adha, when the gadget company sold 20 of the devices.The store sells four or five “on a quiet day” but expects to sell many more in the run-up to Christmas and on Black Friday. “For a lot of British families, it is at the top of the wish list.”Despite the hoverboard’s apparent popularity, they were nowhere to be seen when the Guardian travelled to Oxford Street, Hyde Park and Stratford on a Monday lunchtime. Perhaps the Met’s advice has already taken hold. Only time will tell whether the hoverboard can become a crossover gadget regardless.
Japanese messaging app Line has become the latest large platform to enable end-to-end encryption for its users, frustrating governments and other would-be eavesdroppers.The feature allows users of the Line apps on smartphones and desktops to send messages that are fully encrypted on a device level. Similar to the encryption employed by Facebook’s WhatsApp and Apple’s iMessage, Line’s implementation of the protocol leaves the company itself unable to decrypt and read user messages, even under legal duress.Line, which has called the feature “Letter Sealing”,saysthat it will initially be applied by default on Android for users with only one smartphone enabled, and that users on other platforms can manually turn it on.End-to-end encryption has frustrated the authorities in multiple countries, where it leaves law enforcement unable to compel messaging providers to turn over the contents of suspects’ messages. In the US, Apple wasforced to reject a court order from the Justice Departmentearlier this year, when the federal government attempted to read chats between two suspected drug dealers.Line corporation launched its messaging app in 2011, and currently boasts more than 600 million users worldwide. The majority of those are in east and southeast Asia, but the company also boasts strong penetration in India, Spain and Chile.
It’s Tuesday.
It’s an unfortunate feature of working as both a novelist and a games designer that I end up sitting through a lot of panels, round-tables, conferences, discussions and other exercises in head-nodding where digital people try to get to grips with storytelling, or where story people try to understand the digital world.Both these types of event have their aggravations. When digital people run workshops or colloquia or jams (there are infinite names for the basic principle of bringing people together in combination with coffee) about storytelling, they often seem not to notice that quite a lot of very clever people have been thinking very hard about stories for, oh, the past 3,000-4,000 years. I’ve heard people suggest that maybe stories have a “pattern” or “structural ordering” that holds together their parts, without apparently realising that a lot of people have written about this, from Aristotle on.And let’s not even get on to the people who say things like “data is a story”, “products are a story”, “your robo-vacuum cleaner has a story to tell you”. No it isn’t, no they’re not, and no – unless artificial intelligence has come on much faster than anticipated – it doesn’t.But more aggravating even than this are the forums, summits, breakout sessions and seminars on “digital literature” run by exceedingly well-meaning arts people who can talk for hours about what the future might be for storytelling in this new technological age – whether we might produce hyperlinked or interactive or multi-stranded novels and poems – without apparently noticing that video games exist. And they don’t just exist! They’re the most lucrative, fastest-growing medium of our age. Your experimental technological literature is already here; it’s the noise you’re trying to get your children to turn down while you pen your thoughts about the future of location-based storytelling.Kentucky Route Zero: ‘dazzlingly surreal’.When I bring this up with arts and literary types, I often get the sort of “oh come, come” response that can only emerge from someone who has no familiarity whatsoever with what video games are, have been, and can be. “You can’t claim thatGrand Theft Autohas literary merit,” they say. Maybe you can – plenty of people have – but no, I wouldn’t cite GTA as fascinating experimental literature any more than I’d cite robo-Godzilla-fighting blockbusterPacific Rimas an example of avant-garde film-making (it’s fun though).But are there video games experimenting with more interesting storytelling than any “digital literature” project I’ve seen? Yes, certainly. And if you want to think of yourself as well read, or well cultured, you need to engage with them.To pick just 10 examples from recent years, it’s hard to imagine how you could opine on the future of literature without having played the brilliantly characterful and fourth-wall breakingPortal, the sombre and engrossingPapers, Please, or the dazzlingly surreal exploration of the American subconscious,Kentucky Route Zero. Are you interested in discussing experimental “read it in any order” literature? Then for goodness’ sake, play the mystery narratives ofHer StoryandGone Homeand the hilarious and unsettlingThe Stanley Parable. If you want to talk about how writers can engage with politics, capitalism, or the environmental movement, you’ll be showing your ignorance if you haven’t playedOiligarchy.Being culturally educated about video games is as important as going to museums or learning about operaInterested in how storytellers can engage with themes of mortality? You’ll wantSpider: The Secret of Bryce Manor, or Jason Rohrer’s short, powerful gamePassage, or the sublimeJourney. Each of these games could – and probably should – be taught in schools to inspire the next generation of creators.The problem is that people who like science and technology, and people who like storytelling and the arts have typically been placed in different buildings since about the age of 16. We haven’t been taught how to admire each others’ work, to recognise excellence, or even to know that there is excellence in “the other culture”. There’s a kind of sullen arrogance on both sides, with some people in both camps simply denying that the other knows anything worth listening to. There is a kind of “worthy” arts professional who thinks that knowing nothing about games – like saying “I don’t even own a television!” – is a marker of intellectual superiority.But we can’t afford that kind of thinking any more. Being culturally educated about video games is as important as going to museums or learning about opera. Games often manage to be both great art and an economic powerhouse; we’re doing ourselves and the next generation a disservice if we don’t take that seriously.
The new Chromecast is the second iteration of Google’s smart TV dongle, which turns almost any TV into a smart receiver of smartphone, tablet or computer-streamed video, music, photos or games.The second-generation version makes it easier to plug into your existing setup, and promises better Wi-Fi.Cast receiverThe Chromecast plugs straight into the HDMI socket on a TV or amplifier.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe small black, pink or yellow puck measuring 5cm in diameter connects to your TV or home cinema system with a flat flexible HDMI cable measuring 10cm in length. Compared to the previous generation Chromecast, the new one is much easier to fit into an existing setup, particularly if you have several HDMI ports quite closely packed together.The Chromecast is powered by a micro USB cable, which can be plugged into a TV’s USB port, if it has one. Google provides a charger and cable in the box, but almost any other USB charger will work too.Setup is easy. Plug the Chromecast in, hook up the microUSB cable to give it power and fire up the Chromecast app on an Android, iOS smartphone or tablet. The app will handle settings to get it connected to your home Wi-Fi network. I couldn’t get it to connect to the Guardian’s corporate Wi-Fi network, but it worked at home just fine.The range at which it could get a solid connection to my home Wi-Fi router was improved compared to the last version, as was stream reliability when placed on the other side of my house from the router.The Chromecast did its thing with updates and within five minutes it was ready to go.How does it work?The Google Cast button allows almost anything to be streamed to the Chromecast or Android TV.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianUnlike most other smart TV or streaming dongles or boxes, the Chromecast does not have interface or any capabilities on its own. It can show a selection of attractive images like wallpaper for your TV, but that’s about it.Instead, the Chromecast relies on apps on your smartphone or tablet or a computer to stream content to it using Google’s Cast protocol.Within an app such as BBC iPlayer or Spotify, hitting the cast button sends the video or music to the Chromecast, which quickly fires up the backend of the app needed to receive the stream.The smartphone app then becomes the controller, with the Chromecast directly connecting to the content over the internet. Some apps are capable of doing pre-caching of content before you choose it. Netflix, for instance, is working on a system that predicts what a user is likely to want to watch based on previous viewing so that stream starts instantly without buffering.The system works well and is easy to use for anyone familiar with apps on their smartphone and means that any new developments can be implemented with a smartphone app update.The dedicated Chromecast app can also be used to control media playback once it has been initiated, meaning someone else in the room with the app installed can pause it without having to have a subscription to the music or video service currently being used.The Chromecast app can also highlight content from providers that you have installed on your app, and suggest new apps that work with Google Cast.What can you do with it?The puck clips to the HDMI cable with a magnet.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianGoogle Cast is well supported within the various Google and Apple app stores, with hundreds of apps supporting it. Highlights include Netflix, Spotify, YouTube, Sky’s Now TV and BT Sport.Plex is also available for streaming from a home server, while several apps allow users to stream media on a smartphone to the Chromecast.Recently games have also started using Google Cast to beam the game screen to the TV and use their smartphone as a controller. The number and quality of games is fairly limited, but most work well. There’s potential for much more, but the games rely on the smartphone being powerful enough to effectively render two screens.This makes it good for casual or party gaming, but unlikely to replace a console or similar.Users can also mirror their screens from a smartphone, or a tab from Chrome on their desktop computers.PriceThe Google Chromecast costs £30 and is available in three colours: black, pink and yellow.For comparison, Amazon’s Fire TV Stick costs £35 and Apple’s TV costs £59.VerdictThe new Chromecast is faster than the old one. Netflix and YouTube take much less time to fire up on hitting the cast button, and 1080p video and audio quality is excellent.If you already have a Chromecast it is not worth upgrading to the new one, unless you have connectivity issues as the connection reliability over Wi-Fi is improved.But for £30 or less the Chromecast is a very simple and easy way of making a TV smart without having another box and remote. Google Cast support is strong within the major streaming services, and if you’re familiar with using apps on your smartphone there’s almost no learning curve.Pros:simple, easy to set up, good app support, cheap, discreet, can be powered by the TVCons:does nothing without an app, pausing playback requires a smartphone or equivalent which can be slower to get to than just pressing a button on the remoteOther reviewsFive of the best media-streaming boxes to turn your dumb TV into a smart one
The new world of Australia’s data retention scheme begins on Tuesday. From now,certain typesof phone, internet and location data will be compulsorily swept up by telecommunications companies for the benefit of government agencies.Related:Malcolm Turnbull explains how people can avoid having metadata collectedThe new laws vastly expandthe retention of personal data. Until Tuesday, retention by phone and internet providers was inconsistent. Data about who Australians called and texted was generally held by larger companies for billing purposes, but much more will now be stored, for a mandatory period of two years. Location data, information about devices, IP data of email logins and amount of data used will all be retained.The government has emphasised that this type of data is only “metadata”, not content. But in aggregate, the effect is the same. It inescapably paints a picture of our lives.The justification for the retention scheme was to assist national security agencies in fighting terrorism and other serious offences. But the laws do not limit access to the data to those purposes. Law enforcement agencies can still access it for much more trivial reasons – even a parking or littering offence could be enough to have your personal data accessed.Access will for the most part not require a warrant, as has been the case formany years. Agencies need only fill out a form to hand over to a phone or internet company.Related:Metadata retention: what will happen to your phone and web records now?Journalists fared the best from amendments to the laws,although even those gains were slim. Warrants must be sought to access their data in an attempt to identify their sources. But these proceedings will occur behind closed doors and without their knowledge. And no warrant is required if a government agency goes fishing among its own employees for contact with journalists.Already the range of agencies that can access the data has been extended; a separate bill passed with Labor’s support included the Australian Border Force. The amendments avoided oversight by the parliamentary joint committee tasked to oversee aspects of the scheme.Some are turning to virtual private networks in an attempt to reduce their digital trails. But care needs to be taken with how VPNs are used, and which ones can be relied on. Lofty claims of guaranteed confidentiality or anonymity should be treated with a high level of scepticism.Some will need a much higher level of security. Journalists, lawyers and other professionals who value confidentiality would be best served by learning more about the range of counter-surveillance techniques they can employ to mitigate risks to confidentiality, outlined by theElectronic Frontiers FoundationandFreedom of the Press Foundation. Even these tools have limits but are still critical to reduce the risks.Related:This simple game shows why metadata laws won't protect whistleblowersMuch is still not known about the technical details of the retention scheme. AsCrikey has reported, some telecommunications companies appear to be unprepared for it. Some are still trying to work out whether they are caught within the scope of the laws, which apply generally to Australian telecommunications companies. And the costs of the scheme –which the government has agreed to share– will still affect an industry struggling to get to grips with what exactly is being asked of it.Policing how organisations store data and how law enforcement agencies access it will be difficult. The Office of the Australian Information Commissionerwill soon release an auditinto how telecommunications companies respond to these requests. The commonwealth ombudsman will also have an oversight role. But there are many unknowns about how the sector – and the government agencies that will be dealing with them – will manage the vast new trove of data they will start to accumulate from Tuesday.
We live in an era where if it hasn’t been filmed, it hasn’t happened, and British motorists using dashboard cameras to record their journeys has doubled over the last year, according to the RAC.The RAC estimates that 9% of drivers (2.9 million motorists) have fitted dashcams. Add those to the thousands of cycle-helmet cameras, and the result is that millions of mundane journeys – and the occasional accident – are being filmed.Dashcams represent a loss of faith: can we no longer rely on fellow road-users to tell the truth if we are involved in a crash?Russian drivers were the first to almost universally adopt dashcamsbecause of fears of aggressive motorists, insurance fraud and accidents not being investigated properly.The cameras have created a social media boom in spectacular and serendipitous crash footage, fromplanestometeors, but fears that dashcams are infringing personal privacy have caused them to be banned in Austria, Luxembourg, Portugal andBavaria, Germany. Many European countries’ police forces do not accept dashcam footage, but such video evidence is increasinglyused in investigationsover fatal shootingsin the United States.There seem to be few privacy concerns expressed in the US and Britain, where some insurers now offerreduced premiums if motorists fit dashcams. (The choice is, predictably, fairly bewildering, with front-and-back cameras as well as cameras with GPS to prove speed and location.)Insurers such as RAC, which conveniently sells dashcams, claim that British motorists are buying the devices to protect themselves from fraudsters who abruptly stop in front of another car to cause an accident. I’ve spoken to several minicab drivers who use dashcams, and they say it is to give them peace of mind when driving in urban areas at night.Most positively, the RAC survey finds that a quarter of motorists think that a dashcam will improve their driving. Can the technology help create safer roads?Last year, Brenda Holmes allowed the release of footage from the camera belonging to her son, David, 38. It showed the motorcyclist riding along a single-carriageway road in Norfolk and a car turning across him. David’s last word is “Whoa,” before his bike hits the car. He died in the collision. It is hard to think of a more shocking or powerful road-safety message, and it has been watched more than 17m times on YouTube.
Surely there’s nothing a board game can do that a video game can’t do better, right?After all, board games are so limited. You have to fit them on a table, and make them out of real, tangiblestuff. Video games can do whatever you can imagine!And the best video games should already bestealing from board games. I think game designers ought to be out-and-out burglars, pausing their larceny only to remix and rethink the latest haul of ideas.But there are also things that make board and card games great that can’t be stolen. At least, not yet. Those elements that exist only within the sphere of real-life cards, smiles and dining room tables.BluffingWhether it’s lying to someone’s face in Werewolf or feigning an offensive in a war game, bluffing and duplicity provides almost all table games with a low-level electric current. It even shows up in board games’ most benign fiefdoms: German games like Settlers of Catan or Caverna, while ostensibly about the construction of peaceful settlements, will still see players protesting the fact that they’re doing well to stop the table from uniting against them by snatching away resources that they need. We do this constantly, and we do it because it’s fun.It’s not that video gamescan’tdo bluffing. From Street Fighter to StarCraft to Online Poker to EVE Online, you’ll find feints and deception, and I’ll drop anything to discuss Ubisoft’s beautiful failureRuse. It’s just that video games are terrible at it. AI opponents are notoriously crap at bluffing, and lying over an internet connection is about as much fun as anything else in a long-distance relationship.Ubisoft’s Ruse.Photograph: UbisoftIt’s not just that video games lose out on the joy of table talk. More significant is that they lose out entirely on the phenomenal genre of lying games.The Resistanceis a contemporary example. Players all represent a group of people that must elect teams to go on missions, but which has been infiltrated by players which are double agents. Through failed missions and interrogations, the good guys have to figure out who they can trust before the bad guys sabotage three missions.The Resistance is an exhausting, emotional and terrifying journey, and an incredible game. But if you’d prefer something more slapstick,Spyfallis a new release that’s also making waves. In each of its rounds, one player around the table has no idea where they are, while everybody else is told the location and their job within it. In a laughably evasive and bizarre conversation the players must try and work out who the spy is, while the spy has to try and deduce where the hell they are from everyone else’s answers. It’s one part James Bond, one part Monty Python and absolutely hilarious.PhysicalityOne of the reasons put forward for the 21st century resurgence of board games pairs them up with vinyl records. In an increasingly digital culture we long for something tangible to lavish affection on, collect, customise or lend. Many board gamers will write when they played and who won on the inside of the box lid, slowly turning a board game into a happy memory-jogging memento. I’ve recently started playingInfinity, and the discovery among my friends that as adults we have the patience to be passable painters is staggering.But it’s not just that in existing as real-life objects, board games can be desirable in all-new ways. It’s also offers radically different opportunities for designers.Rampage(also known as Terror in Meeple City) is an on-the-nose example, but it’ll do. This is a turn-based dexterity game that sees players racing to demolish a 3D city by flicking their personal godzilla-like monster around, chucking tiny wooden cars at one another, even placing their chin next to their monster and blowing as hard as they can. It’s very silly. But when a game works mostly within the rules of our human bodies and the laws of physics, as this does, you also instantly get incredible complexity with hardly any rules at all.Two Rooms and a Boom makes use of space on a much larger scale. It’s a party game that divides players between two rooms, then allows tense hostage exchanges over the course of 15 minutes, after which a bomber player blows up, hopefully killing the president on the opposite team. Most of the game is talking (or more accurately, plotting, scheming, panicking and misleading), but where you’re standing, whether you can get privacy and your ability to read a room is vitally important.Then there’s 2012’sRisk Legacy. Part board game, part advent calendar, this was a hugely successful reinterpretation of Risk that has players telling the story of their personal sci-fi world through consecutive games of Risk. From night to night players found megacities (scribbling their names on the board), place stickers showing which countries were eradicated, unpack new cards, unseal new, secret compartments in the box and even tear up existing components. By the end of the campaign your game would be utterly unique, and a treasured reminder of what a wonderful war you’d had.OwnershipAll board games allow players their creative streak, because the rules can be bent or broken wherever you like. “Modding” is the process of painstakingly tweaking or repurposing video games, and the way I like to put it is that every board games ships with the most powerful mod tools imaginable. Rather than sulking when they play a bad game, a table of board gamers will leap on the design like amateur mechanics. “How can we fix this?”It was actually Dungeons &amp; Dragons that first let me perform game design. Cracking open hardback books almost as tall as my torso I’d sketch stories, draft dungeons, sprinkle treasure and attach far too many details to my pet antagonist (he was so troubled). Pen and paper roleplaying games are what I want to talk about here. Did you know they’ve evolved into a staggeringly broad and thought-provoking genre?Let me illustrate just how much D&amp;D has evolved.Monsters Heartsputs players in control of literally monstrous, sex-starved teenagers.Kaleidoscopesees players creating a fictitious arthouse film together, in less time than it would take to watch one.Fiascoremains the scene’s breakthrough hit, allowing players to thread together a Coen brothers-style disaster in a game that’s one-part improv, one-part dicking over your friends. Or perhaps you’re in the mood for something more serious?Night Witchesis by the very same publisher, and casts players as members of a real-life second world war Soviet bomber regiment made up of women flying outmoded planes.Picking the protagonist’s haircut and picking our way along some (mostly illusory) forking plots are as far as RPG video games go in offering players control. Next to pen and paper games, that’s the narrative equivalent of letting us reach over in the car to beep the horn. Not only do pen and paper RPGs let us create every facet of a whole cast of characters, they let us create the story.I can’t wait for video games to get there. But until they do, you can pry my dice bag from my cold, dead hands.
Bad news if you like gliding down the street like a low-rent Marty McFly: “hoverboards” (also known as self-balancing scooters) are illegal to ride in public in Britain,according to guidance released by the Crown Prosecution Service.The wheeled vehicles, which are an evolution of the infamous Segway “personal transportation device”, are too unsafe to ride on the road, but too dangerous to ride on the pavement, according to legislation. As a result, they are only legal to use on land that is private property, and only with the landowner’s permission, the CPS says.The guidance, which was initially released for Segway scooters, points out that since self-balancing scooters are powered vehicles they are illegal to ride on the pavement under section 72 of the Highway Act 1835. In Scotland, where the act does not apply, they are still illegal to ride on the pavement under the Roads (Scotland) Act 1984.Own one of these or thinking about getting one? They&#39;re illegal to ride in public! Info here:http://t.co/We85yLAzsUpic.twitter.com/vMm0hxNAjs&mdash; MPS Specials (@MPSSpecials)October 11, 2015The scooters are also illegal to ride on the road, because they don’t meet the requirements to be registered under either the European or British schemes for road-legal vehicles.Although the regulations have not been changed, a recent resurgence in the use of hoverboards prompted police on Sunday to tweet a warning about their legality to prospective buyers.Related:Hoverboards: conspicuous consumption or fun glimpse of the future? | Steven PooleBut despite the legal guidance, the hoverboard fad is going from strength to strength. The devices have already been singled out as popular amongfootballersandrap stars, and in Septembera video of a man performing the tawaf on a hoverboard while on pilgrimage to Meccawent viral, dividing opinion in the Islamic world.Man circles the Kaaba in Mecca on a hoverboardIn fact, Simon Benson of hoverboard distributorGhetto Gadgetsargues that the legal clarification could boost the profile of the gadgets. “If the authorities give any impression that the use of hoverboards in some circumstances is unlawful, then I expect sales to soar.“Clearly customers need to take advice, but millennials are not going to take kindly to the authorities using a law that pre-dates the penny-farthing to tell them what they can or can’t do on the streets of Britain”.Hoverboards remain legal to use in private spaces with the permission of the landowner, but some of the biggest private estates have confirmed that they too maintain a ban of the use of the device. While the gadgets are a common sight in Westfield’s Stratford City shopping complex, the centre confirmed that they are are not allowed on the premises. The Canary Wharf estate said that any motorised vehicle would only be allowed on the roadways, in effect banning hoverboards there too.London’s Royal Parks, however, said that generally, hoverboards aren’t banned but may be restricted by signage in certain areas. A spokesperson added “We pride ourselves on ensuring the Royal Parks are open to everyone.”The self-balancing scooters are just the latest in a long series of low-powered electronic transportation gadgets to hit the market, following “monopods” (self-balancing unicycles), electric skateboards, and Segways themselves. But owing to a perfect storm of cheap Chinese manufacturing, celebrity endorsements and a good dose of luck, the scooters are the first to become a genuine craze.The Hovertrax, one of the first to hit the market in the US, started life asa Kickstarter campaign in May 2013and raised $85,000 from 162 backers. Its first units arrived in December 2014, but just two months later, in February 2015,a conflict arosebetween Hovertrax (which owns a patent for “a two wheel, self-balancing persoanl vehical) and a rival manufacturer, IO Hawk. Now, there are tens of brands, all largely importing the same base units from Chinese manufactuers and making cosmetic improvements before selling them on to consumers.The devices grew in popularity organically, before an incident in LAX airport sent them viral: Rap star Wiz Khalifa was handcuffedafter he refused to get off his hoverboardwhen border offiers asked him to.Haven&#39;t been slammed and cuffed in a while. That was fun.&mdash; Cameron (@wizkhalifa)August 22, 2015Despite the popular nickname, self-balancing scooters do not actually hover. But real hoverboards are about to hit the market, with Arx Pax, an American start-up,offering the devices for $10,000 a piece. The magnetic technology they use requires an all-metal surface to hover over, meaning that they are unlikely to be useable anywhere other than specially prepared private land, but if they ever do hit public streets, a new legal question will be raised: it may be illegal to use a hoverboard on the pavement, but what about a few inches above it?
It’s Monday again.
“I had a moment when I was talking about quantum television,” said Dan Biddle, Twitter UK’s director of broadcast media partnerships, as he perched in a meeting room shortly after his company’s keynote at the Mipcom conference in Cannes.“It was this sense of where TV used to be seen as a wave where you just sit and it crashes over you for an hour and you’re consumed, now there’s a sense that it’s actually made up of particles, like light.“And each one of these particles can become a bigger moment on Twitter, on social, because everybody will gather around that, and it will be talked about and referenced again and again.”There have been plenty of those moments for Twitter in the last year, frompolitical debatestoBake Off bread lions. And while Biddle’s own quantum moment may not have lasted long enough to make it into his keynote, it’s a useful primer on the way Twitter wants to be seen by the TV industry.Like Facebook, Twitter is love-bombing the TV industry in the hopes of getting broadcasters and producers to help drive more conversation around their shows on the social networks – not to mention spending more money on ads to attract new and lapsed viewers to those programmes.Going nativeYet Twitter has become a broadcaster of sorts itself: its 316 million active users currently watch 370 years worth of video every day on the service. That viewing is up 250% in the last six months alone, with 90% of it happening on mobile devices.That’s giving Twitter a better idea of what kind of videos its users like best. “They like shorter clips – 30 to 45 seconds – and we also know that it should be something that people will want to share with each other,” says Fred Graver, creative lead for Twitter’s global TV team.Native video is growing strongly for Twitter, although direct comparisons with Facebook are tricky due to the difference between their milestone metrics. Twitter uses watch-time, with that 370 years of daily viewing meaning roughly 18 minutes for each active user a month.Facebook quantifies its video growth by “views”, with its 4bn daily views translating into about 80 views for each active user a month. Suffice to say, both are growing rapidly.For now, native video on Twitter tends to be about clips, whether uploaded by broadcasters and TV stars or by users. Both Biddle and Graver see potential for original shows – as in super-shortform formats made for Twitter – in the future.“People are going to start to say ‘well, yeah, there’s appointment-to-view TV, and then there’ll be appointment-to-tweet TV as well’,” says Biddle.“This will come from the creative community. They’ll be like ‘OK, now that we have all these tools, what is a quote-unquote ‘show’ on Twitter?” adds Graver.Developing relationships with the YouTubers who’ve developed their own shortform shows on Google’s video site may help, although Twitter also hopes it can become a conversational channel for those formats too, according to Graver’s anecdote about his trip to the YouTuber-packed VidCon conference earlier in 2015.“There was a panel when they were literally saying ‘Well, the comments section on YouTube doesn’t work any more, so I talk to my audience on Twitter’,” he says.“Some of them even do a thing now where they release their video [on YouTube] and then tweet out ‘Just put my video up, let’s have a viewing party in an hour on Periscope: watch it with me!’ So they’re using Twitter to light the spark and get the conversation going.”Ant and Dec are among the TV stars to have used Periscope.Up PeriscopePeriscope’s role in that evolution looms large in the conversation. Twitter’s live-streaming video applaunched earlier this year, with 40 years worth of Periscope video now watched every day according to Biddle, who is keen to talk about its use by TV stars from Ellen DeGeneres to Ant and Dec.“You have the audience in the palm of your hand, and those are the best Periscopes: the ones where this person has taken you with them and chatted to you in that very intimate way. It’s not the best quality video in the world. The point is it’s a visceral experience” he says.“It’s very much a ‘now’ experience. And in the case of TV, it’s often those connecting moments that let you behind the scenes: like when Ant and Dec did it before the Britain’s Got Talent finals. ‘Oh, the music’s on. We’ll see you on TV!’. That last line had that ‘this is a moment that we’ve had before we go to the mass moment of television.”Graver chimes in. “It should be intimate: that palm-of-your-hand thing. It should be very immediate: ‘this is happening right now’. And they should also remember that it’s conversational,” he says.“That’s the magic of Periscope: you’re holding it up and the hearts are going, and then all of a sudden you’re getting questions. ‘Oh! All of a sudden the viewers can actually just talk to me!’ And if you talk back to them, it’s incredibly rewarding.”On its main service, Twitter is trying to do a better job of gathering the conversation around TV shows witha new feature called “timelines”, where the most popular tweets from viewers and stars alike are gathered into standalone timelines for individual shows – discovered when an official hashtag appears in your main Twitter timeline.Biddle says that Twitter’s ambition is to have a timeline for every show, before making the grand claim that “a TV production does not exist without Twitter” – by which he means that every new show now launches with an official account on the social network.While some broadcasters still see Twitter as mainly for telling fans to share promo videos and tune in on TV – “forgetting that Twitter is a conversation” as Graver puts it – he praises US chatshow host Jimmy Fallon, whoPeriscopes the rehearsal for his nightly live monologue, inviting fans to spot which jokes change before transmission.Fallon is leading a charge of late-night US talkshows in using YouTube, Periscope and other social networking tools in-between live episodes.“Those shows are ahead of the curve of where television’s going to go, which is that the show supports all this other stuff, and then eventually the ad dollars will start shifting back and forth,” says Graver.Alan Sugar regularly live-tweets through episodes of The Apprentice.Photograph: Jim Marks/Boundless/BBC/PATwitter’s got talentGraver and Biddle talk a lot about the importance of “the talent” – from actors and presenters to screenwriters and showrunners – to programmes’ popularity on Twitter. “The talent is the channel that a TV show is on, as much as the talent is on that TV show,” Biddle says.When a star has million of Twitter followers, they can become a lightning rod for conversation about a show, and can also drive audiences to watch it. No wonder Twitter encourages them to live-tweet while their shows air.“Word has spread through the acting community, the talent community. They’re just like ‘You gotta do this’,” says Graver, while Biddle points to British presenters like Lord Sugar and Brian Cox live-tweeting their own shows as examples.“Twitter, for them, provides almost an extra level of citation. They can add to that conversation. You might only have an hour-long show, but you’ve sparked a lot of debate – and they’re able to pick up and find the pieces that interest them,” he says.“They can add that extra layer: it’s not a subtitle in the show, but it’s a social layer of subtitles that can bring the deeper aspects to people and reinforce the stories, or correct things that people are maybe misunderstanding, that you can see they’re misunderstanding on Twitter.”Twitter has awell-documented problem with trolling– particularly harassment of prominent women – which could be an obstacle to persuading some actors to join the conversation.Taming the trolls isn’t Graver or Biddle’s direct responsibility, but they recognise the issue – while suggesting that the communities around TV programmes can be a positive counter-weight to the negativity.“One negative tweet out of 10 can make you no longer see the nine tweets that were very positive, and with a billion tweets every two days, amongst that humanity there will be some that aren’t as great as others,” admits Biddle.“But by and large in those communities around TV shows, there is a sense of ‘I love this show, I’m a huge fan’.”Graver agrees. “On Twitter, everybody sees the conversation, so you’re kinda held accountable. Once the talent realises why they’re on and what value they bring to the community that they’re engaging with, it becomes much more fun and more meaningful,” he says.“And then if you’re somebody like Ricky Gervais, it’s like: ‘Bring on the trolls! They’ll just be more entertainment for my fans …’”Twitter’s Fred Graver presenting at Mipcom.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianMeeting the mainstreamPersuading big stars to tweet more – whether they’re troll-shaming or not – and encouraging broadcasters to promote Twitter on-air is strategically important for the social network.Under itsnew (old) chief executive Jack Dorsey, the company is on a mission to reignite its growth by moving into the mainstream. And what is more mainstream than television?And when a popular show persuades someone to download – or in the case of lapsed users, re-download – Twitter, the new TV timelines and separate Moments feature (which performs a similar curation role for big news events) will be there to entice them to stay.The mission continues to be reaching every person on the planetDan BiddleThat’s why TV is so important for Twitter: while money from broadcasters paying to promote their shows will be welcome, it’s their potential to be a funnel for new users that’s the real prize. Although withFacebook courting the TV industry just as eagerly, Twitter will have to work hard.“The mission continues to be reaching every person on the planet,” says Biddle. “There’s an enormous focus on our users and people who tweet, and they tweet about television,” adds Graver. “I think all of that will fit together.”•How live Periscope video helped ‘get inside’ the Syrian refugees story•Twitter launches its assault on news with Moments•Jack’s back: 11 things the new Twitter CEO needs to improve
GOOGLE KEEPAndroid/iOSFreshly available on iOS after its Android debut, this is Google’s rival to the Evernote service: a useful tool for quickly tapping out notes to yourself, organising them, and sharing them with family, friends or colleagues.KHAN ACADEMYAndroid/iOSThis has been available on iOS for some time, but is new to Android. It’s an excellent educational tool with bite-sized video courses on everything from biology and economics to art history. The content is authoritative but rarely dry.TOONSTVAndroid/iOSToonsTV started life as a button within theAngry Birdsgames for children to watch the spin-off animations. It’s since developed into a Netflix-for-kids style video service with plenty of partners.PAPERiOSiPad owners should know all about Paper: a beautifully-designed app for sketching and scribbling. Now it’s available on iPhone too, adding photos and text as well as drawings and graphs. A great way to keep track of your stray thoughts.INKBOARDAndroid/iOSInkboard is a fun communication tool for when emoji just aren’t good enough for what you want to say. It provides virtual pens, pencils and highlighting tools to create your own doodles to send, with the option to do it on top of your photos too.SHELFIEAndroid/iOSShelfie is a great idea: an app that gets you to take a photo of your bookshelf, then finds (when available) free ebook equivalents. It also recommends new books for you to read and can connect you with other users based on your collection.ADIDAS SNAPSHOTAndroid/iOSThis app may sound like a novelty, but if so, it’s using some clever technology. It tracks how fast you kick a football, using the camera to measure speed, angle and distance. You can even play back your shots in slow motion.SEEDLING COMIC STUDIOiOSThis is a marvellous app for parents and children to use together: taking photos, cartoon backgrounds and stickers and blending them into your own digital comic strips. Three themes are included with more available as IAP.LRNiOSThis is the latest app hoping to teach programming skills through mobile-friendly lessons. It’s all structured around short quizzes, with two languages currently included: JavaScript and Ruby. The perfect start for enthusiastic coding amateurs.KIM KARDASHIAN WEST OFFICIAL APPAndroid/iOSEven if you’re not a fan of Kim, her app is an intriguing development in the way celebrities try to keep in touch with their fans. It promises live streams, makeup tutorials, product recommendations and more – but you have to subscribe for £2.29 a month.PEWDIEPIE: LEGEND OFTHE BROFISTAndroid/iOSPewDiePie is one of the most popular stars on YouTube, with nearly 40 million subscribers to his channel. His first mobile game is no cash-in: it’s a very enjoyable platformer with plenty of nods to gaming history and YouTube culture along the way.STAR WARS: UPRISINGAndroid/iOSCan’t wait for the newStar Warsfilm? This may tide you over untilThe Force Awakensthis December. It’s a satisfyingly deep roleplaying game that pitches you into theStar Warsuniverse, with co-operative play for friends.CHAMP MAN 16Android/iOSOn mobile,Champ Manremains in the shadow of the excellentFootball Managerfranchise. But it still plays well: this latest version’s training, tactics and transfers system is accessible, while IAP don’t spoil it.DOWNTON ABBEY: MYSTERIES OF THE MANORAndroid/iOSAsDownton Abbeydraws to a close, it’s getting an official mobile game. This falls into the “hidden objects” genre, as you try to solve a burglary at the abbey, while figuring out whodunnit. Fans of the show will enjoy this a lot.FIFA 16 ULTIMATE TEAMAndroid/iOSThe latest mobile FIFA game focuses solely on its ultimate team mode, where you build a squad by earning and buying virtual “packs” of players. An acquired taste, but the match action is pretty good: with excellent graphics and un-fiddly controls.SPL-TiOSSPL-T is a puzzle game that looks simple: you tap the screen to create lines dividing up the space. But it’s one of the most absorbing mobile puzzlers in recent memory, giving your grey cells a thorough workout as you figure out its strategy.PUZZLE &amp; GLORYAndroid/iOSThis is the latest in the popular match-three/RPG genre on mobile, where you match coloured gems to battle enemies. There’s plenty of depth to this, as you upgrade your team of heroes, form guilds with friends, and take on weekly quests set by the developer.ORDER &amp; CHAOS 2: REDEMPTIONAndroid/iOSIf you’re a fan of multiplayer online RPGs likeWorld of Warcraft, you may be sceptical that the genre can work on mobile.Order &amp; Chaos 2shows that it can: a polished blend of questing and character-upgrading with room to grow in future updates .NEED FOR SPEED: NO LIMITSAndroid/iOSThis latest mobileNeed for Speedis the best yet, developed by the team that previously made the marvellousReal Racing 3. As ever, the focus is on street-racing and pimping your cars to high heaven, with impressive graphics, handling and (of course) speed.THE DEER GODAndroid/iOSA beautiful pixel-art adventure with a unique pitch: “Live as a deer. Survive as a deer.” Note, the latter is very hard: the game’s difficulty level isn’t for the faint-hearted. A few bugs have niggled early players, but they’re being fixed.
‘The front-facing camera currently seems to stand rather low on the list of system-critical features consumers demand,” observed PocketNow in achin-stroking articlein March 2012. “With the primary focus of this secondary camera aimed at video calling …one would think there would be a corresponding eruption in the usage of mobile video services. This explosion hasn’t happened.”Such are the perils of jumping too far forward in trying to read social signals. It turned out that a front-facing camera was terrific for taking stills – and then meant stills featuring you, the phone owner. We all know what happened next. Taking a picture of yourself is hardly new; cameras have had timers for ages so you could set them on tripods and run around in front. What’s new is being able to see what you’re photographing, and do it at arm’s length.The fascinating thing about selfies, now a culture-engulfing phenomenon, is how unintentional they were. The technology business (as opposed to the wilder internet) has only done this a few times; the only other example that comes easily to mind is the text message, aka SMS, which began as a means for control of mobile networks, then morphed into a messaging system for anyone. That was intentional, though, whereas the front-facing camera, theSony Ericsson Z1010 in 2003, seems to have been one of those features that uncovered a consumer desire pretty much by accident. It’s not the sort of thing that’s going to pop out of a focus group. And if you see a front-facing camera on a phone, and are told it’s for video calling, you’re probably going to judge it by those criteria.Who discovered that actually you could get a pretty respectable picture using the front-facing camera of their phone (and which phone it was) sadly isn’t noted. But it’s possible that they posted the result to a social network; years ago, that would have been the photo-sharing site Flickr, where a search on hashtag “selfie” shows an explosion in the number taken, from 48 in 2001 to nearly half a million in 2014. (There are actually more with that tag apparently taken in 2000, but I’m dubious about some: I think they’re more likely modern smartphones with wrongly set dates.)Of course, phone companies noticed the growth of the selfie, so have thrown themselves into offering front-facing cameras which they hope will have that elusive must-have quality. Microsoft emphasised the wide-angle lens on some of itsLumias– though one suspects that would just make your nose look big. LG and Lenovo, meanwhile, are offering phones which have not one but two front-facing cameras. (There’s only one on the back.) What’s the second one for?Lenovosays the subsidiary two-megapixel camera, yoked to the main 8MP selfie one, “analyses depth of field information to replicate human binocular vision” to “unleash a myriad of new possibilities that can give selfies a creative twist”. (Mainly changing the focus point or blurring out a photo-bomber.) LG, meanwhile, with itsV10, uses one to take “normal” selfies and the other to take “wide angle” shots which it can stitch together into a coherent whole.They are nice twists on the idea — the refocusing one was introduced for the back camera in 2013 by HTC with its One model; strangely it was ditched this year.Lenovo’s idea seems the more promising, but it’s hard to shake the feeling that both are trying to mine an exhausted seam. The selfie has already moved off the camera to the selfie stick (another idea you’d struggle to extract from a focus group). There must be another phenomenon out there, some overlooked feature that an eager teen with a sense of exploration and a lot of friends is going to realise is really cool if you... What is it, though? Selfies fitted into a growing obsession with the self (measurable by fitness trackers and Facebook growth). What’s next in our cultural evolution? It’s probably lurking somewhere on your phone. You’ll know it when you see it.
Being able to saunter around your home with your favourite tunes following you from room to room is an appealing idea. Being able to do this without the aid of wires is even more seductive. Fold in a subscription toDeezeror another streaming service and you should have a seamless way of bathing in music old and new throughout your domicile, but which multi-room speaker system should you opt for to make this dream come true?Multi-room systems work by piggy-backing your home wi-fi network to broadcast music from your computer, tablet or smartphone to speakers dotted around your home. The music could either be ripped or downloaded files, tunes from a streaming service such asSpotifyorTidal, or content from a internet radio channel.In many ways Sonos created the wi-fi speaker product category and their success has spurred a bunch of new entrants into the market, some undercutting them on price, others aiming to supply superior sound and features. Here we test out a Sonos and number of others. To judge their sound quality a playlist of twenty odd mp3, mp4a and AIFF files were streamed from a MacBook and an iPhone 6.Bang &amp; Olufsen BeoPlay A6£799; Five amp-drivers, 240w output in total; Airplay; supports seven audio formatsThe mid-century stylings of the Bang &amp; OlufsenUnsurprisingly for a Danish product this zig-zagged stitched fabric form would fit seamlessly into a mid-century modern interior – you’d be forgiven for mistaking theBeoPlayfor aKnoll headrest. The combination of the upholstery (which is available in different colourways, natch), a hand grip and touch sensitive controls make it very tactile – for a speaker. It’s part of a beautifully designed range from the premium hi-fi manufacturer, which includes a unit which resembles a satellite dish.Set-up using Airplay took less than a minute. It prefered non-electronic music, stirring a respectable amount of goosebumps from the opening of Van Morrison’sSaint Dominic’s Preview, revealing previously unheard of grime in D’Angelo’sChicken Greaseand Husker Dü’sCould You Be The One?never felt more hopeful. For the first time I heard James Blake’s feet working the piano pedals duringLimit to Your Love. Its reproduction of drums, percussion and vocals is on the button. Although sometimes these subtleties were lost at lower volumes.Related:Is Apple Music worth paying for?However, when I moved the unit to different part of the room (which, incidentally, was closer to my wi-fi router) and booted it up again, it became extremely temperamental, refusing to establish a connection to my iPhone and sometimes randomly playing elevator music and spoken-word German radio. Neither of which I subscribe to. After numerous restarts it began working again, only to fail the next day. At which point I gave up.A day later I downloaded the BeoPlay app and it paired-up instantly and everything was hunky-dory again. And no more speaker the deutsch.While Airplay was working I found volume control from the buttons of an iPhone jumpy, but the elegantly designed BeoPlay app contains an easier to adjust dial. In addition, running your finger across the top of the speaker offers finer control via a touch sensitive strip. Although having to leave the sofa to change volume slightly defeats the object of having a wi-fi device.Verdict:Beautiful design and sounds, not just for retro-lovers. The premium multi-room option.Naim Mu-so£895; Six amp/drivers, 450W; AirPlay; optical inputThe Mu-so: great sound, not so great nameThis is the boutique British hi-fi company’s first foray into wi-fi. So far theMu-sostands alone in a multi-room range, meaning if you want another one for the bedroom or the kitchen you’ll have to buy a second, and they are rather large and expensive.But if you’ve got generous rooms and cash reserves, seriously consider investing. It has an optical input so it could also double as a soundbar for your telly. The construction from aluminium, wood and acrylic is substantial and the design elegant and understated.Set-up with Airplay instantaneous and faultless, no drop-outs or pairing issues. And although the Mu-so has a backlit touch-sensitive control disc it’s simple to control it from your phone. Naim’s app is okay, mainly useful for streaming radio and selecting different input methods. Of those tested this device came with the largest set of instructions yet I didn’t have to refer to them once.Across all volumes the Mu-so delivered rich, resonant bass; lush and expansive strings and; cleanly defined percussion. It wasn’t phased by any genre or age of music – Burial’s dubstep and the Ibrahim Ferrer’s Cuban jazz all sounded pretty much as intended, plus James Blake’s foot pedals sounded even more resonant than with the BeoPlay – and when the deep, wobbly bass section started it sounded like a helicopter was hovering outside the window.Verdict:The best sound on test and very stable software. If they release small and medium sized versions they’d have a Sonos-beater.Sonos Play:3£259; Three driver-amps; no Bluetooth or jack inputThe small but perfectly sounding SonosSonos are a Californian company who pretty much invented multi-room wi-fi speakers. ThePlay:3is their mid-range speaker, it might have been more appropriate to test the next unit up in the range the Play:5 against these larger speakers but the company didn’t have one available. This is the bedroom rather than living room-sized unit.At 30 minutes this was a long set-up process. I’ve tried Sonos products before and I recall the set-up was pretty speedy, but my previous history with Sonos confused the app, so I had to delete and reinstall it. Then it appeared to kill my wi-fi router, so I had re-boot that. After a bit of mucking about everything eventually worked. This was the only device that harvests your email and postcode before you are allowed to listen to music with it.Related:Time to embrace the horrors of your Spotify playlist dataThe unit is solidly put together and the design is unobtrusive. The sound is detailed and full of subtlety, vocals are clear and distinct and while bass sounds don’t boom they are sharp and clear rather than thuddy. Overall the sound is pretty amazing for its size and price. If you buy a second one it is possible to set them up in a stereo arrangement.You can’t operate Sonos units without using the Sonos app, so you’ll have to find your way around a new interface but it does allow access to an expansive range of streaming and radio services such as Tidal and Deezer so long as you’ve paid your subs.The last I used Sonos devices they interfered with my wi-fi connection causing lots of drop-outs so I abandoned them, however I didn’t experience any of these problems this time around.Verdict:Still the gold standard for multi-room sound, value and adaptability.LG Music Flow H7£279; Two amps; 70WThe LG: at the forefront of un-designPart of LG’s large range of wi-fi speakers, this unit’s normcore look isn’t going to draw any envious glances.TheH7doesn’t feature Airplay, so set-up, for Apple users at least, is slower since you have to use download LG’s Music Flow app and input your wi-fi password. Pairing however worked first time.If you’d rather play downloaded files than use streaming services you have to do that via the medium of LG’s battery-sucking app.The sound isn’t particularly rich, frequencies often sounded topped or bottomed off, meaning some songs didn’t sound as vibrant as they did on some of these other devices. Ultimately it sounds more like AM rather than FM.Verdict:For £210 you could pop down to Richer Sounds and buy aOnkyo streaming ampplus apair of Wharfedale speakers, and spend the surplus on a few months subscription to your favourite streaming provider. Or if you’re dead-set on multi-room save £20 and buy the Sonos. Your call.Pure Jongo T4x£150; two driver-amps; 50w; Bluetooth CaskeidPure Jongo – we couldn’t have put it better ourselvesWell-known for making digital radios, theT4xis part of the Hertfordshire company’s multi-room range. Construction is a bit plastic-y plastic.Set-up was kafkaesque. After installing the Pure Connect app the unit couldn’t be found on my wi-fi network. The support section of the Pure websiteexplains that there were issueswith BT HomeHubs 4 and 5 – ie issues for this reviewer and a lot of other UK broadband customers. It suggested downloading a software update that would fix the problem. All the other speakers in this test downloaded updates either automatically in the background or via their apps. With the Pure it is necessary to download the update to your computer, transfer it to a USB stick, then plug the stick into the speaker whilst holding the mute button and then wait five minutes for the update to install. Tedious enough, but I tried this several times and the hoped-for green light didn’t glow. The support site also suggests turning off the 5GHz band of your wi-fi router. So I logged into my router and disabled the 5GHz signal and repeated the software update rigmarole. Still didn’t get the green light.If all else fails, the support site suggests wiring your Jongo via an ethernet cable to your router. A splendid idea if the T4x had an ethernet socket.It does have a 3.5mm jack input, so using a two RCA phono to jack cable I rigged it up to my Denon CD player. I slipped a Rod Stewart CD in the drawer and pressed play. Because of the mis-matched impedance it was neighbour-botheringly loud, so I hit the stop button. It would be unprofessional to judge the unit’s sound performance on a few distorted bars ofEvery Picture Tells A Story.Verdict:Not very good.
Buying a new games consoles is one of those most vitally important decisions you can make in life – we’re only partially joking. Choose correctly, and you’re guaranteed years of fun and entertainment; make a bad call, and you’ll have a useless black box under your TV, endlessly incurring the disappointment and embarrassment of your children and the mockery of your friends.So let’s say you’vecommitted to buying at least one shiny new machine. Which should it be? Here is a quick guide to where the big consoles are right now.The technologyXbox One as first revealed by Microsoft in 2013.We’re not going to list all the tech specs here, so click through the officialPlayStation 4,Wii UandXbox Oneinformation at your leisure – or IGN has abig comparison chartwhile Trusted Reviews goes into lots oftechnical detail.In terms of power consumption, Xbox One and PS4 have both been criticised for the amount of juice they get through, especially if you’re leaving them in standby mode, or using one of the sleep modes to allow seamless downloads of game updates.A report last yearfound that the Xbox One can use up to 253 kWh per year, with PS4 on 184 kWh per year. Although Sony’s machine consumes more power while gaming, Xbox One is more greedy in standby mode. Both companies say they are addressing power consumption in firmware updates.Wii U is much more power efficient, on 37 kWh/year.All three machines have proved reliable so far, withMicrosoft particularly determinedto make up for the technical issues thatplagued the Xbox 360, providing vastly improved cooling systems.PlayStation 4 and Xbox OneSony and Microsoft’s machines are essentially moderately powerful desktop computers with very similar technical specifications – the only real difference being the type of RAM, or memory, they use, and the rendering power of the graphics processors (PS4 has more teraflops). For a while, developers were getting better performance out of the PlayStation 4 and many still think it has the superior architecture, though Xbox One titles are catching up.The important thing is that both machines are considered to be around 8-10 times more powerful than the PS3 and Xbox 360. You can expect to get true high definition (1080p) performance out of most games – and, on a big full-HD display, titles like Witcher 3 and Metal Gear Solid 5 look gorgeous.Wii UNintendo never competes on technology, so Wii U is much less powerful than the other consoles and games don’t look quite as beautiful as their Xbox One and PS4 counterparts. However, if you’re buying this thing, you’re not getting it for flashy multiplatform titles like Fifa, you’re getting it for exclusive Nintendo games, which have a visual charm of their own – and many run in full 1080p HD.Hardware featuresPS4 controller at the Sony booth during the China Joy fair in Shanghai, 2014.Photograph: Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty ImagesBoth PS4 and Xbox One come with chat headsets so you can talk to friends online, and both have features that let you record and share video online, either streaming live or uploading to YouTube (though it takes time to figure out). All have wireless controllers.PlayStation 4TheDualShock 4controller offers an innovative touchpad (which hardly any developers use, apart from as an extra button), as well as the usual analogue sticks, six-axis motion controls (again, hardly used), shoulder buttons and all that. There’s also a share button for uploading videos and screenshots of your gaming, a headphone socket and a built-in speaker which allows certain game noises to pop out at you unexpectedly. It’s comfortable and familiar to PlayStation veterans.APlayStation Camerais available separately, offering voice control, facial recognition and picture-in-picture video footage of yourself if you likestreaming games. The camera will also be an essential component in Sony’s virtual reality plans. Its PlayStation VR headset (previously known asProject Morpheus) is due out next year.Wii UThe biggest “unique selling point” of the Wii U is itsGamePad, essentially a sort of tablet computer, with its own touchscreen display and joypad controls. This allows you to continue playing your games even if someone else is hogging the TV. It is also used by certain titles as an extra display, perhaps showing a game map or inventory. Some initial games, such as Nintendoland, offered asymmetrical multiplayer, so one participant using the GamePad did different things than other players using standard controllers. But everyone seems to have forgotten about that.Xbox OneThe machine used to come with a new version of its Kinect motion tracking camera as standard, but it was expensive, games didn’t use it much and everyone was fed up with it, so now Microsoft has largely ditched it – you can still buy it if you want to use facial recognition and voice commands to control your console though.The controller is a refined version of the familiar Xbox pad; it’s chunkier than the PS4 equivalent, but has super comfortable analogue sticks and really accurate rumble effects so you get excellent tactile feedback. There’s a newElite versioncoming out with interchangeable parts for pro gamers who like to interchange things.The gamesThe E3 expo in Los Angeles where hundreds of new games and gaming devices are introduced to over 40,000 visitors.Photograph: MICHAEL NELSON/EPAMost of the big blockbuster “multiplatform” games (Assassin’s Creed, Call of Duty, Fifa) will come to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, usually at the same time and price. Sometimes publishers work out timed exclusivity deals so that a big title will appear on one machine first – this is happening with Rise of the Tomb Raider, which will be on Xbox One before Christmas, but not PS4. Publishers may also tie up deals with Sony or Microsoft to offer exclusive content – like multiplayer maps or weapons – to one machine. Try not to be swayed by timed exclusives though – for the sake of getting a single title a few weeks early, you may be saddled with a machine you don’t want.For a while, PlayStation 4 was getting visually superior versions of many multiplatform games, with smoother framerates and support for Full HD, but this seems to be equalling out. Eurogamer hasa good analysis of this.PlayStation 4 exclusivesSony has a worldwide network of “first-party” studios that produce games only for its hardware. It has also tied up exclusivity deals with publishers on key games. So far, however, its exclusive titles haven’t been Earth-shattering with only the dark adventure Bloodborne and the smaller indie titlesResogunandN++really hitting the heights. It has relied on remasters of great PS3 games, such as Last of Us and God of War.Coming up, however, are Uncharted: A Thief’s End, the enchanting adventure Last Guardian, vast space epic No Man’s Sky and prehistoric role-playing game Horizon: Zero Dawn. It’s a big, intriguing line-up.Wii U exclusivesThe best Wii U titles tend to be the ones Nintendo makes itself, or that have been designed by one of its very close development partners in Japan. The current line-up (Mario Kart 8, Super Smash Bros, Splatoon) is skewed toward kid-friendly local multiplayer, but no one on earth does this like Nintendo, and there’s always enough tactical depth for older players.On the way we have Mario Tennis, Star Fox Zero, a new Zelda title, retro platformer Mighty No 9, a survival horror sequel and Project Zero: Maiden of Black Water. There are not as many releases as for the other machines, but the really good Wii U titles will occupy you and your family for months.Xbox One exclusivesLike Sony, Microsoft has its own studios all over the world (though it has every little developer support in Japan). As with PS4, the Xbox One hasn’t exactly been overloaded with legendary exclusives so far, relying heavily on the motor sport titles Forza and Forza Horizon, and giant robot blast’em-up Titanfall. However, crazed shooter Sunset Overdrive, and beautiful indie titles Lovers in a Dangerous Space Time and Ori and the Blind Forest are worth a look.Coming up we have Halo 5: Guardians, interesting sci-fi adventure ReCore, 1940s-inspired platformer Cuphead, Gears of War 4, open-world epic Crackdown 3 and giant monster-slaying fantasy Scalebound. It’s a very strong slate, especially for veteran Xbox fans who’ve waited patiently for some old favourites to return.The servicesYes, you can watch Netflix and perhaps even chill in front of your Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and Wii U.Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoAll three consoles allow you to connect seamlessly to the internet via Wi-Fi or ethernet cable (the Wii U requires an extra peripheral for wired connections). Each one offers access to an array of video services such as BBC iPlayer, Netflix and YouTube, though the exact line-ups are different from machine to machine. PS4 and Xbox One both play Blu-ray and DVD movies, Wii U won’t play either.PlayStation 4If you want to play PS4 games online you’ll need to joinPlaystation Network, which costs £35 a year and also gives you access to free games through the excellent PlayStation Plus service.Along withall the usual video-on-demand services, PS4 has its own version of Spotify, which lets you play your own music choices in the background while gaming. PlayStation 4 is not backwards compatible with older games so you won’t be able to put in a PS2 or PS3 disc and play it. Instead, Sony has a service calledPlayStation Nowwhich lets you rent retro titles for between £2.99 and £7.99. You can also buy aPlayStation TVbox which costs £45 and lets you stream your PS4 content to other TVs in your house, as well as download a handful of classic PlayStation titles.Wii UNintendo’s machine has amodest rangeof video apps and services, as well as a really friendly and nicely designed online community calledMiiverse, which lets players share content and ask for gaming advice in a safe way. You can also download lots of classic titles via theVirtual Consoledigital shop. But it’s very much a games machine rather than a multimedia hub.Xbox OneXbox Live Goldis the service you’ll need to subscribe to in order to play against others online – like PlayStation Network, this also offers monthly free games. It’s still a more robust infrastructure than Sony’s, which has suffered a series of hacker attacks over the past two years.Again, there’s abig list of apps and entertainment services. Xbox One offers HDMI throughput, which lets you plug in your satellite or cable box, then view it all through your console without having to keep unplugging all your leads. It has the capacity to watch live TV, too, so it’s very effective as a multimedia “set-top box” that you can put in your living room and use to run all your screened entertainment. The console also integrates closely with Windows 10, so you’ll be able to keep up with your Xbox Live friends via your PC and even try cross-platform online multiplayer games between consoles and computers.The priceA game store in Tokyo. Although you may find more competitive console prices online, the major high street retailers occasionally tie-up exclusive bundlesPhotograph: Toru Hanai/REUTERSThe price of all three consoles has fallen since they first arrived and you should shop around for the best deals. Look especially for special bundles that may well throw in a game you really want with the machine at no extra cost. All come with at least one official controller and the leads you need to plug it into your TV.PlayStation 4A basic PS4 package with a 500GB hard drive will cost about £280, with a 1TB model at about £299. It’s worth looking out for game bundles – there are Fifa, Batman, Destiny and Uncharted Collection versions around right now.Wii UThe basic pack is £180 making this the cheapest current generation console available. However there are premium packs (with 32GB hard drives instead of 8GB) complete with Mario Kart 8, Super Mario Maker, Splatoon or Super Smash Bros. These make it £240-£260.Xbox OneA basic Xbox One with 500GB drive comes in at £270, or £350 with the 1TB drive. There will be a range of bundles to accompany the release of Halo 5 at the end of October.ConclusionSo which console is best for you? Before you decide there’s one important factor to consider. “Follow your friends,” says Oli Welsh, editor of Eurogamer. “It’s more important than ever to be on the same platform as people you know in order to get the full online, social experience”. Indeed, there are so many titles nowadays that offer compelling cooperative and competitive multiplayer gaming (Destiny, Assassin’s Creed Syndicate, Star Wars Battlefront, Tom Clancy’s The Division), you’ll want to have the same machine as your mates.With that in mind …PlayStation 4 is best for:People who want to play a wide range of games, from blockbusters to indie titles, with the best visuals and with decent multiplayer components. It is selling better than Xbox One, making it the target platform for many studios. There’s also the potential to experience virtual reality soon courtesy of the PlayStation VR headset.Wii U is best for:Families who want to sit and play bright, accessible and compelling games together on the sofa. You won’t get all the big blockbuster titles such as Call of Duty and Metal Gear Solid, but this is the only place you’ll get the latest games from one of the best design studios in the world. The machine hasn’t sold brilliantly, though, and there’s a chance Nintendo may announce a successor,currently codenamed Nintendo NXthis summer – maybe even for a winter release.Xbox One is best for:People who want a games machine that’s also a powerful multimedia hub able to control all of their entertainment from video-on-demand to satellite TV. The online infrastructure is comparatively secure and the Windows 10 implementation may interest PC users. There’s also a great range of exclusive titles.“Come Christmas, Xbox One will a different proposition to the machine that launched two years ago,” says Official Xbox Magazine editor, Matthew Castle. “The Windows 10-powered ‘New User Experience’ will replace the clunky panelled interface of today – a hangover from its original Kinect dependency – with a faster, simpler home page and the option to bark commands at Cortana. More importantly, it has actual new games to play – Halo 5, Rise of the Tomb Raider, Forza 6, Fable Legends – and where it does lean on re-releases, it does so generously, such as Rare Replay’s tasty 30 games for £20.”Our recommendation:right now, PlayStation 4 is in a very strong position as a pure high-end gaming machine. Xbox One is improving all the time, but Sony’s console has a big head start, with 25m machines sold compared to around 14m Xbox Ones, putting it at the forefront of publisher development plans. If you can afford it, Wii U is a lovely second machine.
In the bowels of London’s Science Museum, Dr Tilly Blyth gingerly opens an envelope. Inside is a lock of long, dark hair tied with a green ribbon. It’s a curiously poignant moment. The lively, intelligent woman to whom it belonged died young, but her mathematical work with computer pioneer Charles Babbage has seen her become a paragon for women in science and technology. Gazing down at the tresses, the centuries seem to shrink away. Ladies and gentlemen, Ada Lovelace is in the room.It’s an impression Blyth hopes to share. Curator of anew exhibitionat the museum opening on “Ada Lovelace day”, she is hoping to breathe life back into the tale of Lord Byron’s daughter in the year of her 200th birthday, bringing together the locks with portraits, letters and artefacts to allow visitors to capture a glimpse of Lovelace “as an individual”.Others too are keen to support a fresh portrayal. “She was certainly not an angel,” says mathematician Dr Hannah Fry, citing Lovelace’s tempestuous relationships with men, alcohol and gambling. “I think that being perfect isn’t a prerequisite to achieving something,” says Fry, the presenter of a recent BBC documentary about Lovelace, “and I think that it is actually really nice that she is just this very difficult figure.” Furthermore, “the thing that you are contributing doesn’t even have to make a difference,” says Fry, pointing out that although Lovelace’s achievements were “astonishingly impressive”, they had little impact at the time.Related:Newly asked questions: Are women doing better or worse in IT since Ada Lovelace?Among the items on show is a punch-card operated Jacquard loom of the type that inspired Babbage’s plans for a grand computing machine, the Analytical Engine, as well as a humble marble-covered notebook – Lovelace’s translation of Luigi Menabrea’s seminal 1842 essay on Babbage’s ideas. Her own extensive notes run to more pages that the original article and even contain instructions for the engine. It’s a work that Blyth believes should inspire us to widen our appreciation of the oft-overlooked contributions of translators, communicators and collaborators that, she notes, were often “the kinds of roles that women played at that time”.Blyth believes the exhibition – an intimate one-roomed show – will also encourage visitors to appreciate Lovelace’s true legacy, which, she says, is not so much her instructions for Babbage’s machine – which was never completed – but something more profound. “I would say what is really more significant is that intellectual leap that she made for considering what the analytical engine could do,” says Blyth. “[Babbage] was thinking about the different simultaneous equations that the engine could calculate but what she saw is [that] this isn’t just about number; it’s about symbol and therefore music and possibly letters – and [the machine] could calculate a whole range of different things.”Fry agrees: “She was the first published computer programmer but whether she actually came up with the program herself is still debated,” she says. Ultimately, Lovelace’s greatest achievement was even more extraordinary. “She was prophesying the computer age,” says Fry.TheAda Lovelace exhibition at the Science Museumin London openson Tuesday, 13 October.
Blood Bowl 2(Xbox One, PS4, Windows, Focus Home Interactive, cert: 16)★★★★In short, it’s blood and pigskin in this sports-strategy game, which mashes American football with goofy fantasy. Lead a small team of professional athletes to glory in a savage game as likely to leave them dead as rich. On the pitch, call their plays and try to keep them alive; off the pitch, scout for talent and sponsors. The ref’s a goblin; the commentators are an ogre and a vampire; players punch more often than they pass. It’s like very much like watching the Premier League, then.Blood Bowlbegan as a board game in the late 1980s and this is the most faithful adaptation of the rules to date. A lot of work has gone into pleasing fans of the Games Workshop original and to capture theWarhammerworld with black humour, tweaked graphics and improved animation. While the very basics are well explained, it could do better to introduce the more advanced tactics and play styles. Overall, however,Blood Bowl 2is a rewarding exercise in charm and nostalgia.PHWorld of Warships: surefire tactical thrills.World of Warships(PC, Wargaming.net, cert: 7)★★★★This follows the tried and tested Wargaming.net formula of multiplayer online battles the company has made its own, this time with players controlling their own ship and bidding to sink their opponents. There are four different classes of vessel – destroyers, cruisers, battleships and aircraft carriers – all with their own unique playing style. Although the action is slower than eitherWorld of TanksorWorld of Warplanes, this is actually one of the game’s strengths, as it allows more tactical flexibility and encourages teamwork. For example, battleships are very tough and pack a huge punch with their main guns, but they can easily be sunk by a group of tiny destroyers working together and using their speed and manoeuvrability.The graphics are also excellent: with the settings maxed the ships look stunning, especially when battle damage starts to appear.Like Wargaming.net’s other games,Warshipsis free to play and although investing real money in a premium account will allow players to reach higher level ships more quickly, it can be achieved by investing time instead. Taking things slowly is not necessary a bad strategy either, it takes a while to master deflection shooting - aiming where an opponent is expected to be several second later when the shells land, rather than where they are at the moment of firing.Athoroughly enjoyable title, then, that throws up only a couple of real gripes. Firstly that the weather is always fine and the seas calm, which is a shame as fighting an encounter while ploughing through huge waves would be a great experience. The lack of Royal Navy ships – only American, Japanese and a few Soviet vessels are currently available – also seems a major omission. The British are certain to arrive in a later update but it seems odd to ignore them.RFPro Skater 5: over the hill.Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 5(PS4, Xbox One, Activision, cert: 12)★★The last time an original Tony Hawk’s game carried thePro Skatersuffix was 2002. That marked the end of the series’ golden age; an era the newTony Hawk’s Pro Skater 5strives to recapture. And, technically at least, it does.Pro Skater 5offers a pared-down skateboarding title where tricks, score and reactions define the experience almost entirely. Sadly, all of that comes in a release that feels uninspired and ill-crafted.The gameplay is functional and occasionally captures a sense of what it was to enjoy the first Tony Hawk’s games. ButPro Skater 5too often sullies that memory with insipid level and mission design, and a stodginess of interaction. The scope of the available modes is particularly underwhelming, and its abundance of glitches too often overshadows any enjoyment.This is a title sadly starved of direction and purpose, delivering a somewhat barren experience that, at very best, may only occasionally comfort the most nostalgicPro Skaterfans.WF
A UFO hovering outside the 72nd floor of London’s Shard skyscraper and a flying camera hurtling through the skies over Hyde Park are just two of the rising number of “drone-related incidents” reported to police forces across the UK.Figures provided to the Guardian following a freedom of information request show a significant increase in the number of cases where members of the public have reported nuisance drone flying to their local force. Thames Valley police recorded 21 incidents in 2014, rising to 80 this year. The Metropolitan police logged 21 cases in 2015, up from one the previous year.The incidents logged by Scotland Yard in the past 24 months range from concerns about the piloting of drones over packed crowds at a Christmas event in Hyde Park to the devices being used to ferry drugs into prison or to commit sexual offences.The most recent drone case to come to court involved a film-maker who was fined £1,125 last week for illegally flying his drone over Hyde Park without permission during a shoot for a promotional video.Elsewhere, at least one person took the law into their own hands when confronted with a drone. Details of an incident logged by Lincolnshire police said: “Caller states there was a remote-control drone over his garden. He has shot at it with his rifle.”Dr Alan McKenna, of the University of Kent, said complaints “include concerns about privacy, harassment, general calls about drones flying over the neighbourhood”. He added: “But there have been examples of people resorting to physical violence because they are so annoyed, which I think is quite telling.”Among other large forces, Greater Manchester police (GMP) provided details of 58 incidents since early last year. Notes taken by call handlers included a report of an “intrusive drone”. It added: “Believe the occupant of house nearby is sending a radio-controlled drone over address where INFT [informant] is sunbathing. Believe is taking photos. Been over three times now.”Another GMP log was titled “Drone causing trouble” and said: “Someone is flying this drone over this junction. Looks like a giant spider and everyone is looking at it and not where they are going.” The log also stated that two men flying a drone over Manchester United’s Old Trafford stadium were detained in November last year.West Yorkshire police’s log included an incident from July in which a caller expressed concern about a drone that had been “hanging around” for a few months. The caller reported it after it appeared to follow them home and hovered outside their bedroom window. The entry added that the caller “states that a few of the neighbours have seen it also. It is freaking people out and invading people’s privacy”.Drone-related incidents logged by Merseyside police included one in which an air crew reported a drone at 365 metres (1,200ft) above Liverpool city centre. Others echoed suspicions elsewhere about the use of camera drones near children. One log entry recorded: “Drone over Funland playground – adult challenged”. Another noted: “Suspicious circumstances. Drone near children’s play area.”The Police Service of Northern Ireland’s log included an example of one caller who reported that a drone had been flown over his house by neighbours with whom he had been in a six-year boundary dispute.Another concerned a woman whose daughter had used a cash machine and said a man appeared to be using a drone with a camera attached to hover above and record people as they entered their pin numbers. The drone was said to have crashed.Members of the public are barred from flying drones within 150 metres of a congested area and within 50 metres of a person, vehicle or structure not under their control.McKenna, who is researching legal issues arising from the increasing use of drones, said that a relative lack of awareness of the law governing their use was problematic.He added: “I was talking, for example, to a farmer who was not best pleased at a drone going across his land and he felt that he could use a shotgun because he regarded it as akin to a dog attacking his livestock. That was an interesting perspective.“Education is important, but it will only get us so far. If we cannot enforce the regulations that we have, then people will use self-help mechanisms. That is the nature of a human being unfortunately.“The police and the Civil Aviation Authority are operating at a time of budget cutbacks. It’s going to be difficult for them. This is a new technology and the police are learning the ropes. Will their forces actually give them the resources to go and investigate drones that cannot be identified when they are clearly infringing air navigational rules?”
My interest in virtual reality was virtually nil – until last month. When I thought of it, I pictured low-budget sci-fi movies with bad special effects. I thought of those pixellated posters, popular in the mid-1990s, the ones where you would stare at the wall and a three-dimensional vision of an underwater city would slowly emerge from a cluster of purple dots.I thought of it as something that turned on adolescent gamers who sat at home in their underpants with the curtains closed and who dreamed of a day when they could fully inhabit the body of the bank robber guy with the stubble and the biceps inGrand Theft Auto. I thought of 3D glasses in 1950s movie theatres and the 360-degree cinema screens your parents took you to when you went on holiday to France and it was raining. The whole idea of virtual reality made me want to stifle an actual reality yawn. In short: I was clueless.But that was before I visited theVirtual Human Interaction Laboratoryat Stanford University in Silicon Valley and had a sleek black headset containing an eight-camera infra-red tracking system strapped to my skull. That was before I stood on a floor made from aeroplane steel and fitted with “shakers” that simulated surface motion and before I experienced a spatialised sound system and before I had sensors attached to my wrists that responded to my movements. That was before I’d flown like a superhero.I’m greeted like an old relic because I have never tried the Oculus Rift headset“Put your arms out to take off,” the laboratory manager Shawnee Baughman says, as if this is all perfectly normal. I do as instructed. There is a whoosh of air, a shudder beneath my feet and then I’m swooping through the sky, arms outstretched into the vast blue beyond as I fly through a computer animated New York City. Looking down, I can make out the traffic lights and empty streets far below. I can feel the slicing movement of the air each time I turn. I fly into a skyscraper, just to see what happens. I feel a surge of nausea as I crash into the wall and then the bricks shatter on impact. It is incredibly convincing.When I move my arms together, I go faster. When I point them towards the ground, I fly downwards. As I land, my knees vibrate with the impact. I remove the virtual reality headset, my palms sweaty with exhilaration. I am an immediate convert. There’s nothing like pretending you’re Wonder Woman to counteract your own ignorant scepticism.Screenshot from the virtual city that Elizabeth Day flew around in.Photograph: Stanford VR Lab“The special thing about VR,” says Baughman as she takes the headset from me, “is that the scene responds to the way you are moving. It’s fully immersive.”So immersive that I feel slightly car sick. Apparently that happens a lot: in real life, your eyes move when you’re looking at an object and the lens in each eye adjusts to bring whatever is in front of you into focus. With a flat, lit-up screen, that’s not possible. The solution lies in eyeball tracking. The Stanford VR headset has tracking LEDs that manage 200 frames a second, which is pretty sophisticated. “My boss has a joke,” Baughman says, “that the five most important things about virtual reality are tracking, tracking, tracking, tracking and tracking.”She chuckles. It’s not the best joke I’ve ever heard. Perhaps it works better in a world of virtual humour.One Dark Night: Emblematic Group’s reconstruction of the killing of Travyon MartinVirtual reality is at a pivotal moment. For years, it has been talked about in the tech community as a sort of holy grail. As far back as 1939, the author Stanley G Weinbaum was writing about a goggle-based virtual reality system with holographic recordings of fictional experiences. By 1968, the American computer scientistIvan Sutherlandhad designed a virtual reality head-mounted system that was so cumbersome it had to be suspended from the ceiling and was called, terrifyingly, the Sword of Damocles.Throughout the 1990s, the concept of VR seemed to be moving ever closer (a 1992 edition ofComputer Gaming Worldconfidently predicted affordable virtual reality within two years) but limited computing power ensured these theories remained purely hypothetical. Then everyone got their attention diverted by a more promising prospect: the internet. Today, substantial advances in computer science mean that virtual reality visionaries finally have the technological power to implement their ideas. Major companies including Sony, Oculus and HTC are already developing headsets for use in the home that will be on sale in the first quarter of 2016. By the end of next year, it is estimated there could be 12.2 million VR headsets in our houses, retailing from $99 to $500 (not including the compatible computing systems).Wearing an Oculus Rift headset to play a video game in the Pocket Queries booth at the this year’s Tokyo Game show.Photograph: Getty ImagesGoogle has developed a flat-pack version made out of cardboard, calledCardboard, which is exactly the kind of ingenious, innovatory thought leadership you expect from cutting-edge tech developers.Cardboard consists of two magnifying lenses that can be inserted into a rectangular holder into which slots your smartphone. You can then download content from a virtual reality app and view it through the DIY headset. I’ve tried it and, despite looking like aBlue Peterexperiment with double-sided sticky-tape, it works fairly well.Virtual reality enthusiasts say it’s the next big thing: an idea as capable of transforming our lives as the mobile phone. “In just a few years, VR has gone from being this science fiction dream to an awesome reality,” said Facebook founderMark Zuckerberglast month. “And now we all here have a chance to change the way we play, communicate and collaborate.”Zuckerberg, who knows a thing or two about predicting trends, bought one of America’s leading virtual reality technology companiesfor $2.3bn last year. Oculus VR is the idea of a 23-year-old wunderkind called Palmer Luckey and its acquisition by Facebook opens up a plethora of opportunity for the social network – from collaborative 3D computer games to enabling a friend who couldn’t attend a wedding to experience the service in 360-degree video.A selection of games and experiences soon to be available on the Samsung Gear VR headsetEugene Chung, the former head of film and media at Oculus who recently left to start up his own“augmented and virtual reality studio”, calls it a watershed moment. He cites the myth surrounding one of theLumière brothers’first cinema films in 1896 of a train arriving at a station. The astonished audience, unaccustomed to watching a moving picture, were said to have run to the back of the room in terror at the oncoming train.“You have this thing that is so different from anything you’ve experienced before, that you run away from it,” says Chung. “The next few months and years, you’re going to see that with virtual reality. The first time I tried it, it blew my mind.”Oculus has big ambitions. When I go along to itssecond annual developer conference, held in a plush hotel in Hollywood, it is full of men in polo necks speaking into microphone headsets about “Twitch streams” and “recommended specs” to a packed auditorium. Zuckerberg himself makes an appearance to announce that VR will be “the next great tech platform that’s going to define the way we connect in the future”.Everyone claps. The ratio of women to men wearing T-shirts bearing humorous slogans (“Eminence Geek”, “Binary, it’s as easy as 01, 10, 11” etc) is probably running at about 1:6. I am greeted like some kind of relic from a past age because I’ve never tried the Oculus Rift headset. The Rift is about as good as it gets: a state-of-the-art headset with displays and optics designed specifically for VR.“You’ve never put one of these on before?” asks a bearded type who is overseeing the demo room. I shake my head. “Wow,” he says, looking at me as if I amMarty McFly.He slips on the headset, which feels lighter than the one in Stanford and more snugly fitted. He hands me an Xbox control panel. “You’re familiar with the Xbox controls, right?”I have played an Xbox precisely once in my life. It did not go well.“Yes,” I lie.“OK, then.” He starts up the demo. A curved screen in front of me offers me a choice of games to play. A floating cursor moves with my gaze. I opt for something called Chronos because it sounds a bit Greek and a bit like a bowel disease.Chronos Reveal Trailer.And: it’s extraordinary. I’m immediately pitched into some sort of Mayan temple. My avatar is a warrior with a sword. When I jiggle the controls to make him move, there is the sound of footsteps and also – hard to explain, this – the feel of feet shifting. I can turn my head and look over my shoulder and see the continuation of the vista: rocks and temple ruins and jungle plants. I could quite happily hang out here, just taking everything in.But I’m intrigued. So I make my warrior walk into an open doorway and am confronted by a massive monster that looms over me so realistically that I physically cower in my chair. I last about two seconds before the monster squashes me and it’s game over.“You picked it up very quickly,” says the bearded guy after I remove the headset. I think he’s just being nice. Again, I have that same vague sensation of motion sickness.Although the gaming market will be the testing ground, there are countless other applications that are being explored.Afterwards, I talk to Ted Price, the president and CEO ofInsomniac Gameswhich he founded in 1994. Price has penetrating blue eyes which become almost hypnotic the more he talks about VR. He makes several attempts to express what virtual reality is like to someone who hasn’t experienced it and then admits defeat.“It’s like talking about how something tastes,” he says. “You can’t understand it unless you try it.” What excites him most is that gaming in virtual reality “could have a much broader appeal just because of the sense of place you get, which in some sense is as important as the game itself. It’s where the lines blur a little between what is a game and what is an immersive experience … Your world surrounds you and that’s a huge difference.”His company is developing a VR game which will put the player in the skin of an Antarctic explorer. The more the journey goes on, the more surreal it becomes so that the game becomes a test of mental strength as much as anything else.Virtual Reality ‘Future Fashion’ Event at Westfield.Photograph: Tim P. Whitby/Getty Images for Westfield“We want players to question whether what they see is real,” says Price. “So we’re playing with a player’s 3D spatial experience. Is this glacier real or is it a figment of my imagination? So it becomes a psychological thriller. We have the ability to tell a story in a way we have not told them before.”In fact, much of the most interesting work in virtual reality springs from this same desire to find new ways of storytelling. Although the gaming market will be the testing ground, there are countless other applications that are also being explored.The film director Gil Kenan, whose previous work includes thePoltergeistremake andCity of Ember, is working on a virtual reality science-fiction movie about an unwanted passenger on an outer space journey.What this means is that a cinemagoer in a VR headset will be in charge of their own experience. So, instead of always having to follow the main narrative action, they can choose to step into a different space and witness a scene between two minor characters that would otherwise have ended up on the cutting-room floor.The film would still be the same fixed length for all viewers, Kenan explains, but: “If you’re doing the job right, there will be layers of storytelling that can’t be consumed in a single viewing. For example, there could be a foreshadowing of future events or events on the margins that could be just as thrilling or tense.”Related:Could virtual reality revolutionise crisis-response filmmaking ?It’s like a multi-layered Russian novel, I say. “Yes!” he says delightedly. “I’m trying to be the Tolstoy of the big screen! I’m thinking of it in terms of five-minute stories within a bigger narrative and scope.”What will this mean for film critics? How will they review a single movie that incorporates so many user experiences?“They will have to talk about the totality rather than one cursory viewing.” So it’ll be more work?“More work,” Kenan admits. “That’s why I’m making it shorter. Also, I don’t think we’ve reached enough understanding of this medium to understand what a logical length of time is for these experiences because most of it, at the moment, is two to five minutes because it’s the demo phase.”There are other interesting VR entertainment developments in the pipeline.VRLive, for instance, is a broadcasting company that records concerts in 360-degree virtual reality. It has already done a version for a U2 gig which puts the user slap-bang in the front row, close enough to see Bono’s Cuban heels.Palmer Luckey, creator of the Oculus Rift.Photograph: Getty Images“I know the live experience is huge,” says co-founder Dann Saxton. “But we’re talking about releasing virtual ticketing if the house is full and people can no longer buy tickets to go to the event itself.”In the future, virtual reality could be used for school trips in the classroom. Pupils could more fully experience what it would be like to live in a bygone era, for example, or could travel to far-flung lands without ever leaving their desks. At Oculus, I learn of one company that is seeking to use VR for geriatric care by giving elderly people who live on their own virtual reality consultations with their doctor.There is pioneering work being done at Stanford’s virtual human interaction laboratory in this field too. The lab runs psychological experiments under the guidance of Professor Jeremy Bailenson to explore the scope of human empathy.Related:Facebook joins YouTube in showing 360-degree videos – including Star WarsIn one video, you put on the headset and find yourself confronted by a long mirror running the length of one wall. When I look at my reflection, an elderly man looks back at me. When I move my arm, the avatar moves his. When I turn, I’m being shouted at in discriminatory terms by an angry person. This is intended to show people who might not have experienced discrimination on grounds of age or race what it feels like to be in another person’s skin and it is surprisingly effective.Another video shows people becoming aged versions of themselves. When confronted by a greying image of their own face, this will – so the reasoning goes – make them more likely to save for retirement. Merrill Lynch liked the research so much it used the technology as the basis for designing its own online app known asFaceRetirement, which allows anyone with a laptop camera to create and interact with their future self.There’s another demo that teaches users how to survive in the event of an earthquake and Bailenson has also developed technology to place children with chronic pain in virtual simulations that divert their brains from unpleasant physical therapy and treatment. The children use avatars to perform distracting exercises such as popping balloons. “VR experience changes the way you think of yourself and others and changes your behaviour,” Bailenson said in an interview earlier this year. “And when it’s done well, it’s a proxy for natural experience, and we know experiences physically change us.”Taken to its logical conclusion, this has some worrying implications.“I can’t look you in the eye and claim that it only works for the good stuff,” said Bailenson. “Am I terrified of the world where anyone can create really horrible experiences? Yes, it does worry me. I worry what happens when a violent video game feels like murder. And whenpornography feels like sex. How does that change the way humans interact, function as a society?”It’s a question I put to almost everyone I meet throughout the course of researching this article and almost everyone says the same thing: on-screen violence already exists and it’s up to the individual to monitor their own choices.I can’t look you in the eye and claim it only works for the good stuff. Yes, it worries me.Professor Jeremy Bailensen“As a gamer and a parent, the first thing I do is I check up on what I’m going to play on a device and whether it’s right for me,” says Ted Price. “It’s up to the gamer to decide what they can handle, as it is with movies or books.”Well, up to a point. But arguably the people most vulnerable to virtual reality violence are also those with the least capacity to know what’s good for them (or to care). And there is no doubt that feeling is acutely heightened in a virtual reality world.Nonny de la Peña, Co-Founder of Emblematic games explains the concept behind Project SyriaThe most memorable and moving experience I had while trying out various VR demos was one made byEmblematic, an organisation specialising in immersive documentary and non-fiction. It has been at the forefront of developing news-related content that seeks to put the user in the centre of the action. One of its films places participants in the midst of a rocket attack in Syria and later in a refugee camp. Another is a multi-viewpoint reconstruction of the night 17-year-oldTrayvon Martinwas shot dead by a neighbourhood watch volunteer in Florida in 2012, using real-life recordings from emergency 911 calls.“One of the things we asked ourselves is how do you break through the torpor of constant media images to trigger a more emotive response,” says Emblematic’s co-founder Jamie Pallot. “The defining quality of virtual reality is a sense of presence. It tricks your mind into thinking you’re somewhere else and that produces a very strong empathetic response.”He hands me a headset, apologising for the poor quality of some of the images as he does so. It’s in the early phases, he explains. I watch a short animated film calledKiyawhich tells the real-life story of two sisters’ attempts to try to rescue their sibling from her abusive ex-boyfriend. Again, actual 911 recordings are used.Immediately, I am in the midst of the story. I watch as the two sisters enter the mobile home where they try to reason with a man holding a gun. I listen as their calls to the police become increasingly panicked. I can sense their fear in a very real way. As the sisters move back outside, I follow them. A shot sounds from indoors and, although I don’t see it, I already know that Kiya has been killed. The last image is from inside Kiya’s home: a fridge covered with photos of her young daughter.Related:Minecraft on Hololens: the future of gaming is right in front of your eyesAs a journalist, I have often found myself in extreme or sad situations. I have interviewed a terminally ill man, a convicted murderer, the grieving mother of a schoolboy who committed suicide. Each of these stories has moved me deeply because of their visceral reality and truth. But I hadn’t expected a computer animation to provoke this reaction. When I remove the headset, there are tears in my eyes. Jamie asks me something and I have to take a few breaths. I am surprised because the emotion is so instinctive. I hadn’t noticed I was on the verge of crying until I returned from the virtual world to the real one.“That was quite something,” I say.Jamie nods. “There are grown men who’ve started watching this and who’ve had to stop halfway through because they can’t take it,” he replies.It’s not yet clear where this technology will go or what its full potential might be or whether it will take off in the spectacular way promised by its most vehement supporters. But it’s a tantalising prospect nevertheless.So I was wrong. Virtual reality isn’t boring. I’m actually pretty excited about it, even if it makes me car sick.
Are you a gadget fiend?I do like gadgets, yes. Growing up in a single-parent family meant we didn’t always have the money to buy the latest thing, so the more successful I’ve got the more I’ve enjoyed being able to see what’s out there. I have loads: cameras, video cameras, consoles, headsets, about 50 pairs of headphones.Does tech help with gymnastics?There’s not a lot of tech in gymnastics, but there are some things you can use in training. I use the slow-mo on my phone, so I can see what I am doing frame by frame.How often do you Google yourself?I have some alerts on my phone, which means quite often I wake up to things that aren’t true. That can be quite scary. But I don’t search for myself very often.If you could travel back in time, where would you go?I’d go to the 50s or 40s, to London or America. I love the swing, doo-wop, Charleston, Motown-type vibe. I know it was harder for my ethnicity back then but I’d put up with it.What would be the first thing you’d make with a 3-D printer?A kind of plinth for my Olympic torch. I haven’t got it anywhere decent, it’s just sitting next to my fireplace, so I’d like a stand for it.What social media do you use?I use them all: Twitter, Facebook, Instagram. I like Twitter and Facebook for the videos. And I use Snapchat, too. That’s mainly for the fans – I can add things on My Story, which is pretty cool.Favourite app?ITunes is my favourite but I’ve recently got into this thing called Thug Life. You make your own videos, like whena cat pushes a glass off a tableand then you add chains and sunglasses to it. It’s hilarious.Do you speak on your phone at the checkout?If it wasn’t important I’d put it in my pocket. It’s rude. I’ve got friends that are always on their phones at meals, which I really don’t like.Do you use text-speak?No, I write everything out properly. Or leave a voice note. That’s quite easy.Favourite computer game?Call of Duty:Black Ops 2is the best, I think, but I always play the most up-to-date version online.MW2was good, too. I have an Xbox One and a PS4. I play fans on PlayStation. And I also have a PSP.At competitions and training camps there’s sometimes quite a lot of downtime, and especially if you’re in a different timezone you can’t just message someone, so it’s good to have something to do.Most expensive piece of tech?I have a brilliant party house. There’s a Sonos music system built into the house, with the speakers integrated and wired in. That cost about 12 grand. And my TV cost about seven and a half – it’s a 75-inch. I bought it just before the 4K screens came out, and I’m tempted by them, but my TV’s all right for the minute.I hear you are a fan of hot tubs ...Yep. If the party moves out to the garden I’ve got my Louis Smith hot tub as well which is really good because it is a big seven-seater. It’s multipurpose – I use it a lot for muscle recovery after training.Should anything be censored online?Definitely. There’s some messed up stuff on the internet. Nothing terroristy should be allowed – war crimes, beheadings, anything that can radicalise people. Anything that’s illegal, obviously. Porn’s all right.Related:No sex, please, they're robots, says Japanese android firmWould you have sex with a robot?In 30 years’ time, I might do. The technology doesn’t seem great at the moment. I have a girlfriend so I think I’d rather stick with the real thing.Would you want a driverless car?No. It would take all the fun away. I have a Nissan Skyline GT-R and I love driving it. I wouldn’t want a robot car unless the robot was programmed by Lewis Hamilton. That would be all right.Would you try Oculus Rift?I’d love to.The Gadget Showdid something where they wired the system to paintball guns – so when you got shot a paintball gun would shoot you. And you were on a treadmill so when you walked forward you walked in the game. I’d want one of those in my house.Related:Six of the best noise-cancelling headphones to silence the commuteFavourite headphones?I have some Jamaican Beats [by Dre]. I had some GB ones at the 2012 Olympics and swapped with one of the Jamaican team. I’ve got wireless ones, bass buds with diamonds in them. They’re a bit flashy.Which emoji do you use most often?Probably the laughing one where he’s got two tears coming out.Candy CrushIf anyone else sends me a Candy Crush invite on Facebook I’m going to unfriend them. It looks like the most tedious game ever.Do you have a selfie stick?No, but I have a stick for my GoPro that’s kind of similar. My girlfriend gave it to me for my birthday. I haven’t done much with it yet except attach it to the dog. But I’m going to try to incorporate it into my training, to get some cool gymnastics shots.
You’re highly unlikely to manage to eat enough apple seeds to poison yourself, so you can rest easy if you occasionally swallow one. Apples contain a compound called amygdalin in their seeds, which is a cyanide-and-sugar based molecule. If the seed is chewed or otherwise broken, human or animal enzymes come into contact with the amygdalin and effectively cut off the sugar part of the molecule. The remainder can then decompose to produce the poisonous gas hydrogen cyanide.Cyanide toxicity is experienced by humans at doses of around 0.5–3.5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Symptoms of cyanide poisoning include stomach cramps, headache, nausea and vomiting, and can culminate in cardiac arrest, respiratory failure, coma and death. A fatal dose for humans can be as low as 1.5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. In a recent study, the amygdalin content of apple seeds was found to be approximately 3 milligrams per gram of seeds (one seed is approximately 0.7g).As not all of this mass would be converted into hydrogen cyanide (some of it will constitute the sugar part of the molecules that is cleaved off), it’s apparent that you’re going to need to eat a huge number of apple seeds to succeed in poisoning yourself, and there don’t appear to be any cases of someone having succeeded in doing so.An apple a day graphic
Price: £28,755 (with government grant)Top speed: 138mph0-62mph: 7.6 secondsMPG: 166After the scandals in sport, food and banking (doping, horse meat, Libor and the rest), only a fool would have bet against the motor industry not cheating the system, too. But no one would have fingeredVolkswagenas the culprit. A byword for trust and decency for more than 75 years and the jewel of the German automotive industry, all reduced to lousy tricksters in the space of a single afternoon. That old adage that a good name takes a lifetime to win and a moment to lose has never been more true.It was ironic, for me at least, that the day Michael Horn, VW’s US boss, stood up and said: “We’ve screwed up!” was also the day I found myself at the wheel of the newGolf GTE. The E in the title stands for Electric, while the GT is for Gran Turismo and tells new customers (and God knows they’re going to need them) that this isn’t just some dull electric buggy affair (a golf buggy!) but a full-on driver’s car that shares the same sporting DNA as the brand’s most famous performance badge – the GTi. It’s certainly a tricky balancing act for this VW to pull off as the car has to be both parsimoniousandpowerful. A sort of vegan Tarzan.Inside story: the Golf, despite its futuristic powertrain, will be familiar to all VW drivers.The car is a plug-in hybrid with both a 1.4 TSI petrol (no diesel here) and a snappy electric engine. It has five operating modes: pure electric, electric plus, battery hold, battery charge and auto hybrid. VW has made the technology that controls each option incredibly straightforward, but like many others, I suspect, after fiddling about with the various settings, I clicked on auto hybrid and let the car sort itself out. It seemed to know what it was about far better than me, anyway. Whichever mode you select the car always pulls away in pure electric and it takes a while to get used to that sudden, silent lurch.All the extra gubbins associated with two engines and a large battery mean that the car is 300kg heavier than the standard model. That’s like driving everywhere with the Fijian rugby team’s front row sitting in the back. Despite all that heft the car still feels quick and agile around the park (rather like the Fijians themselves) which is testament to the raw power of the GTE. It does 0-62mph in 7.6 seconds with a top speed of 138mph.Inside and out the car is almost identical to every other Golf on the road. One of VW’s e-mobility taglines is “The future is familiar” – and the GTE is certainly that. Within minutes of taking the wheel you feel completely at home. It’s one of VW’s great strengths that its cars can be totally fresh and yet familiar all at the same time.Being a hybrid, the car’s eco credentials are clearly what sets it apart. It has a range of 31 miles using its fully charged electric engine alone (and most daily journeys are a lot less than that), and it will do up 580 miles on a single tank if both systems are engaged. VW claims an average of 166mpg (depending on how you drive, of course) with emissions of just 39g of CO2per km. But, and a BUT could not be BIGGER, what’s the point of it?How could one arm of VW be producing such a clever, clean machine while its other has sold more than 11m motors that knock out anything up to 40 times the pollution they claim? I fear that VW’s so-called “defeat device” will defeat a lot more than it was intended to.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter at@MartinLove166
If one of your duties is dangling from a rope while you try to check for corrosion and metal fatigue, a flying robot may be here to help soon.When we read about drones, it’s usually an annoying hobbyist spying on sunbathers or a terrifying automated plane with a name like “Reaper” raining death on Afghanistan. But at the first-ever commercial drone conference, in Las Vegas this week, the talk among leaders of the dangerous and environmentally risky mining and drilling industries was of how unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) could both limit danger to employees and help avoid or triage the kinds of disasters that have cost those companies billions and irreparably harmed their relationships with the public.The main thing standing in the way at the moment is the US government.Drones, said Dave Truch, technology director of BP’s digital innovation organization, and many others at the Commercial UAV Expo, can do dangerous and onerous jobs much more efficiently than humans, and if they crash, you can buy another one. (Also, it won’t sue you: type “helicopter personnel basket transfer” – a particularly dangerous operation – into YouTube and one of the hits is an injury lawyer.)Related:Commercial drones could require direct human oversight for years, FAA says“What we bring out of the ground is held at extremes of pressure and temperature, and our job is to control it until we bring it into refineries,” said Truch at a breakout session on Tuesday. “Then we take this stuff that likes to explode and we cook it, at extremes of pressure and temperature, and we have to have all this infrastructure to control it. It gets very congested, sometimes so much so that we can’t even get humans into it.“I have humans dangling from ropes, literally, to do some inspections,” said Truch. “Some of our vessels are 50 to 60ft high – that’s where we store stuff. Why would you put a human in there to do inspections? Because you have to. So we drain these vessels, we purge them, we make sure we have no residual hydrocarbon before we put a human in there, and we have to set up scaffolding, and then we have to send someone in there not only to do visual inspection but to take measurements.”Mining and drilling are both highly regulated industries in the US, but in this case it’s not an energy regulator but the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that is trying to figure out how best to allow companies like BP and Barrick Gold, the world’s biggest gold mining concern, to deploy drones on US soil.To some extent, the FAA’s hands are tied: section 333 of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 is strict on the topic of who can and can’t fly a drone (and where, and at what height, and how close to people).Robert Pappas, who is in charge of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Integration at the FAA, said his team was working diligently – indeed, it is expanding – and he acknowledged that “small commercial UAS are projected to be the largest growth sector in the industry”.But that doesn’t change the law. “There’s no sunset date for section 333,” he said bluntly. “Until Congress repeals or eliminates it, it will still exist.”Amazon’s attempts to make drone-to-house delivery a reality have met with resistance largely because the drones would operate over the heads of the general public (the “Skynet” jokes have come thick and fast since the company announced its plans), but miners and drillers are asking for special consideration so they can use drones on their own properties.Related:Droneland: where hobbyists rule the skiesThe companies presenting at the conference (where theFAA gave a presentationsaying that some of the changes the industry wants are as far as three years away) said that drones had actually made their foreign (and thus drone-filled) sites safer.“I’ve been involved in the implementation of UAV product since we established in the beginning five years ago,” said Jhon Ozoria, senior surveyor with Barrick, to a rapt audience at Caesars Palace. “It was driven by the needs of the difficult terrain and the cost.”Ozoria works with drones at Barrick’s 19-year-old Pueblo Viejo gold mine in the Dominican Republic, about 60 miles away from Santo Domingo.“We want to have no more people in the pits,” Ozoria told the audience at the commercial UAV conference – and drones have helped further that goal. “The curve of learning is really fast. I mean, it depends on the people around you, but it’s really easy, guys.”Mine pits (and the corresponding piles of rubble and slag) have to be measured constantly; often this requires people to walk or drive off-road vehicles around loose terrain that, even with safeguards, can collapse. Frequently, miners have to climb to the tops of huge mounds of gravel with a Mosaic staff in one hand, at the top of which is mounted a GPS beacon that will tell how high the pile is. A wrong step and the miner can break a leg or worse.“If you have UAV needs and you want to fly, come to DR,” said Ozoria succinctly.Regulations currently require that a drone operate 500ft away from “non-participants” – that’s a deal-breaker for Freeport-McMoRan, a gold and copper mining company that is trying to implement drones into its stateside operations. The rules also require that the drone stay constantly within the line of sight of the user – something that often defeats the machine’s purpose for inspectors who’d like to have less dangerous jobs.“You effectively have to clear your site before you survey your site,” said Leon DuPlessis, a chief engineer at the company. It’s a frustrating requirement, he said. “We have a population density of 0.075 people per hectare. If we had a loss link event and a loss of GPS signal, we would expect a random chance of striking a person once every 135,000 years.” And even that, he said, is in the worst-case scenario, in which the drone crashes rather than landing itself, as most now do.Dyan Gibbens, founder and CEO of drone company TrumbullUnmanned, which contracts to BP and others in the industry, said there were other uses for the devices, as well – drones “can be used to document, detect and deter theft”, she said. Tens of billions of dollars in losses can be attributed to equipment theft and even oil theft – pipelines are long and hard to inspect and thieves often set up shop in a remote location where they can siphon as much as they can carry and then sell it.The other requirement – and one that is due to ease slightly next year, if proposed drone rules don’t change – is that if an employee is using a drone “for furtherance of business”, even if it’s six inches square and being used exclusively to annoy a coworker, someone in the team operating the drone has to have a pilot’s license.The proposed rules change that slightly – drones under 55lbs would require only a written test to operate – but it’s still a major sticking point as companies try to make drones easier to use.Paul Doersch, the 27-year-old CEO of Kespry, said his company was trying to make its drones as simple and cheap as possible – as with everything derived from military technology, the early-generation drones are still wildly expensive – and to sell them on a lease model of $25,000 per drone per year. “The goal is to make it so that a manager at a mine just has to call up Kespry, open the box, push a button, and ‘click!’” said Doersch.But until the three-year-long FAA “Pathfinder” project is over, the regulator seems unlikely to budge. The program is exploring “beyond visual line of sight” (BVLOS – everything is an acronym; there are a lot of engineers involved) drone operation with railroad BNSF. Everyone at the conference was deeply jealous.Gibbens is sympathetic to the FAA’s perspective – her father worked for the regulator – and said that she hoped the FAA would “continue Pathfinder programs and share lessons learned” from them. She also said it would be helpful if they’d make the process of applying to use drones on one’s work site something an applicant could do on a computer.Barrick’s chief surveyor at a mine in Nevada, Ben McKnight, said many in the industry were “desperate to be part of the Pathfinder programs”.“I think it’s a great way to start pushing beyond visual line of sight,” he told his audience. “We’ve gotta take these baby steps or we’re not going to take any steps at all.”And ultimately, Truch said, it’s becoming a question of labor, as well. “There’s a whole new generation and they’re not coming to work for us,” he said. “They don’t want to hang from the ropes and they don’t want to drive the trucks; they want to use technology.”
I’ve long fancied the idea of astonishing my friends by whipping a cloth off a keyboard and playing a glorious rendition of festive tunes à laDownton AbbeyChristmas special. But apart from prodding the odd key, I’ve never been near a piano.EnterSkoove, the app that promises to “make your musical dreams come true”. Excellent. I’m already Googling fancy evening dresses and recipes for mulled wine. Better still, the current beta version of the app is free (it’ll cost between £3.50 and £7.50 a month when commercially released), which is a boon considering an electric keyboard costs around 60 quid (there’s currently no way to use the interactive features with Granny’s upright).I rig up the outfit in my front room. Unlike an analogue piano book that perches neatly on the music stand, this guide has to be hooked up to my computer. Cue a precarious attempt to balance my ancient laptop behind a cumbersome keyboard on my tiny coffee table. I had envisaged propping up an iPad on the music stand, but as the app doesn’t yet work with mobile devices, it was cables galore.Once wired up, however, I was off. The screen shows the score for each song, together with a representation of a keyboard and a disembodied pair of hands hovering above it. They deftly play the tune, then it’s up to you to follow step by step, learning the keys for each hand before putting the two together to play in time with the hands.While learning the keys, the digital guide moves on to the next note only when you’ve got the previous one right. Irritatingly, however, I have to keep taking my hands off the piano to click “OK” on endless notification messages. Which isn’t really OK, though the company says this is its “top of our priority to-do list” to fix.Once you feel confident, you’re ready to play in time with the hovering hands which, I suspect, are connected to an instructor wondering quite how he’s ended up with this gig instead of a rousing recital at the Boston Symphony Hall. Slowly,slowly, I play Our House by Madness with my right hand. I can take it only at funeral pace (more like Our Hearse) but, hey, I get the hang of it. Hurrah! Then it’s time to work out what the left hand should be doing – which is where it all goes wrong. Having played the clarinet for umpteen years I can read the treble clef just fine, but everything goes a bit “through the looking glass” when it comes to the bass clef. Still, Skoove isn’t going to be impressed by bad language so I plug on, following its approach, initially matching finger positions with the keys and score, rather than worrying about their names. It seems to work. Eventually, notes, keys and names fall into place – I even play four suspiciously simple bars of Bach by sight! With both hands! Success!Skoove gets me through the three beginner courses in a few days and I’m pretty sure I’ll be able to bash out Silent Night, loudly, by Christmas. But even its jolly encouragement (“Skoovy!” it flashes up as I thrash away at Simon and Garfunkel) can’t erode the inevitable frustration of learning a new instrument. Unsurprisingly, the urge to shove the damn piano back in the box is pretty strong at times and Skoove does little to stop you. There’s no points-earning, no nagging cutesy character to remind you to practise and no way of sharing your progress with anyone – all of which, though irritating, have been surprisingly successful in keeping me hooked to my language learning app for more than 60 days straight.It’s a kindly instructor, but Skoove needs to dangle a few more carrots if I’m going to stick with it.
Lego meets the digital age with these robotsA robotic toy comprised of electronic cubes,Robohopes to be the Lego of the digital age, allowing children or rookie coders to build functioning, programmable robots with interchangeable parts commanded by a Robo app. With the Robo app, the right blocks and a rainy afternoon, you could – according to the Kickstarter page – have a three-wheeled robot nosing around the room, obeying commands and announcing the weather forecast. Assuming the Kickstarter crowdfunding is successful, a fairly primitive Robo starter kit will cost £85 and arrive through your door next summer. As a nod to its forebear, the Robo is also “Lego-compatible”, meaning you can artistically bedeck your creation with retro bricks.Brighten up life with your very own shining moonA Luna lamp lights up the living room.“I’ll give you the moon, Mary,” promised Jimmy Stewart inIt’s a Wonderful Life. Thanks to this Taiwanese Indiegogo campaign, he can be true to his word this Christmas by buying Mary one of these luminous fibreglass balls. Acorn Studio in Taipei has raised nearly half a million dollars to fundLuna, which ranges in diameter from 3.2in to 23.6in. But while the moon itself is free, even the smallest Luna lamp costs around £50.A miniature modular phone for the curiousThe plucky little Rephone.For those who can’t wait for Google’s modular phone, this plucky little alternative has already won its Kickstarter funding three times over, and will appeal to more curious and hobbyist users. A tiny microcontroller forms theRephone’s core, which can be manually connected to a number of separate units – a touchscreen, for instance, or an accelerometer – to suit the user’s needs. Costing £26 (for the 3G version) the phone comes with a fold-your-own cardboard case, but customers are encouraged to build their own.Be on track with these hand-controlled racersThe UK’s car industry is said to be in resurgence, as this impressive and powerful vehicle demonstrates. A hi-tech take on Scalextrics, and open for funding on Kickstarter,Cannybotsis a miniature, hand-controlled racing car, which can be assembled, decorated and programmed to suit the whims of its driver. Governed by an app, the car detects road-markings, clinging to the track and responding to coloured signals to change lanes, adjust speed and record lap times. Ambitious racers can even custom-build a track with nothing but black electrical tape, while the app claims to provide a simple introduction to coding languages. Order now and you can have one by Christmas.A laser shaver that is absolutely cutting edgeThe Skarp is said to be a preferable alternative to the razor.This expensive and threatening-looking depilatory tool may seem a drastic purchase, but its designers are confident that at £105 it represents a preferable alternative to the razor. TheSkarp’s cutting edge has a tiny, low-energy laser which emits light that is absorbed by pigments in human hair, heating each strand and breaking it off without nicks, rashes or excess waste. “Shaving has been the same for 5,000 years,” says their Kickstarter page, probably rather inaccurately. Still, if you’re sick of hacking away at your chin or legs with a brittle plastic disposable, the Skarp could be for you.Cannybots is a hi-tech take on Scalextrics.
DAVID COPEComposer, author and professor emeritus of music at the University of California, Santa CruzI define creativity as the association between two ideas that one would not ordinarily consider a reasonable one to make but that works. I think that this is a rather simple thing to do for computers.I’ve been working on writing novels computationally for well over 10 years now and I’m still trying it, although I believe that within the next two to three years I will have broken its back and will produce 100,000-word novels in half an hour or so, novels that I think most people would consider to be creative. I can do uncreative short stories at this point, ones where the associations are routine and expected; they have occurred in many thousands of previous books. But I believe that in the near future my programs will be able to do creative ones.MARIA TERESA LLANO RODRIGUEZResearch associate, computational creativity group, Goldsmiths UniversityThinking RobotPhotograph: Blutgruppe/CorbisWe are used to machines being used as tools that do not have a high level of cognitive ability, so it’s difficult for people to think of them as being able to exhibit truly creative behaviour. A problem with earlier approaches was their dependence on hand-coded tasks and knowledge, which restricts the reasoning capabilities a machine can carry out. People are creative because they understand the properties of objects in the world, and based on that knowledge they breach convention in non-trivial ways that make sense. In the same way computer systems require the ability of acquiring knowledge in order to enable creativity. Artificial intelligence research is aiming to overcome the challenge of hand-coded features through more flexible approaches in which software systems can constantly learn new representations of data, modify themselves according to it and exhibit creative behaviour.MICHAEL OSBORNEAssociate professor in machine learning, University of OxfordRelated:Intelligent steps to future-proof your job against the robot revolutionCreativity is arguably the most difficult human faculty to automate: robots are unlikely to be fully creative any time soon. Automation usually requires exactly the kind of explicit instruction as to how to achieve a goal that creativity obviates. It is certainly possible to design an algorithm that can churn out an endless sequence of paintings, but it is difficult to teach such an algorithm the difference between the emotionally powerful and the dreck. Another problem is that it is difficult to automate the combination of ideas from many different sources that forms the source of much of human creativity: you might find inspiration from an interview with a neuroscientist in designing a new office layout. Putting some evidence to our thesis, we found, for both the UK or the US, that almost 90% of creative jobs are at low or no risk of automation.ERICA WAGNERAuthor and literary criticMy instinctive thought is no. I’ve heard people talk about the way you can get computers to do tasks like play chess, which are very sophisticated, but very bounded tasks. But then I took a quiz and did pretty badly: they had little examples of poetry, some of which were written by computers, I guessed one right, I didn’t guess the other one. I think that our human brains are much more subtle and extraordinary and strange than machines could ever be. I would say that, wouldn’t I? I don’t want to be put out of a job. Most people thought that no one would ever fly in a machine, so we have to be pretty careful about saying what we think machines are capable of. So I don’t know is the honest answer.
In my day, a Honda Civic looked like the car you would drive if you were going on an IT training course in Milton Keynes and wanted to fit in: reliable, characterless, neither large nor small, fast nor slow. At some point in the intervening decade, the designers or maybe the entire Honda brand have had a midlife crisis.If I utter the phrase “black with red detailing”, you’ll think you know what I mean; you do not. The body looks like a Batmobile. The wheels look as though they were deliberately conceived as fresh wounds – a kind of Bruce Willis-esque aesthetic statement: “I’m so hard I haven’t even noticed I’m bleeding.” There is a spoiler at the back so substantial and proud that it would only really make sense if this vehicle could fly.Taxi drivers give you vaudeville thumbs-ups, and young men ogle it, on one occasion at traffic lights swarming round it to touch it. It was likeSuddenly Last Summer, with the Civic as Elizabeth Taylor. Another guy pulled up next to me at lights and asked me to rev it so he could hear what it sounded like.It is insanely powerful. I felt like the Hulk bursting out of his shirt. A top speed of 167mph and a 0-62 of under six seconds are bold but entirely credible claims. It meets no definition of the word “civic” that I can think of.The engine is pretty noisy, but there’s something about it that sounds more encouraging than invasive. The handling is incredible even if you don’t hit the +R button, which turns the controls an angry red, firms up the suspension so it’s like driving on solid rubber and acts like a formal… no, written… no,embossedinvitation to drive too fast. “Dear young idiot, listen to that horsepower! Wouldn’t you like to go much, much faster? How’d you like to corner at 120mph? What do you think I’ll sound like if you rev the hell out of me?” It’s like a love letter from death. OK, that’s melodramatic: a billet doux from irresponsible road use.The interior has perky elements: I like the sparkling steel of the pedals, the sporty posture forced by the bucket seats and the noisy reds of the seatbelts and suedette. Oddment stowage is pesky – the shelf between driver and passenger sits at an awkward height and the glove compartment sheers away in a style that is meant to suggest dynamism (I’m guessing) but makes it quite hard to reach. The economy is better than you’d expect but, at 38.7mpg combined, nothing to boast about; commensurately, emissions are such that you’d have to park round the corner if you were visiting eco-warriors. You’d have to do that with most people, though: it would be hard to arrive in this car without raising questions about your ego.Honda Civic Type R: in numbersPrice£32,295Top speed167mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption38.7mpgCO2 emissions170g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating8/10
The EU’ssafe harbour rulingis a “puzzle piece in the fight against mass surveillance, and a huge blow to tech companies who think they can act in total ignorance of the law,” says Max Schrems, the man who brought the case.“US companies are realising that European laws are gettingmore and more enforced. But still, people don’t believe that a court would order Google or Facebook to do something – they wouldn’t dare. Well, yes, they fucking would,” he said, speaking in Vienna.The European ruling earlier this week sunk a 15-year-old data-transfer pact, the “safe harbour” regime, which offered a privileged route for over 4,000 transatlantic businesses to self-certify that they satisfied “adequate” data-protection standards under European law.Schrems’s successful argument before the European court of justice was that the existence of a generalised programme of mass and indiscriminate surveillance, as disclosed in theSnowden revelationsandconfirmed by the referring Irish court,undermined this entire regime. The court agreed, with ahard-hitting rulingthat has set companies – particularly those involved in thePrism programme, like Google, Apple, and Facebook – scrambling to find alternative legal bases for transatlantic data flows.Max Schrems talking to Julia Powles of the Guardian.Photograph: Patrick Wollner“The judgment will apply to European surveillance just as well,” says Schrems, explaining the strategic motivation behind the case. “It was easier to make the first decision about the US government, then recycle that in Europe. Because yes, we do surveillance in Europe too. But we also have Strasbourg,” he said, referring to the European court of human rights, Luxembourg’s twin and sometimes competitor over the protection of fundamental rights, which has a docket offorthcoming surveillance-related claims, particularly from the UK.On the court’s unambiguous finding that mass surveillance is a breach of fundamental rights, Schrems ispragmatic about the consequences: “No, it won’t immediately stop spying. It has to be a political solution in the end. But the idea was to poke Facebook and other companies into the corner – because something might actually be done at the economic level.“These private surveillance actors collect all the data that the governments then suck up. We don’t have jurisdiction over the US government of course, but companies have obligations to comply with the law.”Salzburg-born Schrems, 28, is animated and straight-talking. He has an easy familiarity, chuckling frequently throughout conversation, and engaging in conspiratorial asides, whether on the casual disdain of Viennese waiters, or on the hopelessness of Irish regulation – “the biggest bunch of lies that I’ve ever seen”.His critique of the Irish data protection office is unrelenting. Along with Luxembourg, it formally oversees European data protection for the majority of multinationals who headquarter their operations in tax-beneficial jurisdictions. “Ireland has no interest in doing its job, and will continue not to, forever. Clearly it’s an investment issue – but overall the policy is: we don’t regulate companies here. The cost of challenging any of this in the courts is prohibitive. And the people don’t seem to care.”This reticence clearly goads Schrems, but it has also accelerated developments in the broader privacy landscape. Europe’s highest court, in both this ruling and in theimmediately preceding decision of Weltimmo, have emphasised the independence of national data protection authorities across the EU-bloc, and their legitimacy in investigating and enforcing their own laws.Between the lines, the court’s hand has been forced, with redundancy and potential replication being the inconvenient price of ensuring that data protection is actually respected. As Schrems puts it: “a genuine one-stop shop would be a smarter solution. But the problem is if half the shops are not open. One of the biggest issues in Europe is that countries are saying officially they’re on same page, but everyone knows they are very different in practice.”Schrems is continuing his fight in Ireland, but his hopes rest elsewhere. “This judgment is valid for 28 countries. Now it goes down to the different data protection offices to enforce.” This gets at the core of Schrems’ mission. Much more than the privacy concerns, he’s motivated by the desire to prove that tech companies are not above the law. In Austria he’s running a class-action appeal against Facebook’s internal privacy policies, which builds on his four-year experience in trying to resolve these issues with the Irish regulator. The class-action, he confesses, will probably take five years and a return to the European Court of Justice.Then he’ll be done, but not out of the game. His PhD at the University of Vienna focuses on the broader legal matrix that could support privacy claims. And his long-term ambition is to set up an enforcement-focused NGO in Europe, to support more local cases advocating for data protection.“It’s a huge problem that in this privacy business, you can really only make money on one side of the game,” he says. “The biggest problem I’ve had is in finding good representatives who understand the law. I meet lots of privacy lawyers for coffee, and they say they like what I’m doing and personally agree with me, but then they say: ‘you can’t tell anyone we’ve ever met, because I’m losing all my clients otherwise’.”‘The idea was to poke Facebook and other companies into the corner – because something might actually be done at the economic level.’Photograph: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty ImagesThe suite of actions Schrems is involved with works under the banner “Europe v Facebook”, in a deliberate effort to anonymise his own role. It has occupied years of his life, but not dominated it. “At the moment, it’s 24-7, but as with most legal procedures, you wait for half a year where nothing happens and then there’s two to three stressful weeks.”Schrems is eager to dismiss the notion that he’s some sort of modern-day Robin Hood. “It’s strange the way people reduce you to this one thing – like, I’m this crazy activist person that sues everyone. No, I’m not. I’m not doing this for fame or money. When I find stories about myself, because I don’t always know when they’re coming out, I still find it very strange. I have this move which probably explains a lot, and typically put my coffee cup over my face because I just don’t like staring at myself. And now when people ask, how do I feel about taking on Facebook and NSA surveillance, and winning? It’s the logical result of what we submitted.”The European decision, though dramatic, was not unexpected. In fact, at the hearing inlate March, Schrems’s legal team was barely called upon. “We made our opening remarks, and the court then pretty much preached our submission to the commission. I even had the feeling that the European commission was not too interested in winning the case. Their representation was really bad. When the court asked, ‘So, does safe harbour provide adequate protection?’, the commission said ‘No, not currently’. At that point we thought; OK, now we can go.“The guys at the commission, when you looked into their faces, I didn’t get the feeling that they have a big problem with it being abolished. I think they wanted to get rid of it anyway. And now they can say, ‘The court is taking a decision, we can’t be blamed for it anymore’.”The commission now has the unenviable task of trying to negotiate safe harbour version 2. It is also on before the European Parliament and the Article 29 Working Party from next week. “I don’t know if it was the master plan, but now that the commission has a court decision at their back, Washington’s not going to be able to say, ‘Oh you have to come down from your big privacy stuff so that we can reach a decision.’”Schrems confesses he can’t see the US government stepping down its surveillances practices. But the pressure from large companies for reform, and the strong ruling from the court, can only be a good thing, in his view. “A lot of the lobbying brought up that poor small businesses will be the worse affected by this. I don’t think so. At worst they might shift to European cloud services instead of US ones. It’s really a bigger problem for global communication networks like Facebook, that you just can’t split in any way.“Big companies didn’t only rely on safe harbour: they also rely on binding corporate rules and standard contractual clauses. But it’s interesting that the court decided the case on fundamental rights grounds: so it doesn’t matter remotely what ground you transfer on, if that process is still illegal under 7 and 8 of charter, it can’t be done.”Julia Powles will be in discussion with the defendant in the ECJ ruling, Irish data protection commissioner Helen Dixon, on 3 November, 11am, at Web Summit, Dublin.
Caleb Logan Bratayley – real name Caleb LeBlanc – was the eldest child of theBratayley family, based in Maryland: a dad, mum, and three kids vlogging (video blogging) since 2011.The family is a sort of online middle-class version of the Kardashians, and has modelled its success on another YouTube family,the Shaytards.The Bratayleys’seponymous YouTube channel, which has more than 1.7 million subscribers, consists of mostly quotidian, middle-American life: baseball games, baking, trampolining. Video titles include: “Just Hangin’ Around the House” and “Sick on a Plane”.The kids are cookie-cutter cute and father, Billy, is a military man. Theirmost watched videohas racked up almost 23 million views and their fan base spreads across multiple platforms: Vine, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram. Age-wise, it’s mostly made up, as one might imagine, of kids the same ages as Annie, Caleb and their other sibling, 7-year-old, Hayley.On Friday 2 October, two days after Hayley’s birthday wasshared via Facebook(“#stillcelebrating”), an Instagram post which has since garnered 236,000 likes announced Caleb’s sudden and tragic death.The post said Caleb had passed away from natural causes the previous evening. “This has come as a shock to all of us. Words cannot describe how much we will miss him,” it read, alongside a picture of the youngster and his sister.A day later, on 3 October,the final videoin which Caleb appears was uploaded to YouTube, apparently filmed just a day before his death. It has garnered over 4 m views.In the video, which is perhaps slightly more banal than usual – sleepy kids eating breakfast before school – Caleb answers a question a fan has asked about what he would ask his future self. After pausing for ten seconds, he jokes: “Is Taco Bell still around?”Caleb’s final appearance in one of his family’s videos, in which he talks about ‘his future self’.The well-known sports fan then adds that he wonders whether more sports would be invented. Caleb’s last words are “see you guys tomorrow”, before a still image displays a message beginning: “unfortunately, Caleb passed away the day after we made this video”.The message that appeared on screen during Caleb’s final video appearance.Photograph: YouTubeCaleb’s death comes at a tragically young age and many fans reacted by expressing their sympathies for the family and shared their own grief at his passing. But while younger acolytes focused on heartfelt tribute vines and emoji-laden comments, some observers began to question how a kid could die “overnight”.Online, people began to talk of the “suspicious” official reason given by the police of a “sudden medical condition”. Many of them not Bratayleys fans, but armchair eyebrow raisers – attracted to what that saw as a mystery to be solved.Under pressure from an internet cacophony and “numerous inquiries both nationally and locally”, and afterGawker ran a pieceon LeBlanc’s “mysterious” death, the Anne Arundel police department released a statement clarifying that no criminal investigation was taking place into the youngster’s death as there were no “suspicious factors or suspected foul play”.YouTube comments featuring an outpouring of grief for Caleb after his death.Photograph: YouTube screengrabIndeed, to most, the suddenness of Caleb’s death would appear to give more credence to this official reason, rather than less. It’s difficult to raise objections to a cause of death that is a sudden medical condition by arguing that it happened so quickly. But the questions kept coming.Understandably, Bratayley’s mother, Katie, who mostly only participates in the family videos as a narrator, asked for privacy and respect during the “grieving process”.When sheannounced on social mediathat her son’s memorial service would be live-streamed on Periscope and Facebook, as well as announcing a21 minute tribute videoto Caleb after his death, that was seized on as a contradiction with requesting privacy.Due to an outpouring of support &amp; hope to be part of Caleb&#39;s memorial, we are live-streaming the ceremony today @ 8pmpic.twitter.com/mwrebMv7cN&mdash; Bratayley Bratayley (@Bratayley)October 6, 2015Since Caleb’s memorial, his parents have appeared on the ABC show Good Morning America, again to further explain his cause of death. They mentioned heart problems that had run in the family, and that Caleb likely died ofhypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This is not such a rare condition – in the UK,1 in 500 people have it, and it frequently goes undetected.@BratayleyI have an alarm set, I can&#39;t wait to watch it. 😔❤️&mdash; rip caleb :( (@kaylovesbands)October 6, 2015The fact that they are live-streaming their sons funeral is rubbing me the wrong way 100%. And their words/actions has been suspicious.&mdash; witchcraft (@skaysens)October 6, 2015AKA murderhttp://t.co/qwxthNDEH9&mdash; Deena Jacobs RANTS (@DeenaJacobs)October 6, 2015As far as I could tell, the memorial service that was live-streamed did not include tributes from the immediate Bratayley family, seemingly as to keep them private. Bratayley is not the real family name; LeBlanc is. (The Guardian is reporting it as such here as is usual when reporting a death).For a family grieving the sudden death of a child, the attention of people online seeking to uncover the facts of the case must just add to the distress. For the fans who have been used to such extensive access to the family’s lives, to not have that extended to them around a death may seem incongruous.Wannabe sleuths have always existed. Sometimes deaths that transfix popular imagination are genuinely suspicious – rememberthe unsolved murder of JonBenét Ramseyin 1996?Caleb, as featured in the tribute video after his death.Photograph: YouTube screengrabBut broadband internet has made it easier for people to position themselves as detectives. And the rise of online stars has made their followers feel more entitled to know everything about people’s lives. Mining social media leads people to believe they are in full possession of the facts, rather than odd holiday photographs and statuses posted in anger.When this has happened on a large scale, it has often gone horribly wrong. The Reddit manhunt for the Boston marathon bomber ended up fingering the wrong guy. False information was spread across Twitter after theMarysville Pilchuck high school shooting. The Jessica Chambers online truthersturned on the murdered girl’s own mother. When it comes to a life lived online, death, apparently, does not quite do us part.Unfortunately, the hunt to truly “explain” Caleb LeBlanc’s death is just another example of people attempting to crowdsource “justice”, even in the face of a quite obviously non-suspicious, tragic death.•Reddit’s Boston marathon speculation shows the limits of crowdsourcing
SurvivalSurvival games are in vogue, and there are plenty in early-access, with zombie survival gameDayZa successful example. Currently popular isARK: Survival Evolved, in which you’re stranded on an island populated by dinosaurs and other prehistoric wildlife. For a more thoughtful, less fantastical experience, tryThe Long Dark.ActionDutch developer Vlambeer is known for action games such asSuper Crate Boxand more recently shoot-’em-upLuftrausers. Their new game,Nuclear Throne, an action roguelike about mutants fighting to survive in a post-apocalyptic world, is available now.Role-playing gameDarkest Dungeonis also a roguelike, but in this case a turn-based RPG. You lead a team of heroes through monster-filled dungeons, but the heroes have flaws and can suffer from afflictions such as paranoia and masochism.MultiplayerFor a fast-paced competitive game, trySpeedRunners, in which you run, jump, and swing through levels while trying to prevent opponents doing the same. For a cooperative experience,Don’t Starve Togetheris an expansion that lets you try to survive the bizarre islands ofDon’t Starvewith friends.UniqueBesiegeis a game unlike any other, focused solely on constructing siege engines then using them to destroy buildings. Its complex physics means players learn about effective engineering, which might sound dull but is proving very popular.
“It is like driving down the M1 three metres behind a truck with your wipers switched off. But at 200mph,” explains Allan McNish on the experience of piloting a top-end prototype sportscar in the rain. And he speaks from experience. The former Formula One driver, three-times winner of theLe Mans 24 Hoursand the2013 FIA World Endurance championwith Audi, drove, during his extensive career, in every permutation of wet weather conditions imaginable.Two of the cars in which he competed , the 2012 R18, in which he won the12 Hours of Sebringand the R8 that was part of his American Le Mans Series title in 2006, both feature in the recently releasedForza 6,as does, for the first time, racing in the wet and at night, now that developer Turn10 believes it can do the conditions real justice. But it has also gone further and simulated an even greater level of realism – that of standing water and the aquaplaning it can induce in cars.Standing water, better known as puddles, causes aquaplaning when the tyre cannot clear the water quickly enough and a layer sits between rubber and track, at which point, if all four wheels are biting only H²0, to all intents and purposes the driver is along for the ride.McNish knows it well, comparing it to “riding a horse, where if you are too tense it can react badly and you’re on the wrong end of it”. Indeed, as a motor-racing writer I have witnessed it on many occasions; it is a scary enough sight from the sidelines (as at the COTA round of the FIA WEC last year, where a sodden dusk saw the straight into turn 12change into an ice rink)let alone from the cockpit. Which is an intriguing position for Turn10 to take, bidding for physical realism to such an extent that the player, for those crucial moments, actually has no control.Nor was it an easy task on any of the wet-weather circuits simulated in the game, which include Le Mans, Brands Hatch and Spa. For example, to accurately place 500 puddles on the 12.93-mile Nürburgring Nordschliefe circuit, the forbidding test in the Eifel mountains that Jackie Stewart dubbed “the green hell”, the team used a laser scanning rig, walked the track repeatedly, took pictures of cracks, filmed HD video on a “ladybug” camera, consulted vast amounts of archival footage and talked to professional drivers with experience at the Ring.Forced wide on the bend.“Our vision was to make the most accurate Nürburgring ever created,” said Dan Greenawalt, the creative director at Turn 10. “There was no way to approach it besides throwing everybody, the best brains we had and the most data and research we could at it.”Nor was this a short-run, one-off approach. It is a long-term process that has seen Turn devolve its research team from the game production part of the process so they are free to pursue every end they believe will add to the realism in the long run. “There is constant improvement to stay ahead of science to be on the cutting edge of academics of simulation,” added Greenawalt. “And it takes a lot of time and research and a desire to push the boundaries and it takes a lot of money – having a big team that’s willing to do the research and throw a lot of time and energy at it.But video games have always included an element of suspension of disbelief and racing in the wet is far from a new concept. In the past it has generally been achieved simply by scaling back the grip levels of the cars and adding a water-on-the-visor flourish. So why hasForzagone so far, so fast?Forza 6 puts the player in the driving seat.Trying to put the player as close as possible to McNish’s shoes is the simple answer. Greenawalt’s team consulted many professional drivers. “They commented on the fear and tension of driving in the rain and driving at night, and we wanted to understand that from a physics perspective,” he explained. They did so by ensuring they modelled all the grip levels at every part of the track in all conditions, rather than a straight scaling down. “We did the research on a per-surface level and we have the new full simulation aquaplaning system; it’s not just reduced friction, it is fully researched,” he said.Which is the edge beyond the cosmetic they were looking for and crucially it works in-game. Playing on a reasonably high simulation level with a full race seat set up, running the rather beautifully engineered Thrustmaster TX next-gen wheel-pedal combo, this added element is a handful, mentally and physically. Offering a real sense of being on the edge of control, or as was the intention, briefly having none at all, before coming out the other side of one of those puddles and sighing with relief as the traction comes back. This simple idea, executed with precision, genuinely is another dimension, just as Greenawalt had intended. “We have 24 cars on track; they are packed,” he said. “When you have a car either side, and you see a puddle ahead and you realise that they are not for show, it creates that tension – you think, ‘Should I hit the guy on the left or should I hit the brakes and duck in behind him to avoid the puddle line?’ That’s the type of tension we wanted to recreate but we didn’t want to fake it so we did the physics so that it is created naturally.”It is all about creating a sense of the moment, mentally, beyond just the visual. In the wet, as McNish notes: “You drive with a heightened sense all the time so mentally it is more energy-consuming because you are driving on your fingertips to some extent because you don’t have the same margin for error that you would in the dry.”Which petrolheads will feel instinctively is right for a simulation, but gamers may also appreciate Turn10’s interpretation of the same. “A puddle could be taking up half the track and it totally changes how you drive it,” said Greenawalt. “So we wanted it to be physically based and completely accurate but we also wanted it to be a thrill ride.”For motor-racing aficionados, as with drivers, it is all about feel and here the number-crunching in the background has made all the difference to the experience.
Playing arcade games on original hardware is the ultimate way to enjoy the arcade experience at home. But the cost – and size – of an arcade cabinet can be prohibitive. Yet there is a relatively unknown console that lets you play arcade hardware on a TV: the supergun.Inside the arcade cabinetWhere games consoles have individual formats, such as PS4, SNES or Dreamcast, so do arcade cabinets. JAMMA is the most prolific. A JAMMA game comes on an arcade PCB: a slab of circuit board typically containing a single game that is “plugged in” inside a cabinet.An MK30 ADCAP supergun.The supergun alternativeImagine an arcade cabinet. Remove the screen, controls and the game from that vision. You’re left with a tangle of wires and circuit boards that is the cabinet’s heart. A supergun effectively squeezes that heart into a console-sized box, and provides a slot to plug in a JAMMA game, and a means to connect a TV and controller.Where to find oneSuperguns are largely made by sole arcade devotees. Jasen’s Customs builds and sells the MK30 ADCAP, a high-end supergun. Elsewhere, ArcadeForge’s MAK Strike is a popular option, or the brave can buy a kit and build their own. As for the JAMMA games, eBay is expensive, but UK trading forums such asArcade OtakuandJAMMA+provide a marketplace and advice.What about arcade ports?Many classic arcade games have been released for console, but these ports often change the game and run at different speeds. And a wealth of superb arcade games have never seen a console version. Simply put, original hardware is the only authentic way to play true arcade games.
Claims that the battery life of the new iPhones can vary by up to two hours depending on which third-party supplier manufactured the central chip don’t reflect real-world usage, according to Apple.The chip at the heart of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, named the “A9” chip by Apple, comes in two forms, one manufactured by Samsung and the other by Taiwanese company TSMC. Since the phones started hitting shelves last week, users have reported that the phones containing Samsung chipssignificantly underperform those with TSMC chips in intensive battery-life tests.According to battery life benchmarks, the difference can be almost two hours. But in a statement, Apple said that the discrepancy was not reflected in real-world usage.It said: “Certain manufactured lab tests which run the processors with a continuous heavy workload until the battery depletes are not representative of real-world usage, since they spend an unrealistic amount of time at the highest CPU performance state.“It’s a misleading way to measure real-world battery life. Our testing and customer data show the actual battery life of the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, even taking into account variable component differences, vary within just 2-3% of each other.”Thebattery metrics cited by Applefor the iPhone 6S include a number of different usage profiles, including talk time, internet use, HD video playback, and standby time. While video playback is relatively processor-intensive, none of those tasks are likely to max out the new A9 chip in the way a battery benchmark test does, suggesting that the discrepancy between the two chips only has an impact at the very highest end of performance.In terms of real-world battery life, the Guardian’s own review of the new iPhones found that they underperformed compared to similar devices. Samuel Gibbs,reviewing the iPhone 6s, found: “Battery life is the iPhone 6S’s biggest problem. During the week the phone failed to make it past 11pm after leaving the charger at 7.30am in the morning.”
Apple has started removing some adblockers from its App Store after they rocketed to the top of the download charts.Adblocking on the company’s iPhone and iPad was enabled within Safari by Apple’s content blocking system – a way for third-party apps to filter what is downloaded and displayed in the mobile browser.But some apps, including the popularBeen Choice, blocked ads not only within mobile Safari but otherapps on the smartphone or tablet too.To do that they installed root certificates on the devices and funnelled a user’s web traffic through a virtual private network (VPN) or proxy service, filtering out any advertising.Those apps have been deemed dangerous by Apple and removed from the App Store as they allow third-parties to view and interfere with a user’s browsing, even if encrypted – something that is often called aman-in-the-middle attack.An Apple spokesperson said: “Apple is deeply committed to protecting customer privacy and security. We’ve removed a few apps from the App Store that install root certificates, which enable the monitoring of customer network data that can in turn be used to compromise SSL/TLS security solutions. We are working closely with these developers to quickly get their apps back on the App Store, while ensuring customer privacy and security is not at risk.”Blocking ads is controversial, classified as morally objectionable by some. Apple carefully crafted its content-blocking system to enable removal of content within mobile Safari only, not within third-party or other Apple apps. Apple’s News app, for instance, displays ads served by either the publisher of the content or Apple.The company behind the iPhone gets a cut of every advert that it serves against publisher content, meaning that it is in Apple’s best interest to prevent wholesale adblocking outside of Safari.The developer ofBeen Choice saidthat it would be changing its adblocking app to “remove ad blocking for Facebook, Google, Yahoo, and Pinterest apps” and resubmit to Apple in an attempt to be allowed back into the store.Apple approves adblocker that even blocks Apple NewsElon Musk says Apple is the ‘graveyard’ for fired Tesla staffiPhones 6S battery life ‘varies by up to two hours depending on chip supplier’Peace app creator pulls top ad blocker because its success ‘doesn’t feel good’
In September 2012, the small British games studio Introversion Software made a vital decision. It would initially release its latest project, Prison Architect, not as a complete product, but as an unfinished “alpha” allowing early purchasers to give feedback on how the game should be developed.This “early access” model of game development, popularised by the massively successful Minecraft, can be very effective, lessening the risk for the game’s publishers of producing a flop while allowing keen players to feel part of the project. But it can also lead to controversies – studios often promise much to their early community then spectacularly under deliver.In the case of Prison Architect, Introversion Software has delivered. The team promised major updates every month, and they kept that promise. Within two weeks, over 2,000 copies had been sold, and by January 2015 there were one million players. After only a few hours with the now official full release of the game, it is easy to understand why.It’s not just about keeping the prisoners locked up, you also have to manage their physical and mental wellbeing. Maybe keeping them all locked up in tiny pitch black cells for 23 hours a day isn’t the best solution?Photograph: IntroversionPrison Architect is a simulation in which players take on the design and running of a major US correctional facility. On first loading the game you’re tasked with taking over an existing prison. The current CEO wants you to build an execution facility for a double murderer, known simply as Edward. It is through this rather macabre tutorial that you’re shown the basics of prison architecture, creating foundations, building walls and adding power and water utilities. You’re also shown how to escort the non-playable characters around the prison.It’s an introduction that makes two things clear: that the prison system is effectively a business, and that it’s a business that involves death. The studio has scrupulously researched the US prison system, talking to both wardens and prisoners and reading up on the theory of prison architecture.Designer Chris Delaycame up with the idea after visiting Alcatraz, but then spent months analysing the current US system, looking into how the buildings are run, but how elements such as race, gang affinity and assault play into the process.Designer Chris Delay came up with the idea after visiting Alcatraz, but then spent months analysing the current systemAfter finishing the tutorial players are given their own plot of land and told to start building their own maximum security prison. However, many newcomers will find that when the prisoners arrive 24 hours after construction begins (24 minutes in real-time) what they’ve actually built is a minimum security facility, which leaks prisoners like a sieve. In my first three hours with the game all I managed to build were some fences and foundations. I hired a warden, who wandered around the fields, and a chef who went off to the lake and never came back. When the prisoners arrived they ran straight into the wilderness, lost forever.It takes a while to start organising the range of buildings – from cells to laundries, to canteens – in a quick and secure way. Then you need an army of employees to run it properly. You need power and water. You need to protect the garbage area with barbed wire fences as this is an obvious escape point for crafty inmates.To help you out, the game provides an ingenious planning tool with three elements – walls, objects and pathways – allowing you to essentially design the fundaments of your structure before laying a single slab of concrete. After planning properly, I was able to build what I thought was an impenetrable prison. I was right. I’d forgotten to add any doors. All part of the learning process.As you become more competent, the experience gives way to the usual slight repetitiveness of the sim genre. You build a prison, you keep adding rooms, you hire more and more staff and you take in extra prisoners – the more you have, the greater your income. It’s the same gameplay loop that we’ve been enjoying since SimCity first arrived in 1989, and which has fed everything from Theme Hospital to Rollercoaster Tycoon.There are several features that add to this cycle though. To make more money at the start of the game, players are able to take out grants, which pay you a set amount of money for carrying out specific tasks. It’s great when you’re really struggling for cash, and gives a more directed experience, but the feature is not particularly well highlighted – or at least it took me a while to find it.Although it can be switched off, the Fog of War feature is worth challenging yourself with, creating blind spots in your prison wherever the warden is unable to see. One moment everything appears to be running smoothly, but the next a full scale prison riot is taking place at the end of an unobserved corridor. More staffing is one solution, but another is taking advantage of surveillance technology. Big Warden is watching.Players can also choose to switch on events, which work like the disasters in SimCity, randomly hitting you with a major nightmare scenario like a fire or a riot, which can really test your facilities – both mental and architectural.Prison Architect has a unique style: minimalistic, but full of character. It takes a very serious subject and turns it into an impressive simulation, where players have the scope to experiment with varying incarceration theories, from relatively pleasant rehabilitation homes to hellish maximum security jails designed to beat down the population as effectively as possible. The tutorial elements could certainly be much clearer and the complexity of the systems can be daunting. But once you’re in, you will – unlike many of my own early inmates – find it very difficult to escape.Introversion Software; PC/Mac; £20
Slightly later than scheduled - it’s Friday!
Motorola’s Moto X Style aims to be a flagship smartphone on a budget, with a big screen, curvaceous body and quality camera.Also known as the Moto X Pure Edition in the US, it’s Motorola’s second Moto X modelafter the Play, which had a smaller screen and a bigger battery.Your choice of wood, plastic or leatherThe white soft-touch back is feels nice and isn’t slippery like glass or metal, but is just one of a collection of materials and colours to choose from.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto X Style looks like any other Motorola phone released in the last two years. The all-glass front has front-facing speakers which operate in stereo, some presence sensors for gestures and now a front-facing LED flash to go with the selfie camera.The back is curved, covered in your choice of plastic, wood or leather, and the sides are aluminium. There’s a metal accent bar connecting the camera to Motorola’s characteristic dimple. The build is solid, although the unit I have has a tiny gap between the glass screen and the metal band at the top.At 11.1mm thick and weighing 179g, the Moto X Style is considerably chunkier and heavier than, for example, the 6.9mm thick, 153gSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+.But it feels solid, comfortable and ergonomic in the hand. The curved back also makes it one of the easiest phablets to hold, but while one-handed use is possible at a stretch, the top of the phone is out of reach.The 5.7in 2K LCD screen is excellent and Motorola’s best yet. It is on a par with likes of theLG G4and Samsung’s latest phablets. It appears pin-sharp with a pixel density of 520 pixels per inch, is bright and easily readable in direct sunlight and has great viewing angles. It’s not quite as vibrant as some AMOLED screens such as that on theSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+, but could be considered to be more realistic for viewing photos and video.SpecificationsScreen:5.7in 2K LCD (520ppi)Processor:six-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 808RAM:3GBStorage:32GB/64GB + microSD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1.1 LollipopCamera:21MP rear camera (f/2.0), 5MP front-facing camera with flashConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 and GPSDimensions:153.9 x 76.2 x 11.1 mmWeight:179gCool running but only for a dayThe curved back makes the Moto X Style one of the easier phablets to keep hold of.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto X Style uses Qualcomm’s six-core Snapdragon 808 processor, which is not the latest or the most powerful available, but also does not suffer from overheating issues. It’s the same one used to great effect in theLG G4and performs equally well in this device.The phone is one of the snappiest you can find on the market today, on par with any of the top Android smartphones at the moment performing similarly to the Galaxy S6.The processor handled everything I threw at it without issue, including games. It didn’t get particularly warm even under heavy use. The 808 might be less powerful for some tasks, but most people won’t notice or even care. Call quality was excellent and hands-free calling particularly loud.The Moto X Style lasted an average of 26 hours during my testing, which was enough to see me safely through a day and a night out, but it had to be charged every night. That was with 3 hours of browsing and listening to music via Bluetooth headphones, hundreds of push notifications and emails, 20 minutes of gaming and a couple of photos a day.This is pretty average when smartphones from Sony and others can last two days or more with similar specifications, but the Moto X Style charges quickly reaching 55% in 50 minutes.Snappy stock AndroidThe Moto X Style runs Android (almost) straight from Google.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMotorola ships its Android smartphones without software customisations. They are as close toGoogle’s Nexus devicesin those terms as you can get. Motorola instead spends its time optimising the software, which is one reason why it is quite so snappy.The standard Android Lollipop experience is very good and those bits that Motorola adds are actually useful, apart from the camera app (more on that below).Motorola’s Moto app adds a couple of features to Android. Gesture support is excellent allowing users to karate chop to light the flash as a torch or twist your wrist with the device in hand to fire up the camera app. The phone can also turn on or off Wi-Fi or other settings based on location and time of day.Motorola’s active display detects when the phone is approached with a hand with its presence sensors and lights the display with notification icons and the time.Holding a finger on the icon previews a small snippet of the message or notification. Users can then dismiss or unlock the phone to see the rest of the message. It’s a better user experience and consumes less battery than Android’s stock “ambient” display.Moto Voice adds to Google Now with more voice control options including a custom hotword that the user can change to fire up the voice command system without having to touch the phone. It works well in the home or office, but struggled outdoors on a busy street. I’m not sure why you’d want to use it on the street – it feels awkward talking to a smartphone when no one can see you, let alone in public.CameraThe camera’s great, the app not so much.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe camera is the first one fitted to a Motorola smartphone that I’ve thought was actually good. The 21-megapixel camera was excellent in good lighting, producing photos with good colour balance and detail –better than the Moto X Play.It struggled in low-light conditions more than some rivals, producing some muddy photos when I expected it to be fine.Video capture is also strong, with 1080p at 60 frames per second and 4K if only at 30fps.The 5-megapixel selfie camera is very good, producing bright and detailed shots making it one of the best. The flash on the front will make some selfies better, but its throw was short making it a bit anaemic more than an arm’s length away.As good as the camera is, the camera app is poor. Motorola’s made it tap to capture rather than tap to focus. I found it routinely failed to focus correctly, producing images that were not as sharp as I would have liked. It worked fine for selfies, but not for rear-camera shots of anything with detail in the foreground.A drag to focus mode is available, but I found it clumsy to use and in the end switched to the equally simple to use but much better Google Camera app.The front-facing flash will help illuminate your mug in a pinch.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Motorola Moto X Style costs £360 for 32GB of storage without customisation. It is also available from Motorola’s Maker site, where accents, backs and storage can be changed starting at £400 for 32GB and £434 for 64GB.For comparison theLG G4is currently available from £320 and theSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+currently costs £580. The 5.5inMotorola Moto X Playcosts £250.VerdictWith the Moto X Style, Motorola is trying to replicate a winning formula: offer a great smartphone experience for less than the competition.Costing £360 it is around £220 cheaper than its rivalSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+and offers a similar experience. The only things notably lacking from the Moto X Style are a fingerprint sensor and wireless charging, which hurt its future proofing. Its battery life of just over one day could also be better.The Moto X Style has an excellent screen, feels good in the hand, has a good camera, very snappy performance and runs stock Android without any bloat. In fact, the Moto X Style is essentially aGoogle Nexus smartphonebut with a microSD card slot for adding extra storage.Pros:great screen, good rear camera, excellent selfie camera, microSD card slot, cheaper than rivals, stereo front-facing speakersCons:battery could be better and is not removable, no wireless charging or fingerprint scannerThe metal bar in the back has Motorola’s dimple logo, but it is more for aesthetics than a useful place to rest your finger.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviewsMotorola Moto X Play review: a decent performer for a bit lessLG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive cameraGoogle Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageableOnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship phablet killer’?Huawei Honor 7 review: solid mid-range with lightning-fast fingerprint scannerSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ review: the curvy ‘iPhone 6 Plus killer’iPhone 6S Plus review: barely better than the iPhone 6 Plus
Outspoken Tesla chief executive Elon Musk has poked fun at Apple, saying his employees refer to the tech company as the “Tesla graveyard”.Dismissing claims thatApple is poaching key members of stafffrom his own firm to work onits long-rumoured self-driving car project, Musk said: “Important engineers? They have hired people we’ve fired. We always jokingly call Apple the ‘Tesla Graveyard’.“If you don’t make it at Tesla, you go work at Apple. I’m not kidding.”Musk, whose company last week unveiled theModel X, its first SUV, was speaking toGerman newspaper Handelsblatt. When asked whether or not he took Apple seriously as a competitor in the automotive market, Musk replied, laughing: “Did you ever take a look at the Apple Watch?”He added: “No, seriously: it’s good that Apple is moving and investing in this direction. But cars are very complex compared to phones or smartwatches. You can’t just go to a supplier like Foxconn and say: ‘Build me a car.’“But for Apple, the car is the next logical thing to finally offer a significant innovation. A new pencil or a bigger iPad alone were not relevant enough.”Apple’s project to create its own self-driving car is fast becoming one of the worst-kept secrets in Silicon Valley. Although the company has never confirmed that it is working on a vehicle, documents uncovered by the Guardian in August showed that it wasseeking space to test its cars in private, looking to secure a 2,100 acre former naval base near San Francisco for that purpose. In September,the company met with California officialsto review the state’s autonomous vehicle regulations.
Single-ignition barrages, or “cakes” as the pros call them, are increasingly a favoured option for amateur firework displays. Consisting of zig-zagging rows of explosives that ignite consecutively, they fire an unpredictable collection of bangs, candles and stars into the sky, compounding their excitement with the element of surprise.Darryl Fleming of Titanium Fireworks.Photograph: Karen Robinson for the ObserverDarryl Fleming, the director and co-founder ofTitanium Fireworks, doesn’t generally deal in such simple tomfoolery, having worked as a pyrotechnician at London 2012, the Commonwealth Games and the last three New Year displays in London and Edinburgh. Nevertheless, the basic requirements are similar, he insists, while revealing a professional vocabulary as colourful as his creations: “A good firework display needs structure and variety to keep people interested, whether it be crackles, screeches, hummers, tourbillon spinning effects, bombettes, comets or mines.”Titanium’s gigantic “pyromusical” displays rely on computer-controlled ignition systems, timed to within a hundredth of a second. But even a humble, over-the-counter “cake” is a complex system of infinitesimal reactions. Each tube inside the barrage contains a single cardboard cylinder, plugged with clay at one end. As the fuse burns round the barrage, a firing charge ignites at the bottom of each tube, simultaneously ejecting the cylinder and lighting a second “delay fuse”, which goes off when the firework reaches its maximum height. The firework then explodes in mid-air, creating effects according to the design and chemistry of its contents. Different metal salts create colours, magnesium aids brightness, and noise is created by manipulating the gas escaping from the reaction.“People are more discerning now,” says Fleming, who has agreed to act as the expert in our fireworks trial. “I’ll be looking for definition, range of effects and hopefully something unique.”Taking time off from his intense preparation for the Rugby World Cup closing ceremony (“We have to make sure we don’t cover the pitch in debris”) Fleming surveys the line of seven cakes. “Wear stout boots, and light them at arm’s length with a gloved hand,” he warns. “But the golden rule is: make sure they can’t fall over.”The Beijing Blitz: good valueCELTIC– BEIJING BLITZ£7.99. Pocket-sized 36-shot cake. Safe at five metresfireworksshop.uk.com“For less than £10, that’s good quality and excellent value. The duration was 30 seconds, which is good for that number of shots and it had a little flurry at the end to give you a finale. There was a good range of colours and I liked the crackle effect every alternate lift. Because it’s small, it’s quite low-level – the larger ones will go a lot higher – but it’s still stunning. An excellent little cake.”Silver Crackling Rain: identical shotsPEACOCK - SILVER CRACKLING RAIN£23.99. A family-friendly 25-shot cakebrilliantfireworks.co.uk“There’s a longer tube-length, so the shots went higher than the Beijing Blitz, but otherwise it was very similar in duration and intensity. The limitation is that each shot was identical: a silver tail with a timed rain effect at the end, whereas the Blitz had alternating colours and each one had a crackle in between. But it’s still a good cake for a small back garden.”Imperial in action: impressive effectBROTHERS PYROTECHNICS – IMPERIAL£25 (sold as part of four-pack) 16 bone-rattling bangsjordansfireworks.co.uk“The tube bore size is bigger here, so a larger cardboard casing is ejected which has a larger number of stars and a bigger quantity of bursting charge – what we call a ‘bombette’. This had clearly defined bursts, and I liked the screeches at the end - that’s the sort of thing that goes down well with kids. Fewer shots than the previous two, but they were bigger and higher, with more stars and more payload, which gives an impressive effect.”Ragin Spiders in action: quite a noveltyBRIGHT STAR - RAGING SPIDERS£44.99. Unusual circular cake, with three separate sectionsnewsboxfireworks.co.uk.“This is an example of what a good firework display involves: a rotation of sequences. It starts at ground level with a fountain – I didn’t expect that and it was a nice touch. Then it started firing the aerial stuff at about 20 seconds, and then it had a lovely little flourish at the end in which a barrage of fanned mines went spinning off in quick succession - really quite a novelty. I’m not sure if it’s good value for money, but it’s a nice firework with an unusual structure.”Star Wars in action: hands down winner!COSMIC - STAR WARS£74.99. Big, heavy 220-shot barragefireworksmine.co.uk“Duration-wise it was nice and long, it probably had the greatest variety of the seven, but what I liked most of all was the intensity – the speed at which the shots are fired and the energy it maintains. The volume is higher than its rivals – very impressive – and it has a solid sequence of whistles, not just one or two. It even had a little false-finale to wrong-foot the audience at the end. In terms of intensity, duration, range and quality of effects, this one wins hands down.”Thunder Strike in action: long but repetitiveELITE - THUNDER STRIKE£30. 48-shots. Category 3, so keep 25 metres backsimiawarehouse.com“It was about 1min 20sec long, which is a long duration. Generally that’s good. My criticism, though, is that it didn’t have any great variety. It was basically a unit that went up with a bombette burst in alternating primary colours – that’s it. It would have been nice if, after 20 seconds of that, we’d had some sort of development, even just a whistle, but nothing too exciting happened and it became a bit repetitive.”Accolade: a lot going onKIMBOLTON - ACCOLADE£59.99. New from prestigious UK company. 150 shotsbuykimboltonfireworks.com“The colours are lovely and bright, and it opens with a nice crossette effect – the stars breaking and splitting into four. Then some bombettes and crackles, not quite as big as what we’ve seen before, but lovely and clear. It’s nearly two minutes long, and I was starting to get a bit bored in the middle, but I certainly liked the clever sequence at the end: a flurry, with a pregnant pause between the effects. On the whole, a pretty good cake, and a lot going on.”
The law firm that represented the hotel maid whosaid she was sexually assaultedbyDominique Strauss-Kahnand awoman from Delhiwho said she was raped and beaten after hailing an Uber driver last December has filed a lawsuit against the controversial taxi app on behalf of two female passengers.Related:Delhi woman sues Uber for 'negligence and fraud' after alleged rapeThe passengers accuse Uber drivers of sexual assault, according toa court filingon Thursday.In response to the suit, Uber said it had worked with law enforcement in both cases, and said “both drivers have been permanently removed from the platform”.The suit, filed in US district court in San Francisco by Wigdor, a New York law firm, alleges that Uber targets its marketing toward women who have been drinking yet fails to protect female passengers by not adequately screening drivers and routinely hiring drivers with criminal histories.“What Uber does not share with riders is that making the choice to hail a ride after drinking also puts them in peril from the Uber drivers themselves,” the complaint says.“By marketing heavily toward young women who have been drinking while claiming that rider safety is its #1 priority, Uber is instead putting these women at risk.”The suit alleges that “negligence, fraud and misleading statements” led to the sexual assaults, which it says “humiliated, degraded, violated and robbed [the plaintiffs] of their dignity”.The suit seeks unspecified damages and a permanent injunction against Uber to improve its safety measures.“It is our hope that this case sends a strong message to Uber that no woman should have to be physically violated because a company has decided to put profits over safety,” said Douglas Wigdor, the founding partner at Wigdor, in a statement.According to the suit, the first assault took place in Boston at around 2.30am on 8 February 2015, after a friend of the first plaintiff, listed as Jane Doe 1, ordered an Uber car.The Uber driver first dropped off her friends, who lived together, the suit says, and then proceeded to travel off-route. The driver began to grope the woman at a red light, according to the complaint. He then forcibly kissed her.She sent frantic texts to her friends, saying the driver was trying to “rape” her and asking them to “call for help”. Eventually, the suit says, she managed to unlock the car door and escape.The suit says the second woman, identified as Jane Doe 2, was driven to a bar in Charleston with friends on 9 August 2015. According to the complaint, the driver followed them into the bar and after several hours offered to take them home.After dropping off her male friend first, the Uber driver then drove the woman to a remote parking lot where he proceeded to “viciously rape” her, according to the filing. After the attack, Jane Doe 2 escaped and called the police.In a statement issued on Thursday, an Uber spokesperson said: “Our thoughts remain with the victims of these two terrible incidents.“We proactively worked with law enforcement in Massachusetts and South Carolina at the time to share information and aid their investigations. Both drivers have been permanently removed from the platform.”The taxi app is valued at more than $50bn, making it the most valuable of the new “sharing economy” tech companies. But while investors have poured in money, Uber has been dogged by controversy.Dozens of passengers from around the world have alleged sexual assaults by Uber drivers. Cases have arisen in France, China, Canada and India, where a woman’s allegation that shewas brutally rapedby her Uber driver set off widespread protests andled to a ban on the service in Delhi.
Facebook is to trial “reactions” options for users responding to content, proving that merely being able to “like” something was somewhat limiting the human emotional spectrum.From Friday, Ireland and Spain (assumingly particularly emotive nations?) will be the first to test the new feature. Despitewide reportingthat Facebook was working on a “dislike” button in September, it seems company boss Mark Zuckerberg has decided that a binary choice of like and dislike is too specific.Instead,Engadget reportsthat “icons” that represent “love, laughter, cheeky smiles [and] shock anger” will be some of those available to users in the trial, which starts this weekend. The hope is that one will no longer be constrained in one’s emotional response on the social network.It can feel awkward to like a post about somebody’s beloved dog dying – but how else to show appreciation of the cute tribute photo of them as young child and puppy? Zuckerbergacknowledged back in September interviewsthat this was an issue:“What [people] really want is the ability to express empathy. Not every moment is a good moment.“We have an idea that we’re going to be ready to test soon, and depending on how that does, we’ll roll it out more broadly.”What the new Facebook reactions options will look like.Photograph: FacebookEmotional tone online can be a minefield, often lost in translation or misinterpreted, which is why canny internet users have thought of workarounds.Thereaction gif, for instance, is now part of the everyday internet experience, and there are popular website repositories to find the best (thinkGiphy.com). Twitter recognised just how integral reaction gifs were to many users’ online experience when itintroduced support for animated gifsin June 2014.With its new reactions panel, it seems Facebook is finally (eye roll) catching up to the fact people have a varied, rich internal gamut of emotions. It’s not the most revolutionary advancement, however. Facebook’s new reactions do look a lot like a subset of emoji. They are reminiscent too of thestickers available in Gmail’s Hangouts(in addition to actual supported emoji), and the number of responses one can choose at the end of BuzzFeed articles.My reaction to Facebook’s reactions? Underwhelmed. But I don’t think that’s an option.•Forget ‘Dislike’ – here are 12 new buttons Facebook really needs
Amazon has come up with a new system for getting huge amounts of data from your computers to theirs: send it by post. As computer science pioneer Andy Tanenbaum wrote: “Never underestimate the bandwidth of a station wagon full of tapes hurtling down the highway.”The company’s new Snowball hardware is aimed at developers who use Amazon Web Services, the increasingly-ubiquitous internet backend to websites as varied as Netflix and Ocado.Once a company reaches a certain size, even the fastest dedicated internet connections can be a large bottleneck for transferring data. A T3 connection, once the gold-standard for corporate broadband, caps out at 45MB a second, and even dedicated fibre connections usually max out at 128MB a second.In small areas, one solution to the problem is dubbed the “sneakernet”: literally loading files on to portable hard drives or USB sticks, and walking over to the computer they’re supposed to be on. And for six years, Amazon has offered its own version of the sneakernet, letting customers post hard drives to its data servers.“Hard drives are getting bigger more rapidly than internet connections are getting faster,”explained the company’s Jeff Barrin 2009, and that trend has continued. But what hasn’t changed is that it’s still a bit of a faff to use the sneakernet (or its bigger sibling – call it the “trucknet”), and so Amazon has introduced a dedicated piece of hardware designed to make it easier.The Snowball is a massive box with handles, ports, and a Kindle screen on the outside. Once a developer requests it, it gets posted to them, and they plug it in to the power and network connections, copy over up to 50TB of data (enough to store almost 150 days of 4K video) and post it back.The device is resistant enough that it doesn’t need to be packed away before shipping out, and the e-ink screen on the front, used for configuration, doubles up as a postage label: when the user confirms that they’ve finished uploading the data to the device, Amazon automatically puts a shipping label on the screen. The service doesn’t come cheap, though, with each cycle costing $200 plus shipping.Of course, if Amazon wants to get even more retro, there’s another possibility that ups the speed of the transfer: carrier pigeon. In 2009,an Australian TV show exploredwhether a pigeon with a USB stick strapped to its leg could be faster than the internet. The bird ended up transferring 700MB in an hour; the internet connection failed twice and the filmmakers had to give up. There’s even a 25-year-old standard for transferring data using birds: RFC 1149 describes “IP over avian carriers”. “This specification is primarily useful in metropolitan area networks,” it argues.
Samsung has insisted that its newly launched mobile payments system is unaffected after the technology on which it is based, called LoopPay, was hacked.American payments startup LoopPay, bought by Samsung in February to underpin the company’s Samsung Pay mobile payments system, was attacked by a Chinese group of hackers according to areport by the New York Times.The hackers, known as the Codoso Group or Sunshock Group, had access to LoopPay’s internal network since March and went undetected until August, according to the report.Samsung said: “Samsung Pay was not impacted and at no point was any personal payment information at risk. This was an isolated incident that targeted the LoopPay office network, which is a physically separate network from Samsung Pay.”Samsung Pay was launched in the US on 28 September, in full knowledge of the hack and allowing the manufacturer’s latest Galaxy S6 and Note 5 devices to be used to pay for goods and services.The differentiating factor over Apple Pay and Google’s Android Pay systems is that the service is underpinned by LoopPay, which can simulate a magnetic card swipe allowing users to pay for goods and services without the merchant requiring an NFC-enabled till.The hackers had undetected access to LoopPay’s corporate network for five months, which Samsung says “handles email, file servers and printing”. How much of the information required to replicate the technology was stolen from the company in that time is unknown at this stage.The reinvigoration of mobile payments by Google, Apple and Samsung is seen as a way to further lock users into the manufacturer’s ecosystem and provide an additional revenue stream.Apple Paylaunched in the UK in July, following an October 2014 release in the US. Google’s Android Pay launched in the US in September replacing the company’s previous mobile payment system called Google Wallet. A release within Europe is expected within the next year, while Samsung Pay – which uses the company’s Android devices – is a separate system and is also expected to be released within the next year in Europe.Samsung buys mobile payments firm LoopPay to take on Apple Pay
What are the best, reasonably inexpensive hardware and/or software solutions to improve a PC’s crappy sound? We find the audio of TV programmes hard on our ears, bass too loud, and the high notes are several db lower than normal due to our age. We use our PCs to listen to classical music as well.Our operating system is Microsoft Windows 7, default device: Realtek speakers. Our speakers are cheap Creative MF 0055 2.0 Series. Are the standard sound boards that come with most PCs suitable or is a better one required? (We live in Canada and subscribe to the Guardian.)MarioA PC is a poor source for hi-fi, but that probably doesn’t matter if you mainly want to change the sound to suit your ears. In the long term, I expect you will have to buy better speakers. However, you can start by experimenting with Windows’ settings and, perhaps, some audio utilities.Sound softwareIt seems your PC has a Realtek audio chipset on the motherboard – actual sound cards are rare nowadays. You should therefore have Realtek software bundled with Windows 7. To run it, click the Start button and type Realtek in the search box. When Realtek HD Audio Manager comes up, click the name to run it.When Realtek starts, check that the speaker configuration is set to stereo, then select the tab marked “Sound Effects”. The bottom half of this page offers an equalizer to adjust the different frequencies in the sound, though it will probably be set to “&lt;None&gt;”. Look to the right of this box, skip the Reset button, and click on the rectangular button that shows a tiny screen. This is the command to “Change to graphic EQ”.You should now see a set of sliders that change the loudness at different frequency ranges. To start with, all the sliders will be level, but you can move them to reduce the bass and increase the treble. Click “Save” and “OK” then enter a filename (eg trebletest) to keep the settings, and see how the changes affect the sound. You can fine-tune the settings later, or turn off EQ.You can also change your PC’s sound by installing a program, such asDFX Audio Enhancer 11.4, which provides a lot ofeffects. The free version is unbelievably annoying, and doesn’t give you full control of the sliders. However, even if you don’t change any of the pre-sets, it does make a significant difference to the sound. Click to turn off Hyperbass and it may solve your problem with TV programmes. If so, it might be worth paying$29.99 or $39.99(US dollars) for the full DFX Plus version.Claesson Edwards Audio’sBreakaway Audio Enhanceris an alternative commercial program ($29.95) with a fully functional trial version. The company serves the professional audio market with much more expensive software, and it doesn’t have versions for Windows 8 or 10.Active speakersI think you are usingCreative SBS 260speakers at the moment. These were one of the cheapest on the market ($10 to $20 per pair), and have front-facing bass ports to make them sound bigger than they are. You can do a lot better, but choosing a pair depends on what’s available in Canada.You don’t need lots of bass, so I’d suggest a traditional pair of wired speakers, with no subwoofer to provide deep bass. For example, consider theCreative GigaWorks T20 Series II 2.0($90) or theT40($110). These have more powerful amplifiers than the SBS 260, dedicated tweeters for treble performance, and their own volume, bass, and treble controls.Powered bookshelf speakers are the next step up in quality. Examples include theM-Audio AV30($76) andAV32($99),Mackie CR Series CR3($100), andCerwin Vega XD3($119). These are bigger and can provide better quality sound, but usually lack tone controls.If you buy powered bookshelf speakers, put them on stands, or cones, or at least use four small balls of Blu-Tack to lift them off the desk.For more information, see TechHive’sBuying Guide: Find the best speakers.You could probably get an increase in sound quality by installing a dedicated Creative Sound Blaster card, but I think the built-in Realtek chips are good enough for your purposes. This has been debated endlessly online (seerealtek vs soundblaster). However, I think you’d be better off spending your cash on better speakers or a small hi-fi system.Feed a microThe last alternative is to feed your PC’s sound output to a small (mini ormicro) hi-fi system. I like the Sony, Onkyo and especially the Denon models, but Pioneer and Yamaha also make good systems. All of them include an amplifier with tone controls, FM radio, and usually a CD player in one box, plus a pair of bookshelf speakers. The amplifier should be much better than the ones fitted inside computer speakers.Something like aSony Micro CMT-S20($120) will do the job, but it lacks two useful features:RCAandS/PDIFinput ports. The Sony’s only “audio in” is a3.5mm jack plug. Better but pricier systems should have more inputs, including RCA phono sockets and one or two optical ports, plus Bluetooth and/or a phone dock.There are several ways to transfer the sound signal from your PC to the amplifier. The simplest is to use a 3.5mm jack-to-jack cable, or a Y-cable (3.5mm jack-to-twin RCA phono plugs). S/PDIF (from Sony/Philips Digital Interface Format) does the job better, via an electrical or an optical cable.Check your PC’s manual (online if necessary) to locate the S/PDIF socket on the back panel. You may well find there’s a black plastic plug sticking out. Pull the plug, and if you can see a glowing red socket, then you need an optical cable. Your chosen micro system will also need an optical port.If you make the connection via a 3.5mm-jack plug, use the green socket on the back of your PC, rather than the headphone socket. Sound levels vary, so make sure the sound is turned down before you play anything.The micro hi-fi will enable you to play MP3 files and listen to video and TV sound from your PC, with the benefit of physical tone controls. These should help you cope with modern TV directors who drown out dialogue with overblown background music. You will also be able to listen to the radio and play CDs without having your PC turned on.Finally, micro hi-fis have passed their peak, in terms of popularity, so you can often pick up good systems second hand for little or no money.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Two seemingly identical, brand new, iPhones 6S may have a battery life that differs by up to two hours depending on which of two companies manufactured their processor, according to reports from owners.The investigations were sparked bya report from technology news site Anandtechthat Apple is dual-sourcing one of the key components of the new phones. The A9 “system on a chip”, the lump of silicon that lies at the heart of the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus, is designed by Apple but manufactured by two independent contractors: Korea’s Samsung Electronics and Taiwan’s TSMC. The two chips interact with the rest of the hardware identically, based as they are on the same designs, but differences in their production is apparently having an effect on how efficient they are at doing their jobs.TSMC’s implementation of Apple’s designs uses a manfacturing process with a minimum transistor width of 16nm compared to Samsung’s 14nm, and results in a chip that is physically larger by 8.5mm2. But as well as the physical difference, the TSMC version of the chip also seems to have markedly better power consumption, according to user reports shared on sites includingMac RumoursandReddit.One user, with two iPhone 6S Pluses with different chips, reported a difference of two hours in battery life between the phones: the TSMC chip hit almost eight hours while running a suite of battery-intensive activities, while the Samsung one managed barely six.It is tricky to determine which version of the chip is installed in a particular phone, but some apps such asLirum Device Infocan tell owners. Samsung’s chip shows up as N66AP or N71AP, while TSMC’s appears as N66MAP or N71MAP.This is not the first time Apple has run into trouble dual-sourcing key components. In 2012, when it launched the Retina MacBook Pro, the company bought screens from two different suppliers, LG and Samsung. The LG-provided screens turned out to suffer from significant “burn-in” issues, displaying a ghost of any image left onscreen for too long. Despite calls for a recall from users, the company didn’t publicly acknowledge the difference in quality, but did apparently begin replacing the defective laptops if users brought them in to a store complaining about the quality.Earlier this year,the Wall Street Journal reportedthat attempts to dual-source the new “taptic engine” in the Apple Watch had also led to issues. One of the two providers of the ground-breaking vibration component, AAC Technologies, was apparently unable to consistently provide reliable parts, leading Apple to drop it as a supplier and scrap some completed watches. In the end, the company only used parts provided by Japan’s Nidec, which didn’t experience the same problem.Apple has not responded to a request for comment.
1. Save your battery (iPhone only)iOS 9 brings with it a low power mode that shuts down a lot of background processes and can eke a few more minutes out of your iPhone’s battery when you really need it. You get the option to switch it on when the battery level hits 20 percent, but you can activate it any time you like by going to the Battery section of Settings. Of course, you still can’t beat turning off your phone completely for ensuring the battery lasts longer...2. Teach Siri your voiceWith Apple’s new software update comes a Siri voice training feature so the digital assistant app can better recognise the sound of your voice (and perhaps your thick regional accent). To get started, open up the General page inside the Settings app, then tap Siri and Allow “Hey Siri”: after you’ve practised a few phrases, you’ll be able to say “hey Siri” to activate the app when your phone is plugged in and charging. On the newest iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, the voice shortcut works whether your phone is charging or not.3. Search through settingsIf you’ve ever got lost in the rather labyrinthine set of screens that make up the iOS Settings app you’ll be pleased to hear you can now search through them easily enough. The search box appears at the top of the front page of the Settings app — just begin typing out something related to the option you want to find, and iOS does the rest. If nothing appears below your query then chances are there isn’t such a setting available on your iDevice.4. Abandon slow Wi-Fi networks (iPhone only)Hidden away at the bottom of the Mobile Data menu in Settings is a new option introduced in iOS 9 called Wi-Fi Assist. What this does is automatically drop your iPhone back onto a strong 3G/4G signal if Wi-Fi is proving problematic (too slow, too unstable or not connected at all). It’s designed to save you the trouble of having to manually switch off Wi-Fi if you know a data connection will be faster and less troublesome (just make sure you have the data plan to handle it).5. Find your friends quicklyApple’s Find Friends app — which lets you locate iCloud-connected contacts on a map, with their permission — has been around for some time, but it’s now a stock app in iOS 9 (like Mail or Maps) which means everyone has it installed. It also comes with a new notification centre widget, which you can enable by dragging down from the top of your device’s screen and tapping the Edit button. Enable Find Friends and then tap Add Friends to decide who you want to see on your Today page.6. Change video recording resolutionThe iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus bring 4K video recording to an Apple handset for the first time, a resolution that can take up a serious amount of your phone’s internal storage. To help head off potential problems, iOS 9 includes a video resolution selector which you can use on any device (not just the new iPhones): go to Settings, then Photos &amp; Camera, then Record Video to set your preference. On devices where the slow-motion video feature is supported you can set the video resolution for this as well.7. Create a longer passcodeThe longer your passcode, the harder it is to crack, and iOS 9 sets the new default length at six digits rather than four. If you already have a four-digit PIN in place, go into the Passcode section of Settings and tap on Passcode — you’ll then be prompted for a new code that’s six digits long. Even though Touch ID replaces the passcode in many situations, there are still times when iOS relies on it (when restarting your device for example).8. Set context-sensitive remindersSiri has a few more tricks up its sleeve in iOS 9 and one of them is the ability to set a reminder based on whatever it is you’re looking at on screen: it could be a map location, an email or a website, for example (assuming the app supports the necessary Siri integration). Launch Siri by pressing and holding on the Home button, then simply say “remind me about this” to set up a reminder. Ask Siri to “show reminders” to see all of the memory joggers currently stored in its memory.9. Jump straight to your selfiesiOS 9 introduces two new photo folders to automatically filter some of your snaps. First there’s Screenshots, which will help technology journalists the world over, and then there’s Selfies — this doesn’t magically recognise your face, but just grabs every picture taken with the front-facing camera. If you want to quickly pull up a recent selfie, head to the Photos app and then tap on the Albums button on the toolbar to see the Selfies entry. You can still sort these pictures into any of your own albums as well.10. Add photos and maps to Notes (Notes)For the time being at least, all of Apple’s own apps get updated at the same time as iOS itself (something Google has moved away from). That means there’s a lot to talk about in terms of individual apps too: Notes gets the biggest upgrade, and you can now add photos, maps, doodles, checklists and Web links to your entries. It’s now much better equipped to take on the likes of Evernote as a more general note-taking app — give Notes another try if you’ve previously been unimpressed by it.11. Block adverts on the Web (Safari)Somewhat controversially, the iOS 9 edition of Safari includes support for content blocking apps that strip out advertising from the Web while you browse. You first need to install your choice of app — Crystal, Blockr and BlockBear are three of the most well-known — and you can then head to the Safari section of Settings to enable them. Some of these ad-blockers stick to the basics while others (usually the ones you have to pay for) give you more control over what types of content are hidden from view.12. Change the look of Reader View (Safari)Sticking with the updated version of Safari included in iOS 9, you can now adjust the look of the Reader View mode (which also cuts out adverts as well as any other superfluous content that doesn’t make up the main article on the page). First, tap the Reader View icon (on the left of the address bar) to strip away all the unnecessary clutter; you can then tap on the double AA icon on the right of the address bar to change the font size, style and colour to whatever suits your eyes best.13. Annotate email attachments (Mail)Another Apple app to get a handful of minor upgrades is Mail. It’s now possible to sketch all over an email attachment before you return it to the original sender (maybe with some suggestions for improvements): tap and hold on an attachment (like an image or a PDF) in an email, then select the Markup and Reply option. The subsequent screen gives you access to a number of different pen and text tools, and there are options for adjusting the colours and styles of your squiggles.14. Attach any kind of attachment to emails (Mail)Back in the dark days of iOS 8 and the editions that came before it, you could only attach photos or videos to an outgoing email composed on your Apple device; with iOS 9, any kind of file is permitted as an attachment. Double-tap on the email body as normal, then choose the Add Attachment option from the pop-up list. Your iCloud Drive folder opens up by default, but you can select Locations to set up other supported sources, such as Dropbox and Google Drive.15. Select multiple photos more easily (Photos)This is only a small change but it can make a noticeable difference if you spend a lot of time working with photos on your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch. When you’re inside the Photos app, you can tap Select as usual to pick out several images rather than just one — the difference in iOS 9 is that rather than tapping each individual picture, you can quickly tap and slide to highlight a bunch of pictures close to each other. It should make uploading or deleting a swathe of photos that little bit easier.16. Hide photos from view (Photos)There might be photos on your device you don’t want to see every time you scroll through your gallery — maybe they didn’t come out too well or they don’t find in with the rest of your daily snaps — so Apple has included a new Hide option which you can find via the Share menu. The chosen images disappear from the Moments, Collections and Years screens, but note that they’re still visible from the folders on the Albums page (and you can unhide them from here if you need to).17. Get public transport directions (Maps)At long last Apple Maps can tell you how to get from A to B via public transport — as long as you live in London (or Baltimore, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Washington DC, Toronto, Berlin, Mexico City and several cities in China). Just choose the Transport option when you ask Apple Maps to work out a route and a list of options appear on screen; tapping the small information icon brings up a more detailed instructions. Hopefully support for more locations is on the way.18. Put apps in a sidebar (iPad only)iOS 9 has some tricks exclusive to the iPad: specifically, the iPad Air 1 and 2, the iPad mini 2, 3 and 4, and the iPad Pro. With one app on screen, slide a finger in from the right of the display and you can view another app in a pinned sidebar — Apple will show you all the installed apps compatible with this new Slide Over mode. Tap one to view it, then tap back on the main app to hide the sidebar again. To change the sidebar app, drag down from the top of the screen.19. Enable Split View mode (iPad only)Slide Over only gives you a limited preview of a second app for quick reference purposes, but if you’ve got an iPad Air 2, an iPad mini 4 or an iPad Pro, you can take advantage of a true multi-tasking mode called Split View: with the Slide Over panel displayed, drag the boundary line into the centre of the screen and you have two apps side-by-side. If you want to change the primary app you started with, just tap on the Home button and pick a new app from the home screen.20. Play video clips on top of other apps (iPad only)vids on topPhotograph: screengrabHere’s another trick for the newer group of iPads we mentioned earlier (any iPad Air, any iPad mini except the original, and the iPad Pro): picture-in-picture video. It’s dependent on your video-playing app of choice supporting the feature, but if it does, you’ll see a small double-rectangle icon in the lower right-hand corner of the video window — tap this, then press the Home button to choose another app. The video window stays on top and you can move and resize it as required.21. Turn the keyboard into a trackpad (iPad only)Apple’s trying its hardest to turn the iPad into a productivity machine, and our final iPad-only feature turns the keyboard into a trackpad, useful for selecting text and moving the text cursor around the screen with a greater level of accuracy. All you need to do is press and hold with two fingers on the keyboard — the keys themselves grey out and you can then move your fingers to control the cursor. Lift your digits off the iPad display and the keyboard returns.
Bluetooth earbuds offer the holy grail of wire-free listening without the bulk of headphones. Optoma’s new NuForce BE6 promise better sound and a premium aluminium design, but are they worth the extra cost over cheaper rivals?The NuForce BE6 are about as simple and understated as Bluetooth earbuds can get.The two aluminium bodies with small, embossed logos in their ends are linked by a flat, two-tone grey cable with an in-line remote on one side. A small blue light flashes periodically on the remote to tell you they’re on, turning off or have been put into pairing mode.The ends are magnetic and attach to each other to stop the cable getting tangled.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe three-button remote hides the microUSB charging port and a small pin-hole microphone for using the earphones as a phone headset. The buttons are a bit rubbery and have some play to them, but work fine for controlling playback or changing the volume. Pressing all three at once flashes the LED to show remaining charge.The microphone was a bit quiet in my testing, meaning I had to shout a bit louder than I would have liked for the other end of my conversation to be heard.The headphones clip together, magnetically back-to-back, which stops the cable tangling up and can stop them flying off your shoulders when they’re being worn but not listened to.WearingSome will need the optional stabiliser to keep them in their ears, particularly while running.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianA range of earbuds come with the headphones to suit earholes of various sizes. There’s an optional loop that holds it in place, wedging up against the antihelix within the outer ear, but I didn’t need it as they stayed in place fine with just some silicon earbuds.The body of each earphone is quite large and rubbed against my outer ear, which became uncomfortable with prolonged wearing. Most earbuds suffer from similar problems, but I found the BE6 to be particularly uncomfortable for a week or so until I got used to them.Pairing them is simple. Hold down the centre remote button to power them on and keep it held down until a tone sounds and the light flashes, then find them in your device’s settings.ListeningBluetooth earbuds this size typically sound as good as a pair of wired earbuds half their price. The BE6 support bothapt-Xand AAC codecs along with all standard Bluetooth streaming protocols and sound better than most, similar to a pair of £50-to-£60 wired earbuds. The rest you pay for the convenience of being wire-free (apart from the wire connecting the two earbuds).They have good detail and separation, relatively accurate highs and more bass than the Plantronics BackBeat Go, though people looking for thundering bass should look elsewhere. They are not going to blow you away if you’re used to listening to high-end earbuds or some good headphones, but are the best sounding in-ear Bluetooth headphones I have listened to yet.ChargingThe NuForce BE6 lasted around five hours of listening between charges connected to a smartphone. That isn’t quite long enough to not have to worry about whether they are powered up or not, but will see most people through at least half their commutes for the week. They beep a couple of times around 10 minutes before dying. Charging took over two hours.The headphones can connect to more than one device at a time, which is handy, and connection strength to a smartphone in a jeans pocket was generally good. Only occasionally did I notice interference, typically because of a smartwatch getting in between the smartphone and the earphones.A good selection of silicone and foam earbuds are included in the box, but the relatively thick central tube may not fit some.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Optoma NuForce BE6 are some of the more expensive in-ear Bluetooth headphones available costing £100 in grey or white and gold, and come with a nylon carry case and a selection of earbuds.For comparison, the Plantronics BackBeat Go 2s cost under £60 while Apple’s Powerbeats 2 cost £170.VerdictThe Optoma NuForce BE6 are some of the best Bluetooth in-ear headphones I have listened to, but they are not faultless.They’re not the most comfortable, they’re still relatively bulky compared to wired earphones and only lasting about five hours between two-hour charges can get annoying. But they are compromises to free yourself of wires to your phone or computer.The biggest problem is that they do not sound anywhere near as good as a £100 pair of wired headphones. As long as you realise that you’re paying £30 to £50 for the wire-free experience, they’re worth the money.Once you use Bluetooth headphones you’re unlikely to want to go back to being tethered to a smartphone in your pocket.Pros:light, attractive, good sound, cable between buds doesn’t make noise when caught on clothes, magneticCons:only last five hours, take over two hours to charge, not the most comfortable, thick buds may not suit someOther reviewsFive of the best Bluetooth headphones to break free of cablesBowers &amp; Wilkins P5 Wireless headphones review: top-notch sound that comes at a price
“We were flying above a huge , immense desert,” says photographer,Alexander Heilner. “It was a monochromatic, rusty red colour as far as the eye could see, but in the middle was this jewel of blue and white.”It was neither oasis nor mirage. Part of the Intrepid mine, the vivid azure lagoon, so at odds with the surrounding Utah desert, is a potash evaporation pond, vital for fertiliser.Potash is a potassium-rich substance originally obtained by soaking ashes in pots of water, the process that gave it its name. But today a different method is used to obtain the commodity. Water is pumped underground to dissolve buried potash ore before being pumped into the evaporation ponds. The water isdyed deep blueto absorb heat and evaporate more quickly, leaving behind the potash and salts.Related:Bernhard Lang's best photograph: the 'Sea of Plastic' greenhouses from the airObsessed with “the interaction of natural landscapes and man-made structures”, Heilner goes to great lengths to capture these images. To take this shot his hired plane took sweeping circles around the potash ponds, while he leaned out of a window with his camera.Aerial shots are not just dramatic, they are also informative, Heilner explains, saying he is often asked if his landscapes have an environmental stance. “I’m not interested in dictating what’s good and bad, but I am extremely interested that people be aware of what’s happening and therefore have a knowledgeable basis of decision-making,” he says.And with Heilner’s striking images mirroring the patterns of the agricultural land the potash helps to create, he offers plenty of food for thought.
California has passed legislation to allow use of electric skateboards and other motorised, wheeled devices such as “hoverboards” anywhere bicycles are allowed, reversing earlier legislation which banned the vehicles.The bill was signed into law on Sunday, the same day that London’s Metropolitan police servicerestated earlier guidancethat hoverboards are banned from the British capital’s roads and pavements.The Californian law,which takes effect on 1 January 2016, undoes a previous ban on motorised skateboards dating from the 1970s, enacted when the motors were petrol-powered.The new law,named AB 604, defines “electrically motorised boards” as a new legal category (characterised by moving no faster than 20mph, carrying only one person, and being no bigger than 60 by 18 inches), and allows people to ride them on public streets. It also requires the rider to wear a helmet, and bans use of while under the influence of drink or drugs.The bill does leave it open for individual localities to decide to ban the use of the devices in their own area.The bill is specifically aimed at legalising electric skateboards, manufactured by a number of Californian companies including Boosted, ZBoard and Intuitive Motion. But it also legalises other devices which match the description, including the popular “hoverboards” (or “self-balancing scooters”).As in Britain, the lack of legal clarity hasn’t stopped the devices taking off. While some manufacturers had complained of lost sales (withthe Wall Street Journal reportingthat “some [Intuitive Motion] customers cancelled their orders when they learned it wasn’t legal to ride the boards”), the devices are increasingly common on city streets.The legislation does nothing for hoverboard owners who want to ride their gadgets on private land, however. Landowners still have the right to bar use of the devices, meaning that Wiz Khalifa – whosescuffle in LAX airport in August over his hoverboardis widely seen as ground zero of the current craze – would still have had trouble even under the new law.
Twitter trending hashtags: a chance to show how witty you can be with the remaining characters left. Today, a particular meta hashtag is doing the rounds –#GiveTwitterASlogan. But what is Twitter to you? We’ve rounded up some of our favourite examples, and now we’re opening it up. Leave your comments in the #thread #below.A cool place to tell strangers about your medical history#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Michael Baggs (@Baggsy)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASloganThe tree that falls in the forest when no one is around.pic.twitter.com/uWlrOSxCMA&mdash; Jeffrey Galperin (@JeffGalperin)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASloganSomeone did that joke already&mdash; Greg Jenner (@greg_jenner)October 13, 2015Twitter. One edit button away from a good time!#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Leah Wall (@LeahMWall)October 13, 2015If it&#39;s not worth saying, put it on Twitter.#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Duke Silver (@dribblingfram)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASlogan&#10;&#10;Want complete strangers to explain jokes to you and correct your grammar? Then we’ve got just the place for you!&mdash; Amanda (@Pandamoanimum)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASlogan: &quot;Facebook is full of people you know and don&#39;t like. Twitter is full of people you like and don&#39;t know.&quot;&mdash; laura (@lauravstheworld)October 13, 2015Because you&#39;re already on the toilet#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Sarah Morgan (@sarahlmorgan)October 13, 2015The revolution will be Tweeted#GiveTwitterASloganpic.twitter.com/rIae5pJ7ut&mdash; Gordon MacMillan (@gordonmacmillan)October 13, 2015The place for Facebook statuses you don&#39;t want your relatives to see.#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Grace Mitri (@thot_catalogue)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASloganHome of sarcastic retweets and Peirs Morgan.&mdash; Jordan Roberts (@Jordawr)October 13, 2015Replacing productivity since 2006!#GiveTwitterASlogan&mdash; Rabeeya (@HedwigRabeeya)October 13, 2015People you were afraid existed, all in one place!#GiveTwitterASloganpic.twitter.com/SbXIKs9WD6&mdash; Em Baker (@therealembaker)October 13, 2015#GiveTwitterASloganBecause you haven&#39;t lived until an egg has called you a cunt&mdash; Dean Burnett (@garwboy)October 13, 2015
“Hoverboards” are the latest tech craze sweeping the globe. Central London shop Spy Master is one of the few retailers in the UK that stocks the device in-store. Among drones, Go-Pro action cameras and encryption equipment, the two-wheeled, brightly coloured gadgets apparently fly off the shelves. “Thousands” have been sold at the shop this year says the company’s director, Julia Wing. They offer a row of different models – including a blue IO Hawk, a large graffiti-adorned board, and a bright-green transporter with Bluetooth speakers – ranging between £500 to around £1,500.Guardian reporter Aisha Gani balances on a hoverboard.“I think they’re so futuristic – it’s the first time we’ve seen anything like this,” Wing says. “Because celebrities have them now, it’s the thing to have.”Hoverboards are mostly sold online, yet the fact that more people are uploading photos on to Instagram of themselves riding the devices, combined with the small amount of major retailers actually stocking them, has made them even more sought after.The popularity of the hoverboard – otherwise knows as an e-board, “swegway” or self-balancing scooter – has increased recently and particularly since stars includingWiz Khalifa, 2 Chainz, Usain Bolt, Justin Bieber and Kylie Jenner have been spotted travelling around on them. The increased interest in hoverboards has led to the Metropolitan police highlightingCrown Prosecution Service guidance that it is illegal to ride them in public in London.On most days, Spy Master sells around four hoverboards. Perhaps one of the most desired is the gold edition e-board, that sits on a glass shelf on the window surrounded by electric cycles, monocyles and handled Segways with large black wheels. “One Middle-Eastern customer came in this summer and bought 10,” says Wing, who also points out the strange coincidence that 2015 is also the year in which Marty McFly rides a hoverboard in Back to the Future Part II.Most of our customers interested in the hoverboards have their own large private propertiesJulia Wing, director of Spy Master“Another customer said their grandchild is always trying something new on the board, and trying to see if they can balance on one leg,” she adds.Ikram Al Yacoub, a hoverboard owner from Dubai, says when the boards first started to become popular, they were unavailable on the market. “Most kids were trying to order one through Amazon and so teenagers then started to imitate one another until it became the coolest thing, for now,” she says. Her nine-year-old nephew now has one too, receiving it two months ago on his birthday. “The kids like it because you don’t use your hand to balance,” she says. “My nephew should only use it in the playground, and his mum will take it away if he plays [with] it on the streets outside.”A hoverboard usually has to be charged for two to three hours and rides last up to 20km with a top speed of 10 kms per hour. It operates by stepping on to a gyro-stabilised platform, and the direction of travel is controlled by pressing down on the rubber footpads while standing up straight.“We tell all our customers that they can’t use this on the roads or pavements – but most of our customers interested in these have their own large private properties,” Wing says.Around the corner at the department store Selfridges, a sales assistant of Red5 gadgets wheeled around the shop floor on a hoverboard. “You can do anything”, he says, while demonstrating he can juggle or operate a remote-controlled helicopter at the same time as using the product.A sales assistant at Selfridges juggling while riding a hoverboard.Photograph: Aisha Gani/The Guardian“Everyone wants one, and there’s a buzz around it,” he says, as two young women tried one out, adding that he tells his customers that they are not allowed to ride one on the street, only on private property.Hoverboards are made in factories in China, but due to difficulty in enforcing copyright in the country, there is no single company or distributer for retailers to deal with. The main difference between the varieties, from cheap knock-offs that can be purchased online for a few hundred pounds to ones that cost thousands, is mostly down to the label plastered on to the board, says the sales assistant.He pulls out two hoverboards from different distributors that are visibly identical – same rubber foot pads, colour, wheels, star-shaped detail on the hover cap, motors and lights – save for the boxes the devices were sold in.Factory costs are around £150, he said, and the company sells each board for around £600. “But by Christmas, we’ll be selling them for much cheaper, around £400,” he said. The most successful day of sales was in September around Eid-ul Adha, when the gadget company sold 20 of the devices.The store sells four or five “on a quiet day” but expects to sell many more in the run-up to Christmas and on Black Friday. “For a lot of British families, it is at the top of the wish list.”Despite the hoverboard’s apparent popularity, they were nowhere to be seen when the Guardian travelled to Oxford Street, Hyde Park and Stratford on a Monday lunchtime. Perhaps the Met’s advice has already taken hold. Only time will tell whether the hoverboard can become a crossover gadget regardless.
Japanese messaging app Line has become the latest large platform to enable end-to-end encryption for its users, frustrating governments and other would-be eavesdroppers.The feature allows users of the Line apps on smartphones and desktops to send messages that are fully encrypted on a device level. Similar to the encryption employed by Facebook’s WhatsApp and Apple’s iMessage, Line’s implementation of the protocol leaves the company itself unable to decrypt and read user messages, even under legal duress.Line, which has called the feature “Letter Sealing”,saysthat it will initially be applied by default on Android for users with only one smartphone enabled, and that users on other platforms can manually turn it on.End-to-end encryption has frustrated the authorities in multiple countries, where it leaves law enforcement unable to compel messaging providers to turn over the contents of suspects’ messages. In the US, Apple wasforced to reject a court order from the Justice Departmentearlier this year, when the federal government attempted to read chats between two suspected drug dealers.Line corporation launched its messaging app in 2011, and currently boasts more than 600 million users worldwide. The majority of those are in east and southeast Asia, but the company also boasts strong penetration in India, Spain and Chile.
It’s Tuesday.
It’s an unfortunate feature of working as both a novelist and a games designer that I end up sitting through a lot of panels, round-tables, conferences, discussions and other exercises in head-nodding where digital people try to get to grips with storytelling, or where story people try to understand the digital world.Both these types of event have their aggravations. When digital people run workshops or colloquia or jams (there are infinite names for the basic principle of bringing people together in combination with coffee) about storytelling, they often seem not to notice that quite a lot of very clever people have been thinking very hard about stories for, oh, the past 3,000-4,000 years. I’ve heard people suggest that maybe stories have a “pattern” or “structural ordering” that holds together their parts, without apparently realising that a lot of people have written about this, from Aristotle on.And let’s not even get on to the people who say things like “data is a story”, “products are a story”, “your robo-vacuum cleaner has a story to tell you”. No it isn’t, no they’re not, and no – unless artificial intelligence has come on much faster than anticipated – it doesn’t.But more aggravating even than this are the forums, summits, breakout sessions and seminars on “digital literature” run by exceedingly well-meaning arts people who can talk for hours about what the future might be for storytelling in this new technological age – whether we might produce hyperlinked or interactive or multi-stranded novels and poems – without apparently noticing that video games exist. And they don’t just exist! They’re the most lucrative, fastest-growing medium of our age. Your experimental technological literature is already here; it’s the noise you’re trying to get your children to turn down while you pen your thoughts about the future of location-based storytelling.Kentucky Route Zero: ‘dazzlingly surreal’.When I bring this up with arts and literary types, I often get the sort of “oh come, come” response that can only emerge from someone who has no familiarity whatsoever with what video games are, have been, and can be. “You can’t claim thatGrand Theft Autohas literary merit,” they say. Maybe you can – plenty of people have – but no, I wouldn’t cite GTA as fascinating experimental literature any more than I’d cite robo-Godzilla-fighting blockbusterPacific Rimas an example of avant-garde film-making (it’s fun though).But are there video games experimenting with more interesting storytelling than any “digital literature” project I’ve seen? Yes, certainly. And if you want to think of yourself as well read, or well cultured, you need to engage with them.To pick just 10 examples from recent years, it’s hard to imagine how you could opine on the future of literature without having played the brilliantly characterful and fourth-wall breakingPortal, the sombre and engrossingPapers, Please, or the dazzlingly surreal exploration of the American subconscious,Kentucky Route Zero. Are you interested in discussing experimental “read it in any order” literature? Then for goodness’ sake, play the mystery narratives ofHer StoryandGone Homeand the hilarious and unsettlingThe Stanley Parable. If you want to talk about how writers can engage with politics, capitalism, or the environmental movement, you’ll be showing your ignorance if you haven’t playedOiligarchy.Being culturally educated about video games is as important as going to museums or learning about operaInterested in how storytellers can engage with themes of mortality? You’ll wantSpider: The Secret of Bryce Manor, or Jason Rohrer’s short, powerful gamePassage, or the sublimeJourney. Each of these games could – and probably should – be taught in schools to inspire the next generation of creators.The problem is that people who like science and technology, and people who like storytelling and the arts have typically been placed in different buildings since about the age of 16. We haven’t been taught how to admire each others’ work, to recognise excellence, or even to know that there is excellence in “the other culture”. There’s a kind of sullen arrogance on both sides, with some people in both camps simply denying that the other knows anything worth listening to. There is a kind of “worthy” arts professional who thinks that knowing nothing about games – like saying “I don’t even own a television!” – is a marker of intellectual superiority.But we can’t afford that kind of thinking any more. Being culturally educated about video games is as important as going to museums or learning about opera. Games often manage to be both great art and an economic powerhouse; we’re doing ourselves and the next generation a disservice if we don’t take that seriously.
The new Chromecast is the second iteration of Google’s smart TV dongle, which turns almost any TV into a smart receiver of smartphone, tablet or computer-streamed video, music, photos or games.The second-generation version makes it easier to plug into your existing setup, and promises better Wi-Fi.Cast receiverThe Chromecast plugs straight into the HDMI socket on a TV or amplifier.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe small black, pink or yellow puck measuring 5cm in diameter connects to your TV or home cinema system with a flat flexible HDMI cable measuring 10cm in length. Compared to the previous generation Chromecast, the new one is much easier to fit into an existing setup, particularly if you have several HDMI ports quite closely packed together.The Chromecast is powered by a micro USB cable, which can be plugged into a TV’s USB port, if it has one. Google provides a charger and cable in the box, but almost any other USB charger will work too.Setup is easy. Plug the Chromecast in, hook up the microUSB cable to give it power and fire up the Chromecast app on an Android, iOS smartphone or tablet. The app will handle settings to get it connected to your home Wi-Fi network. I couldn’t get it to connect to the Guardian’s corporate Wi-Fi network, but it worked at home just fine.The range at which it could get a solid connection to my home Wi-Fi router was improved compared to the last version, as was stream reliability when placed on the other side of my house from the router.The Chromecast did its thing with updates and within five minutes it was ready to go.How does it work?The Google Cast button allows almost anything to be streamed to the Chromecast or Android TV.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianUnlike most other smart TV or streaming dongles or boxes, the Chromecast does not have interface or any capabilities on its own. It can show a selection of attractive images like wallpaper for your TV, but that’s about it.Instead, the Chromecast relies on apps on your smartphone or tablet or a computer to stream content to it using Google’s Cast protocol.Within an app such as BBC iPlayer or Spotify, hitting the cast button sends the video or music to the Chromecast, which quickly fires up the backend of the app needed to receive the stream.The smartphone app then becomes the controller, with the Chromecast directly connecting to the content over the internet. Some apps are capable of doing pre-caching of content before you choose it. Netflix, for instance, is working on a system that predicts what a user is likely to want to watch based on previous viewing so that stream starts instantly without buffering.The system works well and is easy to use for anyone familiar with apps on their smartphone and means that any new developments can be implemented with a smartphone app update.The dedicated Chromecast app can also be used to control media playback once it has been initiated, meaning someone else in the room with the app installed can pause it without having to have a subscription to the music or video service currently being used.The Chromecast app can also highlight content from providers that you have installed on your app, and suggest new apps that work with Google Cast.What can you do with it?The puck clips to the HDMI cable with a magnet.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianGoogle Cast is well supported within the various Google and Apple app stores, with hundreds of apps supporting it. Highlights include Netflix, Spotify, YouTube, Sky’s Now TV and BT Sport.Plex is also available for streaming from a home server, while several apps allow users to stream media on a smartphone to the Chromecast.Recently games have also started using Google Cast to beam the game screen to the TV and use their smartphone as a controller. The number and quality of games is fairly limited, but most work well. There’s potential for much more, but the games rely on the smartphone being powerful enough to effectively render two screens.This makes it good for casual or party gaming, but unlikely to replace a console or similar.Users can also mirror their screens from a smartphone, or a tab from Chrome on their desktop computers.PriceThe Google Chromecast costs £30 and is available in three colours: black, pink and yellow.For comparison, Amazon’s Fire TV Stick costs £35 and Apple’s TV costs £59.VerdictThe new Chromecast is faster than the old one. Netflix and YouTube take much less time to fire up on hitting the cast button, and 1080p video and audio quality is excellent.If you already have a Chromecast it is not worth upgrading to the new one, unless you have connectivity issues as the connection reliability over Wi-Fi is improved.But for £30 or less the Chromecast is a very simple and easy way of making a TV smart without having another box and remote. Google Cast support is strong within the major streaming services, and if you’re familiar with using apps on your smartphone there’s almost no learning curve.Pros:simple, easy to set up, good app support, cheap, discreet, can be powered by the TVCons:does nothing without an app, pausing playback requires a smartphone or equivalent which can be slower to get to than just pressing a button on the remoteOther reviewsFive of the best media-streaming boxes to turn your dumb TV into a smart one
The new world of Australia’s data retention scheme begins on Tuesday. From now,certain typesof phone, internet and location data will be compulsorily swept up by telecommunications companies for the benefit of government agencies.Related:Malcolm Turnbull explains how people can avoid having metadata collectedThe new laws vastly expandthe retention of personal data. Until Tuesday, retention by phone and internet providers was inconsistent. Data about who Australians called and texted was generally held by larger companies for billing purposes, but much more will now be stored, for a mandatory period of two years. Location data, information about devices, IP data of email logins and amount of data used will all be retained.The government has emphasised that this type of data is only “metadata”, not content. But in aggregate, the effect is the same. It inescapably paints a picture of our lives.The justification for the retention scheme was to assist national security agencies in fighting terrorism and other serious offences. But the laws do not limit access to the data to those purposes. Law enforcement agencies can still access it for much more trivial reasons – even a parking or littering offence could be enough to have your personal data accessed.Access will for the most part not require a warrant, as has been the case formany years. Agencies need only fill out a form to hand over to a phone or internet company.Related:Metadata retention: what will happen to your phone and web records now?Journalists fared the best from amendments to the laws,although even those gains were slim. Warrants must be sought to access their data in an attempt to identify their sources. But these proceedings will occur behind closed doors and without their knowledge. And no warrant is required if a government agency goes fishing among its own employees for contact with journalists.Already the range of agencies that can access the data has been extended; a separate bill passed with Labor’s support included the Australian Border Force. The amendments avoided oversight by the parliamentary joint committee tasked to oversee aspects of the scheme.Some are turning to virtual private networks in an attempt to reduce their digital trails. But care needs to be taken with how VPNs are used, and which ones can be relied on. Lofty claims of guaranteed confidentiality or anonymity should be treated with a high level of scepticism.Some will need a much higher level of security. Journalists, lawyers and other professionals who value confidentiality would be best served by learning more about the range of counter-surveillance techniques they can employ to mitigate risks to confidentiality, outlined by theElectronic Frontiers FoundationandFreedom of the Press Foundation. Even these tools have limits but are still critical to reduce the risks.Related:This simple game shows why metadata laws won't protect whistleblowersMuch is still not known about the technical details of the retention scheme. AsCrikey has reported, some telecommunications companies appear to be unprepared for it. Some are still trying to work out whether they are caught within the scope of the laws, which apply generally to Australian telecommunications companies. And the costs of the scheme –which the government has agreed to share– will still affect an industry struggling to get to grips with what exactly is being asked of it.Policing how organisations store data and how law enforcement agencies access it will be difficult. The Office of the Australian Information Commissionerwill soon release an auditinto how telecommunications companies respond to these requests. The commonwealth ombudsman will also have an oversight role. But there are many unknowns about how the sector – and the government agencies that will be dealing with them – will manage the vast new trove of data they will start to accumulate from Tuesday.
We live in an era where if it hasn’t been filmed, it hasn’t happened, and British motorists using dashboard cameras to record their journeys has doubled over the last year, according to the RAC.The RAC estimates that 9% of drivers (2.9 million motorists) have fitted dashcams. Add those to the thousands of cycle-helmet cameras, and the result is that millions of mundane journeys – and the occasional accident – are being filmed.Dashcams represent a loss of faith: can we no longer rely on fellow road-users to tell the truth if we are involved in a crash?Russian drivers were the first to almost universally adopt dashcamsbecause of fears of aggressive motorists, insurance fraud and accidents not being investigated properly.The cameras have created a social media boom in spectacular and serendipitous crash footage, fromplanestometeors, but fears that dashcams are infringing personal privacy have caused them to be banned in Austria, Luxembourg, Portugal andBavaria, Germany. Many European countries’ police forces do not accept dashcam footage, but such video evidence is increasinglyused in investigationsover fatal shootingsin the United States.There seem to be few privacy concerns expressed in the US and Britain, where some insurers now offerreduced premiums if motorists fit dashcams. (The choice is, predictably, fairly bewildering, with front-and-back cameras as well as cameras with GPS to prove speed and location.)Insurers such as RAC, which conveniently sells dashcams, claim that British motorists are buying the devices to protect themselves from fraudsters who abruptly stop in front of another car to cause an accident. I’ve spoken to several minicab drivers who use dashcams, and they say it is to give them peace of mind when driving in urban areas at night.Most positively, the RAC survey finds that a quarter of motorists think that a dashcam will improve their driving. Can the technology help create safer roads?Last year, Brenda Holmes allowed the release of footage from the camera belonging to her son, David, 38. It showed the motorcyclist riding along a single-carriageway road in Norfolk and a car turning across him. David’s last word is “Whoa,” before his bike hits the car. He died in the collision. It is hard to think of a more shocking or powerful road-safety message, and it has been watched more than 17m times on YouTube.
Surely there’s nothing a board game can do that a video game can’t do better, right?After all, board games are so limited. You have to fit them on a table, and make them out of real, tangiblestuff. Video games can do whatever you can imagine!And the best video games should already bestealing from board games. I think game designers ought to be out-and-out burglars, pausing their larceny only to remix and rethink the latest haul of ideas.But there are also things that make board and card games great that can’t be stolen. At least, not yet. Those elements that exist only within the sphere of real-life cards, smiles and dining room tables.BluffingWhether it’s lying to someone’s face in Werewolf or feigning an offensive in a war game, bluffing and duplicity provides almost all table games with a low-level electric current. It even shows up in board games’ most benign fiefdoms: German games like Settlers of Catan or Caverna, while ostensibly about the construction of peaceful settlements, will still see players protesting the fact that they’re doing well to stop the table from uniting against them by snatching away resources that they need. We do this constantly, and we do it because it’s fun.It’s not that video gamescan’tdo bluffing. From Street Fighter to StarCraft to Online Poker to EVE Online, you’ll find feints and deception, and I’ll drop anything to discuss Ubisoft’s beautiful failureRuse. It’s just that video games are terrible at it. AI opponents are notoriously crap at bluffing, and lying over an internet connection is about as much fun as anything else in a long-distance relationship.Ubisoft’s Ruse.Photograph: UbisoftIt’s not just that video games lose out on the joy of table talk. More significant is that they lose out entirely on the phenomenal genre of lying games.The Resistanceis a contemporary example. Players all represent a group of people that must elect teams to go on missions, but which has been infiltrated by players which are double agents. Through failed missions and interrogations, the good guys have to figure out who they can trust before the bad guys sabotage three missions.The Resistance is an exhausting, emotional and terrifying journey, and an incredible game. But if you’d prefer something more slapstick,Spyfallis a new release that’s also making waves. In each of its rounds, one player around the table has no idea where they are, while everybody else is told the location and their job within it. In a laughably evasive and bizarre conversation the players must try and work out who the spy is, while the spy has to try and deduce where the hell they are from everyone else’s answers. It’s one part James Bond, one part Monty Python and absolutely hilarious.PhysicalityOne of the reasons put forward for the 21st century resurgence of board games pairs them up with vinyl records. In an increasingly digital culture we long for something tangible to lavish affection on, collect, customise or lend. Many board gamers will write when they played and who won on the inside of the box lid, slowly turning a board game into a happy memory-jogging memento. I’ve recently started playingInfinity, and the discovery among my friends that as adults we have the patience to be passable painters is staggering.But it’s not just that in existing as real-life objects, board games can be desirable in all-new ways. It’s also offers radically different opportunities for designers.Rampage(also known as Terror in Meeple City) is an on-the-nose example, but it’ll do. This is a turn-based dexterity game that sees players racing to demolish a 3D city by flicking their personal godzilla-like monster around, chucking tiny wooden cars at one another, even placing their chin next to their monster and blowing as hard as they can. It’s very silly. But when a game works mostly within the rules of our human bodies and the laws of physics, as this does, you also instantly get incredible complexity with hardly any rules at all.Two Rooms and a Boom makes use of space on a much larger scale. It’s a party game that divides players between two rooms, then allows tense hostage exchanges over the course of 15 minutes, after which a bomber player blows up, hopefully killing the president on the opposite team. Most of the game is talking (or more accurately, plotting, scheming, panicking and misleading), but where you’re standing, whether you can get privacy and your ability to read a room is vitally important.Then there’s 2012’sRisk Legacy. Part board game, part advent calendar, this was a hugely successful reinterpretation of Risk that has players telling the story of their personal sci-fi world through consecutive games of Risk. From night to night players found megacities (scribbling their names on the board), place stickers showing which countries were eradicated, unpack new cards, unseal new, secret compartments in the box and even tear up existing components. By the end of the campaign your game would be utterly unique, and a treasured reminder of what a wonderful war you’d had.OwnershipAll board games allow players their creative streak, because the rules can be bent or broken wherever you like. “Modding” is the process of painstakingly tweaking or repurposing video games, and the way I like to put it is that every board games ships with the most powerful mod tools imaginable. Rather than sulking when they play a bad game, a table of board gamers will leap on the design like amateur mechanics. “How can we fix this?”It was actually Dungeons &amp; Dragons that first let me perform game design. Cracking open hardback books almost as tall as my torso I’d sketch stories, draft dungeons, sprinkle treasure and attach far too many details to my pet antagonist (he was so troubled). Pen and paper roleplaying games are what I want to talk about here. Did you know they’ve evolved into a staggeringly broad and thought-provoking genre?Let me illustrate just how much D&amp;D has evolved.Monsters Heartsputs players in control of literally monstrous, sex-starved teenagers.Kaleidoscopesees players creating a fictitious arthouse film together, in less time than it would take to watch one.Fiascoremains the scene’s breakthrough hit, allowing players to thread together a Coen brothers-style disaster in a game that’s one-part improv, one-part dicking over your friends. Or perhaps you’re in the mood for something more serious?Night Witchesis by the very same publisher, and casts players as members of a real-life second world war Soviet bomber regiment made up of women flying outmoded planes.Picking the protagonist’s haircut and picking our way along some (mostly illusory) forking plots are as far as RPG video games go in offering players control. Next to pen and paper games, that’s the narrative equivalent of letting us reach over in the car to beep the horn. Not only do pen and paper RPGs let us create every facet of a whole cast of characters, they let us create the story.I can’t wait for video games to get there. But until they do, you can pry my dice bag from my cold, dead hands.
Bad news if you like gliding down the street like a low-rent Marty McFly: “hoverboards” (also known as self-balancing scooters) are illegal to ride in public in Britain,according to guidance released by the Crown Prosecution Service.The wheeled vehicles, which are an evolution of the infamous Segway “personal transportation device”, are too unsafe to ride on the road, but too dangerous to ride on the pavement, according to legislation. As a result, they are only legal to use on land that is private property, and only with the landowner’s permission, the CPS says.The guidance, which was initially released for Segway scooters, points out that since self-balancing scooters are powered vehicles they are illegal to ride on the pavement under section 72 of the Highway Act 1835. In Scotland, where the act does not apply, they are still illegal to ride on the pavement under the Roads (Scotland) Act 1984.Own one of these or thinking about getting one? They&#39;re illegal to ride in public! Info here:http://t.co/We85yLAzsUpic.twitter.com/vMm0hxNAjs&mdash; MPS Specials (@MPSSpecials)October 11, 2015The scooters are also illegal to ride on the road, because they don’t meet the requirements to be registered under either the European or British schemes for road-legal vehicles.Although the regulations have not been changed, a recent resurgence in the use of hoverboards prompted police on Sunday to tweet a warning about their legality to prospective buyers.Related:Hoverboards: conspicuous consumption or fun glimpse of the future? | Steven PooleBut despite the legal guidance, the hoverboard fad is going from strength to strength. The devices have already been singled out as popular amongfootballersandrap stars, and in Septembera video of a man performing the tawaf on a hoverboard while on pilgrimage to Meccawent viral, dividing opinion in the Islamic world.Man circles the Kaaba in Mecca on a hoverboardIn fact, Simon Benson of hoverboard distributorGhetto Gadgetsargues that the legal clarification could boost the profile of the gadgets. “If the authorities give any impression that the use of hoverboards in some circumstances is unlawful, then I expect sales to soar.“Clearly customers need to take advice, but millennials are not going to take kindly to the authorities using a law that pre-dates the penny-farthing to tell them what they can or can’t do on the streets of Britain”.Hoverboards remain legal to use in private spaces with the permission of the landowner, but some of the biggest private estates have confirmed that they too maintain a ban of the use of the device. While the gadgets are a common sight in Westfield’s Stratford City shopping complex, the centre confirmed that they are are not allowed on the premises. The Canary Wharf estate said that any motorised vehicle would only be allowed on the roadways, in effect banning hoverboards there too.London’s Royal Parks, however, said that generally, hoverboards aren’t banned but may be restricted by signage in certain areas. A spokesperson added “We pride ourselves on ensuring the Royal Parks are open to everyone.”The self-balancing scooters are just the latest in a long series of low-powered electronic transportation gadgets to hit the market, following “monopods” (self-balancing unicycles), electric skateboards, and Segways themselves. But owing to a perfect storm of cheap Chinese manufacturing, celebrity endorsements and a good dose of luck, the scooters are the first to become a genuine craze.The Hovertrax, one of the first to hit the market in the US, started life asa Kickstarter campaign in May 2013and raised $85,000 from 162 backers. Its first units arrived in December 2014, but just two months later, in February 2015,a conflict arosebetween Hovertrax (which owns a patent for “a two wheel, self-balancing persoanl vehical) and a rival manufacturer, IO Hawk. Now, there are tens of brands, all largely importing the same base units from Chinese manufactuers and making cosmetic improvements before selling them on to consumers.The devices grew in popularity organically, before an incident in LAX airport sent them viral: Rap star Wiz Khalifa was handcuffedafter he refused to get off his hoverboardwhen border offiers asked him to.Haven&#39;t been slammed and cuffed in a while. That was fun.&mdash; Cameron (@wizkhalifa)August 22, 2015Despite the popular nickname, self-balancing scooters do not actually hover. But real hoverboards are about to hit the market, with Arx Pax, an American start-up,offering the devices for $10,000 a piece. The magnetic technology they use requires an all-metal surface to hover over, meaning that they are unlikely to be useable anywhere other than specially prepared private land, but if they ever do hit public streets, a new legal question will be raised: it may be illegal to use a hoverboard on the pavement, but what about a few inches above it?
It’s Monday again.
“I had a moment when I was talking about quantum television,” said Dan Biddle, Twitter UK’s director of broadcast media partnerships, as he perched in a meeting room shortly after his company’s keynote at the Mipcom conference in Cannes.“It was this sense of where TV used to be seen as a wave where you just sit and it crashes over you for an hour and you’re consumed, now there’s a sense that it’s actually made up of particles, like light.“And each one of these particles can become a bigger moment on Twitter, on social, because everybody will gather around that, and it will be talked about and referenced again and again.”There have been plenty of those moments for Twitter in the last year, frompolitical debatestoBake Off bread lions. And while Biddle’s own quantum moment may not have lasted long enough to make it into his keynote, it’s a useful primer on the way Twitter wants to be seen by the TV industry.Like Facebook, Twitter is love-bombing the TV industry in the hopes of getting broadcasters and producers to help drive more conversation around their shows on the social networks – not to mention spending more money on ads to attract new and lapsed viewers to those programmes.Going nativeYet Twitter has become a broadcaster of sorts itself: its 316 million active users currently watch 370 years worth of video every day on the service. That viewing is up 250% in the last six months alone, with 90% of it happening on mobile devices.That’s giving Twitter a better idea of what kind of videos its users like best. “They like shorter clips – 30 to 45 seconds – and we also know that it should be something that people will want to share with each other,” says Fred Graver, creative lead for Twitter’s global TV team.Native video is growing strongly for Twitter, although direct comparisons with Facebook are tricky due to the difference between their milestone metrics. Twitter uses watch-time, with that 370 years of daily viewing meaning roughly 18 minutes for each active user a month.Facebook quantifies its video growth by “views”, with its 4bn daily views translating into about 80 views for each active user a month. Suffice to say, both are growing rapidly.For now, native video on Twitter tends to be about clips, whether uploaded by broadcasters and TV stars or by users. Both Biddle and Graver see potential for original shows – as in super-shortform formats made for Twitter – in the future.“People are going to start to say ‘well, yeah, there’s appointment-to-view TV, and then there’ll be appointment-to-tweet TV as well’,” says Biddle.“This will come from the creative community. They’ll be like ‘OK, now that we have all these tools, what is a quote-unquote ‘show’ on Twitter?” adds Graver.Developing relationships with the YouTubers who’ve developed their own shortform shows on Google’s video site may help, although Twitter also hopes it can become a conversational channel for those formats too, according to Graver’s anecdote about his trip to the YouTuber-packed VidCon conference earlier in 2015.“There was a panel when they were literally saying ‘Well, the comments section on YouTube doesn’t work any more, so I talk to my audience on Twitter’,” he says.“Some of them even do a thing now where they release their video [on YouTube] and then tweet out ‘Just put my video up, let’s have a viewing party in an hour on Periscope: watch it with me!’ So they’re using Twitter to light the spark and get the conversation going.”Ant and Dec are among the TV stars to have used Periscope.Up PeriscopePeriscope’s role in that evolution looms large in the conversation. Twitter’s live-streaming video applaunched earlier this year, with 40 years worth of Periscope video now watched every day according to Biddle, who is keen to talk about its use by TV stars from Ellen DeGeneres to Ant and Dec.“You have the audience in the palm of your hand, and those are the best Periscopes: the ones where this person has taken you with them and chatted to you in that very intimate way. It’s not the best quality video in the world. The point is it’s a visceral experience” he says.“It’s very much a ‘now’ experience. And in the case of TV, it’s often those connecting moments that let you behind the scenes: like when Ant and Dec did it before the Britain’s Got Talent finals. ‘Oh, the music’s on. We’ll see you on TV!’. That last line had that ‘this is a moment that we’ve had before we go to the mass moment of television.”Graver chimes in. “It should be intimate: that palm-of-your-hand thing. It should be very immediate: ‘this is happening right now’. And they should also remember that it’s conversational,” he says.“That’s the magic of Periscope: you’re holding it up and the hearts are going, and then all of a sudden you’re getting questions. ‘Oh! All of a sudden the viewers can actually just talk to me!’ And if you talk back to them, it’s incredibly rewarding.”On its main service, Twitter is trying to do a better job of gathering the conversation around TV shows witha new feature called “timelines”, where the most popular tweets from viewers and stars alike are gathered into standalone timelines for individual shows – discovered when an official hashtag appears in your main Twitter timeline.Biddle says that Twitter’s ambition is to have a timeline for every show, before making the grand claim that “a TV production does not exist without Twitter” – by which he means that every new show now launches with an official account on the social network.While some broadcasters still see Twitter as mainly for telling fans to share promo videos and tune in on TV – “forgetting that Twitter is a conversation” as Graver puts it – he praises US chatshow host Jimmy Fallon, whoPeriscopes the rehearsal for his nightly live monologue, inviting fans to spot which jokes change before transmission.Fallon is leading a charge of late-night US talkshows in using YouTube, Periscope and other social networking tools in-between live episodes.“Those shows are ahead of the curve of where television’s going to go, which is that the show supports all this other stuff, and then eventually the ad dollars will start shifting back and forth,” says Graver.Alan Sugar regularly live-tweets through episodes of The Apprentice.Photograph: Jim Marks/Boundless/BBC/PATwitter’s got talentGraver and Biddle talk a lot about the importance of “the talent” – from actors and presenters to screenwriters and showrunners – to programmes’ popularity on Twitter. “The talent is the channel that a TV show is on, as much as the talent is on that TV show,” Biddle says.When a star has million of Twitter followers, they can become a lightning rod for conversation about a show, and can also drive audiences to watch it. No wonder Twitter encourages them to live-tweet while their shows air.“Word has spread through the acting community, the talent community. They’re just like ‘You gotta do this’,” says Graver, while Biddle points to British presenters like Lord Sugar and Brian Cox live-tweeting their own shows as examples.“Twitter, for them, provides almost an extra level of citation. They can add to that conversation. You might only have an hour-long show, but you’ve sparked a lot of debate – and they’re able to pick up and find the pieces that interest them,” he says.“They can add that extra layer: it’s not a subtitle in the show, but it’s a social layer of subtitles that can bring the deeper aspects to people and reinforce the stories, or correct things that people are maybe misunderstanding, that you can see they’re misunderstanding on Twitter.”Twitter has awell-documented problem with trolling– particularly harassment of prominent women – which could be an obstacle to persuading some actors to join the conversation.Taming the trolls isn’t Graver or Biddle’s direct responsibility, but they recognise the issue – while suggesting that the communities around TV programmes can be a positive counter-weight to the negativity.“One negative tweet out of 10 can make you no longer see the nine tweets that were very positive, and with a billion tweets every two days, amongst that humanity there will be some that aren’t as great as others,” admits Biddle.“But by and large in those communities around TV shows, there is a sense of ‘I love this show, I’m a huge fan’.”Graver agrees. “On Twitter, everybody sees the conversation, so you’re kinda held accountable. Once the talent realises why they’re on and what value they bring to the community that they’re engaging with, it becomes much more fun and more meaningful,” he says.“And then if you’re somebody like Ricky Gervais, it’s like: ‘Bring on the trolls! They’ll just be more entertainment for my fans …’”Twitter’s Fred Graver presenting at Mipcom.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianMeeting the mainstreamPersuading big stars to tweet more – whether they’re troll-shaming or not – and encouraging broadcasters to promote Twitter on-air is strategically important for the social network.Under itsnew (old) chief executive Jack Dorsey, the company is on a mission to reignite its growth by moving into the mainstream. And what is more mainstream than television?And when a popular show persuades someone to download – or in the case of lapsed users, re-download – Twitter, the new TV timelines and separate Moments feature (which performs a similar curation role for big news events) will be there to entice them to stay.The mission continues to be reaching every person on the planetDan BiddleThat’s why TV is so important for Twitter: while money from broadcasters paying to promote their shows will be welcome, it’s their potential to be a funnel for new users that’s the real prize. Although withFacebook courting the TV industry just as eagerly, Twitter will have to work hard.“The mission continues to be reaching every person on the planet,” says Biddle. “There’s an enormous focus on our users and people who tweet, and they tweet about television,” adds Graver. “I think all of that will fit together.”•How live Periscope video helped ‘get inside’ the Syrian refugees story•Twitter launches its assault on news with Moments•Jack’s back: 11 things the new Twitter CEO needs to improve
GOOGLE KEEPAndroid/iOSFreshly available on iOS after its Android debut, this is Google’s rival to the Evernote service: a useful tool for quickly tapping out notes to yourself, organising them, and sharing them with family, friends or colleagues.KHAN ACADEMYAndroid/iOSThis has been available on iOS for some time, but is new to Android. It’s an excellent educational tool with bite-sized video courses on everything from biology and economics to art history. The content is authoritative but rarely dry.TOONSTVAndroid/iOSToonsTV started life as a button within theAngry Birdsgames for children to watch the spin-off animations. It’s since developed into a Netflix-for-kids style video service with plenty of partners.PAPERiOSiPad owners should know all about Paper: a beautifully-designed app for sketching and scribbling. Now it’s available on iPhone too, adding photos and text as well as drawings and graphs. A great way to keep track of your stray thoughts.INKBOARDAndroid/iOSInkboard is a fun communication tool for when emoji just aren’t good enough for what you want to say. It provides virtual pens, pencils and highlighting tools to create your own doodles to send, with the option to do it on top of your photos too.SHELFIEAndroid/iOSShelfie is a great idea: an app that gets you to take a photo of your bookshelf, then finds (when available) free ebook equivalents. It also recommends new books for you to read and can connect you with other users based on your collection.ADIDAS SNAPSHOTAndroid/iOSThis app may sound like a novelty, but if so, it’s using some clever technology. It tracks how fast you kick a football, using the camera to measure speed, angle and distance. You can even play back your shots in slow motion.SEEDLING COMIC STUDIOiOSThis is a marvellous app for parents and children to use together: taking photos, cartoon backgrounds and stickers and blending them into your own digital comic strips. Three themes are included with more available as IAP.LRNiOSThis is the latest app hoping to teach programming skills through mobile-friendly lessons. It’s all structured around short quizzes, with two languages currently included: JavaScript and Ruby. The perfect start for enthusiastic coding amateurs.KIM KARDASHIAN WEST OFFICIAL APPAndroid/iOSEven if you’re not a fan of Kim, her app is an intriguing development in the way celebrities try to keep in touch with their fans. It promises live streams, makeup tutorials, product recommendations and more – but you have to subscribe for £2.29 a month.PEWDIEPIE: LEGEND OFTHE BROFISTAndroid/iOSPewDiePie is one of the most popular stars on YouTube, with nearly 40 million subscribers to his channel. His first mobile game is no cash-in: it’s a very enjoyable platformer with plenty of nods to gaming history and YouTube culture along the way.STAR WARS: UPRISINGAndroid/iOSCan’t wait for the newStar Warsfilm? This may tide you over untilThe Force Awakensthis December. It’s a satisfyingly deep roleplaying game that pitches you into theStar Warsuniverse, with co-operative play for friends.CHAMP MAN 16Android/iOSOn mobile,Champ Manremains in the shadow of the excellentFootball Managerfranchise. But it still plays well: this latest version’s training, tactics and transfers system is accessible, while IAP don’t spoil it.DOWNTON ABBEY: MYSTERIES OF THE MANORAndroid/iOSAsDownton Abbeydraws to a close, it’s getting an official mobile game. This falls into the “hidden objects” genre, as you try to solve a burglary at the abbey, while figuring out whodunnit. Fans of the show will enjoy this a lot.FIFA 16 ULTIMATE TEAMAndroid/iOSThe latest mobile FIFA game focuses solely on its ultimate team mode, where you build a squad by earning and buying virtual “packs” of players. An acquired taste, but the match action is pretty good: with excellent graphics and un-fiddly controls.SPL-TiOSSPL-T is a puzzle game that looks simple: you tap the screen to create lines dividing up the space. But it’s one of the most absorbing mobile puzzlers in recent memory, giving your grey cells a thorough workout as you figure out its strategy.PUZZLE &amp; GLORYAndroid/iOSThis is the latest in the popular match-three/RPG genre on mobile, where you match coloured gems to battle enemies. There’s plenty of depth to this, as you upgrade your team of heroes, form guilds with friends, and take on weekly quests set by the developer.ORDER &amp; CHAOS 2: REDEMPTIONAndroid/iOSIf you’re a fan of multiplayer online RPGs likeWorld of Warcraft, you may be sceptical that the genre can work on mobile.Order &amp; Chaos 2shows that it can: a polished blend of questing and character-upgrading with room to grow in future updates .NEED FOR SPEED: NO LIMITSAndroid/iOSThis latest mobileNeed for Speedis the best yet, developed by the team that previously made the marvellousReal Racing 3. As ever, the focus is on street-racing and pimping your cars to high heaven, with impressive graphics, handling and (of course) speed.THE DEER GODAndroid/iOSA beautiful pixel-art adventure with a unique pitch: “Live as a deer. Survive as a deer.” Note, the latter is very hard: the game’s difficulty level isn’t for the faint-hearted. A few bugs have niggled early players, but they’re being fixed.
‘The front-facing camera currently seems to stand rather low on the list of system-critical features consumers demand,” observed PocketNow in achin-stroking articlein March 2012. “With the primary focus of this secondary camera aimed at video calling …one would think there would be a corresponding eruption in the usage of mobile video services. This explosion hasn’t happened.”Such are the perils of jumping too far forward in trying to read social signals. It turned out that a front-facing camera was terrific for taking stills – and then meant stills featuring you, the phone owner. We all know what happened next. Taking a picture of yourself is hardly new; cameras have had timers for ages so you could set them on tripods and run around in front. What’s new is being able to see what you’re photographing, and do it at arm’s length.The fascinating thing about selfies, now a culture-engulfing phenomenon, is how unintentional they were. The technology business (as opposed to the wilder internet) has only done this a few times; the only other example that comes easily to mind is the text message, aka SMS, which began as a means for control of mobile networks, then morphed into a messaging system for anyone. That was intentional, though, whereas the front-facing camera, theSony Ericsson Z1010 in 2003, seems to have been one of those features that uncovered a consumer desire pretty much by accident. It’s not the sort of thing that’s going to pop out of a focus group. And if you see a front-facing camera on a phone, and are told it’s for video calling, you’re probably going to judge it by those criteria.Who discovered that actually you could get a pretty respectable picture using the front-facing camera of their phone (and which phone it was) sadly isn’t noted. But it’s possible that they posted the result to a social network; years ago, that would have been the photo-sharing site Flickr, where a search on hashtag “selfie” shows an explosion in the number taken, from 48 in 2001 to nearly half a million in 2014. (There are actually more with that tag apparently taken in 2000, but I’m dubious about some: I think they’re more likely modern smartphones with wrongly set dates.)Of course, phone companies noticed the growth of the selfie, so have thrown themselves into offering front-facing cameras which they hope will have that elusive must-have quality. Microsoft emphasised the wide-angle lens on some of itsLumias– though one suspects that would just make your nose look big. LG and Lenovo, meanwhile, are offering phones which have not one but two front-facing cameras. (There’s only one on the back.) What’s the second one for?Lenovosays the subsidiary two-megapixel camera, yoked to the main 8MP selfie one, “analyses depth of field information to replicate human binocular vision” to “unleash a myriad of new possibilities that can give selfies a creative twist”. (Mainly changing the focus point or blurring out a photo-bomber.) LG, meanwhile, with itsV10, uses one to take “normal” selfies and the other to take “wide angle” shots which it can stitch together into a coherent whole.They are nice twists on the idea — the refocusing one was introduced for the back camera in 2013 by HTC with its One model; strangely it was ditched this year.Lenovo’s idea seems the more promising, but it’s hard to shake the feeling that both are trying to mine an exhausted seam. The selfie has already moved off the camera to the selfie stick (another idea you’d struggle to extract from a focus group). There must be another phenomenon out there, some overlooked feature that an eager teen with a sense of exploration and a lot of friends is going to realise is really cool if you... What is it, though? Selfies fitted into a growing obsession with the self (measurable by fitness trackers and Facebook growth). What’s next in our cultural evolution? It’s probably lurking somewhere on your phone. You’ll know it when you see it.
Being able to saunter around your home with your favourite tunes following you from room to room is an appealing idea. Being able to do this without the aid of wires is even more seductive. Fold in a subscription toDeezeror another streaming service and you should have a seamless way of bathing in music old and new throughout your domicile, but which multi-room speaker system should you opt for to make this dream come true?Multi-room systems work by piggy-backing your home wi-fi network to broadcast music from your computer, tablet or smartphone to speakers dotted around your home. The music could either be ripped or downloaded files, tunes from a streaming service such asSpotifyorTidal, or content from a internet radio channel.In many ways Sonos created the wi-fi speaker product category and their success has spurred a bunch of new entrants into the market, some undercutting them on price, others aiming to supply superior sound and features. Here we test out a Sonos and number of others. To judge their sound quality a playlist of twenty odd mp3, mp4a and AIFF files were streamed from a MacBook and an iPhone 6.Bang &amp; Olufsen BeoPlay A6£799; Five amp-drivers, 240w output in total; Airplay; supports seven audio formatsThe mid-century stylings of the Bang &amp; OlufsenUnsurprisingly for a Danish product this zig-zagged stitched fabric form would fit seamlessly into a mid-century modern interior – you’d be forgiven for mistaking theBeoPlayfor aKnoll headrest. The combination of the upholstery (which is available in different colourways, natch), a hand grip and touch sensitive controls make it very tactile – for a speaker. It’s part of a beautifully designed range from the premium hi-fi manufacturer, which includes a unit which resembles a satellite dish.Set-up using Airplay took less than a minute. It prefered non-electronic music, stirring a respectable amount of goosebumps from the opening of Van Morrison’sSaint Dominic’s Preview, revealing previously unheard of grime in D’Angelo’sChicken Greaseand Husker Dü’sCould You Be The One?never felt more hopeful. For the first time I heard James Blake’s feet working the piano pedals duringLimit to Your Love. Its reproduction of drums, percussion and vocals is on the button. Although sometimes these subtleties were lost at lower volumes.Related:Is Apple Music worth paying for?However, when I moved the unit to different part of the room (which, incidentally, was closer to my wi-fi router) and booted it up again, it became extremely temperamental, refusing to establish a connection to my iPhone and sometimes randomly playing elevator music and spoken-word German radio. Neither of which I subscribe to. After numerous restarts it began working again, only to fail the next day. At which point I gave up.A day later I downloaded the BeoPlay app and it paired-up instantly and everything was hunky-dory again. And no more speaker the deutsch.While Airplay was working I found volume control from the buttons of an iPhone jumpy, but the elegantly designed BeoPlay app contains an easier to adjust dial. In addition, running your finger across the top of the speaker offers finer control via a touch sensitive strip. Although having to leave the sofa to change volume slightly defeats the object of having a wi-fi device.Verdict:Beautiful design and sounds, not just for retro-lovers. The premium multi-room option.Naim Mu-so£895; Six amp/drivers, 450W; AirPlay; optical inputThe Mu-so: great sound, not so great nameThis is the boutique British hi-fi company’s first foray into wi-fi. So far theMu-sostands alone in a multi-room range, meaning if you want another one for the bedroom or the kitchen you’ll have to buy a second, and they are rather large and expensive.But if you’ve got generous rooms and cash reserves, seriously consider investing. It has an optical input so it could also double as a soundbar for your telly. The construction from aluminium, wood and acrylic is substantial and the design elegant and understated.Set-up with Airplay instantaneous and faultless, no drop-outs or pairing issues. And although the Mu-so has a backlit touch-sensitive control disc it’s simple to control it from your phone. Naim’s app is okay, mainly useful for streaming radio and selecting different input methods. Of those tested this device came with the largest set of instructions yet I didn’t have to refer to them once.Across all volumes the Mu-so delivered rich, resonant bass; lush and expansive strings and; cleanly defined percussion. It wasn’t phased by any genre or age of music – Burial’s dubstep and the Ibrahim Ferrer’s Cuban jazz all sounded pretty much as intended, plus James Blake’s foot pedals sounded even more resonant than with the BeoPlay – and when the deep, wobbly bass section started it sounded like a helicopter was hovering outside the window.Verdict:The best sound on test and very stable software. If they release small and medium sized versions they’d have a Sonos-beater.Sonos Play:3£259; Three driver-amps; no Bluetooth or jack inputThe small but perfectly sounding SonosSonos are a Californian company who pretty much invented multi-room wi-fi speakers. ThePlay:3is their mid-range speaker, it might have been more appropriate to test the next unit up in the range the Play:5 against these larger speakers but the company didn’t have one available. This is the bedroom rather than living room-sized unit.At 30 minutes this was a long set-up process. I’ve tried Sonos products before and I recall the set-up was pretty speedy, but my previous history with Sonos confused the app, so I had to delete and reinstall it. Then it appeared to kill my wi-fi router, so I had re-boot that. After a bit of mucking about everything eventually worked. This was the only device that harvests your email and postcode before you are allowed to listen to music with it.Related:Time to embrace the horrors of your Spotify playlist dataThe unit is solidly put together and the design is unobtrusive. The sound is detailed and full of subtlety, vocals are clear and distinct and while bass sounds don’t boom they are sharp and clear rather than thuddy. Overall the sound is pretty amazing for its size and price. If you buy a second one it is possible to set them up in a stereo arrangement.You can’t operate Sonos units without using the Sonos app, so you’ll have to find your way around a new interface but it does allow access to an expansive range of streaming and radio services such as Tidal and Deezer so long as you’ve paid your subs.The last I used Sonos devices they interfered with my wi-fi connection causing lots of drop-outs so I abandoned them, however I didn’t experience any of these problems this time around.Verdict:Still the gold standard for multi-room sound, value and adaptability.LG Music Flow H7£279; Two amps; 70WThe LG: at the forefront of un-designPart of LG’s large range of wi-fi speakers, this unit’s normcore look isn’t going to draw any envious glances.TheH7doesn’t feature Airplay, so set-up, for Apple users at least, is slower since you have to use download LG’s Music Flow app and input your wi-fi password. Pairing however worked first time.If you’d rather play downloaded files than use streaming services you have to do that via the medium of LG’s battery-sucking app.The sound isn’t particularly rich, frequencies often sounded topped or bottomed off, meaning some songs didn’t sound as vibrant as they did on some of these other devices. Ultimately it sounds more like AM rather than FM.Verdict:For £210 you could pop down to Richer Sounds and buy aOnkyo streaming ampplus apair of Wharfedale speakers, and spend the surplus on a few months subscription to your favourite streaming provider. Or if you’re dead-set on multi-room save £20 and buy the Sonos. Your call.Pure Jongo T4x£150; two driver-amps; 50w; Bluetooth CaskeidPure Jongo – we couldn’t have put it better ourselvesWell-known for making digital radios, theT4xis part of the Hertfordshire company’s multi-room range. Construction is a bit plastic-y plastic.Set-up was kafkaesque. After installing the Pure Connect app the unit couldn’t be found on my wi-fi network. The support section of the Pure websiteexplains that there were issueswith BT HomeHubs 4 and 5 – ie issues for this reviewer and a lot of other UK broadband customers. It suggested downloading a software update that would fix the problem. All the other speakers in this test downloaded updates either automatically in the background or via their apps. With the Pure it is necessary to download the update to your computer, transfer it to a USB stick, then plug the stick into the speaker whilst holding the mute button and then wait five minutes for the update to install. Tedious enough, but I tried this several times and the hoped-for green light didn’t glow. The support site also suggests turning off the 5GHz band of your wi-fi router. So I logged into my router and disabled the 5GHz signal and repeated the software update rigmarole. Still didn’t get the green light.If all else fails, the support site suggests wiring your Jongo via an ethernet cable to your router. A splendid idea if the T4x had an ethernet socket.It does have a 3.5mm jack input, so using a two RCA phono to jack cable I rigged it up to my Denon CD player. I slipped a Rod Stewart CD in the drawer and pressed play. Because of the mis-matched impedance it was neighbour-botheringly loud, so I hit the stop button. It would be unprofessional to judge the unit’s sound performance on a few distorted bars ofEvery Picture Tells A Story.Verdict:Not very good.
Buying a new games consoles is one of those most vitally important decisions you can make in life – we’re only partially joking. Choose correctly, and you’re guaranteed years of fun and entertainment; make a bad call, and you’ll have a useless black box under your TV, endlessly incurring the disappointment and embarrassment of your children and the mockery of your friends.So let’s say you’vecommitted to buying at least one shiny new machine. Which should it be? Here is a quick guide to where the big consoles are right now.The technologyXbox One as first revealed by Microsoft in 2013.We’re not going to list all the tech specs here, so click through the officialPlayStation 4,Wii UandXbox Oneinformation at your leisure – or IGN has abig comparison chartwhile Trusted Reviews goes into lots oftechnical detail.In terms of power consumption, Xbox One and PS4 have both been criticised for the amount of juice they get through, especially if you’re leaving them in standby mode, or using one of the sleep modes to allow seamless downloads of game updates.A report last yearfound that the Xbox One can use up to 253 kWh per year, with PS4 on 184 kWh per year. Although Sony’s machine consumes more power while gaming, Xbox One is more greedy in standby mode. Both companies say they are addressing power consumption in firmware updates.Wii U is much more power efficient, on 37 kWh/year.All three machines have proved reliable so far, withMicrosoft particularly determinedto make up for the technical issues thatplagued the Xbox 360, providing vastly improved cooling systems.PlayStation 4 and Xbox OneSony and Microsoft’s machines are essentially moderately powerful desktop computers with very similar technical specifications – the only real difference being the type of RAM, or memory, they use, and the rendering power of the graphics processors (PS4 has more teraflops). For a while, developers were getting better performance out of the PlayStation 4 and many still think it has the superior architecture, though Xbox One titles are catching up.The important thing is that both machines are considered to be around 8-10 times more powerful than the PS3 and Xbox 360. You can expect to get true high definition (1080p) performance out of most games – and, on a big full-HD display, titles like Witcher 3 and Metal Gear Solid 5 look gorgeous.Wii UNintendo never competes on technology, so Wii U is much less powerful than the other consoles and games don’t look quite as beautiful as their Xbox One and PS4 counterparts. However, if you’re buying this thing, you’re not getting it for flashy multiplatform titles like Fifa, you’re getting it for exclusive Nintendo games, which have a visual charm of their own – and many run in full 1080p HD.Hardware featuresPS4 controller at the Sony booth during the China Joy fair in Shanghai, 2014.Photograph: Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty ImagesBoth PS4 and Xbox One come with chat headsets so you can talk to friends online, and both have features that let you record and share video online, either streaming live or uploading to YouTube (though it takes time to figure out). All have wireless controllers.PlayStation 4TheDualShock 4controller offers an innovative touchpad (which hardly any developers use, apart from as an extra button), as well as the usual analogue sticks, six-axis motion controls (again, hardly used), shoulder buttons and all that. There’s also a share button for uploading videos and screenshots of your gaming, a headphone socket and a built-in speaker which allows certain game noises to pop out at you unexpectedly. It’s comfortable and familiar to PlayStation veterans.APlayStation Camerais available separately, offering voice control, facial recognition and picture-in-picture video footage of yourself if you likestreaming games. The camera will also be an essential component in Sony’s virtual reality plans. Its PlayStation VR headset (previously known asProject Morpheus) is due out next year.Wii UThe biggest “unique selling point” of the Wii U is itsGamePad, essentially a sort of tablet computer, with its own touchscreen display and joypad controls. This allows you to continue playing your games even if someone else is hogging the TV. It is also used by certain titles as an extra display, perhaps showing a game map or inventory. Some initial games, such as Nintendoland, offered asymmetrical multiplayer, so one participant using the GamePad did different things than other players using standard controllers. But everyone seems to have forgotten about that.Xbox OneThe machine used to come with a new version of its Kinect motion tracking camera as standard, but it was expensive, games didn’t use it much and everyone was fed up with it, so now Microsoft has largely ditched it – you can still buy it if you want to use facial recognition and voice commands to control your console though.The controller is a refined version of the familiar Xbox pad; it’s chunkier than the PS4 equivalent, but has super comfortable analogue sticks and really accurate rumble effects so you get excellent tactile feedback. There’s a newElite versioncoming out with interchangeable parts for pro gamers who like to interchange things.The gamesThe E3 expo in Los Angeles where hundreds of new games and gaming devices are introduced to over 40,000 visitors.Photograph: MICHAEL NELSON/EPAMost of the big blockbuster “multiplatform” games (Assassin’s Creed, Call of Duty, Fifa) will come to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, usually at the same time and price. Sometimes publishers work out timed exclusivity deals so that a big title will appear on one machine first – this is happening with Rise of the Tomb Raider, which will be on Xbox One before Christmas, but not PS4. Publishers may also tie up deals with Sony or Microsoft to offer exclusive content – like multiplayer maps or weapons – to one machine. Try not to be swayed by timed exclusives though – for the sake of getting a single title a few weeks early, you may be saddled with a machine you don’t want.For a while, PlayStation 4 was getting visually superior versions of many multiplatform games, with smoother framerates and support for Full HD, but this seems to be equalling out. Eurogamer hasa good analysis of this.PlayStation 4 exclusivesSony has a worldwide network of “first-party” studios that produce games only for its hardware. It has also tied up exclusivity deals with publishers on key games. So far, however, its exclusive titles haven’t been Earth-shattering with only the dark adventure Bloodborne and the smaller indie titlesResogunandN++really hitting the heights. It has relied on remasters of great PS3 games, such as Last of Us and God of War.Coming up, however, are Uncharted: A Thief’s End, the enchanting adventure Last Guardian, vast space epic No Man’s Sky and prehistoric role-playing game Horizon: Zero Dawn. It’s a big, intriguing line-up.Wii U exclusivesThe best Wii U titles tend to be the ones Nintendo makes itself, or that have been designed by one of its very close development partners in Japan. The current line-up (Mario Kart 8, Super Smash Bros, Splatoon) is skewed toward kid-friendly local multiplayer, but no one on earth does this like Nintendo, and there’s always enough tactical depth for older players.On the way we have Mario Tennis, Star Fox Zero, a new Zelda title, retro platformer Mighty No 9, a survival horror sequel and Project Zero: Maiden of Black Water. There are not as many releases as for the other machines, but the really good Wii U titles will occupy you and your family for months.Xbox One exclusivesLike Sony, Microsoft has its own studios all over the world (though it has every little developer support in Japan). As with PS4, the Xbox One hasn’t exactly been overloaded with legendary exclusives so far, relying heavily on the motor sport titles Forza and Forza Horizon, and giant robot blast’em-up Titanfall. However, crazed shooter Sunset Overdrive, and beautiful indie titles Lovers in a Dangerous Space Time and Ori and the Blind Forest are worth a look.Coming up we have Halo 5: Guardians, interesting sci-fi adventure ReCore, 1940s-inspired platformer Cuphead, Gears of War 4, open-world epic Crackdown 3 and giant monster-slaying fantasy Scalebound. It’s a very strong slate, especially for veteran Xbox fans who’ve waited patiently for some old favourites to return.The servicesYes, you can watch Netflix and perhaps even chill in front of your Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and Wii U.Photograph: Alamy Stock PhotoAll three consoles allow you to connect seamlessly to the internet via Wi-Fi or ethernet cable (the Wii U requires an extra peripheral for wired connections). Each one offers access to an array of video services such as BBC iPlayer, Netflix and YouTube, though the exact line-ups are different from machine to machine. PS4 and Xbox One both play Blu-ray and DVD movies, Wii U won’t play either.PlayStation 4If you want to play PS4 games online you’ll need to joinPlaystation Network, which costs £35 a year and also gives you access to free games through the excellent PlayStation Plus service.Along withall the usual video-on-demand services, PS4 has its own version of Spotify, which lets you play your own music choices in the background while gaming. PlayStation 4 is not backwards compatible with older games so you won’t be able to put in a PS2 or PS3 disc and play it. Instead, Sony has a service calledPlayStation Nowwhich lets you rent retro titles for between £2.99 and £7.99. You can also buy aPlayStation TVbox which costs £45 and lets you stream your PS4 content to other TVs in your house, as well as download a handful of classic PlayStation titles.Wii UNintendo’s machine has amodest rangeof video apps and services, as well as a really friendly and nicely designed online community calledMiiverse, which lets players share content and ask for gaming advice in a safe way. You can also download lots of classic titles via theVirtual Consoledigital shop. But it’s very much a games machine rather than a multimedia hub.Xbox OneXbox Live Goldis the service you’ll need to subscribe to in order to play against others online – like PlayStation Network, this also offers monthly free games. It’s still a more robust infrastructure than Sony’s, which has suffered a series of hacker attacks over the past two years.Again, there’s abig list of apps and entertainment services. Xbox One offers HDMI throughput, which lets you plug in your satellite or cable box, then view it all through your console without having to keep unplugging all your leads. It has the capacity to watch live TV, too, so it’s very effective as a multimedia “set-top box” that you can put in your living room and use to run all your screened entertainment. The console also integrates closely with Windows 10, so you’ll be able to keep up with your Xbox Live friends via your PC and even try cross-platform online multiplayer games between consoles and computers.The priceA game store in Tokyo. Although you may find more competitive console prices online, the major high street retailers occasionally tie-up exclusive bundlesPhotograph: Toru Hanai/REUTERSThe price of all three consoles has fallen since they first arrived and you should shop around for the best deals. Look especially for special bundles that may well throw in a game you really want with the machine at no extra cost. All come with at least one official controller and the leads you need to plug it into your TV.PlayStation 4A basic PS4 package with a 500GB hard drive will cost about £280, with a 1TB model at about £299. It’s worth looking out for game bundles – there are Fifa, Batman, Destiny and Uncharted Collection versions around right now.Wii UThe basic pack is £180 making this the cheapest current generation console available. However there are premium packs (with 32GB hard drives instead of 8GB) complete with Mario Kart 8, Super Mario Maker, Splatoon or Super Smash Bros. These make it £240-£260.Xbox OneA basic Xbox One with 500GB drive comes in at £270, or £350 with the 1TB drive. There will be a range of bundles to accompany the release of Halo 5 at the end of October.ConclusionSo which console is best for you? Before you decide there’s one important factor to consider. “Follow your friends,” says Oli Welsh, editor of Eurogamer. “It’s more important than ever to be on the same platform as people you know in order to get the full online, social experience”. Indeed, there are so many titles nowadays that offer compelling cooperative and competitive multiplayer gaming (Destiny, Assassin’s Creed Syndicate, Star Wars Battlefront, Tom Clancy’s The Division), you’ll want to have the same machine as your mates.With that in mind …PlayStation 4 is best for:People who want to play a wide range of games, from blockbusters to indie titles, with the best visuals and with decent multiplayer components. It is selling better than Xbox One, making it the target platform for many studios. There’s also the potential to experience virtual reality soon courtesy of the PlayStation VR headset.Wii U is best for:Families who want to sit and play bright, accessible and compelling games together on the sofa. You won’t get all the big blockbuster titles such as Call of Duty and Metal Gear Solid, but this is the only place you’ll get the latest games from one of the best design studios in the world. The machine hasn’t sold brilliantly, though, and there’s a chance Nintendo may announce a successor,currently codenamed Nintendo NXthis summer – maybe even for a winter release.Xbox One is best for:People who want a games machine that’s also a powerful multimedia hub able to control all of their entertainment from video-on-demand to satellite TV. The online infrastructure is comparatively secure and the Windows 10 implementation may interest PC users. There’s also a great range of exclusive titles.“Come Christmas, Xbox One will a different proposition to the machine that launched two years ago,” says Official Xbox Magazine editor, Matthew Castle. “The Windows 10-powered ‘New User Experience’ will replace the clunky panelled interface of today – a hangover from its original Kinect dependency – with a faster, simpler home page and the option to bark commands at Cortana. More importantly, it has actual new games to play – Halo 5, Rise of the Tomb Raider, Forza 6, Fable Legends – and where it does lean on re-releases, it does so generously, such as Rare Replay’s tasty 30 games for £20.”Our recommendation:right now, PlayStation 4 is in a very strong position as a pure high-end gaming machine. Xbox One is improving all the time, but Sony’s console has a big head start, with 25m machines sold compared to around 14m Xbox Ones, putting it at the forefront of publisher development plans. If you can afford it, Wii U is a lovely second machine.
In the bowels of London’s Science Museum, Dr Tilly Blyth gingerly opens an envelope. Inside is a lock of long, dark hair tied with a green ribbon. It’s a curiously poignant moment. The lively, intelligent woman to whom it belonged died young, but her mathematical work with computer pioneer Charles Babbage has seen her become a paragon for women in science and technology. Gazing down at the tresses, the centuries seem to shrink away. Ladies and gentlemen, Ada Lovelace is in the room.It’s an impression Blyth hopes to share. Curator of anew exhibitionat the museum opening on “Ada Lovelace day”, she is hoping to breathe life back into the tale of Lord Byron’s daughter in the year of her 200th birthday, bringing together the locks with portraits, letters and artefacts to allow visitors to capture a glimpse of Lovelace “as an individual”.Others too are keen to support a fresh portrayal. “She was certainly not an angel,” says mathematician Dr Hannah Fry, citing Lovelace’s tempestuous relationships with men, alcohol and gambling. “I think that being perfect isn’t a prerequisite to achieving something,” says Fry, the presenter of a recent BBC documentary about Lovelace, “and I think that it is actually really nice that she is just this very difficult figure.” Furthermore, “the thing that you are contributing doesn’t even have to make a difference,” says Fry, pointing out that although Lovelace’s achievements were “astonishingly impressive”, they had little impact at the time.Related:Newly asked questions: Are women doing better or worse in IT since Ada Lovelace?Among the items on show is a punch-card operated Jacquard loom of the type that inspired Babbage’s plans for a grand computing machine, the Analytical Engine, as well as a humble marble-covered notebook – Lovelace’s translation of Luigi Menabrea’s seminal 1842 essay on Babbage’s ideas. Her own extensive notes run to more pages that the original article and even contain instructions for the engine. It’s a work that Blyth believes should inspire us to widen our appreciation of the oft-overlooked contributions of translators, communicators and collaborators that, she notes, were often “the kinds of roles that women played at that time”.Blyth believes the exhibition – an intimate one-roomed show – will also encourage visitors to appreciate Lovelace’s true legacy, which, she says, is not so much her instructions for Babbage’s machine – which was never completed – but something more profound. “I would say what is really more significant is that intellectual leap that she made for considering what the analytical engine could do,” says Blyth. “[Babbage] was thinking about the different simultaneous equations that the engine could calculate but what she saw is [that] this isn’t just about number; it’s about symbol and therefore music and possibly letters – and [the machine] could calculate a whole range of different things.”Fry agrees: “She was the first published computer programmer but whether she actually came up with the program herself is still debated,” she says. Ultimately, Lovelace’s greatest achievement was even more extraordinary. “She was prophesying the computer age,” says Fry.TheAda Lovelace exhibition at the Science Museumin London openson Tuesday, 13 October.
Blood Bowl 2(Xbox One, PS4, Windows, Focus Home Interactive, cert: 16)★★★★In short, it’s blood and pigskin in this sports-strategy game, which mashes American football with goofy fantasy. Lead a small team of professional athletes to glory in a savage game as likely to leave them dead as rich. On the pitch, call their plays and try to keep them alive; off the pitch, scout for talent and sponsors. The ref’s a goblin; the commentators are an ogre and a vampire; players punch more often than they pass. It’s like very much like watching the Premier League, then.Blood Bowlbegan as a board game in the late 1980s and this is the most faithful adaptation of the rules to date. A lot of work has gone into pleasing fans of the Games Workshop original and to capture theWarhammerworld with black humour, tweaked graphics and improved animation. While the very basics are well explained, it could do better to introduce the more advanced tactics and play styles. Overall, however,Blood Bowl 2is a rewarding exercise in charm and nostalgia.PHWorld of Warships: surefire tactical thrills.World of Warships(PC, Wargaming.net, cert: 7)★★★★This follows the tried and tested Wargaming.net formula of multiplayer online battles the company has made its own, this time with players controlling their own ship and bidding to sink their opponents. There are four different classes of vessel – destroyers, cruisers, battleships and aircraft carriers – all with their own unique playing style. Although the action is slower than eitherWorld of TanksorWorld of Warplanes, this is actually one of the game’s strengths, as it allows more tactical flexibility and encourages teamwork. For example, battleships are very tough and pack a huge punch with their main guns, but they can easily be sunk by a group of tiny destroyers working together and using their speed and manoeuvrability.The graphics are also excellent: with the settings maxed the ships look stunning, especially when battle damage starts to appear.Like Wargaming.net’s other games,Warshipsis free to play and although investing real money in a premium account will allow players to reach higher level ships more quickly, it can be achieved by investing time instead. Taking things slowly is not necessary a bad strategy either, it takes a while to master deflection shooting - aiming where an opponent is expected to be several second later when the shells land, rather than where they are at the moment of firing.Athoroughly enjoyable title, then, that throws up only a couple of real gripes. Firstly that the weather is always fine and the seas calm, which is a shame as fighting an encounter while ploughing through huge waves would be a great experience. The lack of Royal Navy ships – only American, Japanese and a few Soviet vessels are currently available – also seems a major omission. The British are certain to arrive in a later update but it seems odd to ignore them.RFPro Skater 5: over the hill.Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 5(PS4, Xbox One, Activision, cert: 12)★★The last time an original Tony Hawk’s game carried thePro Skatersuffix was 2002. That marked the end of the series’ golden age; an era the newTony Hawk’s Pro Skater 5strives to recapture. And, technically at least, it does.Pro Skater 5offers a pared-down skateboarding title where tricks, score and reactions define the experience almost entirely. Sadly, all of that comes in a release that feels uninspired and ill-crafted.The gameplay is functional and occasionally captures a sense of what it was to enjoy the first Tony Hawk’s games. ButPro Skater 5too often sullies that memory with insipid level and mission design, and a stodginess of interaction. The scope of the available modes is particularly underwhelming, and its abundance of glitches too often overshadows any enjoyment.This is a title sadly starved of direction and purpose, delivering a somewhat barren experience that, at very best, may only occasionally comfort the most nostalgicPro Skaterfans.WF
A UFO hovering outside the 72nd floor of London’s Shard skyscraper and a flying camera hurtling through the skies over Hyde Park are just two of the rising number of “drone-related incidents” reported to police forces across the UK.Figures provided to the Guardian following a freedom of information request show a significant increase in the number of cases where members of the public have reported nuisance drone flying to their local force. Thames Valley police recorded 21 incidents in 2014, rising to 80 this year. The Metropolitan police logged 21 cases in 2015, up from one the previous year.The incidents logged by Scotland Yard in the past 24 months range from concerns about the piloting of drones over packed crowds at a Christmas event in Hyde Park to the devices being used to ferry drugs into prison or to commit sexual offences.The most recent drone case to come to court involved a film-maker who was fined £1,125 last week for illegally flying his drone over Hyde Park without permission during a shoot for a promotional video.Elsewhere, at least one person took the law into their own hands when confronted with a drone. Details of an incident logged by Lincolnshire police said: “Caller states there was a remote-control drone over his garden. He has shot at it with his rifle.”Dr Alan McKenna, of the University of Kent, said complaints “include concerns about privacy, harassment, general calls about drones flying over the neighbourhood”. He added: “But there have been examples of people resorting to physical violence because they are so annoyed, which I think is quite telling.”Among other large forces, Greater Manchester police (GMP) provided details of 58 incidents since early last year. Notes taken by call handlers included a report of an “intrusive drone”. It added: “Believe the occupant of house nearby is sending a radio-controlled drone over address where INFT [informant] is sunbathing. Believe is taking photos. Been over three times now.”Another GMP log was titled “Drone causing trouble” and said: “Someone is flying this drone over this junction. Looks like a giant spider and everyone is looking at it and not where they are going.” The log also stated that two men flying a drone over Manchester United’s Old Trafford stadium were detained in November last year.West Yorkshire police’s log included an incident from July in which a caller expressed concern about a drone that had been “hanging around” for a few months. The caller reported it after it appeared to follow them home and hovered outside their bedroom window. The entry added that the caller “states that a few of the neighbours have seen it also. It is freaking people out and invading people’s privacy”.Drone-related incidents logged by Merseyside police included one in which an air crew reported a drone at 365 metres (1,200ft) above Liverpool city centre. Others echoed suspicions elsewhere about the use of camera drones near children. One log entry recorded: “Drone over Funland playground – adult challenged”. Another noted: “Suspicious circumstances. Drone near children’s play area.”The Police Service of Northern Ireland’s log included an example of one caller who reported that a drone had been flown over his house by neighbours with whom he had been in a six-year boundary dispute.Another concerned a woman whose daughter had used a cash machine and said a man appeared to be using a drone with a camera attached to hover above and record people as they entered their pin numbers. The drone was said to have crashed.Members of the public are barred from flying drones within 150 metres of a congested area and within 50 metres of a person, vehicle or structure not under their control.McKenna, who is researching legal issues arising from the increasing use of drones, said that a relative lack of awareness of the law governing their use was problematic.He added: “I was talking, for example, to a farmer who was not best pleased at a drone going across his land and he felt that he could use a shotgun because he regarded it as akin to a dog attacking his livestock. That was an interesting perspective.“Education is important, but it will only get us so far. If we cannot enforce the regulations that we have, then people will use self-help mechanisms. That is the nature of a human being unfortunately.“The police and the Civil Aviation Authority are operating at a time of budget cutbacks. It’s going to be difficult for them. This is a new technology and the police are learning the ropes. Will their forces actually give them the resources to go and investigate drones that cannot be identified when they are clearly infringing air navigational rules?”
My interest in virtual reality was virtually nil – until last month. When I thought of it, I pictured low-budget sci-fi movies with bad special effects. I thought of those pixellated posters, popular in the mid-1990s, the ones where you would stare at the wall and a three-dimensional vision of an underwater city would slowly emerge from a cluster of purple dots.I thought of it as something that turned on adolescent gamers who sat at home in their underpants with the curtains closed and who dreamed of a day when they could fully inhabit the body of the bank robber guy with the stubble and the biceps inGrand Theft Auto. I thought of 3D glasses in 1950s movie theatres and the 360-degree cinema screens your parents took you to when you went on holiday to France and it was raining. The whole idea of virtual reality made me want to stifle an actual reality yawn. In short: I was clueless.But that was before I visited theVirtual Human Interaction Laboratoryat Stanford University in Silicon Valley and had a sleek black headset containing an eight-camera infra-red tracking system strapped to my skull. That was before I stood on a floor made from aeroplane steel and fitted with “shakers” that simulated surface motion and before I experienced a spatialised sound system and before I had sensors attached to my wrists that responded to my movements. That was before I’d flown like a superhero.I’m greeted like an old relic because I have never tried the Oculus Rift headset“Put your arms out to take off,” the laboratory manager Shawnee Baughman says, as if this is all perfectly normal. I do as instructed. There is a whoosh of air, a shudder beneath my feet and then I’m swooping through the sky, arms outstretched into the vast blue beyond as I fly through a computer animated New York City. Looking down, I can make out the traffic lights and empty streets far below. I can feel the slicing movement of the air each time I turn. I fly into a skyscraper, just to see what happens. I feel a surge of nausea as I crash into the wall and then the bricks shatter on impact. It is incredibly convincing.When I move my arms together, I go faster. When I point them towards the ground, I fly downwards. As I land, my knees vibrate with the impact. I remove the virtual reality headset, my palms sweaty with exhilaration. I am an immediate convert. There’s nothing like pretending you’re Wonder Woman to counteract your own ignorant scepticism.Screenshot from the virtual city that Elizabeth Day flew around in.Photograph: Stanford VR Lab“The special thing about VR,” says Baughman as she takes the headset from me, “is that the scene responds to the way you are moving. It’s fully immersive.”So immersive that I feel slightly car sick. Apparently that happens a lot: in real life, your eyes move when you’re looking at an object and the lens in each eye adjusts to bring whatever is in front of you into focus. With a flat, lit-up screen, that’s not possible. The solution lies in eyeball tracking. The Stanford VR headset has tracking LEDs that manage 200 frames a second, which is pretty sophisticated. “My boss has a joke,” Baughman says, “that the five most important things about virtual reality are tracking, tracking, tracking, tracking and tracking.”She chuckles. It’s not the best joke I’ve ever heard. Perhaps it works better in a world of virtual humour.One Dark Night: Emblematic Group’s reconstruction of the killing of Travyon MartinVirtual reality is at a pivotal moment. For years, it has been talked about in the tech community as a sort of holy grail. As far back as 1939, the author Stanley G Weinbaum was writing about a goggle-based virtual reality system with holographic recordings of fictional experiences. By 1968, the American computer scientistIvan Sutherlandhad designed a virtual reality head-mounted system that was so cumbersome it had to be suspended from the ceiling and was called, terrifyingly, the Sword of Damocles.Throughout the 1990s, the concept of VR seemed to be moving ever closer (a 1992 edition ofComputer Gaming Worldconfidently predicted affordable virtual reality within two years) but limited computing power ensured these theories remained purely hypothetical. Then everyone got their attention diverted by a more promising prospect: the internet. Today, substantial advances in computer science mean that virtual reality visionaries finally have the technological power to implement their ideas. Major companies including Sony, Oculus and HTC are already developing headsets for use in the home that will be on sale in the first quarter of 2016. By the end of next year, it is estimated there could be 12.2 million VR headsets in our houses, retailing from $99 to $500 (not including the compatible computing systems).Wearing an Oculus Rift headset to play a video game in the Pocket Queries booth at the this year’s Tokyo Game show.Photograph: Getty ImagesGoogle has developed a flat-pack version made out of cardboard, calledCardboard, which is exactly the kind of ingenious, innovatory thought leadership you expect from cutting-edge tech developers.Cardboard consists of two magnifying lenses that can be inserted into a rectangular holder into which slots your smartphone. You can then download content from a virtual reality app and view it through the DIY headset. I’ve tried it and, despite looking like aBlue Peterexperiment with double-sided sticky-tape, it works fairly well.Virtual reality enthusiasts say it’s the next big thing: an idea as capable of transforming our lives as the mobile phone. “In just a few years, VR has gone from being this science fiction dream to an awesome reality,” said Facebook founderMark Zuckerberglast month. “And now we all here have a chance to change the way we play, communicate and collaborate.”Zuckerberg, who knows a thing or two about predicting trends, bought one of America’s leading virtual reality technology companiesfor $2.3bn last year. Oculus VR is the idea of a 23-year-old wunderkind called Palmer Luckey and its acquisition by Facebook opens up a plethora of opportunity for the social network – from collaborative 3D computer games to enabling a friend who couldn’t attend a wedding to experience the service in 360-degree video.A selection of games and experiences soon to be available on the Samsung Gear VR headsetEugene Chung, the former head of film and media at Oculus who recently left to start up his own“augmented and virtual reality studio”, calls it a watershed moment. He cites the myth surrounding one of theLumière brothers’first cinema films in 1896 of a train arriving at a station. The astonished audience, unaccustomed to watching a moving picture, were said to have run to the back of the room in terror at the oncoming train.“You have this thing that is so different from anything you’ve experienced before, that you run away from it,” says Chung. “The next few months and years, you’re going to see that with virtual reality. The first time I tried it, it blew my mind.”Oculus has big ambitions. When I go along to itssecond annual developer conference, held in a plush hotel in Hollywood, it is full of men in polo necks speaking into microphone headsets about “Twitch streams” and “recommended specs” to a packed auditorium. Zuckerberg himself makes an appearance to announce that VR will be “the next great tech platform that’s going to define the way we connect in the future”.Everyone claps. The ratio of women to men wearing T-shirts bearing humorous slogans (“Eminence Geek”, “Binary, it’s as easy as 01, 10, 11” etc) is probably running at about 1:6. I am greeted like some kind of relic from a past age because I’ve never tried the Oculus Rift headset. The Rift is about as good as it gets: a state-of-the-art headset with displays and optics designed specifically for VR.“You’ve never put one of these on before?” asks a bearded type who is overseeing the demo room. I shake my head. “Wow,” he says, looking at me as if I amMarty McFly.He slips on the headset, which feels lighter than the one in Stanford and more snugly fitted. He hands me an Xbox control panel. “You’re familiar with the Xbox controls, right?”I have played an Xbox precisely once in my life. It did not go well.“Yes,” I lie.“OK, then.” He starts up the demo. A curved screen in front of me offers me a choice of games to play. A floating cursor moves with my gaze. I opt for something called Chronos because it sounds a bit Greek and a bit like a bowel disease.Chronos Reveal Trailer.And: it’s extraordinary. I’m immediately pitched into some sort of Mayan temple. My avatar is a warrior with a sword. When I jiggle the controls to make him move, there is the sound of footsteps and also – hard to explain, this – the feel of feet shifting. I can turn my head and look over my shoulder and see the continuation of the vista: rocks and temple ruins and jungle plants. I could quite happily hang out here, just taking everything in.But I’m intrigued. So I make my warrior walk into an open doorway and am confronted by a massive monster that looms over me so realistically that I physically cower in my chair. I last about two seconds before the monster squashes me and it’s game over.“You picked it up very quickly,” says the bearded guy after I remove the headset. I think he’s just being nice. Again, I have that same vague sensation of motion sickness.Although the gaming market will be the testing ground, there are countless other applications that are being explored.Afterwards, I talk to Ted Price, the president and CEO ofInsomniac Gameswhich he founded in 1994. Price has penetrating blue eyes which become almost hypnotic the more he talks about VR. He makes several attempts to express what virtual reality is like to someone who hasn’t experienced it and then admits defeat.“It’s like talking about how something tastes,” he says. “You can’t understand it unless you try it.” What excites him most is that gaming in virtual reality “could have a much broader appeal just because of the sense of place you get, which in some sense is as important as the game itself. It’s where the lines blur a little between what is a game and what is an immersive experience … Your world surrounds you and that’s a huge difference.”His company is developing a VR game which will put the player in the skin of an Antarctic explorer. The more the journey goes on, the more surreal it becomes so that the game becomes a test of mental strength as much as anything else.Virtual Reality ‘Future Fashion’ Event at Westfield.Photograph: Tim P. Whitby/Getty Images for Westfield“We want players to question whether what they see is real,” says Price. “So we’re playing with a player’s 3D spatial experience. Is this glacier real or is it a figment of my imagination? So it becomes a psychological thriller. We have the ability to tell a story in a way we have not told them before.”In fact, much of the most interesting work in virtual reality springs from this same desire to find new ways of storytelling. Although the gaming market will be the testing ground, there are countless other applications that are also being explored.The film director Gil Kenan, whose previous work includes thePoltergeistremake andCity of Ember, is working on a virtual reality science-fiction movie about an unwanted passenger on an outer space journey.What this means is that a cinemagoer in a VR headset will be in charge of their own experience. So, instead of always having to follow the main narrative action, they can choose to step into a different space and witness a scene between two minor characters that would otherwise have ended up on the cutting-room floor.The film would still be the same fixed length for all viewers, Kenan explains, but: “If you’re doing the job right, there will be layers of storytelling that can’t be consumed in a single viewing. For example, there could be a foreshadowing of future events or events on the margins that could be just as thrilling or tense.”Related:Could virtual reality revolutionise crisis-response filmmaking ?It’s like a multi-layered Russian novel, I say. “Yes!” he says delightedly. “I’m trying to be the Tolstoy of the big screen! I’m thinking of it in terms of five-minute stories within a bigger narrative and scope.”What will this mean for film critics? How will they review a single movie that incorporates so many user experiences?“They will have to talk about the totality rather than one cursory viewing.” So it’ll be more work?“More work,” Kenan admits. “That’s why I’m making it shorter. Also, I don’t think we’ve reached enough understanding of this medium to understand what a logical length of time is for these experiences because most of it, at the moment, is two to five minutes because it’s the demo phase.”There are other interesting VR entertainment developments in the pipeline.VRLive, for instance, is a broadcasting company that records concerts in 360-degree virtual reality. It has already done a version for a U2 gig which puts the user slap-bang in the front row, close enough to see Bono’s Cuban heels.Palmer Luckey, creator of the Oculus Rift.Photograph: Getty Images“I know the live experience is huge,” says co-founder Dann Saxton. “But we’re talking about releasing virtual ticketing if the house is full and people can no longer buy tickets to go to the event itself.”In the future, virtual reality could be used for school trips in the classroom. Pupils could more fully experience what it would be like to live in a bygone era, for example, or could travel to far-flung lands without ever leaving their desks. At Oculus, I learn of one company that is seeking to use VR for geriatric care by giving elderly people who live on their own virtual reality consultations with their doctor.There is pioneering work being done at Stanford’s virtual human interaction laboratory in this field too. The lab runs psychological experiments under the guidance of Professor Jeremy Bailenson to explore the scope of human empathy.Related:Facebook joins YouTube in showing 360-degree videos – including Star WarsIn one video, you put on the headset and find yourself confronted by a long mirror running the length of one wall. When I look at my reflection, an elderly man looks back at me. When I move my arm, the avatar moves his. When I turn, I’m being shouted at in discriminatory terms by an angry person. This is intended to show people who might not have experienced discrimination on grounds of age or race what it feels like to be in another person’s skin and it is surprisingly effective.Another video shows people becoming aged versions of themselves. When confronted by a greying image of their own face, this will – so the reasoning goes – make them more likely to save for retirement. Merrill Lynch liked the research so much it used the technology as the basis for designing its own online app known asFaceRetirement, which allows anyone with a laptop camera to create and interact with their future self.There’s another demo that teaches users how to survive in the event of an earthquake and Bailenson has also developed technology to place children with chronic pain in virtual simulations that divert their brains from unpleasant physical therapy and treatment. The children use avatars to perform distracting exercises such as popping balloons. “VR experience changes the way you think of yourself and others and changes your behaviour,” Bailenson said in an interview earlier this year. “And when it’s done well, it’s a proxy for natural experience, and we know experiences physically change us.”Taken to its logical conclusion, this has some worrying implications.“I can’t look you in the eye and claim that it only works for the good stuff,” said Bailenson. “Am I terrified of the world where anyone can create really horrible experiences? Yes, it does worry me. I worry what happens when a violent video game feels like murder. And whenpornography feels like sex. How does that change the way humans interact, function as a society?”It’s a question I put to almost everyone I meet throughout the course of researching this article and almost everyone says the same thing: on-screen violence already exists and it’s up to the individual to monitor their own choices.I can’t look you in the eye and claim it only works for the good stuff. Yes, it worries me.Professor Jeremy Bailensen“As a gamer and a parent, the first thing I do is I check up on what I’m going to play on a device and whether it’s right for me,” says Ted Price. “It’s up to the gamer to decide what they can handle, as it is with movies or books.”Well, up to a point. But arguably the people most vulnerable to virtual reality violence are also those with the least capacity to know what’s good for them (or to care). And there is no doubt that feeling is acutely heightened in a virtual reality world.Nonny de la Peña, Co-Founder of Emblematic games explains the concept behind Project SyriaThe most memorable and moving experience I had while trying out various VR demos was one made byEmblematic, an organisation specialising in immersive documentary and non-fiction. It has been at the forefront of developing news-related content that seeks to put the user in the centre of the action. One of its films places participants in the midst of a rocket attack in Syria and later in a refugee camp. Another is a multi-viewpoint reconstruction of the night 17-year-oldTrayvon Martinwas shot dead by a neighbourhood watch volunteer in Florida in 2012, using real-life recordings from emergency 911 calls.“One of the things we asked ourselves is how do you break through the torpor of constant media images to trigger a more emotive response,” says Emblematic’s co-founder Jamie Pallot. “The defining quality of virtual reality is a sense of presence. It tricks your mind into thinking you’re somewhere else and that produces a very strong empathetic response.”He hands me a headset, apologising for the poor quality of some of the images as he does so. It’s in the early phases, he explains. I watch a short animated film calledKiyawhich tells the real-life story of two sisters’ attempts to try to rescue their sibling from her abusive ex-boyfriend. Again, actual 911 recordings are used.Immediately, I am in the midst of the story. I watch as the two sisters enter the mobile home where they try to reason with a man holding a gun. I listen as their calls to the police become increasingly panicked. I can sense their fear in a very real way. As the sisters move back outside, I follow them. A shot sounds from indoors and, although I don’t see it, I already know that Kiya has been killed. The last image is from inside Kiya’s home: a fridge covered with photos of her young daughter.Related:Minecraft on Hololens: the future of gaming is right in front of your eyesAs a journalist, I have often found myself in extreme or sad situations. I have interviewed a terminally ill man, a convicted murderer, the grieving mother of a schoolboy who committed suicide. Each of these stories has moved me deeply because of their visceral reality and truth. But I hadn’t expected a computer animation to provoke this reaction. When I remove the headset, there are tears in my eyes. Jamie asks me something and I have to take a few breaths. I am surprised because the emotion is so instinctive. I hadn’t noticed I was on the verge of crying until I returned from the virtual world to the real one.“That was quite something,” I say.Jamie nods. “There are grown men who’ve started watching this and who’ve had to stop halfway through because they can’t take it,” he replies.It’s not yet clear where this technology will go or what its full potential might be or whether it will take off in the spectacular way promised by its most vehement supporters. But it’s a tantalising prospect nevertheless.So I was wrong. Virtual reality isn’t boring. I’m actually pretty excited about it, even if it makes me car sick.
Are you a gadget fiend?I do like gadgets, yes. Growing up in a single-parent family meant we didn’t always have the money to buy the latest thing, so the more successful I’ve got the more I’ve enjoyed being able to see what’s out there. I have loads: cameras, video cameras, consoles, headsets, about 50 pairs of headphones.Does tech help with gymnastics?There’s not a lot of tech in gymnastics, but there are some things you can use in training. I use the slow-mo on my phone, so I can see what I am doing frame by frame.How often do you Google yourself?I have some alerts on my phone, which means quite often I wake up to things that aren’t true. That can be quite scary. But I don’t search for myself very often.If you could travel back in time, where would you go?I’d go to the 50s or 40s, to London or America. I love the swing, doo-wop, Charleston, Motown-type vibe. I know it was harder for my ethnicity back then but I’d put up with it.What would be the first thing you’d make with a 3-D printer?A kind of plinth for my Olympic torch. I haven’t got it anywhere decent, it’s just sitting next to my fireplace, so I’d like a stand for it.What social media do you use?I use them all: Twitter, Facebook, Instagram. I like Twitter and Facebook for the videos. And I use Snapchat, too. That’s mainly for the fans – I can add things on My Story, which is pretty cool.Favourite app?ITunes is my favourite but I’ve recently got into this thing called Thug Life. You make your own videos, like whena cat pushes a glass off a tableand then you add chains and sunglasses to it. It’s hilarious.Do you speak on your phone at the checkout?If it wasn’t important I’d put it in my pocket. It’s rude. I’ve got friends that are always on their phones at meals, which I really don’t like.Do you use text-speak?No, I write everything out properly. Or leave a voice note. That’s quite easy.Favourite computer game?Call of Duty:Black Ops 2is the best, I think, but I always play the most up-to-date version online.MW2was good, too. I have an Xbox One and a PS4. I play fans on PlayStation. And I also have a PSP.At competitions and training camps there’s sometimes quite a lot of downtime, and especially if you’re in a different timezone you can’t just message someone, so it’s good to have something to do.Most expensive piece of tech?I have a brilliant party house. There’s a Sonos music system built into the house, with the speakers integrated and wired in. That cost about 12 grand. And my TV cost about seven and a half – it’s a 75-inch. I bought it just before the 4K screens came out, and I’m tempted by them, but my TV’s all right for the minute.I hear you are a fan of hot tubs ...Yep. If the party moves out to the garden I’ve got my Louis Smith hot tub as well which is really good because it is a big seven-seater. It’s multipurpose – I use it a lot for muscle recovery after training.Should anything be censored online?Definitely. There’s some messed up stuff on the internet. Nothing terroristy should be allowed – war crimes, beheadings, anything that can radicalise people. Anything that’s illegal, obviously. Porn’s all right.Related:No sex, please, they're robots, says Japanese android firmWould you have sex with a robot?In 30 years’ time, I might do. The technology doesn’t seem great at the moment. I have a girlfriend so I think I’d rather stick with the real thing.Would you want a driverless car?No. It would take all the fun away. I have a Nissan Skyline GT-R and I love driving it. I wouldn’t want a robot car unless the robot was programmed by Lewis Hamilton. That would be all right.Would you try Oculus Rift?I’d love to.The Gadget Showdid something where they wired the system to paintball guns – so when you got shot a paintball gun would shoot you. And you were on a treadmill so when you walked forward you walked in the game. I’d want one of those in my house.Related:Six of the best noise-cancelling headphones to silence the commuteFavourite headphones?I have some Jamaican Beats [by Dre]. I had some GB ones at the 2012 Olympics and swapped with one of the Jamaican team. I’ve got wireless ones, bass buds with diamonds in them. They’re a bit flashy.Which emoji do you use most often?Probably the laughing one where he’s got two tears coming out.Candy CrushIf anyone else sends me a Candy Crush invite on Facebook I’m going to unfriend them. It looks like the most tedious game ever.Do you have a selfie stick?No, but I have a stick for my GoPro that’s kind of similar. My girlfriend gave it to me for my birthday. I haven’t done much with it yet except attach it to the dog. But I’m going to try to incorporate it into my training, to get some cool gymnastics shots.
You’re highly unlikely to manage to eat enough apple seeds to poison yourself, so you can rest easy if you occasionally swallow one. Apples contain a compound called amygdalin in their seeds, which is a cyanide-and-sugar based molecule. If the seed is chewed or otherwise broken, human or animal enzymes come into contact with the amygdalin and effectively cut off the sugar part of the molecule. The remainder can then decompose to produce the poisonous gas hydrogen cyanide.Cyanide toxicity is experienced by humans at doses of around 0.5–3.5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Symptoms of cyanide poisoning include stomach cramps, headache, nausea and vomiting, and can culminate in cardiac arrest, respiratory failure, coma and death. A fatal dose for humans can be as low as 1.5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. In a recent study, the amygdalin content of apple seeds was found to be approximately 3 milligrams per gram of seeds (one seed is approximately 0.7g).As not all of this mass would be converted into hydrogen cyanide (some of it will constitute the sugar part of the molecules that is cleaved off), it’s apparent that you’re going to need to eat a huge number of apple seeds to succeed in poisoning yourself, and there don’t appear to be any cases of someone having succeeded in doing so.An apple a day graphic
Price: £28,755 (with government grant)Top speed: 138mph0-62mph: 7.6 secondsMPG: 166After the scandals in sport, food and banking (doping, horse meat, Libor and the rest), only a fool would have bet against the motor industry not cheating the system, too. But no one would have fingeredVolkswagenas the culprit. A byword for trust and decency for more than 75 years and the jewel of the German automotive industry, all reduced to lousy tricksters in the space of a single afternoon. That old adage that a good name takes a lifetime to win and a moment to lose has never been more true.It was ironic, for me at least, that the day Michael Horn, VW’s US boss, stood up and said: “We’ve screwed up!” was also the day I found myself at the wheel of the newGolf GTE. The E in the title stands for Electric, while the GT is for Gran Turismo and tells new customers (and God knows they’re going to need them) that this isn’t just some dull electric buggy affair (a golf buggy!) but a full-on driver’s car that shares the same sporting DNA as the brand’s most famous performance badge – the GTi. It’s certainly a tricky balancing act for this VW to pull off as the car has to be both parsimoniousandpowerful. A sort of vegan Tarzan.Inside story: the Golf, despite its futuristic powertrain, will be familiar to all VW drivers.The car is a plug-in hybrid with both a 1.4 TSI petrol (no diesel here) and a snappy electric engine. It has five operating modes: pure electric, electric plus, battery hold, battery charge and auto hybrid. VW has made the technology that controls each option incredibly straightforward, but like many others, I suspect, after fiddling about with the various settings, I clicked on auto hybrid and let the car sort itself out. It seemed to know what it was about far better than me, anyway. Whichever mode you select the car always pulls away in pure electric and it takes a while to get used to that sudden, silent lurch.All the extra gubbins associated with two engines and a large battery mean that the car is 300kg heavier than the standard model. That’s like driving everywhere with the Fijian rugby team’s front row sitting in the back. Despite all that heft the car still feels quick and agile around the park (rather like the Fijians themselves) which is testament to the raw power of the GTE. It does 0-62mph in 7.6 seconds with a top speed of 138mph.Inside and out the car is almost identical to every other Golf on the road. One of VW’s e-mobility taglines is “The future is familiar” – and the GTE is certainly that. Within minutes of taking the wheel you feel completely at home. It’s one of VW’s great strengths that its cars can be totally fresh and yet familiar all at the same time.Being a hybrid, the car’s eco credentials are clearly what sets it apart. It has a range of 31 miles using its fully charged electric engine alone (and most daily journeys are a lot less than that), and it will do up 580 miles on a single tank if both systems are engaged. VW claims an average of 166mpg (depending on how you drive, of course) with emissions of just 39g of CO2per km. But, and a BUT could not be BIGGER, what’s the point of it?How could one arm of VW be producing such a clever, clean machine while its other has sold more than 11m motors that knock out anything up to 40 times the pollution they claim? I fear that VW’s so-called “defeat device” will defeat a lot more than it was intended to.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter at@MartinLove166
If one of your duties is dangling from a rope while you try to check for corrosion and metal fatigue, a flying robot may be here to help soon.When we read about drones, it’s usually an annoying hobbyist spying on sunbathers or a terrifying automated plane with a name like “Reaper” raining death on Afghanistan. But at the first-ever commercial drone conference, in Las Vegas this week, the talk among leaders of the dangerous and environmentally risky mining and drilling industries was of how unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) could both limit danger to employees and help avoid or triage the kinds of disasters that have cost those companies billions and irreparably harmed their relationships with the public.The main thing standing in the way at the moment is the US government.Drones, said Dave Truch, technology director of BP’s digital innovation organization, and many others at the Commercial UAV Expo, can do dangerous and onerous jobs much more efficiently than humans, and if they crash, you can buy another one. (Also, it won’t sue you: type “helicopter personnel basket transfer” – a particularly dangerous operation – into YouTube and one of the hits is an injury lawyer.)Related:Commercial drones could require direct human oversight for years, FAA says“What we bring out of the ground is held at extremes of pressure and temperature, and our job is to control it until we bring it into refineries,” said Truch at a breakout session on Tuesday. “Then we take this stuff that likes to explode and we cook it, at extremes of pressure and temperature, and we have to have all this infrastructure to control it. It gets very congested, sometimes so much so that we can’t even get humans into it.“I have humans dangling from ropes, literally, to do some inspections,” said Truch. “Some of our vessels are 50 to 60ft high – that’s where we store stuff. Why would you put a human in there to do inspections? Because you have to. So we drain these vessels, we purge them, we make sure we have no residual hydrocarbon before we put a human in there, and we have to set up scaffolding, and then we have to send someone in there not only to do visual inspection but to take measurements.”Mining and drilling are both highly regulated industries in the US, but in this case it’s not an energy regulator but the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that is trying to figure out how best to allow companies like BP and Barrick Gold, the world’s biggest gold mining concern, to deploy drones on US soil.To some extent, the FAA’s hands are tied: section 333 of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 is strict on the topic of who can and can’t fly a drone (and where, and at what height, and how close to people).Robert Pappas, who is in charge of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Integration at the FAA, said his team was working diligently – indeed, it is expanding – and he acknowledged that “small commercial UAS are projected to be the largest growth sector in the industry”.But that doesn’t change the law. “There’s no sunset date for section 333,” he said bluntly. “Until Congress repeals or eliminates it, it will still exist.”Amazon’s attempts to make drone-to-house delivery a reality have met with resistance largely because the drones would operate over the heads of the general public (the “Skynet” jokes have come thick and fast since the company announced its plans), but miners and drillers are asking for special consideration so they can use drones on their own properties.Related:Droneland: where hobbyists rule the skiesThe companies presenting at the conference (where theFAA gave a presentationsaying that some of the changes the industry wants are as far as three years away) said that drones had actually made their foreign (and thus drone-filled) sites safer.“I’ve been involved in the implementation of UAV product since we established in the beginning five years ago,” said Jhon Ozoria, senior surveyor with Barrick, to a rapt audience at Caesars Palace. “It was driven by the needs of the difficult terrain and the cost.”Ozoria works with drones at Barrick’s 19-year-old Pueblo Viejo gold mine in the Dominican Republic, about 60 miles away from Santo Domingo.“We want to have no more people in the pits,” Ozoria told the audience at the commercial UAV conference – and drones have helped further that goal. “The curve of learning is really fast. I mean, it depends on the people around you, but it’s really easy, guys.”Mine pits (and the corresponding piles of rubble and slag) have to be measured constantly; often this requires people to walk or drive off-road vehicles around loose terrain that, even with safeguards, can collapse. Frequently, miners have to climb to the tops of huge mounds of gravel with a Mosaic staff in one hand, at the top of which is mounted a GPS beacon that will tell how high the pile is. A wrong step and the miner can break a leg or worse.“If you have UAV needs and you want to fly, come to DR,” said Ozoria succinctly.Regulations currently require that a drone operate 500ft away from “non-participants” – that’s a deal-breaker for Freeport-McMoRan, a gold and copper mining company that is trying to implement drones into its stateside operations. The rules also require that the drone stay constantly within the line of sight of the user – something that often defeats the machine’s purpose for inspectors who’d like to have less dangerous jobs.“You effectively have to clear your site before you survey your site,” said Leon DuPlessis, a chief engineer at the company. It’s a frustrating requirement, he said. “We have a population density of 0.075 people per hectare. If we had a loss link event and a loss of GPS signal, we would expect a random chance of striking a person once every 135,000 years.” And even that, he said, is in the worst-case scenario, in which the drone crashes rather than landing itself, as most now do.Dyan Gibbens, founder and CEO of drone company TrumbullUnmanned, which contracts to BP and others in the industry, said there were other uses for the devices, as well – drones “can be used to document, detect and deter theft”, she said. Tens of billions of dollars in losses can be attributed to equipment theft and even oil theft – pipelines are long and hard to inspect and thieves often set up shop in a remote location where they can siphon as much as they can carry and then sell it.The other requirement – and one that is due to ease slightly next year, if proposed drone rules don’t change – is that if an employee is using a drone “for furtherance of business”, even if it’s six inches square and being used exclusively to annoy a coworker, someone in the team operating the drone has to have a pilot’s license.The proposed rules change that slightly – drones under 55lbs would require only a written test to operate – but it’s still a major sticking point as companies try to make drones easier to use.Paul Doersch, the 27-year-old CEO of Kespry, said his company was trying to make its drones as simple and cheap as possible – as with everything derived from military technology, the early-generation drones are still wildly expensive – and to sell them on a lease model of $25,000 per drone per year. “The goal is to make it so that a manager at a mine just has to call up Kespry, open the box, push a button, and ‘click!’” said Doersch.But until the three-year-long FAA “Pathfinder” project is over, the regulator seems unlikely to budge. The program is exploring “beyond visual line of sight” (BVLOS – everything is an acronym; there are a lot of engineers involved) drone operation with railroad BNSF. Everyone at the conference was deeply jealous.Gibbens is sympathetic to the FAA’s perspective – her father worked for the regulator – and said that she hoped the FAA would “continue Pathfinder programs and share lessons learned” from them. She also said it would be helpful if they’d make the process of applying to use drones on one’s work site something an applicant could do on a computer.Barrick’s chief surveyor at a mine in Nevada, Ben McKnight, said many in the industry were “desperate to be part of the Pathfinder programs”.“I think it’s a great way to start pushing beyond visual line of sight,” he told his audience. “We’ve gotta take these baby steps or we’re not going to take any steps at all.”And ultimately, Truch said, it’s becoming a question of labor, as well. “There’s a whole new generation and they’re not coming to work for us,” he said. “They don’t want to hang from the ropes and they don’t want to drive the trucks; they want to use technology.”
I’ve long fancied the idea of astonishing my friends by whipping a cloth off a keyboard and playing a glorious rendition of festive tunes à laDownton AbbeyChristmas special. But apart from prodding the odd key, I’ve never been near a piano.EnterSkoove, the app that promises to “make your musical dreams come true”. Excellent. I’m already Googling fancy evening dresses and recipes for mulled wine. Better still, the current beta version of the app is free (it’ll cost between £3.50 and £7.50 a month when commercially released), which is a boon considering an electric keyboard costs around 60 quid (there’s currently no way to use the interactive features with Granny’s upright).I rig up the outfit in my front room. Unlike an analogue piano book that perches neatly on the music stand, this guide has to be hooked up to my computer. Cue a precarious attempt to balance my ancient laptop behind a cumbersome keyboard on my tiny coffee table. I had envisaged propping up an iPad on the music stand, but as the app doesn’t yet work with mobile devices, it was cables galore.Once wired up, however, I was off. The screen shows the score for each song, together with a representation of a keyboard and a disembodied pair of hands hovering above it. They deftly play the tune, then it’s up to you to follow step by step, learning the keys for each hand before putting the two together to play in time with the hands.While learning the keys, the digital guide moves on to the next note only when you’ve got the previous one right. Irritatingly, however, I have to keep taking my hands off the piano to click “OK” on endless notification messages. Which isn’t really OK, though the company says this is its “top of our priority to-do list” to fix.Once you feel confident, you’re ready to play in time with the hovering hands which, I suspect, are connected to an instructor wondering quite how he’s ended up with this gig instead of a rousing recital at the Boston Symphony Hall. Slowly,slowly, I play Our House by Madness with my right hand. I can take it only at funeral pace (more like Our Hearse) but, hey, I get the hang of it. Hurrah! Then it’s time to work out what the left hand should be doing – which is where it all goes wrong. Having played the clarinet for umpteen years I can read the treble clef just fine, but everything goes a bit “through the looking glass” when it comes to the bass clef. Still, Skoove isn’t going to be impressed by bad language so I plug on, following its approach, initially matching finger positions with the keys and score, rather than worrying about their names. It seems to work. Eventually, notes, keys and names fall into place – I even play four suspiciously simple bars of Bach by sight! With both hands! Success!Skoove gets me through the three beginner courses in a few days and I’m pretty sure I’ll be able to bash out Silent Night, loudly, by Christmas. But even its jolly encouragement (“Skoovy!” it flashes up as I thrash away at Simon and Garfunkel) can’t erode the inevitable frustration of learning a new instrument. Unsurprisingly, the urge to shove the damn piano back in the box is pretty strong at times and Skoove does little to stop you. There’s no points-earning, no nagging cutesy character to remind you to practise and no way of sharing your progress with anyone – all of which, though irritating, have been surprisingly successful in keeping me hooked to my language learning app for more than 60 days straight.It’s a kindly instructor, but Skoove needs to dangle a few more carrots if I’m going to stick with it.
Lego meets the digital age with these robotsA robotic toy comprised of electronic cubes,Robohopes to be the Lego of the digital age, allowing children or rookie coders to build functioning, programmable robots with interchangeable parts commanded by a Robo app. With the Robo app, the right blocks and a rainy afternoon, you could – according to the Kickstarter page – have a three-wheeled robot nosing around the room, obeying commands and announcing the weather forecast. Assuming the Kickstarter crowdfunding is successful, a fairly primitive Robo starter kit will cost £85 and arrive through your door next summer. As a nod to its forebear, the Robo is also “Lego-compatible”, meaning you can artistically bedeck your creation with retro bricks.Brighten up life with your very own shining moonA Luna lamp lights up the living room.“I’ll give you the moon, Mary,” promised Jimmy Stewart inIt’s a Wonderful Life. Thanks to this Taiwanese Indiegogo campaign, he can be true to his word this Christmas by buying Mary one of these luminous fibreglass balls. Acorn Studio in Taipei has raised nearly half a million dollars to fundLuna, which ranges in diameter from 3.2in to 23.6in. But while the moon itself is free, even the smallest Luna lamp costs around £50.A miniature modular phone for the curiousThe plucky little Rephone.For those who can’t wait for Google’s modular phone, this plucky little alternative has already won its Kickstarter funding three times over, and will appeal to more curious and hobbyist users. A tiny microcontroller forms theRephone’s core, which can be manually connected to a number of separate units – a touchscreen, for instance, or an accelerometer – to suit the user’s needs. Costing £26 (for the 3G version) the phone comes with a fold-your-own cardboard case, but customers are encouraged to build their own.Be on track with these hand-controlled racersThe UK’s car industry is said to be in resurgence, as this impressive and powerful vehicle demonstrates. A hi-tech take on Scalextrics, and open for funding on Kickstarter,Cannybotsis a miniature, hand-controlled racing car, which can be assembled, decorated and programmed to suit the whims of its driver. Governed by an app, the car detects road-markings, clinging to the track and responding to coloured signals to change lanes, adjust speed and record lap times. Ambitious racers can even custom-build a track with nothing but black electrical tape, while the app claims to provide a simple introduction to coding languages. Order now and you can have one by Christmas.A laser shaver that is absolutely cutting edgeThe Skarp is said to be a preferable alternative to the razor.This expensive and threatening-looking depilatory tool may seem a drastic purchase, but its designers are confident that at £105 it represents a preferable alternative to the razor. TheSkarp’s cutting edge has a tiny, low-energy laser which emits light that is absorbed by pigments in human hair, heating each strand and breaking it off without nicks, rashes or excess waste. “Shaving has been the same for 5,000 years,” says their Kickstarter page, probably rather inaccurately. Still, if you’re sick of hacking away at your chin or legs with a brittle plastic disposable, the Skarp could be for you.Cannybots is a hi-tech take on Scalextrics.
DAVID COPEComposer, author and professor emeritus of music at the University of California, Santa CruzI define creativity as the association between two ideas that one would not ordinarily consider a reasonable one to make but that works. I think that this is a rather simple thing to do for computers.I’ve been working on writing novels computationally for well over 10 years now and I’m still trying it, although I believe that within the next two to three years I will have broken its back and will produce 100,000-word novels in half an hour or so, novels that I think most people would consider to be creative. I can do uncreative short stories at this point, ones where the associations are routine and expected; they have occurred in many thousands of previous books. But I believe that in the near future my programs will be able to do creative ones.MARIA TERESA LLANO RODRIGUEZResearch associate, computational creativity group, Goldsmiths UniversityThinking RobotPhotograph: Blutgruppe/CorbisWe are used to machines being used as tools that do not have a high level of cognitive ability, so it’s difficult for people to think of them as being able to exhibit truly creative behaviour. A problem with earlier approaches was their dependence on hand-coded tasks and knowledge, which restricts the reasoning capabilities a machine can carry out. People are creative because they understand the properties of objects in the world, and based on that knowledge they breach convention in non-trivial ways that make sense. In the same way computer systems require the ability of acquiring knowledge in order to enable creativity. Artificial intelligence research is aiming to overcome the challenge of hand-coded features through more flexible approaches in which software systems can constantly learn new representations of data, modify themselves according to it and exhibit creative behaviour.MICHAEL OSBORNEAssociate professor in machine learning, University of OxfordRelated:Intelligent steps to future-proof your job against the robot revolutionCreativity is arguably the most difficult human faculty to automate: robots are unlikely to be fully creative any time soon. Automation usually requires exactly the kind of explicit instruction as to how to achieve a goal that creativity obviates. It is certainly possible to design an algorithm that can churn out an endless sequence of paintings, but it is difficult to teach such an algorithm the difference between the emotionally powerful and the dreck. Another problem is that it is difficult to automate the combination of ideas from many different sources that forms the source of much of human creativity: you might find inspiration from an interview with a neuroscientist in designing a new office layout. Putting some evidence to our thesis, we found, for both the UK or the US, that almost 90% of creative jobs are at low or no risk of automation.ERICA WAGNERAuthor and literary criticMy instinctive thought is no. I’ve heard people talk about the way you can get computers to do tasks like play chess, which are very sophisticated, but very bounded tasks. But then I took a quiz and did pretty badly: they had little examples of poetry, some of which were written by computers, I guessed one right, I didn’t guess the other one. I think that our human brains are much more subtle and extraordinary and strange than machines could ever be. I would say that, wouldn’t I? I don’t want to be put out of a job. Most people thought that no one would ever fly in a machine, so we have to be pretty careful about saying what we think machines are capable of. So I don’t know is the honest answer.
In my day, a Honda Civic looked like the car you would drive if you were going on an IT training course in Milton Keynes and wanted to fit in: reliable, characterless, neither large nor small, fast nor slow. At some point in the intervening decade, the designers or maybe the entire Honda brand have had a midlife crisis.If I utter the phrase “black with red detailing”, you’ll think you know what I mean; you do not. The body looks like a Batmobile. The wheels look as though they were deliberately conceived as fresh wounds – a kind of Bruce Willis-esque aesthetic statement: “I’m so hard I haven’t even noticed I’m bleeding.” There is a spoiler at the back so substantial and proud that it would only really make sense if this vehicle could fly.Taxi drivers give you vaudeville thumbs-ups, and young men ogle it, on one occasion at traffic lights swarming round it to touch it. It was likeSuddenly Last Summer, with the Civic as Elizabeth Taylor. Another guy pulled up next to me at lights and asked me to rev it so he could hear what it sounded like.It is insanely powerful. I felt like the Hulk bursting out of his shirt. A top speed of 167mph and a 0-62 of under six seconds are bold but entirely credible claims. It meets no definition of the word “civic” that I can think of.The engine is pretty noisy, but there’s something about it that sounds more encouraging than invasive. The handling is incredible even if you don’t hit the +R button, which turns the controls an angry red, firms up the suspension so it’s like driving on solid rubber and acts like a formal… no, written… no,embossedinvitation to drive too fast. “Dear young idiot, listen to that horsepower! Wouldn’t you like to go much, much faster? How’d you like to corner at 120mph? What do you think I’ll sound like if you rev the hell out of me?” It’s like a love letter from death. OK, that’s melodramatic: a billet doux from irresponsible road use.The interior has perky elements: I like the sparkling steel of the pedals, the sporty posture forced by the bucket seats and the noisy reds of the seatbelts and suedette. Oddment stowage is pesky – the shelf between driver and passenger sits at an awkward height and the glove compartment sheers away in a style that is meant to suggest dynamism (I’m guessing) but makes it quite hard to reach. The economy is better than you’d expect but, at 38.7mpg combined, nothing to boast about; commensurately, emissions are such that you’d have to park round the corner if you were visiting eco-warriors. You’d have to do that with most people, though: it would be hard to arrive in this car without raising questions about your ego.Honda Civic Type R: in numbersPrice£32,295Top speed167mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption38.7mpgCO2 emissions170g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating8/10
The EU’ssafe harbour rulingis a “puzzle piece in the fight against mass surveillance, and a huge blow to tech companies who think they can act in total ignorance of the law,” says Max Schrems, the man who brought the case.“US companies are realising that European laws are gettingmore and more enforced. But still, people don’t believe that a court would order Google or Facebook to do something – they wouldn’t dare. Well, yes, they fucking would,” he said, speaking in Vienna.The European ruling earlier this week sunk a 15-year-old data-transfer pact, the “safe harbour” regime, which offered a privileged route for over 4,000 transatlantic businesses to self-certify that they satisfied “adequate” data-protection standards under European law.Schrems’s successful argument before the European court of justice was that the existence of a generalised programme of mass and indiscriminate surveillance, as disclosed in theSnowden revelationsandconfirmed by the referring Irish court,undermined this entire regime. The court agreed, with ahard-hitting rulingthat has set companies – particularly those involved in thePrism programme, like Google, Apple, and Facebook – scrambling to find alternative legal bases for transatlantic data flows.Max Schrems talking to Julia Powles of the Guardian.Photograph: Patrick Wollner“The judgment will apply to European surveillance just as well,” says Schrems, explaining the strategic motivation behind the case. “It was easier to make the first decision about the US government, then recycle that in Europe. Because yes, we do surveillance in Europe too. But we also have Strasbourg,” he said, referring to the European court of human rights, Luxembourg’s twin and sometimes competitor over the protection of fundamental rights, which has a docket offorthcoming surveillance-related claims, particularly from the UK.On the court’s unambiguous finding that mass surveillance is a breach of fundamental rights, Schrems ispragmatic about the consequences: “No, it won’t immediately stop spying. It has to be a political solution in the end. But the idea was to poke Facebook and other companies into the corner – because something might actually be done at the economic level.“These private surveillance actors collect all the data that the governments then suck up. We don’t have jurisdiction over the US government of course, but companies have obligations to comply with the law.”Salzburg-born Schrems, 28, is animated and straight-talking. He has an easy familiarity, chuckling frequently throughout conversation, and engaging in conspiratorial asides, whether on the casual disdain of Viennese waiters, or on the hopelessness of Irish regulation – “the biggest bunch of lies that I’ve ever seen”.His critique of the Irish data protection office is unrelenting. Along with Luxembourg, it formally oversees European data protection for the majority of multinationals who headquarter their operations in tax-beneficial jurisdictions. “Ireland has no interest in doing its job, and will continue not to, forever. Clearly it’s an investment issue – but overall the policy is: we don’t regulate companies here. The cost of challenging any of this in the courts is prohibitive. And the people don’t seem to care.”This reticence clearly goads Schrems, but it has also accelerated developments in the broader privacy landscape. Europe’s highest court, in both this ruling and in theimmediately preceding decision of Weltimmo, have emphasised the independence of national data protection authorities across the EU-bloc, and their legitimacy in investigating and enforcing their own laws.Between the lines, the court’s hand has been forced, with redundancy and potential replication being the inconvenient price of ensuring that data protection is actually respected. As Schrems puts it: “a genuine one-stop shop would be a smarter solution. But the problem is if half the shops are not open. One of the biggest issues in Europe is that countries are saying officially they’re on same page, but everyone knows they are very different in practice.”Schrems is continuing his fight in Ireland, but his hopes rest elsewhere. “This judgment is valid for 28 countries. Now it goes down to the different data protection offices to enforce.” This gets at the core of Schrems’ mission. Much more than the privacy concerns, he’s motivated by the desire to prove that tech companies are not above the law. In Austria he’s running a class-action appeal against Facebook’s internal privacy policies, which builds on his four-year experience in trying to resolve these issues with the Irish regulator. The class-action, he confesses, will probably take five years and a return to the European Court of Justice.Then he’ll be done, but not out of the game. His PhD at the University of Vienna focuses on the broader legal matrix that could support privacy claims. And his long-term ambition is to set up an enforcement-focused NGO in Europe, to support more local cases advocating for data protection.“It’s a huge problem that in this privacy business, you can really only make money on one side of the game,” he says. “The biggest problem I’ve had is in finding good representatives who understand the law. I meet lots of privacy lawyers for coffee, and they say they like what I’m doing and personally agree with me, but then they say: ‘you can’t tell anyone we’ve ever met, because I’m losing all my clients otherwise’.”‘The idea was to poke Facebook and other companies into the corner – because something might actually be done at the economic level.’Photograph: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty ImagesThe suite of actions Schrems is involved with works under the banner “Europe v Facebook”, in a deliberate effort to anonymise his own role. It has occupied years of his life, but not dominated it. “At the moment, it’s 24-7, but as with most legal procedures, you wait for half a year where nothing happens and then there’s two to three stressful weeks.”Schrems is eager to dismiss the notion that he’s some sort of modern-day Robin Hood. “It’s strange the way people reduce you to this one thing – like, I’m this crazy activist person that sues everyone. No, I’m not. I’m not doing this for fame or money. When I find stories about myself, because I don’t always know when they’re coming out, I still find it very strange. I have this move which probably explains a lot, and typically put my coffee cup over my face because I just don’t like staring at myself. And now when people ask, how do I feel about taking on Facebook and NSA surveillance, and winning? It’s the logical result of what we submitted.”The European decision, though dramatic, was not unexpected. In fact, at the hearing inlate March, Schrems’s legal team was barely called upon. “We made our opening remarks, and the court then pretty much preached our submission to the commission. I even had the feeling that the European commission was not too interested in winning the case. Their representation was really bad. When the court asked, ‘So, does safe harbour provide adequate protection?’, the commission said ‘No, not currently’. At that point we thought; OK, now we can go.“The guys at the commission, when you looked into their faces, I didn’t get the feeling that they have a big problem with it being abolished. I think they wanted to get rid of it anyway. And now they can say, ‘The court is taking a decision, we can’t be blamed for it anymore’.”The commission now has the unenviable task of trying to negotiate safe harbour version 2. It is also on before the European Parliament and the Article 29 Working Party from next week. “I don’t know if it was the master plan, but now that the commission has a court decision at their back, Washington’s not going to be able to say, ‘Oh you have to come down from your big privacy stuff so that we can reach a decision.’”Schrems confesses he can’t see the US government stepping down its surveillances practices. But the pressure from large companies for reform, and the strong ruling from the court, can only be a good thing, in his view. “A lot of the lobbying brought up that poor small businesses will be the worse affected by this. I don’t think so. At worst they might shift to European cloud services instead of US ones. It’s really a bigger problem for global communication networks like Facebook, that you just can’t split in any way.“Big companies didn’t only rely on safe harbour: they also rely on binding corporate rules and standard contractual clauses. But it’s interesting that the court decided the case on fundamental rights grounds: so it doesn’t matter remotely what ground you transfer on, if that process is still illegal under 7 and 8 of charter, it can’t be done.”Julia Powles will be in discussion with the defendant in the ECJ ruling, Irish data protection commissioner Helen Dixon, on 3 November, 11am, at Web Summit, Dublin.
Caleb Logan Bratayley – real name Caleb LeBlanc – was the eldest child of theBratayley family, based in Maryland: a dad, mum, and three kids vlogging (video blogging) since 2011.The family is a sort of online middle-class version of the Kardashians, and has modelled its success on another YouTube family,the Shaytards.The Bratayleys’seponymous YouTube channel, which has more than 1.7 million subscribers, consists of mostly quotidian, middle-American life: baseball games, baking, trampolining. Video titles include: “Just Hangin’ Around the House” and “Sick on a Plane”.The kids are cookie-cutter cute and father, Billy, is a military man. Theirmost watched videohas racked up almost 23 million views and their fan base spreads across multiple platforms: Vine, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram. Age-wise, it’s mostly made up, as one might imagine, of kids the same ages as Annie, Caleb and their other sibling, 7-year-old, Hayley.On Friday 2 October, two days after Hayley’s birthday wasshared via Facebook(“#stillcelebrating”), an Instagram post which has since garnered 236,000 likes announced Caleb’s sudden and tragic death.The post said Caleb had passed away from natural causes the previous evening. “This has come as a shock to all of us. Words cannot describe how much we will miss him,” it read, alongside a picture of the youngster and his sister.A day later, on 3 October,the final videoin which Caleb appears was uploaded to YouTube, apparently filmed just a day before his death. It has garnered over 4 m views.In the video, which is perhaps slightly more banal than usual – sleepy kids eating breakfast before school – Caleb answers a question a fan has asked about what he would ask his future self. After pausing for ten seconds, he jokes: “Is Taco Bell still around?”Caleb’s final appearance in one of his family’s videos, in which he talks about ‘his future self’.The well-known sports fan then adds that he wonders whether more sports would be invented. Caleb’s last words are “see you guys tomorrow”, before a still image displays a message beginning: “unfortunately, Caleb passed away the day after we made this video”.The message that appeared on screen during Caleb’s final video appearance.Photograph: YouTubeCaleb’s death comes at a tragically young age and many fans reacted by expressing their sympathies for the family and shared their own grief at his passing. But while younger acolytes focused on heartfelt tribute vines and emoji-laden comments, some observers began to question how a kid could die “overnight”.Online, people began to talk of the “suspicious” official reason given by the police of a “sudden medical condition”. Many of them not Bratayleys fans, but armchair eyebrow raisers – attracted to what that saw as a mystery to be solved.Under pressure from an internet cacophony and “numerous inquiries both nationally and locally”, and afterGawker ran a pieceon LeBlanc’s “mysterious” death, the Anne Arundel police department released a statement clarifying that no criminal investigation was taking place into the youngster’s death as there were no “suspicious factors or suspected foul play”.YouTube comments featuring an outpouring of grief for Caleb after his death.Photograph: YouTube screengrabIndeed, to most, the suddenness of Caleb’s death would appear to give more credence to this official reason, rather than less. It’s difficult to raise objections to a cause of death that is a sudden medical condition by arguing that it happened so quickly. But the questions kept coming.Understandably, Bratayley’s mother, Katie, who mostly only participates in the family videos as a narrator, asked for privacy and respect during the “grieving process”.When sheannounced on social mediathat her son’s memorial service would be live-streamed on Periscope and Facebook, as well as announcing a21 minute tribute videoto Caleb after his death, that was seized on as a contradiction with requesting privacy.Due to an outpouring of support &amp; hope to be part of Caleb&#39;s memorial, we are live-streaming the ceremony today @ 8pmpic.twitter.com/mwrebMv7cN&mdash; Bratayley Bratayley (@Bratayley)October 6, 2015Since Caleb’s memorial, his parents have appeared on the ABC show Good Morning America, again to further explain his cause of death. They mentioned heart problems that had run in the family, and that Caleb likely died ofhypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This is not such a rare condition – in the UK,1 in 500 people have it, and it frequently goes undetected.@BratayleyI have an alarm set, I can&#39;t wait to watch it. 😔❤️&mdash; rip caleb :( (@kaylovesbands)October 6, 2015The fact that they are live-streaming their sons funeral is rubbing me the wrong way 100%. And their words/actions has been suspicious.&mdash; witchcraft (@skaysens)October 6, 2015AKA murderhttp://t.co/qwxthNDEH9&mdash; Deena Jacobs RANTS (@DeenaJacobs)October 6, 2015As far as I could tell, the memorial service that was live-streamed did not include tributes from the immediate Bratayley family, seemingly as to keep them private. Bratayley is not the real family name; LeBlanc is. (The Guardian is reporting it as such here as is usual when reporting a death).For a family grieving the sudden death of a child, the attention of people online seeking to uncover the facts of the case must just add to the distress. For the fans who have been used to such extensive access to the family’s lives, to not have that extended to them around a death may seem incongruous.Wannabe sleuths have always existed. Sometimes deaths that transfix popular imagination are genuinely suspicious – rememberthe unsolved murder of JonBenét Ramseyin 1996?Caleb, as featured in the tribute video after his death.Photograph: YouTube screengrabBut broadband internet has made it easier for people to position themselves as detectives. And the rise of online stars has made their followers feel more entitled to know everything about people’s lives. Mining social media leads people to believe they are in full possession of the facts, rather than odd holiday photographs and statuses posted in anger.When this has happened on a large scale, it has often gone horribly wrong. The Reddit manhunt for the Boston marathon bomber ended up fingering the wrong guy. False information was spread across Twitter after theMarysville Pilchuck high school shooting. The Jessica Chambers online truthersturned on the murdered girl’s own mother. When it comes to a life lived online, death, apparently, does not quite do us part.Unfortunately, the hunt to truly “explain” Caleb LeBlanc’s death is just another example of people attempting to crowdsource “justice”, even in the face of a quite obviously non-suspicious, tragic death.•Reddit’s Boston marathon speculation shows the limits of crowdsourcing
SurvivalSurvival games are in vogue, and there are plenty in early-access, with zombie survival gameDayZa successful example. Currently popular isARK: Survival Evolved, in which you’re stranded on an island populated by dinosaurs and other prehistoric wildlife. For a more thoughtful, less fantastical experience, tryThe Long Dark.ActionDutch developer Vlambeer is known for action games such asSuper Crate Boxand more recently shoot-’em-upLuftrausers. Their new game,Nuclear Throne, an action roguelike about mutants fighting to survive in a post-apocalyptic world, is available now.Role-playing gameDarkest Dungeonis also a roguelike, but in this case a turn-based RPG. You lead a team of heroes through monster-filled dungeons, but the heroes have flaws and can suffer from afflictions such as paranoia and masochism.MultiplayerFor a fast-paced competitive game, trySpeedRunners, in which you run, jump, and swing through levels while trying to prevent opponents doing the same. For a cooperative experience,Don’t Starve Togetheris an expansion that lets you try to survive the bizarre islands ofDon’t Starvewith friends.UniqueBesiegeis a game unlike any other, focused solely on constructing siege engines then using them to destroy buildings. Its complex physics means players learn about effective engineering, which might sound dull but is proving very popular.
“It is like driving down the M1 three metres behind a truck with your wipers switched off. But at 200mph,” explains Allan McNish on the experience of piloting a top-end prototype sportscar in the rain. And he speaks from experience. The former Formula One driver, three-times winner of theLe Mans 24 Hoursand the2013 FIA World Endurance championwith Audi, drove, during his extensive career, in every permutation of wet weather conditions imaginable.Two of the cars in which he competed , the 2012 R18, in which he won the12 Hours of Sebringand the R8 that was part of his American Le Mans Series title in 2006, both feature in the recently releasedForza 6,as does, for the first time, racing in the wet and at night, now that developer Turn10 believes it can do the conditions real justice. But it has also gone further and simulated an even greater level of realism – that of standing water and the aquaplaning it can induce in cars.Standing water, better known as puddles, causes aquaplaning when the tyre cannot clear the water quickly enough and a layer sits between rubber and track, at which point, if all four wheels are biting only H²0, to all intents and purposes the driver is along for the ride.McNish knows it well, comparing it to “riding a horse, where if you are too tense it can react badly and you’re on the wrong end of it”. Indeed, as a motor-racing writer I have witnessed it on many occasions; it is a scary enough sight from the sidelines (as at the COTA round of the FIA WEC last year, where a sodden dusk saw the straight into turn 12change into an ice rink)let alone from the cockpit. Which is an intriguing position for Turn10 to take, bidding for physical realism to such an extent that the player, for those crucial moments, actually has no control.Nor was it an easy task on any of the wet-weather circuits simulated in the game, which include Le Mans, Brands Hatch and Spa. For example, to accurately place 500 puddles on the 12.93-mile Nürburgring Nordschliefe circuit, the forbidding test in the Eifel mountains that Jackie Stewart dubbed “the green hell”, the team used a laser scanning rig, walked the track repeatedly, took pictures of cracks, filmed HD video on a “ladybug” camera, consulted vast amounts of archival footage and talked to professional drivers with experience at the Ring.Forced wide on the bend.“Our vision was to make the most accurate Nürburgring ever created,” said Dan Greenawalt, the creative director at Turn 10. “There was no way to approach it besides throwing everybody, the best brains we had and the most data and research we could at it.”Nor was this a short-run, one-off approach. It is a long-term process that has seen Turn devolve its research team from the game production part of the process so they are free to pursue every end they believe will add to the realism in the long run. “There is constant improvement to stay ahead of science to be on the cutting edge of academics of simulation,” added Greenawalt. “And it takes a lot of time and research and a desire to push the boundaries and it takes a lot of money – having a big team that’s willing to do the research and throw a lot of time and energy at it.But video games have always included an element of suspension of disbelief and racing in the wet is far from a new concept. In the past it has generally been achieved simply by scaling back the grip levels of the cars and adding a water-on-the-visor flourish. So why hasForzagone so far, so fast?Forza 6 puts the player in the driving seat.Trying to put the player as close as possible to McNish’s shoes is the simple answer. Greenawalt’s team consulted many professional drivers. “They commented on the fear and tension of driving in the rain and driving at night, and we wanted to understand that from a physics perspective,” he explained. They did so by ensuring they modelled all the grip levels at every part of the track in all conditions, rather than a straight scaling down. “We did the research on a per-surface level and we have the new full simulation aquaplaning system; it’s not just reduced friction, it is fully researched,” he said.Which is the edge beyond the cosmetic they were looking for and crucially it works in-game. Playing on a reasonably high simulation level with a full race seat set up, running the rather beautifully engineered Thrustmaster TX next-gen wheel-pedal combo, this added element is a handful, mentally and physically. Offering a real sense of being on the edge of control, or as was the intention, briefly having none at all, before coming out the other side of one of those puddles and sighing with relief as the traction comes back. This simple idea, executed with precision, genuinely is another dimension, just as Greenawalt had intended. “We have 24 cars on track; they are packed,” he said. “When you have a car either side, and you see a puddle ahead and you realise that they are not for show, it creates that tension – you think, ‘Should I hit the guy on the left or should I hit the brakes and duck in behind him to avoid the puddle line?’ That’s the type of tension we wanted to recreate but we didn’t want to fake it so we did the physics so that it is created naturally.”It is all about creating a sense of the moment, mentally, beyond just the visual. In the wet, as McNish notes: “You drive with a heightened sense all the time so mentally it is more energy-consuming because you are driving on your fingertips to some extent because you don’t have the same margin for error that you would in the dry.”Which petrolheads will feel instinctively is right for a simulation, but gamers may also appreciate Turn10’s interpretation of the same. “A puddle could be taking up half the track and it totally changes how you drive it,” said Greenawalt. “So we wanted it to be physically based and completely accurate but we also wanted it to be a thrill ride.”For motor-racing aficionados, as with drivers, it is all about feel and here the number-crunching in the background has made all the difference to the experience.
Playing arcade games on original hardware is the ultimate way to enjoy the arcade experience at home. But the cost – and size – of an arcade cabinet can be prohibitive. Yet there is a relatively unknown console that lets you play arcade hardware on a TV: the supergun.Inside the arcade cabinetWhere games consoles have individual formats, such as PS4, SNES or Dreamcast, so do arcade cabinets. JAMMA is the most prolific. A JAMMA game comes on an arcade PCB: a slab of circuit board typically containing a single game that is “plugged in” inside a cabinet.An MK30 ADCAP supergun.The supergun alternativeImagine an arcade cabinet. Remove the screen, controls and the game from that vision. You’re left with a tangle of wires and circuit boards that is the cabinet’s heart. A supergun effectively squeezes that heart into a console-sized box, and provides a slot to plug in a JAMMA game, and a means to connect a TV and controller.Where to find oneSuperguns are largely made by sole arcade devotees. Jasen’s Customs builds and sells the MK30 ADCAP, a high-end supergun. Elsewhere, ArcadeForge’s MAK Strike is a popular option, or the brave can buy a kit and build their own. As for the JAMMA games, eBay is expensive, but UK trading forums such asArcade OtakuandJAMMA+provide a marketplace and advice.What about arcade ports?Many classic arcade games have been released for console, but these ports often change the game and run at different speeds. And a wealth of superb arcade games have never seen a console version. Simply put, original hardware is the only authentic way to play true arcade games.
Claims that the battery life of the new iPhones can vary by up to two hours depending on which third-party supplier manufactured the central chip don’t reflect real-world usage, according to Apple.The chip at the heart of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, named the “A9” chip by Apple, comes in two forms, one manufactured by Samsung and the other by Taiwanese company TSMC. Since the phones started hitting shelves last week, users have reported that the phones containing Samsung chipssignificantly underperform those with TSMC chips in intensive battery-life tests.According to battery life benchmarks, the difference can be almost two hours. But in a statement, Apple said that the discrepancy was not reflected in real-world usage.It said: “Certain manufactured lab tests which run the processors with a continuous heavy workload until the battery depletes are not representative of real-world usage, since they spend an unrealistic amount of time at the highest CPU performance state.“It’s a misleading way to measure real-world battery life. Our testing and customer data show the actual battery life of the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, even taking into account variable component differences, vary within just 2-3% of each other.”Thebattery metrics cited by Applefor the iPhone 6S include a number of different usage profiles, including talk time, internet use, HD video playback, and standby time. While video playback is relatively processor-intensive, none of those tasks are likely to max out the new A9 chip in the way a battery benchmark test does, suggesting that the discrepancy between the two chips only has an impact at the very highest end of performance.In terms of real-world battery life, the Guardian’s own review of the new iPhones found that they underperformed compared to similar devices. Samuel Gibbs,reviewing the iPhone 6s, found: “Battery life is the iPhone 6S’s biggest problem. During the week the phone failed to make it past 11pm after leaving the charger at 7.30am in the morning.”
Apple has started removing some adblockers from its App Store after they rocketed to the top of the download charts.Adblocking on the company’s iPhone and iPad was enabled within Safari by Apple’s content blocking system – a way for third-party apps to filter what is downloaded and displayed in the mobile browser.But some apps, including the popularBeen Choice, blocked ads not only within mobile Safari but otherapps on the smartphone or tablet too.To do that they installed root certificates on the devices and funnelled a user’s web traffic through a virtual private network (VPN) or proxy service, filtering out any advertising.Those apps have been deemed dangerous by Apple and removed from the App Store as they allow third-parties to view and interfere with a user’s browsing, even if encrypted – something that is often called aman-in-the-middle attack.An Apple spokesperson said: “Apple is deeply committed to protecting customer privacy and security. We’ve removed a few apps from the App Store that install root certificates, which enable the monitoring of customer network data that can in turn be used to compromise SSL/TLS security solutions. We are working closely with these developers to quickly get their apps back on the App Store, while ensuring customer privacy and security is not at risk.”Blocking ads is controversial, classified as morally objectionable by some. Apple carefully crafted its content-blocking system to enable removal of content within mobile Safari only, not within third-party or other Apple apps. Apple’s News app, for instance, displays ads served by either the publisher of the content or Apple.The company behind the iPhone gets a cut of every advert that it serves against publisher content, meaning that it is in Apple’s best interest to prevent wholesale adblocking outside of Safari.The developer ofBeen Choice saidthat it would be changing its adblocking app to “remove ad blocking for Facebook, Google, Yahoo, and Pinterest apps” and resubmit to Apple in an attempt to be allowed back into the store.Apple approves adblocker that even blocks Apple NewsElon Musk says Apple is the ‘graveyard’ for fired Tesla staffiPhones 6S battery life ‘varies by up to two hours depending on chip supplier’Peace app creator pulls top ad blocker because its success ‘doesn’t feel good’
In September 2012, the small British games studio Introversion Software made a vital decision. It would initially release its latest project, Prison Architect, not as a complete product, but as an unfinished “alpha” allowing early purchasers to give feedback on how the game should be developed.This “early access” model of game development, popularised by the massively successful Minecraft, can be very effective, lessening the risk for the game’s publishers of producing a flop while allowing keen players to feel part of the project. But it can also lead to controversies – studios often promise much to their early community then spectacularly under deliver.In the case of Prison Architect, Introversion Software has delivered. The team promised major updates every month, and they kept that promise. Within two weeks, over 2,000 copies had been sold, and by January 2015 there were one million players. After only a few hours with the now official full release of the game, it is easy to understand why.It’s not just about keeping the prisoners locked up, you also have to manage their physical and mental wellbeing. Maybe keeping them all locked up in tiny pitch black cells for 23 hours a day isn’t the best solution?Photograph: IntroversionPrison Architect is a simulation in which players take on the design and running of a major US correctional facility. On first loading the game you’re tasked with taking over an existing prison. The current CEO wants you to build an execution facility for a double murderer, known simply as Edward. It is through this rather macabre tutorial that you’re shown the basics of prison architecture, creating foundations, building walls and adding power and water utilities. You’re also shown how to escort the non-playable characters around the prison.It’s an introduction that makes two things clear: that the prison system is effectively a business, and that it’s a business that involves death. The studio has scrupulously researched the US prison system, talking to both wardens and prisoners and reading up on the theory of prison architecture.Designer Chris Delaycame up with the idea after visiting Alcatraz, but then spent months analysing the current US system, looking into how the buildings are run, but how elements such as race, gang affinity and assault play into the process.Designer Chris Delay came up with the idea after visiting Alcatraz, but then spent months analysing the current systemAfter finishing the tutorial players are given their own plot of land and told to start building their own maximum security prison. However, many newcomers will find that when the prisoners arrive 24 hours after construction begins (24 minutes in real-time) what they’ve actually built is a minimum security facility, which leaks prisoners like a sieve. In my first three hours with the game all I managed to build were some fences and foundations. I hired a warden, who wandered around the fields, and a chef who went off to the lake and never came back. When the prisoners arrived they ran straight into the wilderness, lost forever.It takes a while to start organising the range of buildings – from cells to laundries, to canteens – in a quick and secure way. Then you need an army of employees to run it properly. You need power and water. You need to protect the garbage area with barbed wire fences as this is an obvious escape point for crafty inmates.To help you out, the game provides an ingenious planning tool with three elements – walls, objects and pathways – allowing you to essentially design the fundaments of your structure before laying a single slab of concrete. After planning properly, I was able to build what I thought was an impenetrable prison. I was right. I’d forgotten to add any doors. All part of the learning process.As you become more competent, the experience gives way to the usual slight repetitiveness of the sim genre. You build a prison, you keep adding rooms, you hire more and more staff and you take in extra prisoners – the more you have, the greater your income. It’s the same gameplay loop that we’ve been enjoying since SimCity first arrived in 1989, and which has fed everything from Theme Hospital to Rollercoaster Tycoon.There are several features that add to this cycle though. To make more money at the start of the game, players are able to take out grants, which pay you a set amount of money for carrying out specific tasks. It’s great when you’re really struggling for cash, and gives a more directed experience, but the feature is not particularly well highlighted – or at least it took me a while to find it.Although it can be switched off, the Fog of War feature is worth challenging yourself with, creating blind spots in your prison wherever the warden is unable to see. One moment everything appears to be running smoothly, but the next a full scale prison riot is taking place at the end of an unobserved corridor. More staffing is one solution, but another is taking advantage of surveillance technology. Big Warden is watching.Players can also choose to switch on events, which work like the disasters in SimCity, randomly hitting you with a major nightmare scenario like a fire or a riot, which can really test your facilities – both mental and architectural.Prison Architect has a unique style: minimalistic, but full of character. It takes a very serious subject and turns it into an impressive simulation, where players have the scope to experiment with varying incarceration theories, from relatively pleasant rehabilitation homes to hellish maximum security jails designed to beat down the population as effectively as possible. The tutorial elements could certainly be much clearer and the complexity of the systems can be daunting. But once you’re in, you will – unlike many of my own early inmates – find it very difficult to escape.Introversion Software; PC/Mac; £20
Slightly later than scheduled - it’s Friday!
Motorola’s Moto X Style aims to be a flagship smartphone on a budget, with a big screen, curvaceous body and quality camera.Also known as the Moto X Pure Edition in the US, it’s Motorola’s second Moto X modelafter the Play, which had a smaller screen and a bigger battery.Your choice of wood, plastic or leatherThe white soft-touch back is feels nice and isn’t slippery like glass or metal, but is just one of a collection of materials and colours to choose from.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto X Style looks like any other Motorola phone released in the last two years. The all-glass front has front-facing speakers which operate in stereo, some presence sensors for gestures and now a front-facing LED flash to go with the selfie camera.The back is curved, covered in your choice of plastic, wood or leather, and the sides are aluminium. There’s a metal accent bar connecting the camera to Motorola’s characteristic dimple. The build is solid, although the unit I have has a tiny gap between the glass screen and the metal band at the top.At 11.1mm thick and weighing 179g, the Moto X Style is considerably chunkier and heavier than, for example, the 6.9mm thick, 153gSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+.But it feels solid, comfortable and ergonomic in the hand. The curved back also makes it one of the easiest phablets to hold, but while one-handed use is possible at a stretch, the top of the phone is out of reach.The 5.7in 2K LCD screen is excellent and Motorola’s best yet. It is on a par with likes of theLG G4and Samsung’s latest phablets. It appears pin-sharp with a pixel density of 520 pixels per inch, is bright and easily readable in direct sunlight and has great viewing angles. It’s not quite as vibrant as some AMOLED screens such as that on theSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+, but could be considered to be more realistic for viewing photos and video.SpecificationsScreen:5.7in 2K LCD (520ppi)Processor:six-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 808RAM:3GBStorage:32GB/64GB + microSD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1.1 LollipopCamera:21MP rear camera (f/2.0), 5MP front-facing camera with flashConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 and GPSDimensions:153.9 x 76.2 x 11.1 mmWeight:179gCool running but only for a dayThe curved back makes the Moto X Style one of the easier phablets to keep hold of.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto X Style uses Qualcomm’s six-core Snapdragon 808 processor, which is not the latest or the most powerful available, but also does not suffer from overheating issues. It’s the same one used to great effect in theLG G4and performs equally well in this device.The phone is one of the snappiest you can find on the market today, on par with any of the top Android smartphones at the moment performing similarly to the Galaxy S6.The processor handled everything I threw at it without issue, including games. It didn’t get particularly warm even under heavy use. The 808 might be less powerful for some tasks, but most people won’t notice or even care. Call quality was excellent and hands-free calling particularly loud.The Moto X Style lasted an average of 26 hours during my testing, which was enough to see me safely through a day and a night out, but it had to be charged every night. That was with 3 hours of browsing and listening to music via Bluetooth headphones, hundreds of push notifications and emails, 20 minutes of gaming and a couple of photos a day.This is pretty average when smartphones from Sony and others can last two days or more with similar specifications, but the Moto X Style charges quickly reaching 55% in 50 minutes.Snappy stock AndroidThe Moto X Style runs Android (almost) straight from Google.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMotorola ships its Android smartphones without software customisations. They are as close toGoogle’s Nexus devicesin those terms as you can get. Motorola instead spends its time optimising the software, which is one reason why it is quite so snappy.The standard Android Lollipop experience is very good and those bits that Motorola adds are actually useful, apart from the camera app (more on that below).Motorola’s Moto app adds a couple of features to Android. Gesture support is excellent allowing users to karate chop to light the flash as a torch or twist your wrist with the device in hand to fire up the camera app. The phone can also turn on or off Wi-Fi or other settings based on location and time of day.Motorola’s active display detects when the phone is approached with a hand with its presence sensors and lights the display with notification icons and the time.Holding a finger on the icon previews a small snippet of the message or notification. Users can then dismiss or unlock the phone to see the rest of the message. It’s a better user experience and consumes less battery than Android’s stock “ambient” display.Moto Voice adds to Google Now with more voice control options including a custom hotword that the user can change to fire up the voice command system without having to touch the phone. It works well in the home or office, but struggled outdoors on a busy street. I’m not sure why you’d want to use it on the street – it feels awkward talking to a smartphone when no one can see you, let alone in public.CameraThe camera’s great, the app not so much.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe camera is the first one fitted to a Motorola smartphone that I’ve thought was actually good. The 21-megapixel camera was excellent in good lighting, producing photos with good colour balance and detail –better than the Moto X Play.It struggled in low-light conditions more than some rivals, producing some muddy photos when I expected it to be fine.Video capture is also strong, with 1080p at 60 frames per second and 4K if only at 30fps.The 5-megapixel selfie camera is very good, producing bright and detailed shots making it one of the best. The flash on the front will make some selfies better, but its throw was short making it a bit anaemic more than an arm’s length away.As good as the camera is, the camera app is poor. Motorola’s made it tap to capture rather than tap to focus. I found it routinely failed to focus correctly, producing images that were not as sharp as I would have liked. It worked fine for selfies, but not for rear-camera shots of anything with detail in the foreground.A drag to focus mode is available, but I found it clumsy to use and in the end switched to the equally simple to use but much better Google Camera app.The front-facing flash will help illuminate your mug in a pinch.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Motorola Moto X Style costs £360 for 32GB of storage without customisation. It is also available from Motorola’s Maker site, where accents, backs and storage can be changed starting at £400 for 32GB and £434 for 64GB.For comparison theLG G4is currently available from £320 and theSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+currently costs £580. The 5.5inMotorola Moto X Playcosts £250.VerdictWith the Moto X Style, Motorola is trying to replicate a winning formula: offer a great smartphone experience for less than the competition.Costing £360 it is around £220 cheaper than its rivalSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+and offers a similar experience. The only things notably lacking from the Moto X Style are a fingerprint sensor and wireless charging, which hurt its future proofing. Its battery life of just over one day could also be better.The Moto X Style has an excellent screen, feels good in the hand, has a good camera, very snappy performance and runs stock Android without any bloat. In fact, the Moto X Style is essentially aGoogle Nexus smartphonebut with a microSD card slot for adding extra storage.Pros:great screen, good rear camera, excellent selfie camera, microSD card slot, cheaper than rivals, stereo front-facing speakersCons:battery could be better and is not removable, no wireless charging or fingerprint scannerThe metal bar in the back has Motorola’s dimple logo, but it is more for aesthetics than a useful place to rest your finger.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviewsMotorola Moto X Play review: a decent performer for a bit lessLG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive cameraGoogle Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageableOnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship phablet killer’?Huawei Honor 7 review: solid mid-range with lightning-fast fingerprint scannerSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ review: the curvy ‘iPhone 6 Plus killer’iPhone 6S Plus review: barely better than the iPhone 6 Plus
Outspoken Tesla chief executive Elon Musk has poked fun at Apple, saying his employees refer to the tech company as the “Tesla graveyard”.Dismissing claims thatApple is poaching key members of stafffrom his own firm to work onits long-rumoured self-driving car project, Musk said: “Important engineers? They have hired people we’ve fired. We always jokingly call Apple the ‘Tesla Graveyard’.“If you don’t make it at Tesla, you go work at Apple. I’m not kidding.”Musk, whose company last week unveiled theModel X, its first SUV, was speaking toGerman newspaper Handelsblatt. When asked whether or not he took Apple seriously as a competitor in the automotive market, Musk replied, laughing: “Did you ever take a look at the Apple Watch?”He added: “No, seriously: it’s good that Apple is moving and investing in this direction. But cars are very complex compared to phones or smartwatches. You can’t just go to a supplier like Foxconn and say: ‘Build me a car.’“But for Apple, the car is the next logical thing to finally offer a significant innovation. A new pencil or a bigger iPad alone were not relevant enough.”Apple’s project to create its own self-driving car is fast becoming one of the worst-kept secrets in Silicon Valley. Although the company has never confirmed that it is working on a vehicle, documents uncovered by the Guardian in August showed that it wasseeking space to test its cars in private, looking to secure a 2,100 acre former naval base near San Francisco for that purpose. In September,the company met with California officialsto review the state’s autonomous vehicle regulations.
Single-ignition barrages, or “cakes” as the pros call them, are increasingly a favoured option for amateur firework displays. Consisting of zig-zagging rows of explosives that ignite consecutively, they fire an unpredictable collection of bangs, candles and stars into the sky, compounding their excitement with the element of surprise.Darryl Fleming of Titanium Fireworks.Photograph: Karen Robinson for the ObserverDarryl Fleming, the director and co-founder ofTitanium Fireworks, doesn’t generally deal in such simple tomfoolery, having worked as a pyrotechnician at London 2012, the Commonwealth Games and the last three New Year displays in London and Edinburgh. Nevertheless, the basic requirements are similar, he insists, while revealing a professional vocabulary as colourful as his creations: “A good firework display needs structure and variety to keep people interested, whether it be crackles, screeches, hummers, tourbillon spinning effects, bombettes, comets or mines.”Titanium’s gigantic “pyromusical” displays rely on computer-controlled ignition systems, timed to within a hundredth of a second. But even a humble, over-the-counter “cake” is a complex system of infinitesimal reactions. Each tube inside the barrage contains a single cardboard cylinder, plugged with clay at one end. As the fuse burns round the barrage, a firing charge ignites at the bottom of each tube, simultaneously ejecting the cylinder and lighting a second “delay fuse”, which goes off when the firework reaches its maximum height. The firework then explodes in mid-air, creating effects according to the design and chemistry of its contents. Different metal salts create colours, magnesium aids brightness, and noise is created by manipulating the gas escaping from the reaction.“People are more discerning now,” says Fleming, who has agreed to act as the expert in our fireworks trial. “I’ll be looking for definition, range of effects and hopefully something unique.”Taking time off from his intense preparation for the Rugby World Cup closing ceremony (“We have to make sure we don’t cover the pitch in debris”) Fleming surveys the line of seven cakes. “Wear stout boots, and light them at arm’s length with a gloved hand,” he warns. “But the golden rule is: make sure they can’t fall over.”The Beijing Blitz: good valueCELTIC– BEIJING BLITZ£7.99. Pocket-sized 36-shot cake. Safe at five metresfireworksshop.uk.com“For less than £10, that’s good quality and excellent value. The duration was 30 seconds, which is good for that number of shots and it had a little flurry at the end to give you a finale. There was a good range of colours and I liked the crackle effect every alternate lift. Because it’s small, it’s quite low-level – the larger ones will go a lot higher – but it’s still stunning. An excellent little cake.”Silver Crackling Rain: identical shotsPEACOCK - SILVER CRACKLING RAIN£23.99. A family-friendly 25-shot cakebrilliantfireworks.co.uk“There’s a longer tube-length, so the shots went higher than the Beijing Blitz, but otherwise it was very similar in duration and intensity. The limitation is that each shot was identical: a silver tail with a timed rain effect at the end, whereas the Blitz had alternating colours and each one had a crackle in between. But it’s still a good cake for a small back garden.”Imperial in action: impressive effectBROTHERS PYROTECHNICS – IMPERIAL£25 (sold as part of four-pack) 16 bone-rattling bangsjordansfireworks.co.uk“The tube bore size is bigger here, so a larger cardboard casing is ejected which has a larger number of stars and a bigger quantity of bursting charge – what we call a ‘bombette’. This had clearly defined bursts, and I liked the screeches at the end - that’s the sort of thing that goes down well with kids. Fewer shots than the previous two, but they were bigger and higher, with more stars and more payload, which gives an impressive effect.”Ragin Spiders in action: quite a noveltyBRIGHT STAR - RAGING SPIDERS£44.99. Unusual circular cake, with three separate sectionsnewsboxfireworks.co.uk.“This is an example of what a good firework display involves: a rotation of sequences. It starts at ground level with a fountain – I didn’t expect that and it was a nice touch. Then it started firing the aerial stuff at about 20 seconds, and then it had a lovely little flourish at the end in which a barrage of fanned mines went spinning off in quick succession - really quite a novelty. I’m not sure if it’s good value for money, but it’s a nice firework with an unusual structure.”Star Wars in action: hands down winner!COSMIC - STAR WARS£74.99. Big, heavy 220-shot barragefireworksmine.co.uk“Duration-wise it was nice and long, it probably had the greatest variety of the seven, but what I liked most of all was the intensity – the speed at which the shots are fired and the energy it maintains. The volume is higher than its rivals – very impressive – and it has a solid sequence of whistles, not just one or two. It even had a little false-finale to wrong-foot the audience at the end. In terms of intensity, duration, range and quality of effects, this one wins hands down.”Thunder Strike in action: long but repetitiveELITE - THUNDER STRIKE£30. 48-shots. Category 3, so keep 25 metres backsimiawarehouse.com“It was about 1min 20sec long, which is a long duration. Generally that’s good. My criticism, though, is that it didn’t have any great variety. It was basically a unit that went up with a bombette burst in alternating primary colours – that’s it. It would have been nice if, after 20 seconds of that, we’d had some sort of development, even just a whistle, but nothing too exciting happened and it became a bit repetitive.”Accolade: a lot going onKIMBOLTON - ACCOLADE£59.99. New from prestigious UK company. 150 shotsbuykimboltonfireworks.com“The colours are lovely and bright, and it opens with a nice crossette effect – the stars breaking and splitting into four. Then some bombettes and crackles, not quite as big as what we’ve seen before, but lovely and clear. It’s nearly two minutes long, and I was starting to get a bit bored in the middle, but I certainly liked the clever sequence at the end: a flurry, with a pregnant pause between the effects. On the whole, a pretty good cake, and a lot going on.”
The law firm that represented the hotel maid whosaid she was sexually assaultedbyDominique Strauss-Kahnand awoman from Delhiwho said she was raped and beaten after hailing an Uber driver last December has filed a lawsuit against the controversial taxi app on behalf of two female passengers.Related:Delhi woman sues Uber for 'negligence and fraud' after alleged rapeThe passengers accuse Uber drivers of sexual assault, according toa court filingon Thursday.In response to the suit, Uber said it had worked with law enforcement in both cases, and said “both drivers have been permanently removed from the platform”.The suit, filed in US district court in San Francisco by Wigdor, a New York law firm, alleges that Uber targets its marketing toward women who have been drinking yet fails to protect female passengers by not adequately screening drivers and routinely hiring drivers with criminal histories.“What Uber does not share with riders is that making the choice to hail a ride after drinking also puts them in peril from the Uber drivers themselves,” the complaint says.“By marketing heavily toward young women who have been drinking while claiming that rider safety is its #1 priority, Uber is instead putting these women at risk.”The suit alleges that “negligence, fraud and misleading statements” led to the sexual assaults, which it says “humiliated, degraded, violated and robbed [the plaintiffs] of their dignity”.The suit seeks unspecified damages and a permanent injunction against Uber to improve its safety measures.“It is our hope that this case sends a strong message to Uber that no woman should have to be physically violated because a company has decided to put profits over safety,” said Douglas Wigdor, the founding partner at Wigdor, in a statement.According to the suit, the first assault took place in Boston at around 2.30am on 8 February 2015, after a friend of the first plaintiff, listed as Jane Doe 1, ordered an Uber car.The Uber driver first dropped off her friends, who lived together, the suit says, and then proceeded to travel off-route. The driver began to grope the woman at a red light, according to the complaint. He then forcibly kissed her.She sent frantic texts to her friends, saying the driver was trying to “rape” her and asking them to “call for help”. Eventually, the suit says, she managed to unlock the car door and escape.The suit says the second woman, identified as Jane Doe 2, was driven to a bar in Charleston with friends on 9 August 2015. According to the complaint, the driver followed them into the bar and after several hours offered to take them home.After dropping off her male friend first, the Uber driver then drove the woman to a remote parking lot where he proceeded to “viciously rape” her, according to the filing. After the attack, Jane Doe 2 escaped and called the police.In a statement issued on Thursday, an Uber spokesperson said: “Our thoughts remain with the victims of these two terrible incidents.“We proactively worked with law enforcement in Massachusetts and South Carolina at the time to share information and aid their investigations. Both drivers have been permanently removed from the platform.”The taxi app is valued at more than $50bn, making it the most valuable of the new “sharing economy” tech companies. But while investors have poured in money, Uber has been dogged by controversy.Dozens of passengers from around the world have alleged sexual assaults by Uber drivers. Cases have arisen in France, China, Canada and India, where a woman’s allegation that shewas brutally rapedby her Uber driver set off widespread protests andled to a ban on the service in Delhi.
Facebook is to trial “reactions” options for users responding to content, proving that merely being able to “like” something was somewhat limiting the human emotional spectrum.From Friday, Ireland and Spain (assumingly particularly emotive nations?) will be the first to test the new feature. Despitewide reportingthat Facebook was working on a “dislike” button in September, it seems company boss Mark Zuckerberg has decided that a binary choice of like and dislike is too specific.Instead,Engadget reportsthat “icons” that represent “love, laughter, cheeky smiles [and] shock anger” will be some of those available to users in the trial, which starts this weekend. The hope is that one will no longer be constrained in one’s emotional response on the social network.It can feel awkward to like a post about somebody’s beloved dog dying – but how else to show appreciation of the cute tribute photo of them as young child and puppy? Zuckerbergacknowledged back in September interviewsthat this was an issue:“What [people] really want is the ability to express empathy. Not every moment is a good moment.“We have an idea that we’re going to be ready to test soon, and depending on how that does, we’ll roll it out more broadly.”What the new Facebook reactions options will look like.Photograph: FacebookEmotional tone online can be a minefield, often lost in translation or misinterpreted, which is why canny internet users have thought of workarounds.Thereaction gif, for instance, is now part of the everyday internet experience, and there are popular website repositories to find the best (thinkGiphy.com). Twitter recognised just how integral reaction gifs were to many users’ online experience when itintroduced support for animated gifsin June 2014.With its new reactions panel, it seems Facebook is finally (eye roll) catching up to the fact people have a varied, rich internal gamut of emotions. It’s not the most revolutionary advancement, however. Facebook’s new reactions do look a lot like a subset of emoji. They are reminiscent too of thestickers available in Gmail’s Hangouts(in addition to actual supported emoji), and the number of responses one can choose at the end of BuzzFeed articles.My reaction to Facebook’s reactions? Underwhelmed. But I don’t think that’s an option.•Forget ‘Dislike’ – here are 12 new buttons Facebook really needs
Amazon has come up with a new system for getting huge amounts of data from your computers to theirs: send it by post. As computer science pioneer Andy Tanenbaum wrote: “Never underestimate the bandwidth of a station wagon full of tapes hurtling down the highway.”The company’s new Snowball hardware is aimed at developers who use Amazon Web Services, the increasingly-ubiquitous internet backend to websites as varied as Netflix and Ocado.Once a company reaches a certain size, even the fastest dedicated internet connections can be a large bottleneck for transferring data. A T3 connection, once the gold-standard for corporate broadband, caps out at 45MB a second, and even dedicated fibre connections usually max out at 128MB a second.In small areas, one solution to the problem is dubbed the “sneakernet”: literally loading files on to portable hard drives or USB sticks, and walking over to the computer they’re supposed to be on. And for six years, Amazon has offered its own version of the sneakernet, letting customers post hard drives to its data servers.“Hard drives are getting bigger more rapidly than internet connections are getting faster,”explained the company’s Jeff Barrin 2009, and that trend has continued. But what hasn’t changed is that it’s still a bit of a faff to use the sneakernet (or its bigger sibling – call it the “trucknet”), and so Amazon has introduced a dedicated piece of hardware designed to make it easier.The Snowball is a massive box with handles, ports, and a Kindle screen on the outside. Once a developer requests it, it gets posted to them, and they plug it in to the power and network connections, copy over up to 50TB of data (enough to store almost 150 days of 4K video) and post it back.The device is resistant enough that it doesn’t need to be packed away before shipping out, and the e-ink screen on the front, used for configuration, doubles up as a postage label: when the user confirms that they’ve finished uploading the data to the device, Amazon automatically puts a shipping label on the screen. The service doesn’t come cheap, though, with each cycle costing $200 plus shipping.Of course, if Amazon wants to get even more retro, there’s another possibility that ups the speed of the transfer: carrier pigeon. In 2009,an Australian TV show exploredwhether a pigeon with a USB stick strapped to its leg could be faster than the internet. The bird ended up transferring 700MB in an hour; the internet connection failed twice and the filmmakers had to give up. There’s even a 25-year-old standard for transferring data using birds: RFC 1149 describes “IP over avian carriers”. “This specification is primarily useful in metropolitan area networks,” it argues.
Samsung has insisted that its newly launched mobile payments system is unaffected after the technology on which it is based, called LoopPay, was hacked.American payments startup LoopPay, bought by Samsung in February to underpin the company’s Samsung Pay mobile payments system, was attacked by a Chinese group of hackers according to areport by the New York Times.The hackers, known as the Codoso Group or Sunshock Group, had access to LoopPay’s internal network since March and went undetected until August, according to the report.Samsung said: “Samsung Pay was not impacted and at no point was any personal payment information at risk. This was an isolated incident that targeted the LoopPay office network, which is a physically separate network from Samsung Pay.”Samsung Pay was launched in the US on 28 September, in full knowledge of the hack and allowing the manufacturer’s latest Galaxy S6 and Note 5 devices to be used to pay for goods and services.The differentiating factor over Apple Pay and Google’s Android Pay systems is that the service is underpinned by LoopPay, which can simulate a magnetic card swipe allowing users to pay for goods and services without the merchant requiring an NFC-enabled till.The hackers had undetected access to LoopPay’s corporate network for five months, which Samsung says “handles email, file servers and printing”. How much of the information required to replicate the technology was stolen from the company in that time is unknown at this stage.The reinvigoration of mobile payments by Google, Apple and Samsung is seen as a way to further lock users into the manufacturer’s ecosystem and provide an additional revenue stream.Apple Paylaunched in the UK in July, following an October 2014 release in the US. Google’s Android Pay launched in the US in September replacing the company’s previous mobile payment system called Google Wallet. A release within Europe is expected within the next year, while Samsung Pay – which uses the company’s Android devices – is a separate system and is also expected to be released within the next year in Europe.Samsung buys mobile payments firm LoopPay to take on Apple Pay
What are the best, reasonably inexpensive hardware and/or software solutions to improve a PC’s crappy sound? We find the audio of TV programmes hard on our ears, bass too loud, and the high notes are several db lower than normal due to our age. We use our PCs to listen to classical music as well.Our operating system is Microsoft Windows 7, default device: Realtek speakers. Our speakers are cheap Creative MF 0055 2.0 Series. Are the standard sound boards that come with most PCs suitable or is a better one required? (We live in Canada and subscribe to the Guardian.)MarioA PC is a poor source for hi-fi, but that probably doesn’t matter if you mainly want to change the sound to suit your ears. In the long term, I expect you will have to buy better speakers. However, you can start by experimenting with Windows’ settings and, perhaps, some audio utilities.Sound softwareIt seems your PC has a Realtek audio chipset on the motherboard – actual sound cards are rare nowadays. You should therefore have Realtek software bundled with Windows 7. To run it, click the Start button and type Realtek in the search box. When Realtek HD Audio Manager comes up, click the name to run it.When Realtek starts, check that the speaker configuration is set to stereo, then select the tab marked “Sound Effects”. The bottom half of this page offers an equalizer to adjust the different frequencies in the sound, though it will probably be set to “&lt;None&gt;”. Look to the right of this box, skip the Reset button, and click on the rectangular button that shows a tiny screen. This is the command to “Change to graphic EQ”.You should now see a set of sliders that change the loudness at different frequency ranges. To start with, all the sliders will be level, but you can move them to reduce the bass and increase the treble. Click “Save” and “OK” then enter a filename (eg trebletest) to keep the settings, and see how the changes affect the sound. You can fine-tune the settings later, or turn off EQ.You can also change your PC’s sound by installing a program, such asDFX Audio Enhancer 11.4, which provides a lot ofeffects. The free version is unbelievably annoying, and doesn’t give you full control of the sliders. However, even if you don’t change any of the pre-sets, it does make a significant difference to the sound. Click to turn off Hyperbass and it may solve your problem with TV programmes. If so, it might be worth paying$29.99 or $39.99(US dollars) for the full DFX Plus version.Claesson Edwards Audio’sBreakaway Audio Enhanceris an alternative commercial program ($29.95) with a fully functional trial version. The company serves the professional audio market with much more expensive software, and it doesn’t have versions for Windows 8 or 10.Active speakersI think you are usingCreative SBS 260speakers at the moment. These were one of the cheapest on the market ($10 to $20 per pair), and have front-facing bass ports to make them sound bigger than they are. You can do a lot better, but choosing a pair depends on what’s available in Canada.You don’t need lots of bass, so I’d suggest a traditional pair of wired speakers, with no subwoofer to provide deep bass. For example, consider theCreative GigaWorks T20 Series II 2.0($90) or theT40($110). These have more powerful amplifiers than the SBS 260, dedicated tweeters for treble performance, and their own volume, bass, and treble controls.Powered bookshelf speakers are the next step up in quality. Examples include theM-Audio AV30($76) andAV32($99),Mackie CR Series CR3($100), andCerwin Vega XD3($119). These are bigger and can provide better quality sound, but usually lack tone controls.If you buy powered bookshelf speakers, put them on stands, or cones, or at least use four small balls of Blu-Tack to lift them off the desk.For more information, see TechHive’sBuying Guide: Find the best speakers.You could probably get an increase in sound quality by installing a dedicated Creative Sound Blaster card, but I think the built-in Realtek chips are good enough for your purposes. This has been debated endlessly online (seerealtek vs soundblaster). However, I think you’d be better off spending your cash on better speakers or a small hi-fi system.Feed a microThe last alternative is to feed your PC’s sound output to a small (mini ormicro) hi-fi system. I like the Sony, Onkyo and especially the Denon models, but Pioneer and Yamaha also make good systems. All of them include an amplifier with tone controls, FM radio, and usually a CD player in one box, plus a pair of bookshelf speakers. The amplifier should be much better than the ones fitted inside computer speakers.Something like aSony Micro CMT-S20($120) will do the job, but it lacks two useful features:RCAandS/PDIFinput ports. The Sony’s only “audio in” is a3.5mm jack plug. Better but pricier systems should have more inputs, including RCA phono sockets and one or two optical ports, plus Bluetooth and/or a phone dock.There are several ways to transfer the sound signal from your PC to the amplifier. The simplest is to use a 3.5mm jack-to-jack cable, or a Y-cable (3.5mm jack-to-twin RCA phono plugs). S/PDIF (from Sony/Philips Digital Interface Format) does the job better, via an electrical or an optical cable.Check your PC’s manual (online if necessary) to locate the S/PDIF socket on the back panel. You may well find there’s a black plastic plug sticking out. Pull the plug, and if you can see a glowing red socket, then you need an optical cable. Your chosen micro system will also need an optical port.If you make the connection via a 3.5mm-jack plug, use the green socket on the back of your PC, rather than the headphone socket. Sound levels vary, so make sure the sound is turned down before you play anything.The micro hi-fi will enable you to play MP3 files and listen to video and TV sound from your PC, with the benefit of physical tone controls. These should help you cope with modern TV directors who drown out dialogue with overblown background music. You will also be able to listen to the radio and play CDs without having your PC turned on.Finally, micro hi-fis have passed their peak, in terms of popularity, so you can often pick up good systems second hand for little or no money.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Two seemingly identical, brand new, iPhones 6S may have a battery life that differs by up to two hours depending on which of two companies manufactured their processor, according to reports from owners.The investigations were sparked bya report from technology news site Anandtechthat Apple is dual-sourcing one of the key components of the new phones. The A9 “system on a chip”, the lump of silicon that lies at the heart of the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus, is designed by Apple but manufactured by two independent contractors: Korea’s Samsung Electronics and Taiwan’s TSMC. The two chips interact with the rest of the hardware identically, based as they are on the same designs, but differences in their production is apparently having an effect on how efficient they are at doing their jobs.TSMC’s implementation of Apple’s designs uses a manfacturing process with a minimum transistor width of 16nm compared to Samsung’s 14nm, and results in a chip that is physically larger by 8.5mm2. But as well as the physical difference, the TSMC version of the chip also seems to have markedly better power consumption, according to user reports shared on sites includingMac RumoursandReddit.One user, with two iPhone 6S Pluses with different chips, reported a difference of two hours in battery life between the phones: the TSMC chip hit almost eight hours while running a suite of battery-intensive activities, while the Samsung one managed barely six.It is tricky to determine which version of the chip is installed in a particular phone, but some apps such asLirum Device Infocan tell owners. Samsung’s chip shows up as N66AP or N71AP, while TSMC’s appears as N66MAP or N71MAP.This is not the first time Apple has run into trouble dual-sourcing key components. In 2012, when it launched the Retina MacBook Pro, the company bought screens from two different suppliers, LG and Samsung. The LG-provided screens turned out to suffer from significant “burn-in” issues, displaying a ghost of any image left onscreen for too long. Despite calls for a recall from users, the company didn’t publicly acknowledge the difference in quality, but did apparently begin replacing the defective laptops if users brought them in to a store complaining about the quality.Earlier this year,the Wall Street Journal reportedthat attempts to dual-source the new “taptic engine” in the Apple Watch had also led to issues. One of the two providers of the ground-breaking vibration component, AAC Technologies, was apparently unable to consistently provide reliable parts, leading Apple to drop it as a supplier and scrap some completed watches. In the end, the company only used parts provided by Japan’s Nidec, which didn’t experience the same problem.Apple has not responded to a request for comment.
1. Save your battery (iPhone only)iOS 9 brings with it a low power mode that shuts down a lot of background processes and can eke a few more minutes out of your iPhone’s battery when you really need it. You get the option to switch it on when the battery level hits 20 percent, but you can activate it any time you like by going to the Battery section of Settings. Of course, you still can’t beat turning off your phone completely for ensuring the battery lasts longer...2. Teach Siri your voiceWith Apple’s new software update comes a Siri voice training feature so the digital assistant app can better recognise the sound of your voice (and perhaps your thick regional accent). To get started, open up the General page inside the Settings app, then tap Siri and Allow “Hey Siri”: after you’ve practised a few phrases, you’ll be able to say “hey Siri” to activate the app when your phone is plugged in and charging. On the newest iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus, the voice shortcut works whether your phone is charging or not.3. Search through settingsIf you’ve ever got lost in the rather labyrinthine set of screens that make up the iOS Settings app you’ll be pleased to hear you can now search through them easily enough. The search box appears at the top of the front page of the Settings app — just begin typing out something related to the option you want to find, and iOS does the rest. If nothing appears below your query then chances are there isn’t such a setting available on your iDevice.4. Abandon slow Wi-Fi networks (iPhone only)Hidden away at the bottom of the Mobile Data menu in Settings is a new option introduced in iOS 9 called Wi-Fi Assist. What this does is automatically drop your iPhone back onto a strong 3G/4G signal if Wi-Fi is proving problematic (too slow, too unstable or not connected at all). It’s designed to save you the trouble of having to manually switch off Wi-Fi if you know a data connection will be faster and less troublesome (just make sure you have the data plan to handle it).5. Find your friends quicklyApple’s Find Friends app — which lets you locate iCloud-connected contacts on a map, with their permission — has been around for some time, but it’s now a stock app in iOS 9 (like Mail or Maps) which means everyone has it installed. It also comes with a new notification centre widget, which you can enable by dragging down from the top of your device’s screen and tapping the Edit button. Enable Find Friends and then tap Add Friends to decide who you want to see on your Today page.6. Change video recording resolutionThe iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus bring 4K video recording to an Apple handset for the first time, a resolution that can take up a serious amount of your phone’s internal storage. To help head off potential problems, iOS 9 includes a video resolution selector which you can use on any device (not just the new iPhones): go to Settings, then Photos &amp; Camera, then Record Video to set your preference. On devices where the slow-motion video feature is supported you can set the video resolution for this as well.7. Create a longer passcodeThe longer your passcode, the harder it is to crack, and iOS 9 sets the new default length at six digits rather than four. If you already have a four-digit PIN in place, go into the Passcode section of Settings and tap on Passcode — you’ll then be prompted for a new code that’s six digits long. Even though Touch ID replaces the passcode in many situations, there are still times when iOS relies on it (when restarting your device for example).8. Set context-sensitive remindersSiri has a few more tricks up its sleeve in iOS 9 and one of them is the ability to set a reminder based on whatever it is you’re looking at on screen: it could be a map location, an email or a website, for example (assuming the app supports the necessary Siri integration). Launch Siri by pressing and holding on the Home button, then simply say “remind me about this” to set up a reminder. Ask Siri to “show reminders” to see all of the memory joggers currently stored in its memory.9. Jump straight to your selfiesiOS 9 introduces two new photo folders to automatically filter some of your snaps. First there’s Screenshots, which will help technology journalists the world over, and then there’s Selfies — this doesn’t magically recognise your face, but just grabs every picture taken with the front-facing camera. If you want to quickly pull up a recent selfie, head to the Photos app and then tap on the Albums button on the toolbar to see the Selfies entry. You can still sort these pictures into any of your own albums as well.10. Add photos and maps to Notes (Notes)For the time being at least, all of Apple’s own apps get updated at the same time as iOS itself (something Google has moved away from). That means there’s a lot to talk about in terms of individual apps too: Notes gets the biggest upgrade, and you can now add photos, maps, doodles, checklists and Web links to your entries. It’s now much better equipped to take on the likes of Evernote as a more general note-taking app — give Notes another try if you’ve previously been unimpressed by it.11. Block adverts on the Web (Safari)Somewhat controversially, the iOS 9 edition of Safari includes support for content blocking apps that strip out advertising from the Web while you browse. You first need to install your choice of app — Crystal, Blockr and BlockBear are three of the most well-known — and you can then head to the Safari section of Settings to enable them. Some of these ad-blockers stick to the basics while others (usually the ones you have to pay for) give you more control over what types of content are hidden from view.12. Change the look of Reader View (Safari)Sticking with the updated version of Safari included in iOS 9, you can now adjust the look of the Reader View mode (which also cuts out adverts as well as any other superfluous content that doesn’t make up the main article on the page). First, tap the Reader View icon (on the left of the address bar) to strip away all the unnecessary clutter; you can then tap on the double AA icon on the right of the address bar to change the font size, style and colour to whatever suits your eyes best.13. Annotate email attachments (Mail)Another Apple app to get a handful of minor upgrades is Mail. It’s now possible to sketch all over an email attachment before you return it to the original sender (maybe with some suggestions for improvements): tap and hold on an attachment (like an image or a PDF) in an email, then select the Markup and Reply option. The subsequent screen gives you access to a number of different pen and text tools, and there are options for adjusting the colours and styles of your squiggles.14. Attach any kind of attachment to emails (Mail)Back in the dark days of iOS 8 and the editions that came before it, you could only attach photos or videos to an outgoing email composed on your Apple device; with iOS 9, any kind of file is permitted as an attachment. Double-tap on the email body as normal, then choose the Add Attachment option from the pop-up list. Your iCloud Drive folder opens up by default, but you can select Locations to set up other supported sources, such as Dropbox and Google Drive.15. Select multiple photos more easily (Photos)This is only a small change but it can make a noticeable difference if you spend a lot of time working with photos on your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch. When you’re inside the Photos app, you can tap Select as usual to pick out several images rather than just one — the difference in iOS 9 is that rather than tapping each individual picture, you can quickly tap and slide to highlight a bunch of pictures close to each other. It should make uploading or deleting a swathe of photos that little bit easier.16. Hide photos from view (Photos)There might be photos on your device you don’t want to see every time you scroll through your gallery — maybe they didn’t come out too well or they don’t find in with the rest of your daily snaps — so Apple has included a new Hide option which you can find via the Share menu. The chosen images disappear from the Moments, Collections and Years screens, but note that they’re still visible from the folders on the Albums page (and you can unhide them from here if you need to).17. Get public transport directions (Maps)At long last Apple Maps can tell you how to get from A to B via public transport — as long as you live in London (or Baltimore, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Washington DC, Toronto, Berlin, Mexico City and several cities in China). Just choose the Transport option when you ask Apple Maps to work out a route and a list of options appear on screen; tapping the small information icon brings up a more detailed instructions. Hopefully support for more locations is on the way.18. Put apps in a sidebar (iPad only)iOS 9 has some tricks exclusive to the iPad: specifically, the iPad Air 1 and 2, the iPad mini 2, 3 and 4, and the iPad Pro. With one app on screen, slide a finger in from the right of the display and you can view another app in a pinned sidebar — Apple will show you all the installed apps compatible with this new Slide Over mode. Tap one to view it, then tap back on the main app to hide the sidebar again. To change the sidebar app, drag down from the top of the screen.19. Enable Split View mode (iPad only)Slide Over only gives you a limited preview of a second app for quick reference purposes, but if you’ve got an iPad Air 2, an iPad mini 4 or an iPad Pro, you can take advantage of a true multi-tasking mode called Split View: with the Slide Over panel displayed, drag the boundary line into the centre of the screen and you have two apps side-by-side. If you want to change the primary app you started with, just tap on the Home button and pick a new app from the home screen.20. Play video clips on top of other apps (iPad only)vids on topPhotograph: screengrabHere’s another trick for the newer group of iPads we mentioned earlier (any iPad Air, any iPad mini except the original, and the iPad Pro): picture-in-picture video. It’s dependent on your video-playing app of choice supporting the feature, but if it does, you’ll see a small double-rectangle icon in the lower right-hand corner of the video window — tap this, then press the Home button to choose another app. The video window stays on top and you can move and resize it as required.21. Turn the keyboard into a trackpad (iPad only)Apple’s trying its hardest to turn the iPad into a productivity machine, and our final iPad-only feature turns the keyboard into a trackpad, useful for selecting text and moving the text cursor around the screen with a greater level of accuracy. All you need to do is press and hold with two fingers on the keyboard — the keys themselves grey out and you can then move your fingers to control the cursor. Lift your digits off the iPad display and the keyboard returns.
Bluetooth earbuds offer the holy grail of wire-free listening without the bulk of headphones. Optoma’s new NuForce BE6 promise better sound and a premium aluminium design, but are they worth the extra cost over cheaper rivals?The NuForce BE6 are about as simple and understated as Bluetooth earbuds can get.The two aluminium bodies with small, embossed logos in their ends are linked by a flat, two-tone grey cable with an in-line remote on one side. A small blue light flashes periodically on the remote to tell you they’re on, turning off or have been put into pairing mode.The ends are magnetic and attach to each other to stop the cable getting tangled.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe three-button remote hides the microUSB charging port and a small pin-hole microphone for using the earphones as a phone headset. The buttons are a bit rubbery and have some play to them, but work fine for controlling playback or changing the volume. Pressing all three at once flashes the LED to show remaining charge.The microphone was a bit quiet in my testing, meaning I had to shout a bit louder than I would have liked for the other end of my conversation to be heard.The headphones clip together, magnetically back-to-back, which stops the cable tangling up and can stop them flying off your shoulders when they’re being worn but not listened to.WearingSome will need the optional stabiliser to keep them in their ears, particularly while running.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianA range of earbuds come with the headphones to suit earholes of various sizes. There’s an optional loop that holds it in place, wedging up against the antihelix within the outer ear, but I didn’t need it as they stayed in place fine with just some silicon earbuds.The body of each earphone is quite large and rubbed against my outer ear, which became uncomfortable with prolonged wearing. Most earbuds suffer from similar problems, but I found the BE6 to be particularly uncomfortable for a week or so until I got used to them.Pairing them is simple. Hold down the centre remote button to power them on and keep it held down until a tone sounds and the light flashes, then find them in your device’s settings.ListeningBluetooth earbuds this size typically sound as good as a pair of wired earbuds half their price. The BE6 support bothapt-Xand AAC codecs along with all standard Bluetooth streaming protocols and sound better than most, similar to a pair of £50-to-£60 wired earbuds. The rest you pay for the convenience of being wire-free (apart from the wire connecting the two earbuds).They have good detail and separation, relatively accurate highs and more bass than the Plantronics BackBeat Go, though people looking for thundering bass should look elsewhere. They are not going to blow you away if you’re used to listening to high-end earbuds or some good headphones, but are the best sounding in-ear Bluetooth headphones I have listened to yet.ChargingThe NuForce BE6 lasted around five hours of listening between charges connected to a smartphone. That isn’t quite long enough to not have to worry about whether they are powered up or not, but will see most people through at least half their commutes for the week. They beep a couple of times around 10 minutes before dying. Charging took over two hours.The headphones can connect to more than one device at a time, which is handy, and connection strength to a smartphone in a jeans pocket was generally good. Only occasionally did I notice interference, typically because of a smartwatch getting in between the smartphone and the earphones.A good selection of silicone and foam earbuds are included in the box, but the relatively thick central tube may not fit some.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Optoma NuForce BE6 are some of the more expensive in-ear Bluetooth headphones available costing £100 in grey or white and gold, and come with a nylon carry case and a selection of earbuds.For comparison, the Plantronics BackBeat Go 2s cost under £60 while Apple’s Powerbeats 2 cost £170.VerdictThe Optoma NuForce BE6 are some of the best Bluetooth in-ear headphones I have listened to, but they are not faultless.They’re not the most comfortable, they’re still relatively bulky compared to wired earphones and only lasting about five hours between two-hour charges can get annoying. But they are compromises to free yourself of wires to your phone or computer.The biggest problem is that they do not sound anywhere near as good as a £100 pair of wired headphones. As long as you realise that you’re paying £30 to £50 for the wire-free experience, they’re worth the money.Once you use Bluetooth headphones you’re unlikely to want to go back to being tethered to a smartphone in your pocket.Pros:light, attractive, good sound, cable between buds doesn’t make noise when caught on clothes, magneticCons:only last five hours, take over two hours to charge, not the most comfortable, thick buds may not suit someOther reviewsFive of the best Bluetooth headphones to break free of cablesBowers &amp; Wilkins P5 Wireless headphones review: top-notch sound that comes at a price
“We were flying above a huge , immense desert,” says photographer,Alexander Heilner. “It was a monochromatic, rusty red colour as far as the eye could see, but in the middle was this jewel of blue and white.”It was neither oasis nor mirage. Part of the Intrepid mine, the vivid azure lagoon, so at odds with the surrounding Utah desert, is a potash evaporation pond, vital for fertiliser.Potash is a potassium-rich substance originally obtained by soaking ashes in pots of water, the process that gave it its name. But today a different method is used to obtain the commodity. Water is pumped underground to dissolve buried potash ore before being pumped into the evaporation ponds. The water isdyed deep blueto absorb heat and evaporate more quickly, leaving behind the potash and salts.Related:Bernhard Lang's best photograph: the 'Sea of Plastic' greenhouses from the airObsessed with “the interaction of natural landscapes and man-made structures”, Heilner goes to great lengths to capture these images. To take this shot his hired plane took sweeping circles around the potash ponds, while he leaned out of a window with his camera.Aerial shots are not just dramatic, they are also informative, Heilner explains, saying he is often asked if his landscapes have an environmental stance. “I’m not interested in dictating what’s good and bad, but I am extremely interested that people be aware of what’s happening and therefore have a knowledgeable basis of decision-making,” he says.And with Heilner’s striking images mirroring the patterns of the agricultural land the potash helps to create, he offers plenty of food for thought.
