Until this week, I didn’t know that you could buy a $15 Balloon Knot modesty cover to plug between the buttocks of your lifesize sex-doll to cover up “doll gape” when not in use.I know now, thanks to a link posted by a friend on Facebook. And thanks to my comment on that post, and the social network’s news feed algorithm, so do several of my aunts and cousins and my great aunt. And my mum.“Facebook is focused on our mission to connect the entire world,” said Mark Zuckerberg as he announced the company’s latest financial results this week. His degree of focus on connecting half my extended family to pretend anuses for lady-shaped love-dolls is presently unknown.There’s a serious point here, though. Every day, Facebook’s news feed algorithm narrows down more than 1,500 stories that youcouldsee when logging in, to the300-odd that it actually shows in your feed.The chance of a post appearing in your news feed is based on how often you’ve interacted with the person or page posting it; how many likes, shares and comments that post has received already; whether you’ve interacted with that kind of story in the past; and whether people are hiding and/or reporting it.Facebook controls what you see, then, but you have a degree of control over how your posts are seen: you can set them to be public, for friends only, or use other options to dictate who will and won’t be able to see them, if the algorithm lets them through.These privacy options have improved over time, and Facebook now offers aPrivacy Basicsguide explaining them, as well as aPrivacy Checkuptool to help you understand exactly who you’re sharing with. But this all relates to your posts on Facebook.What you can’t control, it turns out, is whether your friends see other people’s posts that you’ve commented on. Which brings us neatly back to Balloon Knots.When I logged in to Facebook and found a fake bumhole staring me in the eye, courtesy of a link posted by a friend, I posted a quick, light-hearted reply then – in an all-too premonitory follow-up – suggested that “if Facebook’s algorithm now puts this post into my mother’s news feed, I’m suing Mark Zuckerberg”.Not that I’d need to put any lawyers on standby, because my mum doesn’t know the friend who posted the link. So there’d be no danger of...“Don’t know about your mother but I much appreciated having the Balloon Knot for Dolls link appear in my news feed,” a cousin posted on my Facebook timeline, sparking a cheery discussion with various other relatives piping up.“I haven’t got this...” replied my mum. “I got it... And can’t turn off the immediate play,” added an aunt. “I got it,” chipped in my great aunt, adding a blushing emoji for good measure.“I still haven’t got it!!!!” replied my mum, who was saved from having to google “balloon knot” from her work computer by another aunt’s visual description – “Practical joke dog turd comes to mind!” – and by a family friend helpfully explaining how she could get to the original post.I love my family, they’re a broad-minded bunch of marvellous people, and I’m sure they’d agree with me that there is nothing wrong with people exploring the rich banquet of consenting human sexuality with anyone (or any platinum silicone thing) they like.Even so, Iinsertedpluggedput a sex-doll accessory into the news feeds of my family members by accident, and that feels awkward. Although possibly not as awkward as it will at the next family party. There may be balloons.I checked in with Facebook and confirmed that there is no privacy setting to stop this happening. If you comment on someone else’s status update that’s set to “Public”, then it may appear in your friends’ news feeds, even if they aren’t connected to the original poster.It’s made me think again about our real-world social silos, and how our behaviour varies between them. You might talk to friends in the pub about different subjects in a different way than you would to your boss or your nan.Those conversations are public, but you generally know who can hear them and have a degree of control over who joins in. Facebook, however unintentionally, is breaking down those conversational silos.In my case, the results were a good laugh for my relatives, and perhaps a decent idea next time they have to buy a Secret Santa present. At least I could tag the friend who posted the original link into the conversation to make the culprit absolutely clear.“So you want me to post the Goatse picture now, right?” he replied. As my extended family turned en masse to Google with puzzled expressions on their faces, I realised that perhaps Balloon Knots weren’t so bad after all.•How does Facebook decide what to show in my news feed?
When Dolly Brown, or@londonlivingdollas she’s known on Instagram, first spotted the hashtag #emptymet and its accompanying, captivating images of a deserted Metropolitan Museum in NYC, she was intrigued.Pioneered by American InstagrammerDave Krugman, the #empty movement began in 2013 when New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art gave him access to the building after it had closed to the public. He invited other Instagrammers, and together they began to take – and share – photographs of the Met’s famous spaces, transformed out of hours by the absence of the general public.New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art during an #emptymet event.Photograph: Dave Krugman/InstagramKrugman knew that great work would come from the Met opening its doors to a new generation of tech-savvy photographers.“I saw a beautiful symbiosis where the museum would get publicity, and the photographers would have unprecedented access to one of the world’s top museums. After seeing the first batch of work, I knew my instincts were right.”Sure enough, from Krugman’s first #empty event came not only a huge increase in Instagram followers for the Met, but other similar events in the US and across Europe.Inspired by the #emptymet images, Brown thought immediately of the Royal Opera House in London. A devotee of the institution, she wanted an inside view of a place in which she’d invested a lot of time, money and emotion. But like Krugman and the Met, she also felt that there was something in it for the Royal Opera House.Brown sent an unsolicited email via the Royal Opera House website proposing an #empty event and got a reply two hours later. While they saw the possibilities in such an event, there were initial reservations about calling it #emptyROH because it isn’t ever completely empty.The auditorium of the Royal Opera House, London, during the #emptyroh event.Photograph: geerhee/Instagram“But the #empty movement is not that literal: it’s about linking social media to cultural institutions and providing access and insight to a younger audience who might otherwise not go to these places,” Brown explains.London Instagrammer Zoe Timmers (@zobolondon) had also discovered the #emptymet hashtag and contacted Krugman to talk about how it could work elsewhere. For Timmers, Instagram is a community of creative people.“The #empty movement seemed like the perfect extension of that. Allowing Instagrammers to gain rare access to these spaces gives them the chance to push their creative boundaries and give the institution some great shots. There’s also something magical about exploring a public-free space.”Brown invited 10 Instagrammers to take part in #emptyROH early one morning in September 2014, followed by Timmers’ #emptytate at the Tate Modern the following month.A picture from Zoe Timmers’ Instagram account, zobolondon, from the #emptytate even at the Tate Modern.Photograph: Zoe Timmers/zobolondon/Instagram“We really got a sense of what the Royal Opera House does,” Brown says. “We saw the costumes for the upcoming run of Manon, cherry blossoms for Madame Butterfly in the props department and even the Royal Ballet’s morning dance class – something very few members of the public are ever privy to. The first of the 85 images on Instagram with the #emptyROH hashtag wasn’t taken by one of the visitors, it was a picture a dancer had taken of us. It was a great meta-moment.”Timmers’ #emptytate event coincided with the opening of the latest large installation in the Turbine Hall by Richard Tuttle, but the group were also given the chance to explore elsewhere. “As we wandered excitedly around the empty galleries we realised that we were creating our own little bit of art. When there are crowds of people within a space its architecture and beauty can often be overlooked. With nobody there, we had a real sense of creative freedom and I think that comes across in the images.”What makes the #empty movement unique is the way it makes art, particularly for younger people, more accessible. Brown feels that it is movements like #empty that set Instagram apart from other social media platforms. “Instagram creates real-life connections out of the virtual, whereas Facebook, for example, takes real-life connections and tries, I think many would say unsuccessfully, to import them into the virtual world. The visual aspect of Instagram makes it possible for people to interact in a more meaningful way.”So what does Krugman think about seeing his movement spreading beyond the walls of the Met? “It has been one of the greatest pleasures of my life. I always hoped that the idea would catch on, because I think it’s one of those unique, mutually beneficial situations, where the only byproduct is incredible creative output and awareness of the arts. It’s been so much fun to watch, and an honour play a role.”Where next? Timmers’ tip is the British Museum, which is keen to take part – while at the top of Brown’s wishlist were the Royal Opera House and the Barbican, and she’s ticked one of those off already. Watch this (empty) space.
Amazon’s shares soared by more than 11% in after-hours trading on Thursday when the company exceeded analysts’ expectations by recording sales of $89bn last year.The company, whichstarted life in founder Jeff Bezos’s Seattle garage 11 years ago, said its 2014 full-year sales increased by 19.6% compared with the previous year.Despite raking in more money than the GDP of Oman, Azerbaijan or Belarus, Amazon recorded a full-year loss of $241m. The loss was caused by Amazon’s massive investment in its expansion plans including making its own programmes and building new warehouses and server farms. Its massive spending spree – of $28.7bn in the last three months of 2014 alone – also allows the company to pay minimal tax. Amazon paid just $177m in income tax.Amazon’s tax affairs have attracted significant controversy.Last week, European competition regulators attacked Amazon for paying too little tax in Europe by funnelling sales through Luxembourg.A 23-page provisional decision paper from the competition commission in Brussels said Amazon EU Sarl, the group’sLuxembourgtrading hub with sales of €13.6bn (£10.3bn) in 2013, had been paying inflated royalty fees to another Amazon entity.Amazon’s British business paid just £4.2m in tax in 2013, despite selling goods worth £4.3bn.Bezos, who is the world’s 17th-richest man, with an estimated fortune of $28.9bn, according to Forbes, said Amazon’s sales success was largely due to its decision to increase the price of its Prime membership service.“When we raised the price of Prime membership last year, we were confident that customers would continue to find it the best bargain in the history of shopping,” Bezos said, referring to Amazon’s decision to hike the annual cost of its Prime service from $79 to $99 a year. “The data is in, and customers agree: on a base of tens of millions, worldwide paid membership grew 53% last year – 50% in the US and even a bit faster outside the US. Prime is a one-of-a-kind, all-you-can-eat, physical-digital hybrid; in 2014 alone we paid billions of dollars for Prime shipping and invested $1.3bn in Prime Instant Video. We’ll continue to work hard for our Prime members.”Amazon Prime membership rose 53% in 2014 worldwide, and 50% in the US market.
Reese Fernandez, cofounder of Rags2Riches.I was initially charmed by the term “social entrepreneurship”. Sure, I knew it had the proverbial thorns, but I was focused on the roses. After all, it merged the concepts of social cause and business. The term itself seemed like I could hit two birds with one stone, allowing me to have my cake and eat it too (guilt free!), earning a living while doing something I would do for free. Today, I couldn’t say I was completely misguided. I would still do what I do for free, and I’d probably even pay to continue doing what I’m doing. But this love for the work is no longer one that is giddy and romantic. It is steady, grounded and hard working.Seven years ago, a group of idealistic young professionals started R2R (Rags2Riches). I was privileged and honoured to be part of this group. We started in Payatas, one of the Philippines’ largest urban poor communities. An informal cottage industry of rug-weavers grew from the many artisans, mostly women, who developed a means to earn a living by recycling factory end-cuts and rejects, into hand-woven foot rugs. Over time, the industry became exploited by a series of middlemen who controlled both the supply of scrap fabric and the artisans’ access to the market, which created an unfair value chain for the artisans who earned only pennies per finished product, or less than 13p per day.We built R2R to become a fashion and design house that would not only integrate these artisans into the supply chain, but also be their long-term enterprise partners. R2R is now seven years old, and we have trained 900 artisans, partnered with the most celebrated designers of the Philippines, and distribute in 12 cities from all over the world. Our social enterprise has also gained some awards and recognition locally and globally. Just by looking at where we started and where we are now, it is perhaps easy to assume that we have somehow “made it”. Perhaps we’d proven that social entrepreneurship is fun, exciting and romantic. If I didn’t keep all of my journal entries, cold emails, and some interviews, I could fool myself just by looking at R2R from the outside.So during the last few days of 2014, I unearthed some of my earlier interviews with the media and some researchers, to not just help me reflect and put our current stage in perspective, but to hopefully share some of the lessons I have learned personally and the lessons we have learned as a social enterprise, to aspiring young social entrepreneurs. I still get at least one email a day from a hopeful and optimistic young social entrepreneur who wants me to answer a lot of starting-up questions. And honestly, I still don’t have all the answers. What I do have is the same set of questions (they really tend to be the same ones even after all these years) I have been asked or I asked myself throughout these years. The differences of my answers 2007 and today in 2015 could give you some insights on the journey of a social entrepreneur and the evolution of our social enterprise.The Rags2Riches team.What is the biggest benefit of R2R to your partner artisans?2007 answer:We provide our artisans the opportunity to earn additional income as well as giving them training for values formation, and artisanal and business skills.2015 answer:Today, our artisans get beyond just additional income. Over the years, we have realised that higher income does not necessarily lead to higher quality of life. To provide opportunities for our artisans and their families to truly get out and stay out of poverty, we collaborated with several local institutions and developed our Quality of Life Programme. This includes a savings plan, micro-insurance, financial literacy, values formation and business development training.What we’ve learned:Poverty is a complicated problem that needs a multi-disciplinary and collaborative solution. Social enterprises that are trying to solve the problem of poverty should be able to connect the larger dots, rather than just the local ones within the specific industries or areas they are participating in. In building R2R, we realised that even if our goal was to provide livelihood, we are actually part of the bigger solution to solve the problem of poverty in our country. Our recognition of this fact required us to connect and collaborate with other social enterprises, government agencies, corporations and foundations. As social entrepreneurs, we are caught between wanting to do everything and needing to focus on a solution that works. Working on the art of collaboration is invaluable for us to truly be part of the bigger, longer-term solution. After all, the long-lasting, sustainable solution is the one that matters.What are the biggest challenges in R2R today?2007 answer:The biggest challenge of R2R is building trust with our community of artisans.2015 answer:Cash flow, inventory, logistics, HR, scaling, raising equityWhat we’ve learned:Don’t get me wrong, we are still working on building that trust with our community artisans. Trust, after all, is a never-ending process. However, from the beginning, we realised that if we did not address our trust issues, we could not move on. Our community artisans come from some of the poorest areas of our country and they have been through a lot. They have been cheated on and neglected for most of their lives and yet they emerged strong, resilient and determined. In order to build trust in such a wounded community, we had to leave behind our business books, and listen intently with no entitlement. It took a good three years to establish the basis of this trust and as I’ve said, we continue to work on it. Today, we have a different set of challenges, some of which we had ever since we started, that are the same as the challenges of any other business. These challenges have existed in varying degrees, since the beginning of R2R, but the challenge of building trust was the pre-requisite before we could face any other challenge.What motivates you, and keeps you going?2007 answer:When the going gets tough we always remember our “why”: The main reason why we are doing this in the first place. Our answer to that “why” goes beyond the artisans we are in partnership with now. We think of them as family and we would do anything for family. We believe that the decisions we make today to care more and share more will reverberate to our bigger community, country and world. Quite simply, we want to actively contribute to a better world and future. And we believe we must, because we can.2015 answer:Same as above.What we’ve learned:Social enterprises evolve over time. Our problems, people, processes, and maybe even business models, will change. But what will never change is the reason we get up every single day, the reason that keeps us up at night, and the reason that keeps us going. I have learned that an enduring why is the key to never giving up. That why cannot and should not be easily diminished or forgotten. The quality of this reason will determine the evolution of a social enterprise from one that is romantic, to one that is grounded and long-lasting. This why, could indeed, change the world.Reese Fernandez is the cofounder of social enterpriseRags2Riches. She was made aRolex Awards for EnterpriseYoung Laureate in 2010 for her work supporting the environment.
Amazon is setting its sights on disrupting the corporate email market, currently dominated by Microsoft and Google.Amazon WorkMailsounds like a easy sell to both users and IT managers. It will allow users to email, manage contacts, share calendars and book resources using their existing email applications such as Microsoft Outlook, a web browser or apps in iOS and Android – but remove the need to buy or manage servers or licences.The email offering is provided by Amazon Web Services, a less visible part of the company than its e-commerce website, but one that has proved highly successful since Jeff Bezos set it up in 2006.Peter De Santis, vice-president of AWS, which already counts the US defence department and the CIA as customers of its cloud computing business, said customers wanted a business email service that was cheaper and easier to manage than their existing provision, but more secure than other cloud-based offierings.“We built Amazon WorkMail to address these requests and to help businesses achieve agility and cost savings by letting AWS manage the non-differentiated heavy lifting involved in corporate email and calendaring,” he said.‘Arms race’Amazon is charging $4 (£2.65) per user a month, which includes 50GB of storage per user, for WorkMail. There is also a free tier available for up to 12 months.Ian Maude, analyst at Enders Analysis, said the move underlined Amazon’s determination. “There’s an arms race in cloud computing – these platforms are the foundations of the digital economy – and Amazon cannot afford to be left behind,” he said. “WorkMail’s email and calendars plus integration with WorkDocs extends Amazon’s offering for enterprises and is designed to lock in its customers as the company faces increasing competition in this space from the likes of Google and Microsoft.”Amazon is competing with HP and IBM in the crowded cloud computing market. Doug Clark, cloud leader for IBM in the UK and Ireland, said on Thursday that atipping point had been reachedfor some of the company’s clients, which include National Express, Reuters and Lufthansa.“They have dabbled in the past and have done a few applications in the cloud, but now they are taking a strategic direction to go all in on the cloud,” he toldV3.co.uk.IBM supplies cloud computing services to companies including Lufthansa.Photograph: Johannes Eisele/ReutersAmazon said in October that AWS had continued to expand strongly, with usage growth of close to 90% for the three months to September compared with the same period in 2013. It has more than 1m customers, from startups to government agencies, in 190 countries.AWS operates data centres in Australia, Brazil, China, Germany, Ireland, Japan and Singapore as well as the US . The newest, in Frankfurt, allows organisations that want to ensure their data resides inside Germany can do so.Amazon reports its latest financial results after Wall Street closes on Thursday. Its shares were trading at $303.59, valuing the company at just under $140bn (£93bn). The stock has fallen by 21% in the past 12 months as investors fret about Amazon’s profitability even as sales continue to rise.
When you bring 70,000 sport fans together in one place you have some serious logistical considerations: traffic, parking, security and safety to name but a few. There are many potential frustrations from attending a major sporting event. But the frustration of physical mobility has been superseded by another kind of mobile frustration; the failure of the stadium’s wireless network from the sheer magnitude of connected devices that fans take to the big game.Like it or not, mobile has forever changed the face of attending sporting events. They are no longer a passive spectator endeavour. Fans expect to connect, share and engage as part of the game. When it works they are content, when it fails they are furious.Attending the recent Seattle Seahawks CIO summit, I caught up withGeorge Scott, director of digital for theNational Football League(NFL). Scott stated: “The fan experience is fundamentally changing.” Fans are engaged with the game, other spectators, services and friends “from the moment they leave their house, throughout the game, and until they get back home”. Connectivity is an essential part of game day.Scott went on to say: “If there is one thing fans want to do at a game it’s brag.” But with everyone posting their requisite selfie, vines and other updates to Facebook, Twitter and the raft of other social networks, all at the same time, there is potential for a serious infrastructure meltdown.In-stadium apps also add to the crushing burden on the wireless network. These in-stadium apps offer functionality from ordering a beer and a hot dog that can be delivered to your seat, to watching exclusive in stadium replays. There is a serious load on the wireless network at any given time.Luckily for spectators, the NFL has its eye on the ball (save for the ones theNew England Patriots play with). Most stadiums were built well before our current notion of mobile was even a glimmer in Steve Jobs’s eye. Many sport venues are woefully inadequate when it comes to being able to provide the most basic of wireless connectivity at the required capacity.The NFL, however is defining what it means to provide for the mobile game day experience.Extreme Networks, the official wireless and analytics provider of the NFL, will have served more than a million connected devices on its networks by the end of this NFL season.Vala Afshar, CMO at Extreme Networks, gave me an insight into what game day volume looks like. An average of 15,000 sustained concurrent devices and more than a terabyte of data is transferred. Mobile is a pillar of the game day experience and, when done right, the fan experience takes on new dimensions.With the rise of high-definition televisions, the NFL recognises that it needs to entice fans to come to the stadium. Afshar notes: “The catalyst behind the digital transformation of the NFL is to improve the fan experience.” All these devices, uploads and replays need to happen in a seamless fashion or the fan experience will be severely degraded. Extreme’sanalyticsgive the NFL the ability to measure response times, optimise wireless signals, and predict fan behaviour. “The NFL uses data to improve fan experience.” This, in return, improves the fan.Last week, both the NFL conference championship games were held inExtreme Network-powered stadiums. And the company will also be the wireless and analytics provider for the biggest occasion in US sports, theSuper Bowl.Afshar continues: “This is why you see NFL teams focused on fan experience investing in infrastructure. The NFL views their network infrastructure as a business asset; it’s not just plumbing, it can’t be. The fans demand more and the NFL is responding.” Bandwidth is growing exponentially and stadiums in the NFL are trying to get ahead of that curve. As Scott says: “trying to future proof it”.Afshar went on to say: “The level of digital thought leadership that exists in the NFL is pretty incredible.” This digital thought leadership is having a big impact on the evolving nature of what a digital experience means as an integral part of the game, on how one can be a better fan.“The best game experience is personal,” Scott said, “It’s different for every person.” He noted that in the past the NFL delivered a linear experience for all the fans; one app experience across the board, but now “choosing your own consumption is what it needs to be”. This is where the NFL is going to push the digital curve.Is the NFL creating better fans? Does all this connectivity actually have an impact? It does seem quite coincidental that both teams appearing in the Super Bowl this year, the Seattle Seahawks and the New England Patriots, have a reputation for delivering first in class mobile experiences to their demanding fans.The Seattle Seahawks’ fans, also known as the 12s, are regarded as some of the most connected and raucous fans in sport today. Their effect on the opposing team, as well as themeasured seismic activity, is a phenomenon recognised around the league. The fan impact on the game is regularly taken into account for game day preparations by the opposing team.Afshar told me that Seahawks’ fans have also achieved the most used bandwidth of any team. The best teams seem to have the best connected fans, and the NFL is making strides towards ensuring fans’ digital needs are provided for, keeping them active and engaged.Benjamin Robbins is a co-founder atPalador, a mobile consultancy located in Seattle, WA. He can be found on Twitter@PaladorBenjamin.TheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
The popularity of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus helped Apple to catch up with Samsung in sales in the last quarter of 2014, research shows.The two companies have been locked in a battle for the top spot since 2011, when Samsung’s Galaxy S line of smartphones helped the South Korean group to steal the crown of the world’s biggest smartphone maker from Apple.Neil Mawston, executive director at the research company Strategy Analytics, said Apple sold 74.5m smartphones worldwide, giving it a record 20% market share in the three months to 31 December, up from 18% the previous year. That means Apple tied with Samsung as largest smartphone vendor for the first time since the same quarter in 2011.Samsung also sold 74.5m smartphones for a 20% market share – a significant fall from the 30% market share and 86m smartphones sold in the final quarter of 2013, according to the Strategy Analytics data.The company’s mobile phone division has struggled, with profits collapsing to 1.96tn won (£1.18bn) in the period, from 5.47tn won in 2013. However, Samsung remained the top smartphone maker for 2014 as a whole, selling 317.2m devices.Smartphone dominationApple sold 192.7m iPhones in 2014, up from 153.4m the previous year. In contrast with Samsung’s sales, which include mid-tier and budget models as well as flagship devices, Apple’s flagship-only strategy has resulted in high margins at volume, which was reflected in this week’srecord quarterly profits.Together Apple and Samsung dominate the global smartphone market, with a 40% share. But both are facing increasing pressure from Chinese rivals including Xiaomi – referred to as China’s Apple by analysts – whose sales in China put it inthird position globallyin the third quarter of 2014.“Samsung continues to face intense competition from Apple at the higher end of the smartphone market, from Huawei in the middle tiers, and from Xiaomi and others at the entry level,” Mawston said. “Samsung may soon have to consider taking over rivals, such as BlackBerry, in order to revitalise growth this year.”Lenovo’s merger with Motorola left the joint company with 6% of the global smartphone marketshare in the fourth quarter, making it the third-largest manufacturer at the expense of Xiaomi. “Lenovo is hoping to leverage Motorola’s famous brand to drive global scale this year and to offset some of Lenovo’s recently weakening smartphone growth at home in China,” said Woody Oh, director at Strategy Analytics.Android tops 1bn devices sold in 2014Apple’s new iPhone 6 and 6 Plus models – the first to move past the 4in screen size introduced with the iPhone 5 – have proved wildly popular in China, the US and Europe, according to Mawston.Much depends on Samsung’s launch of its Galaxy S6, expected in March. Samsung hopes that the new phone will reinvigorate sales after theGalaxy S5reportedly sold40% fewer unitsthan the company expected.The new model is expected to follow Samsung’s design shift to metal-bodied phones, as seen in its top phablet, theGalaxy Note 4, which won praise for its build.Google’s Android also sold 1bn devices across many manufacturers for the first time in 2014, accounting for 81% of all smartphones shipped. That left Apple’s iOS with a 15% share of the market and Microsoft’s Windows a 3% share, as global smartphone shipments jumped 30% to 1.3bn units for the year.Linda Sui, director at Strategy Analytics, said: “Emerging markets, such as China and Indonesia, drove the industry’s growth last year and they will continue to do so through 2015.”•Nine things we learned from Apple’s monster financial results
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) looks set to redefine what high-speed internet means on Thursday in a vote that has angered the cable industry.One of the FCC’s duties it to make sure that broadband internet services are being deployed across the US. It has the power to enforce upgrades if it feels broadband is not being deployed in a timely manner.Broadband internet is currently defined by the regulator as 4 megabits per second (Mbps) for downloads and 1Mbps for uploads, a standard set in 2010 that is well below the current national average of 32.4Mbps downloads and 9.9Mbps uploads, as measured by broadband testerOokla.But many areas of the US still have poor internet access. Under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the FCC is charged by Congress with ensuring that broadband access is rolled out in a “reasonable and timely” manner. Its last report on the subject found 19m Americans still did not have access to high speed internet.FCC chairman Tom Wheeler wants to update the definition of what constitutes broadband to 25Mbps for downloads and 3Mbps for uploads, a move that could give the regulator greater authority to force upgrades from internet service providers.In a letter to the regulator, the cable industry’s largest lobby group, the National Cable &amp; Telecommunications Association (NCTA), called the FCC’s new definitions “entirely out of step” with consumer demands and said they “exaggerate the amount of bandwidth needed by the typical broadband user”.In ablog post, it said the consumers were accessing the internet through wired and wireless connections at varying speeds and FCC’s definition excluded services “relied on by tens of millions of customers” that did not need the higher speeds suggested by the FCC. The NCTA said the number of people using broadband has consistently increased over time and it was “laughable” to suggest the cable industry “doesn’t want to deliver consumers faster speeds or improved infrastructure”.“It’s kind of like doing a survey of the automotive business but excluding cars that get less than 50 miles per gallon,” the NCTA said.The meeting comes at a sensitive moment for the cable industry. Next month, the FCC will vote on net neutrality rules that are expected to more tightly regulate the industry.John Bergmayer, senior staff attorney at non-profit media watchdog Public Knowledge, said the FCC had been lax in failing to update its definition of broadband. “Slower speeds may have made sense when the FCC first started tracking broadband, but we’ve moved a long way since then.”Given that three of the five voting commissioners, including Wheeler, are Democrats, Bergmayer said he expected the proposal to pass. He said the new definition would allow the FCC to more easily challenge arguments made by cable providers that the market is already competitive enough.US broadband speeds are slow by global standards. Analyst Ookla’sNet Indexranks the US 25th in the world for download speeds, behind leaders Singapore, Hong Kong and Japan in Asia as well as European countries including Sweden, Iceland and France.Google announced a further roll-out of its high speed internet service, Google Fiber, this week. The service offers speeds of 1 gigabit, or 1,000 megabits, a second. The internet company is planning to offer the service in Atlanta, Charlotte, Nashville, and Raleigh-Durham. It is already available in in Kansas City, Austin, Texas and Provo, Utah.However, the scale of Google Fiber is tiny compared to the reach of cable giants Comcast and Time Warner. The two are currently pushing through a merger that would, if approved, give them control of 47% of the broadband market.
Bill Gates is the latest prominent figure from the technology industry to express concern about the future evolution of artificial intelligence, although he thinks it will be “decades” before super-intelligent machines pose a threat to humans.He joins Elon Musk and Stephen Hawking in suggesting that the march of AI could be an existential threat to humans. The former Microsoft boss gave his opinion duringhis latest Ask Me Anything (AMA) interview on the Redditnetworking site.“I am in the camp that is concerned about super intelligence. First the machines will do a lot of jobs for us and not be super-intelligent. That should be positive if we manage it well,” wrote Gates.“A few decades after that though the intelligence is strong enough to be a concern. I agree with Elon Musk and some others on this and don’t understand why some people are not concerned.”Musk spoke out in October 2014during an interview at the AeroAstro Centennial Symposium, telling students that the technology industry should be thinking hard about how it approaches AI advances in the future.“I think we should be very careful about artificial intelligence. If I had to guess at what our biggest existential threat is, it’s probably that. So we need to be very careful,” said Musk. “I’m increasingly inclined to think that there should be some regulatory oversight, maybe at the national and international level, just to make sure that we don’t do something very foolish.”‘AI doomsday scenarios belong more in the realm of science fiction’In a December interview,Professor Hawking went further. “The primitive forms of artificial intelligence we already have, have proved very useful. But I think the development of full artificial intelligence could spell the end of the human race.”Future risks of artificial intelligence are being discussed widely and publicly within the technology industry, and even researchers who think warnings about machines extinguishing the human race are nonsense, are alive to the need to continue exploring the risks.“AI doomsday scenarios belong more in the realm of science fiction than science fact. However, we still have a great deal of work to do to address the concerns and risks afoot with our growing reliance on AI systems,” admitted anarticle co-written earlier in Januaryby Eric Horvitz, director of the Microsoft Research lab, and Tom Dietterich, president of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence.That post outlined three key risks around artificial intelligence: programming errors in AI software; cyber-attacks on AI systems by criminals, terrorists and government-backed hackers; and so-called Sorcerer’s Apprentice scenarios, when AI systems respond to human instructions in unexpected (and possibly dangerous) ways.“Each of the three important risks outlined above... is being addressed by current research, but greater efforts are needed,” wrote Horvitz and Dietterich, calling for more collaboration and funding to explore the challenges. “We must not put AI algorithms in control of potentially-dangerous systems until we can provide a high degree of assurance that they will behave safely and properly.”‘Technology is not making people less intelligent’During his AMA interview, Gates also talked about his work on a “personal agent” technology within Microsoft that will “remember everything and help you go back and find things and help you pick what things to pay attention to... it will work across all your devices”.He also described the bitcoin cryptocurrency as “exciting” but said it wasn’t currently viable for use in the developing world. “For our [Bill and Melinda Gates] Foundation work we are doing digital currency to help the poor get banking services.“We don’t use bitcoin specifically for two reasons,” he wrote. “One is that the poor shouldn’t have a currency whose value goes up and down a lot compared to their local currency. Second is that if a mistake is made in who you pay then you need to be able to reverse it so anonymity wouldn’t work.”Gates was also asked whether technology “has made the masses less intelligent”. He replied: “Technology is not making people less intelligent. Technology is letting people get their questions answered better so they stay more curious. It makes it easier to know a lot of topics which turns out to be pretty important to contribute to solving complex problems.”•Bill Gates dismisses criticism of high prices for vaccines•Gates Foundation annual letter: what do you think?•Bill Gates: digital learning will revolutionise education in global south
If you’ve got an older smartphone you’ve probably run out of space for apps.Except for this one:BootChess is a fully working chess game coded in just 487 bytes. That’s an entire game in the same number of characters as this article.There are flaws. The game doesn’t implement rules such as castling or en passant capture, and the AI is… not great. But as the coder Baudsurfer points out, the smallest fully legal game would just resign as its first move. And where is the fun in that?
“With virtual reality, I’m not interested in the novelty factor,” says digital artist and filmmaker Chris Milk. “I’m interested in the foundations for a medium that could be more powerful than cinema, than theatre, than literature, than any other medium we’ve had before to connect one human being to another.”Milk’s career has a strong thread running through it: he often uses new technology in an inventive way, but human stories and connections are always at the core of his work.That’s true of his acclaimedWilderness Downtowninteractive music video for Arcade Fire; the crowdsourced animations that made upThe Johnny Cash Project; and the collaborative storytelling experimentThis Exquisite Forest.It also applies to his latest work using virtual reality technology, with a new company (VRSE) and a smartphone app of the same namefor Androidandfor iOSdelivering VR documentary films exploring the recent Millions March protest in New York and the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan.“These are the stories that we connect to as humans: the thing we care about is other people in situations that we relate to, or situations that are extreme,” says Milk. “What’s going to be powerful is using new technologies to tell those kinds of stories in ways they could never be told before.“Why have we not had a more powerful storytelling vessel than cinema for 100 years? It’s not because nobody’s thought of a different storytelling structure. We need the next medium, and that medium is inevitably going to be birthed because of technological advances.”The Millions March film –Vice News VR: Millions March– was created with filmmaker Spike Jonze and backed by Vice, which has also taken a stake in VRSE with plans to produce more VR documentaries together.Its announcement came with ambitious claims for VR’s potential for documentaries and news coverage. Is the idea of strapping on a VR headset to watch a documentary or news report really going to be mainstream, though? Milk sees it as a natural step forward.Chris Milk: ‘Here, you’re existing without ego...’ Photographer: Spike Jonze“So much of journalism is conveying a place and time that existed, to someone at a later date: giving a person the context and trying to make them feel as informed as if they were actually there,” he says. “Fundamentally, this is taking out the middle man in that process, and making you feel as if you were actually there.”The Millions March, which was organised as a protest against the deaths of several black men killed by police, took place in New York on 13 December. Milk and Jonze took a Steadicam and a 360-degree camera along, and filmed Vice News’ reporter Alice Speri as she explored the protest. One month later, the VR film was released, although Milk is keen to reduce that time-lag for future documentaries of this type.“Ultimately, what we want to have is a fast-enough turnaround that an event happens, and close to immediately thereafter, you are able to put on a virtual reality headset and witness it first-hand,” he says. “That could be a protest, an earthquake, or the melting of the polar icecaps. Being able to put people in the place gives them not just a better sense of it, but gives them more empathy and a deeper emotional connection to the people that were actually there.“That’s where the true power of virtual reality lies in regards to journalism: connecting human beings to other human beings in a way that we haven’t seen before.”As an example, Milk cites a section in the Millions March film where the camera gets up close with a man protesting in Washington Square Park. “You as the viewer are standing way inside his personal space, but you feel safe within the virtual reality world – you understand that this is not reality, it’s a recording of an event that happened. He’s not going to grab hold of you,” he says.“You’re this invisible being, and what’s fascinating about that is that while in real life, you’d keep a tentative distance away from a person emoting this strongly in a public space, here you’re getting as close as the intimacy you feel with the people – your friends and family and loved ones – who you hug.“You never get that close to someone in a park yelling their heart out without consequences. But if you do, you feel their humanity and their feelings on such a deeper emotional level. More so than on television. Here, you’re existing without ego, and just by being in that close proximity with another person, you feel so much more empathy for them.”That’s one of the prime motivations behind another VRSE project,Clouds Over Sidra, which was produced with Unicef and shown during one of its events at the Davos conference recently. Also available within the VRSE app, it explores the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan through the eyes of a 12-year-old Syrian refugee.“This is the one that half the people come out crying after watching it,” says Milk. “And the UN is using this to bring about change: to show this piece to people who can actually change the course of people’s lives in these places.” He stresses that he is keen for his VR films to reach as wide an audience as possible.That’s the thinking behind the VRSE apps, which are designed to be watched with a make-it-yourselfGoogle Cardboard headsetthat a smartphone slots into, rather than just targeting a device like Oculus Rift, which is expensive and still only available for developers. “I measure the worth of the work I’m making on two metrics: the first is how deeply can I affect other human beings, and the second is how many human beings can I deeply affect?” says Milk“Virtual reality is already affecting people on an emotional level much more than any other media, and it has the potential to scale: all you need is an attachment for your cellphone, and you can have this experience.”With VRSE, Milk is keen to keep stretching the creative boundaries for VR film-making, as well as developing the tools to make those films, and providing a platform for their creators to find audiences for their work. Creators is a carefully-chosen term, too, rather than “directors”.“Directing is very much about directing your attention to this very specific thing that I am shooting,” Milk says. “I’m showing you exactly what I want you to see, when I want you to see it, and in the way I want you to see it.“In virtual reality, it’s more about capturing and creating worlds that people are inhabiting. You really are a creator in the way the audience lives within the world that you are building. And we’re still figuring out the language of the storytelling in these worlds.”•Toyota Oculus Rift app uses VR to explain distracted driving•Disabled boy learns to play piano with his eyes using VR headset•Paul McCartney launches free virtual-reality concert app
Civil liberties lawyers, free speech advocates and even some police departments have rushed to the defence of the popular road navigation app Waze after Charlie Beck, the chief of the Los Angeles Police Department, accused the service of endangering officers and helping criminals bypublicizing the position of their patrol cars.Beck went public with his criticisms on Tuesday, publishing a letter he wrote to Waze’s parent company, Google, in the wake of two officer shootings in New York last month and saying at a news conference: “It is not always in the public’s best interest to know where police are operating.”Response to Beck has ranged from indignation to blank disbelief, since the LAPD’s own patrol cars are known to use social media to advertise their presence in high-crime areas and the cars themselves are designed to be as visible as possible.“You have the stripes and the red lights and the word ‘police’ in big letters. These cars are very conspicuous. It stands to reason you can talk about seeing one, whether by text, or by phone or through an app like Waze,” said David Maass, a researcher with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital civil liberties advocacy group. “People have a First Amendment right to say what they can see with their own two eyes … and Google and Waze have the same right to post this information.”The issue has struck a nerve – because digital technology has transformed the way police departments operate, often making their operations more transparent than law enforcement officials would like, and because surveillance in the digital age can cut both ways. Both the LAPD and the LA Sheriff’s Department have been sued over their refusal to provide information about their use of automatic license plate readers, a technology that hasbeen used to trackmillions of ordinary citizens in Los Angeles as they go about their daily routines.In his letter to Google chief executive Larry Page, Beck claimed that the man accused of gunning down two New York cops in their patrol car last month had tracked them using Waze. “Your … app,” he wrote, “ as currently configured poses a danger to the lives of police officers in the United States.”That does not square with what investigators in the case have told the media, however. While it is true that police found a screenshot from Waze on Ismaaiyl Brinsley’s Instagram account, they do not believe he tracked the officers with the app – not least because he tossed his cell phone away two miles from where he shot and killed them.Chief Beck’s concerns were emphatically not echoed by his counterparts in San Francisco, San Jose and other big California cities contacted by local reporters. “We want to be seen,” a spokeswoman for the San Jose police told the San Jose Mercury-News. Officers being highly visible on patrol, she said, helps reduce crime.Waze itself pushed back hard against Beck, saying it had collaborated with police departments, including the NYPD, and saw itself as a contributor to public safety. “Police partners support Waze and its features,” spokeswoman Julie Mossler said, “including reports of police presence, because most users tend to drive more carefully when they believe law enforcement is nearby.”David Maass of EFF, which is a party to the lawsuit against the LAPD and LASD, said big-city police departments have a history of resistance to anything shedding light on their operations. “They will seize cameras from reporters recording protests. They will deny public records requests. They will oppose apps that might show where DUI checkpoints are,” he said. “They don’t like the public knowing what they are doing.”A number of police watchdogs said they suspected Beck’s criticisms were motivated, in part, by the obstacles Waze can pose to the setting up of effective speed traps, which in the pre-digital age were a reliable source of city income through traffic tickets.The Southern California branch of the American Civil Liberties Union has chosen not to comment on the Waze controversy, but its lead lawyer monitoring the police, Peter Bibring, senta biting Tweeton Tuesday night contrasting the LAPD’s estimated 250m automatic license plate readings of “law-abiding LA drivers” with its opposition to Waze reporting speed traps.Maass said there were many more instances of police abuse of digital technology than there were instances of that technology being used against them. In Calexico, on California’s Mexican border, the FBI was recently called in toinvestigateofficers who turned their surveillance equipment on each other and on members of the city council they saw as political adversaries.“Police departments, especially in Los Angeles, like to argue that what the public does in public is fair game. They can record all of your whereabouts,” Maass said. “But when it comes to the public doing the same thing and reporting what they see with their own eyes, then they start crying foul.”The LAPD did not respond to detailed requests for comment on this story.
Remember the days when Facebook was criticised for failing to make enough money from mobile advertising? The social network’slatest financial resultsemphasised how far in the past those days are.Here’s what we learned from the results, and theensuing earnings callwith financial analysts.1. No Facebook-flight just yetNo mass exodus shown in the numbers, even if growth is slowing.Photograph: AlamyDespite regular predictions that Facebook is about to peak and (possibly) head into a Myspace-like decline, it continues to grow.“Time spent per person per day across our services [grew] this quarter by more 10% compared to last year,” said Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg. “And that doesn’t even include WhatsApp, which joined us late last year.”Last quarter, Facebook had 1.39 billion monthly active users and 890 million daily active users – up 13% and 18% respectively compared to a year ago, even if its quarterly increases are smaller these days than they were.2. Video is growing fast for FacebookShould Google be worried about Facebook’s massive growth in video?Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWatch out, YouTube: Facebook is parking its tanks on your lawn. “Video grew significantly this year, to an average of more than 3bn video views per day on Facebook,” said Zuckerberg.Startling, considering that when his company last announced a video milestone in September 2014, it was 1bn daily views. These are views of videos uploaded directly to Facebook, too; they don’t include views of embedded YouTube videos, for example.“Today, over 50% of people in the US who come to Facebook daily watch at least one video per day and globally over 65% of Facebook video views occur on mobile,” said the chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg. “We are certainly exploring some premium content.” She adds that the video being uploaded by Facebook users (including celebrities and brands) is providing plenty of growth for now.3. Mobile is still driving Facebook’s businessFacebook’s mobile use is growing and earning the company money.Photograph: Rui Vieira/PAFacebook had 1.19 billion mobile monthly active users in the final quarter of 2014, which equates to more than 85% of its total users, and it counts 745 million people as mobile daily active users.“Mobile remains the primary driver of our growth,” David Wehner, chief financial officer, told analysts. Mobile accounted for 69% of the company’s $3.59bn of advertising revenues in the quarter, up from 53% a year ago. There’s even more potential in Facebook’s 300 million Instagram users, who could soon see video ads, 500 million Facebook Messenger users and 700 million WhatsApp users too.4. Watch out for Facebook’s search ambitionsFacebook Graph SearchPhotograph: Sean MacEntee/flickrFacebook’s next battleground could be search. It’s clearly a long-term priority, with Zuckerberg describing it as “another important effort that we expect to create a lot of value over the next few years”.“We’re on this multi-year voyage to basically index all the content and make it available to people and rank it well,” he said. That will put it on a collision course with Google, if plans for video domination haven’t already. Zuckerberg talked up its billion-a-day searches, Graph search and Post search, all small fry in Google terms, so far.5. Facebook in virtual realityConvincing ordinary people to use VR headsets is a challenge.Photograph: Anthony Devlin/PAHaving spent $2bn on the company , Zuckerberg is hell-bent on persuading westerners to buy and use Oculus Rift virtual reality headsets. But it won’t be any time soon as it falls into the “10-year plans”.“Oculus continues to make progress towards the future of immersive VR experiences that are part of daily life for millions of people,” said Zuckerberg, failing to give any information on when non-developers will be able to actually buy one. How Facebook is going to actually plug into a VR headset is still as clear as mud.6. Connecting the next billion peopleZuckerberg wants to connect the next billion people to the internet, who can then all join Facebook.Photograph: Chandan Khanna/AFP/GettyFacebook’s other long-term plan is its Internet.org initiative, which is aimed at getting the next billion people who don’t have access to the internet online.Zuckerberg pointed to Zambia, Tanzania, Ghana, Kenya and Colombia as flagship countries for Internet.org, saying Facebook has already got six million people online who previously had no internet access.That sounds noble, but for Facebook to continue growing beyond the 20% of the world’s population it already claims, it’ll need more people online.7. How much are you worth to Facebook?How much are you worth to Facebook? Less than a gold bar, sadly.Photograph: Sebastian Derungs/AFP/GettyThe financial reports also tell us how much each person on Facebook is worth to the company, which varies by country.A user in the US or Canada was worth $9 in the final quarter of 2014, but Europeans were only worth $3.45 and users in Asia-Pacific $1.27. Users in the rest of the world including Africa and Latin America – which is the big potential growth area – were only worth 94 cents.Of course, as advertising revenue grows, each person outside the US might be worth more, though users themselves are unlikely to benefit: the time has not yet come when they can cash out their work to Facebook.•Facebook earnings surpass expectations boosted by mobile advertising
Mat Carpenter fooled us all. The 22-year-old Australian SEO expert and online marketer managed to convince the world’s media that he had set up ShipYourEnemiesGlitter.com, a website which would package up glitter in an envelope and ship it to your enemies anywhere in the world for just AU$10.In fact, the whole thing was a stunt,Carpenter says. The joke is on us: all he actually did was set up a website, take more than 2,000 orders, ship out the majority of the packages, and then sell the site for $85,000 to a buyer who promises to fulfil the rest of the orders, as well as continue the website as a going concern.Wait, hang on. What?Perhaps it’s time for the Guardian to come clean as well. This entire media organisation is an elaborate stunt. We tell people it’s a news website, write and report news, sell adverts next to that news, and even print out tens of thousands of copies of the news each day, distributed to thousands of households and businesses (all for the low price of just £10 a week), but rest assured, we’re a stunt – and the real joke is on the lazy journalists who haven’t noticed.Carpenter came clean in an interview with the New York Observer’s Ryan Holiday.“In what is now the Observer’s second big exclusive on a media stunt that fooled nearly everyone in media, I was able to ask Mathew some questions about what happened, what he saw and what he learned and how this stunt came to be,” Holiday writes. “I hope his answers provide some insight for readers on how the news works these days—but more importantly I hope it chastises increasingly lazy reporters.”But nowhere in the interview do either Carpenter or Holiday explain why any reporters should be chastised – except for one minor error Carpenter details, when “many outlets reported I was a student at a local university, which isn’t true, and I have no idea how they came to that conclusion”. Carpenter’s only other explicit complaint is that one reporter was too rigorous in their fact-checking, demanding more evidence for his claims of millions of visitors than an easily faked screenshot.Instead, most reporters wrote some variation on a story which was emphatically true:that Carpenter had launched a website which would ship your enemies glitter for a low price. He did, and he has. The superbly written advertising copy on the website, another focus of a number of the stories, is not exactly a stunt either, though it is a good way of propelling a novelty product to viral fame.It’s harder to tell whether Carpenter was playing puppetmaster by the time he decided to disable orders on his site and issue a plea on startup aggregator Product Hunt to “stop buying this horrible product”. On the one hand, it’s easier to hatch a diabolical plan if you aren’t taking thousands of dollars for a product which you have a legal obligation to provide; on the other, the exasperation in Carpenter’s requests to “stop”, and the panicked emails sent to customers (including myself) warning that “there will be a bit of a delay with delivery times as the site somehow got popular”, hint that the true story lies somewhere between Carpenter’s new claims, and his old ones.Perhaps a budding SEO expert and online marketer, who decided to put his skills to the test by making his new business idea go viral, rapidly found himself overwhelmed by his success. Sensing the ability to cash out rather than deal with an increasingly “horrible product”, he sells the site wholesale. And then, to save face, he reveals that that was his plan after all: he’s not an incompetent start-up CEO, but a diabolical puppetmaster, pulling the press’s strings from the start.In a weird way, Carpenter’s interview does make a point about journalists: the one thing we are more eager to write about than the latest viral craze is a claim that the latest viral craze is a hoax.Takethe lie that “Alex from Target” was a viral media stunt, which travelled almost as fast as the photo of the teen-dream 16-year-old himself, or the eternal chain of debunking and rebunking surrounding fad diets, carcinogen scares and alternative medicines.Is the real glitter inside us all along? No, wait, that’s stupid. It’s in an envelope and on its way to my enemy, and I couldn’t be happier.
Thanks for your piece onmaking your PC secure, and for your advice onmalware scannerswhen I really needed it. Could you follow this up with a piece on trustworthy sources for downloading software? I wanted to batch resize some photos and after a search chose the site at the top of the search results, CNet’s Download.com, which I assumed was legit. It isn’t. I unclicked most of the toolbar and search engine things they wanted to install, but evidently not thoroughly enough. I don’t mind paying for freeware if I can be sure it is clean.PhilUnfortunately, very few people pay for small Windows programs and utilities, and the decline in advertising revenues has driven an explosion in adware and even malware bundling. Companies that may be struggling to survive have the chance to make, perhaps, 10 cents to $1.50 or more per crapware installation. If they have thousands of downloads per day, it’s very hard to resist.I assume CNet’s Download.com is one of the worst, because HowToGeek picked it for a recent horrifying/amusing article,Here’s What Happens When You Install the Top 10 Download.com Apps. Even Slashdot Media’sSourceForge, which started as a bastion of open source goodness, now uses an “enhanced installer” or “wrapper” to delivercrapware.In theory, you can use these sites safely if you decline all the PUPs (potentially unwanted programs) they try to foist on you. You can even try using a utility such asUnchecky, which changes the defaults to Decline, but it probably doesn’t cover every download on the web, However, once you use an installer, you are putting your safety in someone else’s hands – someone who can probably make more money by betraying your trust than by keeping it.Direct downloadsIn practice, it’s safest to download software directly from the original source, but not all companies are equally trustworthy. Microsoft and Mozilla (Firefox) should be fine, for example, but Oracle (Java) and Adobe will foist unwanted programs on you if you are not careful.Many small software houses are trustworthy, but some have download links that take you to another site, such as Download.com. I know you won’t go there again.If you are not sure which program to download, tryMajor GeeksorGizmo’s Freeware, aka Tech Support Alert. Both have the same drawback: they concentrate on the top utilities, which means they’re missing millions of programs. Gizmo’s has better reviews of fewer programs, but it’s a community effort and not all its sections are up to date. I also useAlternativeTo, where programs are rated by people’s votes (likes or “social software recommendations”).All three sites provide direct links to the official websites for program downloads. This is important because it means you can avoid using Google, and the risk of clicking any Google ads. As you have found, Google is not a good guide to download sites, and some ads may be even worse. (Google has distributed Chrome, Google Toolbar etc as crapware with other downloads, including Avast and Adobe Flash.)But be careful: even direct download pages can trick you into installing things you don’t want. For example, they may display huge green DOWNLOAD buttons that link to crapware, while the link you want is just one word of small, underlined text. Hover your mouse over the links to see where they actually go.App stores and moreOne solution would be a software repository that worked like the various app stores provided by Amazon, Apple, Google and Microsoft for smartphones and tablets. This isn’t foolproof because developers can still upload crapware, but at least the app store providers are trying to keep it out. Also, app stores work better for smartphone and tablet apps – which are small and very constrained as to what they can do – than for complex and powerful desktop/laptop software. Nonetheless, I expect the trend towards stores offering desktop software will continue.There are also some independent stores, such asNiniteandAllMyApps. I have previously recommended both as reliable sources of crapware-free downloads. As far as I know, they still are trustworthy, but both use downloaders, and I can no longer see how to download individual programs from AllMyApps. Both also want to keep your downloads up to date, which may be a great idea for many users, but irritates my inner control freak.Another solution is a “package manager” like the ones for Linux users. The leading Windows package manager isChocolatey, which is “somewhat like apt-get, but built with Windows in mind”. Microsoft encourages this sort of thing, and is developing its own open source package management aggregator calledOneGet. It’s included in the Windows 10 preview code, which is mostly used by techies. I suspect not many ordinary users want to install software by typing text commands in what looks like a DOS window (PowerShell).Last wordsIf you always download known programs from known sources – which I do – then you may never see this problem. People mainly get caught if they don’t know what they want or where to get it, which is why sites like Major Geeks, Gizmo’s, and AlternativeTo are important. After that, the bigget risk probably comes from “social engineering” approaches, such as the pop-ups that insist you download an unwanted (and virus-laden) Flash update right now, to watch a dubious video, rather than going toget.adobe.com/flashplayer/and refusing the added crapware.You can also run programs that help defend your PC. For example, adduBlockto your browser (with a suitable blocklist)instead of AdBlock Plus, and install theMVPS Hostsfile to reduce the number of potentially deceptive ad links. Also, try runningMalwarebytes Anti-Malware, because it takes a more hostile view of PUPs than most anti-virus programs.Remember, nobody installs crapware on purpose. Distributors can only get this stuff installed by tricking users or, at best, taking advantage of their lack of attention or awareness. In the end, there’s no substitute for vigilance.Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
It’s Thursday!
Australia’s peak body for IT and communications companies says organisations still face considerable uncertainty over whether they will need to retain Australians’ web and phone data as part of the federal government’s mandatory data retention scheme.At a parliamentary inquiry into plans to retain web and phone datafor two years the chief executive of the Australian Information Industry Association (AIIA), Susan Campbell, said a number of organisations it represented were still uncertain about the scope of the government’s plans.The plan to retain web and phone data will mean that a range of telecommunications and service providers will need to keep an as-yet-unspecified set of data.While it is clear that organisations such as Telstra, iinet, Vodafone and Optus would need to retain data, it is less clear, for example, whether providers of voice-based web services would need to keep data for two years.The AIIA – which represents more than 400 organisations including Apple, Google, IBM and Microsoft – is concerned that lack of clarity could mean significant costs for companies.Campbell said: “There is concern that it is unclear whether they will be captured because they are uncertain of the language.“Many cloud providers and voice operations do not understand themselves to be providers of telecommunications services. They operate applications that are used by you and I in our homes and on mobile devices.“We urgently need clarity in respect of the proposed exempt services, and are deeply concerned about the proposed financial costs.”In evidence provided to the hearing later, the Australian privacy commissioner, Timothy Pilgrim, also expressed concern about the uncertainty faced by organisations, particularly cloud-based providers.“We’re just not clear whether they do fall in necessarily to the services that are proposed to be covered by the bill,” Pilgrim said.“From a regulator’s point of view that’s possibly a challenge … It’s hard to be sure what services we are supposed to be regulating.”Matthew Lobb, from Vodafone, told the inquiry that most of the requests the company received were for web and phone data that was about six months old, and said a shorter retention period would be more reasonable.The additional internet data that was likely to be part of the retention scheme was likely to be needed within an even shorter period of time, he said.“At Vodafone our experience is that, generally speaking, three-quarters of information is about six months old.“We think that that time lapse will be even shorter for IP identifier information. This is because IP identifiers are not like static customer identifiers.“Usually it will be used, we believe, when a particular website is under an interception order. So a terrorist site or a paedophile site, and agencies will notice there’s been an IP identifier who has accessed the site and will ask who has that IP identifier.”A key issue for the inquiry has been the range of telecommunications data requests, to determine whether two years is an appropriate time for Australians’ web and phone data to be retained.In written submissions to the inquiry,most law enforcement agencies were unable to provideinformation on how telecommunications data has been used to prevent crime and the age of the data requested.The president of the online privacy advocacy group Electronic Frontiers Australia, Jon Lawrence, raised considerable concerns about the proposal on privacy grounds. He said the nature of the data to be retained needed to be articulated in the legislation, and not in a regulation made subsequently by the attorney general.“We have genuine concerns about the level of technical understanding of the people involved in the drafting of this, and that it suggests that web browsing may be later included in the dataset,” he said.The hearings will continue on Friday.
The minute I discovered social entrepreneurship, I knew I had found my calling. It happened unexpectedly, at a conference for young activists organised byOxfamin Australia. As a young girl from rural Italy, I really had no knowledge of why someone would combine entrepreneurship with the social sector, but I was intrigued by the idea and the possibilities behind it. I decided to give it a go and, armed with €150 and a lot of enthusiasm, I launched Youth Action for Change, a peer-to-peer platform of free online courses for young people.Ten years later, I am still here. I moved from free online courses to a citizen journalism platform to collect news from neglected conflicts, leveraging technology to make up for all of the shortages that I, as a young person, was encountering: money, credibility and infrastructure. What I lacked became the basis to build innovative products and platforms on and, quite surprisingly, this frugality helped to shape ideas and projects that proved successful in the pre-social networks era: 4,000 people trained in 130 countries, 15 projects started in post-conflict areas, more than 30 awards received for impact and innovation.Yet, the field I came to love and choose – social entrepreneurship – was not particularly receptive or welcoming of the new model that I, along with countless others, was trying to develop around the world. To the eyes of most, technology could not provide real, tangible benefits to recipients and was, at most, something that was generally perceived as “cute” at best.Things are now different from those days, with dozens of social networks to choose from, massive open online courses, apps and startups doing pretty much everything under the sun.While technology is now an accepted and fundamental component of many socially-minded programs, and social enterprises are now highly professionalised, let us not forget a simple truth: technology can bridge many gaps, but it still cannot be a standalone feature in many places.That is why I decided to try a different approach with theThe Qessa Academyin Kabul, where technology would be minimal and the old would be gold. Qessa – which means stories inDari– was started in 2013 with a view to preserving traditional storytelling, a practice that has dwindled due to the fact that culture and cultural expressions were challenged by the Russians first, and then almost forever silenced by the Taliban. In a country where68% of the population is below the age of 25and withan unemployment rate at 35%, it is easy to understand that groups with dubious purposes have no problems in recruiting people: a doctor in Kabul could earn around $60-80 per month, the Talibans pay up to $300.Linking storytelling to local development, Qessa provides unemployed youth with a job, teaching them to leverage stories to pass on technical information on natural disasters mitigation, public health and food security. In a country with aliteracy rate of just 28%– the sixth lowest in the world – words and stories can go a long way to spur change. But so can technology: to show a different side of Afghanistan, its people and its rich culture, Qessa also runs a small online platform that collects traditional stories from the Afghan diaspora, sending out videos, texts and audio files of the stories they grew up with.It is reported that85%of Afghan women have no formal education and are illiterate.Photograph: Zohra Bensemra/ReutersIt would be naive of us at Qessa to believe that stories can change the fate of a whole country. But what we believe is that stories can shape different ways of thinking and knowledge, allowing individuals to see reality in different ways. In the words of one of our students, Samim: “Stories allow me to better understand my culture and where I am coming from, but this is not the important thing. Stories teach me that I can stand up and voice my opinions, that I can have confidence in myself.” In a culture that is traditional about the role of young people in society, this is a big change.In the case ofBibak, technology plays a bold role. Last summer I had the chance to work on this project, which develops sensors to aid landmine detection. It’s something that has been on my mind for years. Landmines are one of the most dreaded legacies of war –there are many millions of active landminesaffecting the lives of 1.5 billion people.Using off-shelf components and an Arduino microprocessor, my team and I are turning a commonly found water jerry can into a tool for landmine detection that includes a metal detector, a ground-penetrating radar and a sensor for vapours from explosives, to help find several types of landmine. What is unique here is that communities get trained to assemble and use the sensors to identify landmines present on their lands and, once demining is done, they can upcycle the technology to generate energy, improve local agriculture or access clean water. Bibak will present its work atStartup Bootcamp HighTech XLin Eindhoven in February, and will start a pilot in late 2015 in Afghanistan.I guess that it would be straightforward to understand that, for me, technology proved to be a safe passage to creating change despite having limited resources and support. The reality, however, is more nuanced and, truth be told, my ideas have often been met with resistance by people preferring a safer, more traditional approach.Love it or leave it, one thing is for sure: technology-enabled social entrepreneurship is here to stay. Get ready to join the movement.Selene Biffi is a social entrepreneur and innovator. In 2012 she received a Young LaureateRolex Award for Enterprisefor her work on cultural heritage
US business lobbies have responded with alarm after China’s government moved to force American companies selling technology to Chinese banks to hand over their software secrets and adopt encryption algorithms dictated by Beijing.The American Chamber of Commerce in China and 17 similar US business groups have called for “urgent discussions” with the Chinese government over the new cybersecurity regulations and urged Beijing to postpone the implementation of the new policies.In a letter to China’s top cybersecurity policy group dated 28 January, they said the new rules would require “intrusive” security testing and the disclosure of sensitive intellectual property.Cybersecurity has been a significant irritant in US-China ties, with both sides trading accusations of abuses. US vendors such as Cisco and Microsoft are facing increased pressure from Chinese authorities to accept rigorous security checks before their products may be purchased by China’s sprawling state-run financial institutions.Beijing has considered its reliance on foreign technology a national security weakness, particularly following former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden’s revelations that US spy agencies planted code in American-made software to snoop on overseas targets.In the letter addressed to the China’s Central Leading Small Group for Cyberspace Affairs – led personally by President Xi Jinping – the American business groups warned that an “overly broad, opaque, discriminatory approach to cybersecurity policy” would harm China’s economic growth.“The domestic purchasing and related requirements proposed recently for China’s banking sector … would unnecessarily restrict the ability of Chinese entities to source the most reliable and secure technologies, which are developed in the global supply chain.”The cyberspace policy group approved a 22-page document in late 2014 that contained the heightened procurement rules for tech vendors, the New York Times reported on Thursday.Source code – the usually tightly guarded commands that create programmes – for most computing and networking equipment would have to be turned over to officials, according to the new regulations.Firms planning to sell computer equipment to Chinese banks would have to set up research and development centres in the country, get permits for workers servicing technology equipment and build “ports” that enable Chinese officials to manage and monitor data processed by their hardware.Material from Reuters was used in this report
Facebook revenue grew 49% in the fourth quarter, as mobile advertising helped the social network beat Wall Street’s expectations.“We got a lot done in 2014,” said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and CEO.Facebook ended 2014 with 1.39 billion monthly users, in December 890 million people accessed the service on a daily basis, an increase of 18% year-over-year. Revenue for the full year 2014 was $12.47bn, an increase of 58% year-over-year.The company struggled after its initial public offering in May 2012, as analysts worried it was failing to make the transition to mobile. But Facebook has successfully repositioned itself for mobile. Mobile daily active users totalled 745 million on average in December 2014, an increase of 34% year-over-year. The company said mobile ads accounted for 69% of advertising revenue in the fourth quarter, or $2.48bn.The type of content people look at on Facebook is also changing. Ahead of releasing the latest quarter’s figures Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told CNBC people now watch 3bn videos a day on Facebook, up from 1bn last September.On a conference call with analysts Sandberg said: “Video is growing quite nicely through the ecosystem right now.”Zuckerberg told analysts that the next five years would be about growing recently acquired businesses including WhatsApp, a messaging service, picture-sharing app Instagram, and Oculus Rift, developer of a virtual reality headset. WhatsApp now has 700 million users and Instagram 300 million.Last year Facebook spent $19bn on WhatsApp and $2bn on Oculus. It bought Instagram for $1bn in 2012. “Facebook is going to have to evolve,” said Zuckerberg. “We want to really focus on serving people across the world.”Fourth-quarter revenue grew at its slowest rate since the beginning of 2013, to $3.85bn, compared to $2.59bn in the year-ago period, but was still ahead of the $3.77bn analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected.Last quarter,Facebook’s shares dippedsharply after it released its results, as investors worried about ambitious spending plans and a dip in revenues. Costs and expenses surged in the final quarter to $2.72bn, up 87% from a year earlier.The company’s headcount increased 45% over the year.The company’s shares dipped 1.5% in after hours trading.
On Wednesday, Uber delivered puppies on-demand.For $30, office workers in 10 cities across the US could use the company’s app to order 15 minutes of cuddle time with the adoptable dogs.The company, which is usually geared toward taxi and limousine service world domination, brought the pups to offices in partnership with the Animal Planet television channel.The deliveries were part of a promotion for the station’s upcoming Puppy Bowl XI special. The show airs annually as an alternative to the NFL’s Super Bowl, which kicks off in Glendale, Arizona, this Sunday. Puppy Bowl cameras follow the tiny canines as they play in a field-themed pen packed with football toys.The#UberPuppyBowlis well into the first quarter. Cause an interference and order puppies today until 3PM.pic.twitter.com/CSFkCWwE5V&mdash; Uber Los Angeles (@Uber_LA)January 28, 2015Puppies were delivered between 11am and 3pm in Phoenix, Baltimore, Cleveland, Dallas, Washington, Denver, Indianapolis, Los Angeles and Seattle.The dogs delivered were from local animal shelters. Notably, some were dressed for the occasion in tutus and jerseys. In the past, Uber has delivered kittens, Halloween costumers, food and flu shots.
The head of Microsoft’s main research lab has dismissed fears that artificial intelligence could pose a threat to the survival of the human race.Eric Horvitz believed that humans would not “lose control of certain kinds of intelligences”, adding: “In the end we’ll be able to get incredible benefits from machine intelligence in all realms of life, from science to education to economics to daily life.”Professor Stephen Hawkinglast month expressed his fears about the rise of AI. He believed that technology would eventually become self-aware and supersede humanity: “The primitive forms of artificial intelligence we already have, have proved very useful. But I think the development of full artificial intelligence could spell the end of the human race.”Eric Horvitz, head of the Microsoft Research Redmond lab.Photograph: MicrosoftHorvitz made his commentsin an video interviewafter being awarded the Feigenbaum Prize by the AAAI for his contribution to artificial intelligence research.However, he acknowledged that advances in AI were likely to have significant impact on society and pose numerous legal, ethical, economic and psychological issues.“We’ll need to remain vigilant about assessing and continuing to address potential risks and rough edges ... We need to be assured that systems working in high-stakes areas will behave safely and in accordance with our goals, even when they encounter unforeseen situations,” the researcher said in aMicrosoft blog.‘We need to be very careful’Other high-profile figures to cast doubt on AI include Elon Musk, the co-founder of PayPal who went on to set up Tesla, the electric car manufacturer, and SpaceX, which focuses on rocket technology.Hesaid last yearthat AI was the biggest existential threat to humans. “We need to be very careful. I’m increasingly inclined to think that there should be some regulatory oversight, maybe at the national and international level, just to make sure that we don’t do something very foolish.”SpaceX and Tesla founder Elon Musk.Photograph: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty ImagesMusk is one of the high-profile investors, alongside Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and actor Ashton Kutcher, inVicarious.The company aims to build a computer that can think like a person, with a neural network capable of replicating the part of the brain that controls vision, body movement and language.• This article was amended on 29 January 2015. An earlier version described Eric Horvitz as the head of Microsoft’s research division. To clarify: he is the head of Microsoft Research’s main lab in Redmond, Washington. Peter Lee is the head of Microsoft Research.
Sony is closing its Music Unlimited streaming music service, in favour of an partnership with Spotify that will span its consoles, smartphones and tablets.Spotify will be the exclusive partner for a new service called PlayStation Music, which will launch in the spring in 41 countries. Music Unlimited, which is currently available in 19 countries, will close on 29 March.Sony customers paying for Spotify through PlayStation Music will be able to access the streaming service across their various devices, browsing its catalogue of 30m songs, creating and listening to playlists, and streaming music while playing games.“As a gamer and PlayStation 4 user myself, I’m super excited to be able to soundtrack my FIFA 15 Arsenal matches later this spring,” said Spotify’s chief executive Daniel Ek, as the partnership was announced.The deal is a vote of no-confidence in Music Unlimited, which originally launched in 2010, and hadone million active users by the start of 2012. Although it was bundled in to every PlayStation console, Sony has not since updated that figure, which suggests that take-up was disappointing.Now Spotify will have the task of persuading a greater number of the 64 million active users of Sony’s PlayStation Network to start paying a monthly subscription for streaming music, which they’ll be able to do through their existing PSN wallets.The companies are not announcing how much a Spotify subscription through PlayStation Music will cost or whether Sony will be subsidising part of the £9.99 monthly price.It is also unclear if every Sony device will get the free, advertising-supported version of Spotify, or whether the deal will merely offer a limited free trial of Spotify’s premium service before prompting people to start paying or stop using it.If the former, the partnership could be very significant for Spotify, whichcurrently has 60 million active users, with 15 million of them paying for its service. The company is gearing up for intensifying competition in 2015 from Apple – which isplanning to relaunch its Beats Music streaming service– and fromGoogle’s YouTube Music Key.“This partnership represents the best in music and the best in gaming coming together, which will benefit the vibrant and passionate communities of both Spotify and PlayStation Network,” said Sony Computer Entertainment boss Andrew House.The list of 41 launch countries for PlayStation Music does not include Sony’s native Japan, where Music Unlimited becameone of the first big streaming music services to launch in July 2012.Spotify and its rivals have been eyeing Japan for some time, but have found the process of striking licensing deals with local music labels has taken much longer than they had thought.The Sony deal could offer Spotify a faster route in to Japan, the world’s second most lucrative market for music sales behind the US, but Sony said today that “the PS Music service in Japan is not yet determined” and that “further details will be announced when ready”.•Spotify CEO wants ‘to do a better job’ convincing musicians of its value•Spotify has six years of my music data, but does it understand me?
Alibaba, China’s biggest e-retailer, has been strongly criticised by a government regulator for failing to do enough to stop fake goods being sold on its site.The State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC) said in a report published on Wednesday that many products sold through Alibaba’s Taobao and Tmall platforms infringed trademarks or were substandard, fake, illegal or dangerous.The “Alibaba Group has long paid insufficient attention to the illegal business activities on Alibaba platforms,” the report said, adding that the company “let that abscess fester until it became a danger”.“This not only is the biggest crisis of integrity faced by the company since its founding, but also has hurt other internet companies that try to operate legally.”The unusually stern report also said Alibaba had allowed “illegal advertising” that misled consumers with false pricing claims, failed to deal effectively with fraud and that some employees took bribes.The SAIC said the document was based on a meeting held between its officials and Alibaba representatives in July 2014, which it had delayed releasing to avoid affecting the company’s New York float in September.‘Condemning tone’According to the SAIC report, Alibaba officials said in the July meeting that they would rectify the problems.Joe Simone, director of Hong-Kong based intellectual property consultancy SIPS, said: “The frankness of the report and its condemning tone are unprecedented and speak volumes about what the SAIC found in its inspection.”Alibaba retaliated by accusing the SAIC official in charge of internet monitoring, Liu Hongliang, of unspecified “procedural misconduct” and said it would file a formal complaint.“We welcome fair and just supervision, and oppose selective omissions and malicious actions,” Alibaba’s statement said. “Obtaining a biased conclusion using the wrong methodology has inflicted irreparable and serious damage to Taobao and Chinese online businesses.”Such public defiance is almost unprecedented in China, where companies usually respond to official criticism by promising to change their practices.Huge demand for Alibaba shares led it to raise $25bn, making the IPO the world’s biggest. The stock rose 38% to $93.89 on the first day of trading and stood at just over $100 on Wednesday, valuing the company at about $250bn (£164bn).The company is due to release its quarterly results on Thursday.Alibaba chief executive Jack Ma with then California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger at the company’s annual summit for e-commerce entrepreneurs in Hangzhou in 2010.Photograph: Steven Shi/ReutersAlibaba had sought to tackle the problem of counterfeit goods ahead of the IPO, but online fakes remain a major problem in China.Earlier this month, it agreed with American authorities to stop selling as many as 15 illegal or dangerous toys in the US.Yahoo planLast month Alibaba said it had removed 90m listings for goods that might have infringed trademarks and had spent $161m in the past two years on blocking counterfeit goods and improving consumer protection.Alibaba was founded by Jack Ma, a former English teacher who counts Forrest Gump as his inspiration. He made some $25bn in the IPO, making in China’s richest person.Yahoo, which owns a $40bn stake in Alibaba, said on Tuesday it wouldspin off the holdingto avoid a multibillion-dollar US tax bill.The plan will place Yahoo’s 15% stake in the company into a secondary new firm called SpinCo.Yahoo’s chief financial officer, Ken Goldman, said the company has spent years trying to work out how to return capital from the Alibaba stake to shareholders without incurring a major tax bill.•Alibaba’s Singles Day sale in China breaks online records
Android’s Google Play store generated nearly 60% more app downloads than Apple’s iOS App Store in 2014, but the latter was still much more lucrative for app developers according to analytics firm App Annie.The company’sannual reportclaims that the App Store generated more than 70% more revenues than Google Play in 2014, even though both stores income grew rapidly, and at roughly the same rate.Apple has already announced that itpaid out $10bn to iOS app developers in 2014, which if App Annie’s estimates are correct, suggests around $3bn of payouts from Google Play to its community of Android developers.There are plenty of caveats to this line of reasoning, though. First, Google Play is not the only Android app store – Amazon and Samsung run their own stores, while in countries like China there are dozens of stores offering Android apps.Second, App Annie’s figures cover sales of apps and in-app purchases, but not advertising. Research firm eMarketer predicted thatmobile advertising spending would rise to just under $31.5bn in 2014, with Facebook accounting for more than a fifth of that total, driven by its apps.App Annie’s report picks out some of the big winners in the apps world based on downloads and revenue from Google Play and the App Store, too.It claims that Candy Crush Saga was the most-downloaded game across both stores in 2014, ahead of Subway Surfers, My Talking Tom, Farm Heroes Saga and Clash of Clans. For non-game apps, Facebook Messenger tops its chart, followed by the main Facebook app, WhatsApp, Instagram and Skype.However, when it comes to revenues, Candy Crush Saga only came in third in App Annie’s combined chart for Google Play and the App Store, behind Clash of Clans and Puzzle &amp; Dragons. Japanese social network Line’s main app topped the non-game chart for revenues, ahead of Pandora Radio, Line Play, Zoosk and Skype.App Annie notes that downloads of the top 10 messaging apps increased by 53% in 2014, spurred by the likes of Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Line and WeChat. It also hails a strong year for “super casual” games, sparked by the huge success of Flappy Bird before it wasremoved from app stores in February.The report also splits out charts by country. The UK’s most lucrative app in 2014 was Match.com’s dating app, followed by Skype, Zoosk, The Guardian and Spotify. Clash of Clans topped the games revenues chart, ahead of Candy Crush Saga and Farm Heroes Saga.•The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPad•Crossy Road mobile game has made $1m from video ads•What is Trivia Crack and why are 100m people playing it?
On 14 July 2004 Sam Houser, co-founder of Rockstar Games, sent an email to a staff member outlining the various types of sex he wanted to include in the company’s forthcoming game, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.“Full sex (multiple positions),” he began, in a vivid bullet-pointed list. “Dildo sex (including being able to kills [sic] someone with a dildo), Whipping (being whipped) and Masturbation (one of the characters is compulsive; this MUST be kept).”The email is an extreme example, but it raises an issue that simmers beneath the surface of this huge creative industry. Since the beginning, video games have embraced, explored and celebrated violence, but sex has always been less common. Houser, in the company’s boldly defiant and ridiculous style, wanted to challenge this. “We want to include sexual content, which I understand is questionable to certain people,” he continued. “But [it is] pretty natural (more than violence), when you think about it.”Houser’s team did eventually produce a series of interactive sex scenes for GTA: San Andreas. In the end, however, they were locked away unused within the game code in order to avoid a sales-limiting adults only rating in America. Later, hackers discovered and released the scenes, and the game’s publisher, Take Two, was forced to pay out more than $20 million in damages in a class action suit.Sex, it turned out, was a costly taboo in video games. It is also, seemingly, something of an impracticality. Whenever sex slips into a video game the sight of two polygonal mannequins rutting up against one another usually works against the intended effect. It’s either laughable or actually terrifying.Sex mattersBut the development team behind forthcoming fantasy adventure title The Witcher: Wild Hunt seems unfazed by either moral or technical concerns. The game, due for release in May, contains sex scenes constructed from over 16 hours of motion capture data. There may not be any of Houser’s dildo sex in the George RR Martin-esque fantasy plains, but there is a Hugh Hefnerian amount of lovemaking. It comes quickly, too. Within the first 15 seconds the camera droops to linger on a woman’s fulsome posterior, moments after dismounting the protagonist, the white-haired monster hunter, Geralt of Rivia.“People might think we’re putting sex into the opening scene for no good reason,” explains senior game designer Damien Monnier. “No, no, no. We are establishing that your character was intimate with this woman recently in order to plant in your mind that, at very least, he must enjoy her company.” In subsequent moments we see the pair gently flirt in an atmosphere of easy-going post-coital familiarity. Their secrets have been spilled and now, as she freshens at the mirror and he tousles her hair, a deeper affection between the characters is established.“Through sex we have shown that this is a person who Geralt would be compelled to chase after if she went missing,” says Monnier. Five minutes later, the drama shunts into the future, a time when the woman, Yennefer, has disappeared. Your goal as lovelorn Geralt (accompanied by an older witcher named Vesemir) is to track her across the Skellige Islands. “Sex is the quickest way in which to establish the relationship and provide a justification for the player to pursue this woman,” he continues. “We couldn’t just tell you to go find someone you don’t know or care about. It wouldn’t work.”The problem of opennessOne of the most incisive criticisms that can be made against so-called open world games, in which the player is free to pursue goals of their own making, is the equality of importance that’s placed on plot missions and side-quests. In The Witcher, the primary story always attempts to instil urgency, but the player is free to help the local townsfolk with petty errands. One mission asks you to help an elderly woman recover her favourite frying pan from a locked house, while another has you track the arsonist who burned down the blacksmith’s home. We always know that, until we arrive at the crucial location to trigger the next major story event, we are free to loiter. And with this freedom, pace, plotting and verisimilitude can break down.“I believe we have solved this problem,” says Monnier. “For example, we tell the player that Geralt’s lover Yennefer was recently seen in the area and that you should look for clues. This framing gives the player permission to take on other quests while still feeling a vague pressure to continue the search. It’s a writing challenge that is almost unique to video games.”Warsaw-based developer CD Projekt Red has been battling a cavalcade of these new challenges. Previous titles in the Witcher series (based on the fantasy novels by Polish writer Andrzej Sapkowski) funnelled players down a metaphorical corridor, fighting monsters, romancing villagers and casting spells within clear and broadly immoveable narrative lines.The Witcher: Wild Hunt is the first instalment to offer an open world, where you are free to explore and set your own pace.“It’s been a massive challenge,” says Monnier. “Before, players would follow the story as in a novel or television series, moving from A to B to C. Now players can go A-D-B and we must ensue that the story makes sense regardless of the order in which it’s approached. It’s incredibly complicated.” This complication is compounded by the fact that the player has agency to alter the world around them by way of their choices. In one chapter later in the game, Geralt must investigate a series of brutal murders at a banquet (it’s a scene reminiscent of the vivid and terrible Red Wedding in Game of Thrones, a series with which The Witchershares both a tone, aesthetic and, in Charles Dance, an actor). The player must choose which character to carry out the investigation with, a seemingly mundane selection that causes dramatic alterations to the story and world.“Your choice changes the balance of power in the area,” says Monnier. “Some characters may die and be removed from the world because of your choice. Other characters will become more or less warm to you as a result.” These changes are what make managing a non-linear storyline so challenging. “Maybe something you did in D will change the way that characters in B react to you,” says Monnier. “So you have branches that go back on themselves. It’s mentally exhausting trying to work out all of the potential repercussions and permutations of these choices, the people you cause to live or die, the romances you enter into.”Suggestion not directionBecause of the challenges Monnier and his team faced with The Witcher: Wild Hunt, they developed a newfound respect for Rockstar and the other creators of open world games. But the team, which is now famous in Poland (one team member boasts that, on three separate occasions, his colleagues were let off speeding tickets by Polish police when they revealed that they worked at the studio), is not without criticisms of their rivals. In particular, Monnier dislikes the nagging map markers so liberally used in Ubisoft titles such as Assassin’s Creed which show the player the vast number of side-quests and activities available within the world. “It’s overwhelming and discourages you,” he says.By contrast, The Witcher: Wild Hunt has almost no mission markers on its dynamic map. Occasionally a point of interest lights up when you visit an area, but otherwise it remains oblique. “I believe that our approach encourages exploration,” says Monnier. “We haven’t created the world for nothing. This way, exploration becomes a reward in itself; you know that if you don’t explore a particular area then you might miss out on new stories, new items and maybe even new lovers.”The hunt for lovers, new and old, has always been a part of the Witcher’s appeal. Geralt is promiscuous and, like the novels on which the series is based, the writers don’t shy away from exploring this. Unlike in Sam Houser’s plan, sex in The Witcher is never interactive. You don’t tap “X” to thrust.But its inclusion, even as an adornment in cinematic interludes, is welcome, not least because it’s presented in such a natural, unforced way. In the second game in the series, Geralt trips over while hurrying to remove one of his boots as he follows a naked lover into a pool. The camera coyly turns away before the subsequent kissing becomes something else, but this note of domestic humour is rare in video game representations of sex, which usually either titter at their own (misplaced) sense of transgression, or become, as in the first-person scenes with sex workers in the most recent Grand Theft Auto, grimly dehumanising.Sex matters in The Witcher, not just because it establishes a link between two characters in order to provide justification for a quest, but because it rounds out the fiction and adds to the veracity of the open environment. A human world without sex is either a world viewed through a child’s eyes, or an entirely dishonest one.For decades blockbuster video games have omitted sex, perhaps because of worries over age classifications, perhaps because of the medium’s association with play and, behind that, childhood. But beside the quest for power, sex is a primary human motivation; through games like The Witcher and last year’s Dragon Age: Inquisition, which elegantly facilitated sexual relationships of all varieties, perhaps game designers are finally becoming more honest about that.Simon Parkin attended a Witcher press event in Stirling, Scotland, with transport and accommodation paid for by Namco Bandai.My year of video game sexGames aren’t just for kids any more. By pulling Grand Theft Auto from stores Target sets the medium back
The rise of smartphones, social networks and photo-sharing apps have killed off the idea of printing photos for many people. Now a startup calledPryntis hoping to tempt some of them back.The US company istaking pre-orders on crowdfunding website Kickstarterfor “the first instant camera case for iPhone and Android”, which turns smartphones into Polaroid-style insta-print cameras.A crazy idea in the age of Facebook and Instagram? Not crazy enough to stop more than 1,800 people stumping up their cash in the first 24 hours of its 35-day crowdfunding campaign: with a goal of $50k, Prynt has already taken pledges of more than $226k.The device comes in a choice of pink, blue and white models, with a modular design that its makers say will adapt to different smartphone models, including the various charging ports.The company’s pitch:“It’s ideal for when you’re out with your friends, sightseeing, or capturing a once-in-a-lifetime experience. Gifts and cards become more special when you include an instant photo. Take it with you on the go and never miss the chance to shoot and share some everyday magic.”Prynt is planning to ship the first run of cases in August, before a commercial launch in October. While early backers could pay $49 or $79 for the device, most are paying $99.Given the nature of the technology, Prynt’s business model is as much about selling the sheets of paper required to print photos on: 10 are included with the device, while backers are being promised 50 extra sheets for every $25 they add on to their pledge, which suggests that 10-sheet packs will cost around $5 once it launches.Prynt is also working on a companion app enabling people to choose photos from their social networks for printing, as well as recording a short video of their face when they take new shots, which can then be watched using the app’s augmented reality feature.(If the idea of augmented-reality insta-printable selfies makes you fear for the future of humanity, now would probably be a good time to start building an ark.)“We were inspired by the original Polaroid and wanted to recreate the magical experience of sharing physical photos with our loved ones,” is how Prynt describes the motivation behind its case.It’s just the latest company trying to persuade mobile photographers to start printing their shots again, from Instagram-focused startups like Printstagram, Polargram and Inkifi to the way established services like Photobox and Truprint have added support for these kinds of apps.•Instagram now has 300m users sharing 70m photos and videos a day•Why stars love Polaroid: no risk of embarrassing uploads
Apple enjoyed an impressive last three months in 2014, reportingrecord revenues of $74.6bnand a net profit of $18bn – the largest quarterly profit ever for any company, energy firms included.We already know about Apple’s record iPhone sales – 74.5m units – during the quarter, but the company’s earnings call with analysts after the results were announced yielded more information about its business in 2014 and its plans for 2015. Here are the key lessons.1. Apple Watch will ship in AprilApple Watch will be available in April.Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images“Development for Apple Watch is right on schedule and we expect to begin shipping in April,” said chief executive Tim Cook during the call.Firstunveiledin September, Apple Watch vaguely meant to be available in “early 2015” then “spring”. Now we have a specific month.But isn’t April a bit later than “early” would have led people to expect? “We sort of look at the year and think of early as the first four months, mid is the next four months and late is the final four months,” said Cook, when pressed by an analyst. “It’s sort of within the range and it’s basically when we thought.”Cook said that developers are working on bespoke apps, notifications and information summaries that Apple calls “glances” for the Apple Watch. The company will be relying on third-party developers for that “killer app” to make the Apple Watch a success beyond the first version.2. Apple has now shipped more than 1bn iOS devicesMore than 1bn is a lot of iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches. Google’s Android crossed a similar milestone in 2013.Photograph: Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/Getty Images“On November 22nd we shipped our one billionth iOS device,” said Cook. “One billion devices is an almost unfathomable milestone, and we are all incredibly proud to be part of it.”A big milestone, oneGoogle crossed in September 2013and now hasmore than 1bn active Android users– nearly double the 530m it had a year before.3. The iPhone 6 is apparently an Android user magnetMore switchers from Android bought iPhones than ever, according to Cook.Photograph: Pablo Blazquez Dominguez/Getty ImagesAmid confirming that the iPhone 6 was the most popular iPhone in the final quarter of 2014, but declining break iPhone sales down further, Cook was unsurprisingly happy to blow some heat in Android’s direction.“The current iPhone line up experienced the highest Android switcher rate in any of the last three launches in the three previous years.”“Given there are fair amount of Android units out there, there is also an enormous amount of Android customers that could switch.”4. Mac growth is not hiding iPad’s issuesSales of Macs like the new iMac with 5K retina display are up, iPads are down.Photograph: AppleApple sold 5.5m Mac computers in the final quarter of 2014 – up 14% year-on-year, with record revenues for the company of $6.9bn. But Apple chief financial officer Luca Maestri revealed the iPad was not fairing so well with a 17.7% decline in sales to 21.4m units in the last quarter of 2014.“The upgrade cycle is longer. It’s longer than an iPhone, probably between an iPhone and a PC,” Cook admitted. “There is probably some level of cannibalisation that’s going on with the Mac on one side and the Phone on the other.”It seems tablets are less like smartphones and more like computers – why replace it if it works perfectly fine?5. Apple Pay is doing well (or contactless payments are unpopular)Apple Pay has propelled the popularity of contactless payments in the US.Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images“Just three months after launch, Apple Pay makes up more than $2 out of $3 spent on purchases using contactless payment across the three major US card networks,” said Cook.A two-thirds market share so soon after launch sounds impressive, although another way to look at this statistic is to wonder just how unpopular contactless payments were in the US when Apple Pay launched. Which, of course, is why this is a big opportunity for the company.“I think we’re in the first inning on it... we haven’t even completed the first inning yet. There’s tons of things on our roadmap of adding functionality to it,” he said. “We’re just in the US right now and so there’s tonnes of countries to go to.”6. Apple is big, not little, in ChinaApple’s first stores in China opened in 2014.Photograph: Ju Huanzong/Xinhua Press/CorbisRevenues in China were up 70% year-on-year in the last quarter of the year, but according to Maestri more iPhones were still sold in the US: “Sales doubled year-over-year in China, our second largest iPhone market.”China is the world’s biggest smartphone market, but Apple has a battle with Samsung and the new upstartXiaomion its hands.“Our online revenues in China last quarter were more than the sum of the previous five years. And so it’s an incredible market,” said Cook. Apple opened 10 new stores in China in the final quarter of 2014, with plans for 40 by mid-2016.7. iOS developers are exploring HealthKitWWDC IOS8 Health kit presentationPhotograph: The Guardian“There has also been incredible interest in HealthKit with over 600 developers now integrating it into their apps,” said Cook. “Consumers can now choose to securely share their health and wellness metrics with these apps and this has led to some great, new and innovative experiences in fitness and wellness, food and nutrition and healthcare.”He highlighted Apple’s work with hospitals in the US – Duke Medicine, Stanford Children and Penn Medicine – to integrate HealthKit data into their electronic medical records. That’s something that will take time (and some complex deals) to roll out elsewhere in the world, though.8. Apple is bullish about its IBM partnershipApple and IBM’s combined push in enterprise is full steam ahead.Photograph: Seth Wenig/APApple’s deal with IBM to drum up corporate business for its devices and apps appears to be going well. Cook said that Apple has now launched 10 “MobileFirst for iOS” apps for business customers in the banking, retail, insurance, financial services, telecoms and airline industries, as well as government workers.It plans to launch 12 more in the first quarter of this year – including for healthcare, energy and industrial-products firms – with the aim of having 100 of these apps available by the end of 2015.“IBM is engaged with more than 130 additional companies looking to empower their employees with MobileFirst for iOS solutions and the list keeps growing,” said Cook. “We couldn’t be more pleased with this partnership.” It’s a far cry from the days when Apple and IBM were bitter rivals in the personal computer market.9. Apple has enough cash to buy 40 aircraft carriersWhy sell phones when you can just buy aircraft carriers?Photograph: ReutersIf world domination through control of information technology doesn’t work, Apple could always go the more direct route. Its cash pile – now standing at $178bn – is enough to commission 40 Nimitz-class aircraft carriers, giving Apple more force capability than every other navy in the world – combined.Of course, it would have to construct the aircraft carriers outside of the US in order to continue avoiding tax on its foreign-cash piles. And it may want to keep a bit of money aside to pay for planes and helicopters to actually fill the ships.On the other hand, its margins would probably rise significantly in the aftermath. Who’s really going to say no to Cook when he’s pointing a 100,000 tonne, nuclear powered office block at them?•Apple buys British startup behind music analytics service Musicmetric•Developers made $10bn from iOS apps in 2014•Will Apple Watch spark a wave of popular smartwatch games?
If you start seeing multiple pictures of cute kittens on friends’ Facebook pages, it may not mean they have suddenly become an ailurophile.Wickr, the secure messaging company, has launched a new feature that allows users on Apple devices to share pictures with friends that will self-destruct after 24 hours.What sets WTF - Wickr Timed Feed - apart is the ability to allow selected users of Facebook to click through to those pictures via Wickr. Any users who have not been approved will instead see pictures of kittens.Nico Sell, founder and chief executive, said: “Wickr is ad free and collects no information on its users. Users fully own and control pictures shared through Wickr.”She chose kittens to disguise users’ images because they were “tremendously popular” online. More than 3.8m cat photos and videos were shared a day online last year, according to Wickr.“The problem I have with Facebook is that anything people post, they give up ownership and control over,” Selltold the Financial Times. “They just do not realise it is happening.”Facebook allowed Wickr to use its application programming interface to link WTF to its users’ profiles.How to use Wickr’s new WTF feature.This month Selltold the Observerof her concerns about the privacy policies of social networking sites such as Facebook, Snapchat and Instagram.“With all of them you’re granting control and ownership of whatever you post on that site to the service. We’re now seeing people’s Twitter photos being put on billboards without them getting paid,” she said. “I think those people don’t need to, or don’t want to, lose this control of ownership of their baby pictures but they don’t realise it’s happening.”Wickr is one of the “secure” messaging apps that use encryption technology to keep conversations private that have been developed in the wake of revelations about intelligence agencies’ surveillance prompted by NSA whistleblowerEdward Snowden. Others include ChatSecure, Cryptocat, RetroShare, Signal, Silent Text, Telegram, TextSecure and Threema.• No more leaky chats: the best secure messaging apps
A new startup accelerator based in London hopes to be the launchpad for a new wave of cyber-security technology companies from across Europe.The first 13-week programme forCyber London(CyLon) will kick off in April, with a group of startups drawn from industries including defence, retail, telecoms and health services.Ten teams a year will be funded by the programme, with their founders receiving £5,000 in cost-of-living allowances while taking part. CyLon is structured as a not-for-profit business, and will not take equity stakes in any of the startups.Its founders include Alex van Someren of Amadeus Capital Partners, who previously co-founded internet security startup nCipher, taking it public in 2000.He is joined by co-founders Grace Cassy and Jonathan Luff of Epsilon Advisory Partners, and advisors Jon Bradford of startup accelerator TechStars and Eileen Burbridge of venture capital firm Passion Capital.Another British accelerator, Ignite, is also a founding partner for CyLon, which is promising to connect its startups with an array of mentors including “key government agencies, successful cyber entrepreneurs, academic experts and leaders of businesses that depend on cyber-security to succeed”.CyLon has not given details of which government agencies will be involved, but it has announced its three sponsors: law firms Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Fried Frank, and investment company Winton Capital.“These sponsors are commercial partners only and have no say in the operation of your business, no prescriptive rights or unique access to the technology you create,” stresses CyLon’s website. “There are no strange terms and conditions and we align ourselves entirely with the other founders of the business.”Two of CyLon’s founders are active investors, and have “specific funds earmarked to invest in companies they select during or after the programme”, although startups taking part are not being guaranteed follow-on funding.Its UK location presents both an opportunity and a challenge for CyLon. On the one hand, the government is keen to invest in cyber-security startups: witnesschancellor George Osborne’s announcementthat GCHQ is investing “£3bn over nine years into developing the next stage of national cyber intelligence”.On the other hand, the recent controversy around his bossDavid Cameron’s desire to crack down on the use of encryptionand other anti-surveillance techniques has raised a huge question mark over whether it is sensible for cyber-security startups to base themselves in the UK.With CyLon’s closing date for applications to its first programme closing on 2 March, the quality of those applicants will offer an early indicator as to whether that speculation has put startups in this field off the UK as a potential headquarters and source of funding.•Want to avoid government malware? Ask a former NSA hacker
The long wait from theannouncement of the Apple Watch in Septemberto actually being able to buy it will finally end in April.Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook announced the shipping dateduring an earnings call. The watch is the company’s first foray into wearable technology beyond a fitness sensor made with Nike. Earlier reports had suggested it would be available a month earlier, in March.The Apple Watch was first announced in September last year alongside two new larger iPhones, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. The watch is designed to be paired with an iPhone, including older models as old as the iPhone 5. Similar to Google’s Android Wear smartwatches, the Apple Watch will not have phone capabilities, instead relying on the paired iPhone for an internet connection.Apple described the Watch as the “most personal device we’ve ever created”, featuring a heart rate monitor and other health and fitness tracking features that feed into the company’s Health app and data sharing service.Three editions of the Apple Watch with increasing prices will be available.Photograph: Apple/EPAWhile the month of launch is now known there are still many unanswered questions, including that of battery life. Apple has stated that it will last a day on a full charge, but several reports have stated that it might only last around 2.5 hours of heavy use or three hours displaying the clock face.Most competing smartwatches, including those from Samsung, will last over a day. Sony’s Android WearSmartwatch 3, for instance, can last three days of normal use before charging.Despite worries of battery life, the first generation of the Apple Watch is expected to be a sales success.“Even if it only told the time, Apple is likely to sell millions of them with the first launch,” said Ben Wood, head of research at analysts CCS Insight. “Apple makes beautiful things and the Watch is beautifully engineered. Combined with its brand credentials it’s going to be a fashion statement and a status symbol with a much broader appeal than current smartwatches.”No pinching and zooming necessaryThe ‘digital crown’ will act like a retro jog dial on the side of the watch to adjust settings and access features without blocking the small touchscreen screen with fingers.Photograph: Stephen Lam/ReutersThe Apple Watch has a “digital crown” – a knob on the side of the watch that will act as a jog dial for adjusting functions including zooming and setting the time, removing the need to place fingers on the small screen for some functions.Beyond the time, the smartwatch’s screen will provide at-a-glance notifications and mobile payments using the company’s Apple Pay contactless payment service.Several of Apple’s apps will be available on the Watch, including voice-control tool Siri, Messages, Maps as well as information pulled from calendars, email and other iPhone apps. Third-party developers are expected to embrace the new platform in a similar manner to the iPhone and iPad, creating bespoke apps for the watch.The smartwatch will come in three versions: the stainless steel Watch, aluminium Watch Sport and 18c gold Apple Watch Edition. Six different straps will also be available, each with a quick-remove clasp.•Record iPhone sales help Apple to beat all expectations•2015 gears up to be the year of wearable tech•Apple Watch: did the fashion team get it right?
Snapchat’s latest update removed a feature which has irritated sexters for years – but some of the app’s teen users are so unhappy that the company has promised to reverse the decision.The “best friends” lists, a part of the app for more than two years, have been removed. The lists display the top three most-messaged friends, and were, until they were removed, the only persistent part of a users’ profile – and the only public part.For many users, the list was a baffling inclusion in an app which is otherwise about ephemerality (and, lets face it, at least a bit about sending photos which you really shouldn’t).“Imagine this scenario,”wrote Buzzfeed’s Katie Notopolous in December 2012: “Your very loving and sweet girlfriend looks at your Snapchat profile and sees that you’ve been messaging someone else more than her. Or that you’ve been messaging anyone other than her. You just blew it, buddy. Welcome to Dumpsville, population: you and your iPhone.“With no saved-message trail, you can’t even prove your innocence if you were really just sending pics of your cat. Now no one is ever going to love you, and you’re going to die alone with that cat (OK, maybe it’ll be a new cat by then, but there will definitely be a cat and it’s going to eat your corpse when no one finds your dead body for days).”So the removal of the feature ought to be something which is greeted with cheers, at least among those who aren’t planning to use it to catch out love-rats. But if there’s one thing which is true of all social networks, it’s thatlife finds a way.Two years on, the feature has gone from little-known privacy hazard to an important part of how it is used the app’s core teen audience.“The top friends feature was used among teens to find out who would be dating soon,”one 17-year-old told the Daily Dot’s Marisa Kabas. “I know a few guys who were like, ‘Yeah, I had been snapchatting her a lot but I didn’t even beat X in her top friends so I bet she’s more interested in him.’”But there’s good news for sad teens: the outcry has been such that Snapchat’s chief executive, Evan Spiegel, has promised to reverse the firm’s decision:We&#39;ll bring back BFs soon. A few higher-profile friends wanted to keep their usernames private - we&#39;ll come up with a better way to do that.&mdash; Evan Spiegel (@evanspiegel)January 27, 2015Tuesday’s Snapchat update was one of the largest in the app’s history,introducing a new Discover feature, pairing the app with media partners to push content to its users.
From gaming to movies, music and TV shows, everything can be streamed to the TV with the right box and all for under £100. But which shiny new boxes are currently worth your attention? Here are the main contenders.Sony PlayStation TVPrice:£79Sony’s PlayStation TV is a small black streaming box that plays Vita games, streams from the web and a PS4.Sony’sPlayStation TV(PSTV) is neat, simple and small enough to fit in a pocket. Hook it up to the TV, connect it to Wi-Fi and it will find your PlayStation 4 and let you assume instant control over it.Sony “strongly recommends” an ethernet cable, however. You can see why; with a cabled connection or a new, top-of-the-range Wi-Fi router it worked fine. Be prepared for disappointingly blocky-looking games and frame-rate issues otherwise.Other than PS4 games, the box has access to Sony’sPlayStation Nowgame-streaming service (available in the UK later this year) and plays PS Vita games – codes for free downloads of OlliOlli, Velocity Ultra and Worms Revolution Extreme are included.PSTV streams movies and television shows rented or bought through Sony’s Entertainment Network. It promises more than that but apps from Netflix and BBC iPlayer are blocked and cannot be used, leaving very little outside of Sony’s paid-for offerings beyond what can be streamed through the limited browser.Verdict:extends as PS4 into another room and will be great when PlayStation Now is available, but streaming media options are woefulAmazon Fire TVPrice:£79Amazon Fire TV offers access to services such as Netflix as well as Amazon’s Prime Instant Video.The Amazon Fire TV is essentially a micro-console. Plugging straight into an Amazon account, it is geared up for those with a Prime subscription. It will easily stream any TV show or movie from Amazon Instant Video. A small remote with a microphone allows surprisingly accurate voice searches to make finding content without using an on-screen keyboard simple.It comes with some non-Amazon apps, including the likes of Netflix, BBC iPlayer and Demand 5, with many more available via the Amazon app store. Any MP3s you buy from Amazon and any photos you have uploaded to Amazon Cloud Drive are also available, plus you can stream media from a Kindle tablet or smartphone to the TV.The Fire TV can also play games from Amazon’s app store, which are essentially smartphone games. There are a few decent ones, but the selection is a bit patchy to say the least. An optional Bluetooth joypad is available for £35, or the mini remote works as a controller.Verdict:great for Amazon-heads, but no sense for anyone with a console or non-Prime subscribersMicrosoft Xbox One Digital TV TunerPrice:£25The Xbox One Digital TV tuner lets users watch a programme while playing gamesMicrosoft’s Xbox One Digital TV Tuner is a very different beast to the PlayStation TV and others.Inside is a Freeview tuner. Connect it to an antenna (either external or internal), hook it up an Xbox One via USB and it will give you access to all the Freeview channels, arranged immaculately in Microsoft’s excellent OneGuide electronic programme guide.It is simple to use and set up, but does not come with a coaxial cable, which it should, and does not have the ability to record programmes.It does have a 30-minute buffer, so you can start watching programmes, then pause them for up to half an hour, rewind and so on, but not save them.Verdict:easy to add TV to an Xbox One, but the connected TV probably already has Freeview - and you can’t record programmes.Roku 3Price:£69The Roku 3 has a headphone socket on the remote control for private listening.The latest Roku 3 is a jack of all trades. It streams movies and TV shows from a wide variety of services including Netflix, BBC iPlayer and others. It can also stream music from services including Spotify and play a limited selection of files from a USB drive.The Roku’s remote can also act as a motion controller like a Nintento Wii-mote. A small selection of games including Angry Birds, Galaga, Downhill Bowling, Sudoko, Wheel of Fortune and Jeopardy are available.The remote works well, and has a headphone port. The box is also fast, with fluid animations and quick menus – something that cannot be said about some other set-top boxes.Verdict:the widest variety of apps available, but with limited gaming support.Now TV boxPrice:£20 with a limited subscription to sports, movies or TV packagesThe Now TV box is a modified Roku with UK TV catchup services and access to Sky’s Now TV streaming movie, TV and sports channels.Photograph: SkySky’s Now TV box is essentially a stripped down, cheap Roku player. It’s designed for streaming Sky’s Now TV service, including movies, entertainment and sports channels.The box also has apps for the BBC iPlayer, ITV Player, 4oD and Demand 5, as well as YouTube, BBC Sport and Spotify.It’s limited to 720p streams, has no local file play and a much more limited selection of apps, but is easy to set up and a bargain for £10 on its own or £20 with a Now TV sub package.Verdict:the cheapest way to put catchup TV services on a non-smart TV.Google ChromecastPrice:£30Google’s Chromecast is one of the smallest streaming devices on the market.Google’s Chromecast is the simplest streaming device available: it is an HDMI stick powered by USB and plugs straight into the TV.It acts as a receiver for video, photos, music, computer screens and even some games, all streamed from a smartphone, tablet or computer using Google Chrome browser. The content is “cast” from the smartphone app, like BBC iPlayer, Netflix, Blinkbox or others to the stick, which connects directly to the service over an internet connection. The smartphone or other device is then simply used as a remote.Some apps and games, including Scrabble, Monopoly, Wheel of Fortune and others, can use the Chromecast to display screens on the TV. The Chromecast cannot actually do anything other than display a slideshow of background photos without another device, however.Verdict:stripped back, simple to use stick that connects a smartphone, tablet or computer to the TV.Apple TVPrice:£79Apple TV is great - for iPhone or iPad users...The Apple TV is a small black puck, like most of the other devices here, which connects to the TV via HDMI. It comes with a small metal remote, but can also be controlled using an iPhone or iPad.It will stream content from Apple’s iTunes for music (with iTunes Match), movies and TV shows. It also has built-in apps for Netflix, Sky’s Now TV, YouTube and others.Like Google’s Chromecast and Amazon’s Fire TV, the Apple TV will also act as a streaming receiver, allowing users to stream videos, music, games or mirror their screens from an iPhone or iPad. Apps such as the BBC iPlayer or 4oD can stream video, while games such as Real Racing 3 can use the Apple TV as a screen.Verdict:great for people with iPhones and iPads or those plugged into the iTunes ecosystem.Other reviews•Best budget smartphones for under £150•Which is the best tablet from 2014?•Six of the best noise-cancelling headphones to silence the commute
“You don’t put a team together with a computer” said Grady Fuson toBilly Beanein the 2011 movie Moneyball. “Baseball isn’t just numbers. It’s not science. If it was, anybody could do what we do, but they can’t because they don’t know what we know. They don’t have our experience and they don’t have our intuition.”It may be a quote straight out of the Hollywood playbook, but Moneyball is based on author Michael Lewis’ non-fiction workMoneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game, which tracks the Oakland Athletics baseball team’s ascent under general manager Billy Beane and his use of an analytical, evidence-based,sabermetricapproach to assembling a competitive team.The probability of successOnce a novel approach, data-led team selection is now a commonly deployed tactic in many sports. Similarly, technology and data analysis are being adopted by businesses to recruit personnel, select and form teams, and inform strategic thinking. So what are the advantages to using a data-centric approach in both disciplines?Jonathan Leeder, physiologist at theEnglish Institute of Sportexplains that increasing the probability of success by finding areas for marginal gains is the whole point of data analysis. “You can’t guarantee success, but you can increase the odds of it,” he says.In team sports in particular, technology and data is used to aid team selection, in addition to shaping training and tactics.Bill Gerrard, professor of business and sports analytics at Leeds University, is perhaps better known forhis collaboration with Moneyball’s Beane around football, or what Beane might refer to as soccer. He explains how using technology and data helps to “establish a culture of evidence-based decisions which forces coaches to consider all of the factors involved in a decision on team selection, to clarify what the evidence is on each factor, and to make explicit the relative importance of different factors.”So using data to inform team selection provides a more comprehensive view of likely outcomes. The more you can understand what a player’s peak performance levels are as a benchmark, the more you can assess their condition and readiness for a match. It stands to reason that if you aren’t using the data capabilities open to you, your competitors will be, so the likelihood is you will be behind before you’ve started.Indeed, data-led team selection has become so integral to strategy and tactics in rugby that the RFU declined to comment for this article. Both the England and Ireland camps cited the “sensitive nature of the metrics” as the reason.Data analysis, says Gerrard, has changed the tactics deployed in the Six Nations. “It has helped teams identify their strengths and weaknesses and clarify the critical success factors, some of which can be surprising.”In the business world, data analysis and metrics-led recruitment is also gaining momentum. James Webb is the managing director atPropel London, a recruitment consultancy specialising in technology and digital. Performance data, he says, “plays a key role in a sales person, for example, getting through the door to an interview.”Scott Ross, chief technology officer at global marketing and technology agency,DigitasLBi, explains that the recruitment market moves so fast that “the more we can pre-qualify our candidates, the more likely we are to find talent within their ever-shortening window of availability.”People, not robotsData analysis in sport has its limitations, as it does in recruitment. “Some key aspects of player performance are not particularly amenable to analysis,” says Gerrard. “How to blend together a group of individual players into a team so that the whole is more than the sum of the parts is more a matter of judgement than analysis,” he continues.Angus McNab, head of rugby atOptaPro, also cites player influence on the group as a whole and leadership qualities as being very difficult to measure.Leeder agrees, adding that you can’t quantify culture or psychology with data. “As technology gets better and better, it’s easy to become too distracted by it, by too much data. You need to measure things that are contributing to winning the medal – anything that isn’t is arguably a waste of time,” he says.In recruitment, data-driven selection has similar limitations. Relying purely on data-led recruitment removes the human aspect, which is “the most important part of any team”, says Webb. Teams “are about development of relationships, interactions, challenges, and shared experiences. Purely using data to inform team selection removes any consideration of these factors.”In fact, it is the recruiters personal relationship with a candidate and understanding of their preferences, ambitions and career objectives that enable recruitment agencies to make “informed recommendations of [a candidate’s] relevancy for a specific position or company.”Ross breaks down what he considers to be the right balance: “Data is an incredibly important tool in the recruitment process to lower the signal-to-noise ratio, but the face-to-face conversation still remains a mandatory step, and will continue to be the primary decision mechanism for us.”Top10, a hotel recommendation app based in London, launched last year and was named one of the App Store’s ‘Best of 2014’. The company now needs a strong technical team to work on its app and Harry Jones, co-founder and CTO, explains he is very analytical in how he hires, particularly for the technical team. However, despite using technical proficiency tests and data analysis to inform his decision making Jones still only weights the analytics as 50% of his final decision. “We still want to work with people we get along with, not robots who just complete tasks. The data can’t tell you that.”A game of two halvesIn sport, as in the recruitment of high-performance business teams, all experts interviewed for this feature agree that when it comes to successful team selection, the key is in balancing data-led analysis with gut instinct and other, usually cultural, factors. The skill of a coach is to take all data sources - some quantitative and some qualitative - into account and find the right blend.“Data gets the person in the door,” says Webb, but gut instinct “is very important and often outweighs data.”OptaPro’s McNab believes the days of solely relying on gut feeling have gone, but is also a believer in making bold decisions. “This is done with a game-plan and strategy in mind though, so it is a combination of the data and also knowledge of the players and their intangible qualities that will help.”‘If you challenge conventional wisdom, you will find ways to do things much better than they are currently done,’ wrote Michael Lewis. As the sporting world and the recruitment world continue to invest in data-led team selection, the probability of success will continually rise. A reliance on statistics alone however, will leave a team, an athlete, or a recruitment team, coming up short.Eleanor Dallaway is editor ofInfosecurity magazineTheCreative Data hubis funded byAccenture. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled ‘Brought to you by Accenture’. Find out morehere.
The co-founder of parenting website Netmums is launching a new YouTube network calledChannel Mum, aiming to find an audience of British mothers and turn some of them into online video stars.The new multi-channel network (MCN) will sign a roster of “mummy vloggers” in the UK and help them build their audiences, while working with popular brands to sponsor their videos.Siobhan Freegard has been working on the new venture since leaving Netmums in 2014, having co-founded the website in 2000 and thensold it to French publisher Aufeminin Group in 2011.“YouTube reminds me so much of the early days of Netmums, when the internet was first coming into our homes. To me, it was like a wild west, but now it’s all organised and feels mature, whereas on YouTube, you can still literally see the cowboys riding off to stake their claims,” she told the Guardian.Freegard’s desire to explore YouTube came from observing her teenage children’s internet habits. “They don’t Google for information, they YouTube for information. And I see that with young mums too: when they look up a recipe, they’ll go to a video rather than a text-based recipe,” she said.Channel Mum is aimed at “millennials” – a demographic group that stretches up to the age of 34 by some definitions – with Freegard claiming that 80% of babies are born to women within that category.“YouTube is growing up, and the millennials are growing up too,” she said. “There are a huge number of new mums in this category, and at least the middle and younger of them are the YouTube generation, while the older ones are coming to it.”The reasoning behind Channel Mum is that while these trends should be creating a demand for more YouTube videos aimed at mothers, there aren’t many channels providing it – and particularly few in the UK.“We said let’s look at the top 20 mum vloggers in the UK, and we couldn’t even find 20. We found 15,” said Freegard. Channel Mum has created its own monthly chart – the Vlog 15 – to rank those by their reach and engagement.The company claims that the 15 channels in its first chart uploaded more than 50 hours of video in December 2014, and generated more than 13m views on YouTube.The 15 most influential UK mum vlogs, according to Channel Mum.Channel Mum isn’t saying which of the 15 it has signed up, if any, but besides adding existing channels to its roster, Freegard will be recruiting new vloggers through a competition backed by Panasonic, which will see 100 mothers given equipment and training to launch their own channels.“We want to get people talking about real parenting: the honest, authentic face of parenting rather than the idealised ‘I’ve just been to Baby Gap, look at my haul!’ kind of videos,” she said.“We’ll have the practical things mums want to know about, like sleep, food, breastfeeding and when you can give Calpol. But we’ll also have the emotional things around relationships with partners and whether you should work or not. I’d really love to draw out some of those stories.”Channel Mum will be monitoring comments on its channels carefully, to ensure that its network doesn’t fall victim to some of the more toxic elements of YouTube commenting culture in other genres.“We’re very aware of that: for a new, young vlogger who’s just put herself out there, getting told ‘God, you’re really ugly and so is your baby’ could be a total knock to their confidence at a vulnerable stage. We’ll be on the lookout for that, and if necessary we will offer to take over the comments, and moderate it very tightly,” said Freegard.However, she expects there to be no shortage of confidence among the young mums Channel Mum is hoping to recruit.“The under-30s are happy to be under a camera where those of us who are older might not feel comfortable talking to ourselves. They are the X Factor generation, or the Snapchat or FaceTime generation: they’re much more natural in the visual format than we are,” she said.Freegard hopes that Channel Mum will attract a range of brands as commercial partners, although she has “no interest” in basing the new business on income from pre-roll advertising running before videos, because many mum vloggers won’t have audiences large enough to make significant money from them.Channel Mum will be more about sponsorship deals and branded content featuring its vloggers. “With online video, brands in the parenting space haven’t really got anywhere to go,” said Freegard.“If you’re selling Nike trainers or a new phone, there are millions of gaming channels to target. If you’re selling makeup you’ve got all the beauty vloggers. But if you’re selling household cleaner or a new juice for kids, where would you take that on YouTube?” she said.“If we work with that household cleaner brand, we might get them involved with the vloggers in a whole series on keeping on top of the housework, for example. And brands can join in with the emotive issues that we’ll be covering too, from relationships to kids’ behaviour.”•YouTube’s biggest stars: DC Toys Collector, PewDiePie and Taylor Swift
Yahoo is spinning off its $40bn stake in Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba in order to avoid a multibillion-dollar US tax bill.The plan will place Yahoo’s 15% stake in Alibaba – which has recently been the technology company’s most successful moneymaker – into a secondary new firm called SpinCo, Yahoosaid in a statement Tuesday.“I am proud and happy to announce a plan for a tax-free spin-off of our Alibaba holdings,” Yahoo CEO and president Marissa Mayer said. “Throughout my tenure with the company, we have worked tirelessly on a tax-efficient alternative that would maximise the value of our Alibaba investment for our shareholders. A tax-free spin-off accomplishes this and delivers value directly and exclusively to our shareholders.”Yahoo’s chief financial officer, Ken Goldman, said the company has spent years trying to work out how to return capital from the Alibaba stake to shareholders without being handed a major tax bill.“We have actively engaged experts in tax-efficient structures over the past two years and have considered a variety of alternatives. We remain aligned with our shareholders and our plan is designed to achieve the most advantageous return of capital to Yahoo shareholders with the absolute highest probability of success,” he said. “The structure provides the investment community with clear visibility into the respective entities’ fundamentals, and also facilitates valuation transparency in SpinCo because Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba will constitute almost all of its value.”The new entity, which will be created within the next three months and listed publicly, will include Yahoo’s 384m shares in Alibaba as well as an unspecified “legacy, ancillary” Yahoo business.Yahoo shares rose by 10% in extended trading. The stock had declined by 2.9% to $48 at the close in New York.“It’s all about Alibaba,”Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research Group, told Bloomberg. “It’s all that investors have been focused on.”Yahoo also reported its fourth quarter results, with sales, excluding revenue shared with partner websites, falling 1.8% to $1.18bn.
Snapchat is aiming to become much more than a social media app by making content from the likes of Vice Media, Cosmopolitan magazine and CNN available to users.Discover is billed as “a new way to explore Stories” that “puts the narrative first. This is not social media.”The company, best known for its self-destructing photo and video messages, also claimed that Discover differed from other platforms because it was “built for creatives”.As the youth media brand seeks to reach new audiences, Vice will make its Daily Edition available on Discover, featuring breaking news and fresh musicians, artists and personalities.Cosmo is another of the 11 media channels that will deliver new content daily to the app’s 100m users.Exclusive content will be created for Snapchat by the magazine’s editors and uploaded to the app as a daily “edition”, with five articles for users to swipe through. Each edition will be available for 24 hours.Snapchat has 11 content partners for the launch of Discover.DailyMail.com will also partner with Snapchat and offer users 10 to 15 of its “highly addictive stories” news, showbiz and lifestyle stories curated by a dedicated editorial team.Stories will be either full articles or the best video stories of the day, said Martin Clarke, editor-in-chief of DailyMail.com - which recently rebranded from MailOnline.com.Evan Spiegel, Snapchat chief executive, said his company was “huge fans” of the website - the world’s most popular English language newspaper site.Other partners include Yahoo! News - giving further exposure to its new signing Katie Couric - Comedy Central, the Food Network, CNN and National Geographic.Discover is part of Snapchat’s grand plans to start making money from its young and highly engaged user base, alongside the ads that already appear within the app’s Recent Updates screen.Snapchat’s media ambitions werefirst revealed last August by the Wall Street Journal, which predicted a November launch for “Discovery” with news articles, videos and advertisements.In November,Digiday provided an update, claiming that Snapchat was in talks with a number of media organisations to be part of the new feature.Meanwhile, leaked emails from Sony Pictures – whose chief executive Michael Lynton is on Snapchat’s board –hinted at the company’s ambitions to launch a digital music service, although that does not appear to be part of Discover at its launch.The leakprompted Spiegel to write a memoto staff explaining that he was “definitely angry. definitely devastated” at the plans being made public ahead of time.•Messaging apps’ next threads: encryption, payments, media, ads•Ten things you need to know about Snapchat
Facebook has blocked a page after a Turkish court ruled it was insulting to the prophet Muhammad.The order was made by a Golbasi duty magistrate court following a request by the prosecutor Harun Ceylan, who was investigating a number of pages on the social media network.The court ruled that Facebook would be blocked in Turkey if it did not comply with the ruling, the semi-official Anadolu news agency reported.The social network is estimated to have about 40 million users in the country.Facebook declined to comment directly. It has a policy of complying with the laws of the countries in which it operates even if such action infringes free speech.For the six months to June 2014, Facebook said it restricted access to 1,893 pieces of content that were “primarily reported by the Turkish Information and Communication Technologies Authority and Turkish law enforcement officials under local laws, especially law 5651, which covers a range of offenses including defamation of Ataturk and personal rights violation”.This month a court in Turkey’s southeastern Diyarbakir province ordered a block on accessing web pages showing the cover of the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. It depicted a cartoon of Muhammad in the wake of the attacks on the publication’s Paris offices that left 12 people dead.It was unclear whether that order had been fully complied with.The court orders are the latest moves to crack down on material regarded as offending religious sensibilities in the largely Muslim nation, where the government of president Tayyip Erdoganis regarded as pushing a pro-Islamist agenda.This month, prosecutors opened an inquiry into a newspaper that reprinted parts of the latest issue of Charlie Hebdo.In March 2014Turkeyrestricted access to Twitter hours after Erdogan - then the prime minister - threatened to “root out” the social media network where wiretapped recordings had been leaked, damaging the government’s reputation ahead of local elections.However, many users soon circumvented the ban by using text messaging services or disguising the location of their computers to continue posting messages on the site.
If you can watch the video above, Zöe Keating’s channel hasn’t been blocked by YouTube. But according to the musician, that’s the threat hanging over her if she refuses to sign a new contract relating to the recently-launchedYouTube Music Keyservice.Keating went public with her concernsin a blog post last week, with YouTubecontacting reporters afterwardsto deny some of her claims.As with the company’s dispute with indie-labels trade body WIN in 2014, the row hinges on comments made in private about YouTube’s terms and conditions, and how it plans to enforce them.It’s another can of worms for a music industry that specialises in canned wormage, but it’s an important one: YouTube is already a major player in the digital music world, and together with Apple and Spotify will be shaping the way that industry evolves over the coming years.So, what’sreallygoing on here, and what does it mean for YouTube and other musicians?Zöe Keating.What Zöe saysCellist Keating – who earlier in her career worked as a software developer – has become one of the most prominent “DIY” artists, releasing music herself through her store on the Bandcamp website, as well as through iTunes and other online stores.In her blog post, she made several specific allegations, including the claim that she was told by a YouTube representative that “I need to sign on to the new Youtube music services agreement or I will have my Youtube channel blocked”.She listed five elements of the proffered agreement that she disagreed with: having to include all her music in both the free and premium versions of YouTube Music Key – including videos featuring her music uploaded by other people; having to set all her videos to “monetize” through advertisements; not being able to release new music elsewhere before it’s on YouTube; having to upload that music at 320kbps resolution; and the five-year length of the contract.Keating added that she uses YouTube’s Content ID system to identify videos uploaded by other people which feature her music – nearly 9,700 that collectively were viewed 250,000 times in December 2014 – and decide whether to leave them be, “claim” them to earn a share of ad revenues, or get them removedAccording to Keating, YouTube’s representative told her that she couldn’t just keep Content ID running and opt out of YouTube Music Key.YouTube Music Key.What YouTube saysYouTube hasn’t gone on the record in this particular dispute, but the company’s private arguments remain similar to those offeredduring its dispute with WINin 2014.The company wants the same music to be available on the premium, subscription-based version of YouTube Music Key as on regular (free) YouTube, rather than having some tracks available on the latter but not the former.Hence its “all or nothing” offer to musicians: if they don’t want their music on Music Key, they can’t make money from ads around their music videos on the free version of YouTube. The company wants Music Key to be seen as the solution to the regular complaints that musicians don’t get paid enough for YouTube views, rather than a new problem.However, YouTube is adamant that it won’t block musicians from uploading their music to its service or running a channel in that case. The company also says it isn’t stopping artists from releasing music on other platforms earlier than YouTube.Content ID? That’s more of a grey area. YouTube says musicians who don’t agree to its Music Key terms still have “control” over their content in terms of copyright: they can still get videos that use their music without a licence removed.What’s still unclear is whether they can still use Content ID for that. If not, artists would have to manually find videos using their music, and file individual takedown requests with YouTube to get them removed – a process that could be onerous for independent musicians like Keating. It’s a bigger threat than blocking her channel.Zöe Keating’s Bandcamp site.What now?The current dispute has a very specific impact: artists who release their own music rather than work through a label – whether a major one with its own deal with YouTube, or a independent label represented by licensing agency Merlin, whichstruck a deal with YouTube in November 2014on its members’ behalf.The terms signed by those labels and Merlin have unsurprisingly been kept secret, but it’s highly likely that some of the terms objected to by Keating will have been scrubbed from their final agreements.With a growing number of artists going it alone thanks to services likeBandcamp,Patreon, PledgeMusic and distributors like TuneCore and The Orchard, Keating is far from the only musician who’ll be in the position of having to decide whether to sign an individual deal with YouTube – with little muscle to push back against terms they don’t agree with.The danger for YouTube here is looking like a bully, at a time when musicians are increasingly speaking out when they feel that big technology companies aren’t respecting their work, and their desire to control how and where they release it.This particular dispute could be fixed pretty quickly: let artists offer exclusives elsewhere if they want, shorten the contract length from five years – an age in digital music – and let musicians keep using Content ID even if the option to make money from ads around their videos is blocked.The deeper communication issues could be solved too: making sure representatives talking to artists are explaining policies clearly – if Keating’s channel won’t be blocked if she declines to sign the YouTube Music Key contract, why did she come away from a phone call with notes suggesting it would? – and perhaps even addressing complaints publicly and explaining its reasoning more often.Lindsey Stirling.What’s the bigger picture?YouTube has been a powerful platform for all kinds of artists and creators, including independent musicians. ViolinistLindsey Stirlingis an interesting counterpart to Keating: another classical musician finding her audience online, except in her case, YouTube played a pivotal role.Neither musician’s path is better than the other: they’re both important examples that in the emerging new music industry, there are many paths to a sustainable career and a passionate audience of fans. Control is an important factor in all of them: control over the rights to your music, as well as over the platforms you choose to distribute it on and connect with fans.There’s a big digital music battle brewing between big companies – Apple, Google/YouTube and Spotify included – with the likes of Bandcamp, PledgeMusic, Patreon, Kickstarter and many more technology companies carving out smaller (but still very important to their musician clients) niches around them.Control, transparency, flexibility... all important concepts as the big companies realise they need to compete not just on price, slick features, exclusive deals and marketing, but also on how artist-friendly they are (and seem) – with the small companies nudging them along in that regard.That’s why the YouTube / Zöe Keating row is more important than it might seem at first: even if you share her view that Google isn’t “evil”, it’s dispiriting to see the company seemingly handing ammunition on a plate to the people that do hold that belief.At the same time, if YouTube can resolve this dispute fairly and prove that it has a role driving even more control, transparency and flexibility in the music industry, that would be a positive outcome.•Streaming: what next for Apple, YouTube, Spotify… and musicians?•Zöe Keating reveals iTunes, Spotify and YouTube payouts for 2013
Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group, the world’s largest contract electronics manufacturer, has come out swinging with a strong denial of a report that it plans to cut jobs.Reuters reported that Foxconn will cut its massive workforce as the Apple supplier faces declining revenue growth and rising wages in China. According to Reuters, which interviewed special assistant to the chairman and group spokesman Louis Woo, Foxconn was considering a reduction in its workforce of 1.3 million people“We’ve basically stabilized [our workforce] in the last three years,” Woo said, according to Reuters, which also reported he answered “yes” when asked whether the company plans to reduce overall headcount.Woo did not specify a timeframe or target for the reduction, Reuters reported, but noted that labor costs had more than doubled since 2010, when the company faced intense media scrutiny following a spate of worker suicides.Woo also said automation will be key to keeping labor costs under control in the long-term, according to Reuters, and that the company would have robotic arms complete mundane tasks currently done by workers.Foxconn later, however, sent a clarification to media outlets strongly denying that layoffs are a possibility or that automation would reduce jobs.“A media report that alleges that our company is reducing its workforce is completely inaccurate and totally without foundation,” Foxconn said in a statement distributed by public relations firm Burson-Marsteller from Hong Kong. “We continue to recruit employees to support our business and operations globally and we continue to maintain a workforce of over one million employees worldwide.”On automation, Foxconn said: “As we have long said, Foxconn is investing in the automation of many of the manufacturing tasks associated with our operations … to enable our employees to focus on high value-added elements in the manufacturing process.”The company added: “As we continue to increase the application of automation in our operations, the magnitude of our employee recruitment is expected to decrease in the years ahead, but we have no plans to reduce our workforce numbers now or anytime in the future.”Foxconn revenue grew by double digits from 2003 to 2012, but recently tumbled to to 1.3% in 2013 and 6.5% in 2014. Woo, in the interview with Reuters, said the company expects smartphone prices to keep falling.“Even if technology is improving, the price will still come down,” Woo said, according to Reuters. “We’ve come to accept that, our customers have come to accept that.”Research firm IDC predicted that smartphone sales in 2015 will grow by half the 26% rate in 2014, and that the average smartphone will sell for 19% less in 2018 than last year’s $297.After scandals and worker complaints, Apple, which is Foxconn’s largest customer,allowed the Fair Labor Association to conduct a reviewof its suppliers’ labor practices. The FLA interviewed “thousands of employees about working and living conditions including health and safety, compensation, working hours and communication with management”, per Apple, and the result was better living conditions, higher wages and fewer suicides.Last summer, Chairman Terry Gou, Foxconn’s largestshareholder, urged other shareholders to “be patient, don’t be in a hurry” about the company’s potential evolution beyond making iPhones.Last March, Foxconn said it would hire up to 15,000 people in Taiwan for new research and development positions.This article was amended on 27 January 2015. A previous version of this story carried the Reuters report alone. It has been updated to incorporate Foxconn’s denial.
Mobile video uploads and group direct messages are coming to Twitter, as the social network tries to counter competitors by expanding its features.The new video functionality will let users upload 30-second non-looping videos, which can be played directly in their timelines. The company describes it as existing “alongside”, rather than instead of, Twitter-owned six-second video service Vine.The group direct messaging feature will allow users to carry out private chats with multiple friends away from their public timelines. The change comes after other recent improvements to DM functionality, including the ability to send pictures.In a blogpost announcing the changes, Twitter said: “We designed our camera to be simple to use so you can capture and share life’s most interesting moments as they happen.”“In just a few taps you can add a video to unfolding conversations, share your perspective of a live event, and show your everyday moments instantly, without ever having to leave the app. Viewing and playing videos is just as simple: videos are previewed with a thumbnail and you can play them with just one tap.”https://t.co/dyTcpQJ89V&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)January 27, 2015On launch, iPhone users will also be able to upload videos from their camera roll, a feature which will roll out to Android users “shortly afterward”, according to Twitter’s product director, Jinen Kamdar.As for the video length, he said: “We think we’ve struck a balance that makes it easier for people to share, and it’s not so long that such that people will be turned off from watching it on the timeline”.Alongside the video uploads comes group DMs. Twitter users will be able to add multiple followers into the group chats, who can then add their own followers in turn. The company sees the feature as enabling deeper private conversations about public content on the site, rather than as a move to challenge messaging behemoths like Facebook’s WhatsApp or Google’s Hangouts.“We don’t think of it as displacing all the messaging apps that you have on your phone,” said Kamdar, “but as a way to interact with people you ordinarily wouldn’t be able to, because your graph is so unique on Twitter.“These are people you may not have even met, or you may not have their phone number, and we think that the fact that you can sort of have a backchannel conversation about public content that lives on Twitter is the thing that differentiates it, and that will be appealing to users.”The decision to add new features to DMs is a major reversal from just a few months ago, when the functionality was neglected almost to the point of death.For almost all of 2014, an over-fierce anti-spam feature in the service prevented any links being sent in DM except to a select few whitelisted sites; the service has also been beset with bugs related to unread messages, and mysteriously deletes old messages at will.Kamdar said: “We’ve just been investing heavily in the public side of Twitter for a very long time, and making sure that the timeline experience, that profiles and search, that all these things are robust, engaging, strong useful experiences.“And now we’re investing in the private messaging space a lot more. We think it’s a really nice complement to all the work we’ve done on the public side.”Not everyone will be happy about the announcements. Third-party app developers, alreadyfeeling the squeezefrom limitations on the number of users they can have, will be locked out of the new features at launch, and may never receive full access to them.Kamdar said that “clients and developers will be able to play videos back, and we’re going to provide information on how to do that soon. For group DM, there’s no announcement yet, but we’re looking at how to improve DM on all sides.”Group DMs and video uploads are available on the latest version of Twitter’s mobile apps, on iOS and Android app stores now.
Microsoft has reported its earnings for the final three months of 2014, and while net income is down 10% to $5.86bn, compared with the same period the previous year, Xbox One seems to be consolidating its position against Sony’s PlayStation 4 console. So where do both the machines stand right now?From its own figures, Microsoft says that it shipped 6.6m Xbox One units to retailers in the three months up to 31 December 2014. This figure isn’t the same as consumer sales – it could be that some of these machines remain on the shelves. By contrast,we knowthat PlayStation 4 sold through 4.1m units to purchasers between 23 November and 4 January, and thataccording to US market analyst NPD Group, Xbox One outsold PlayStation 4 during November and December, so the shipping figures and sell through figures for Microsoft’s machine could be reasonably close. We’d know more if Microsoft would release its sales figures, as Sony does, but it is sticking with shipping figures right now.For the wider picture, Sonyhas confirmedthat it has now sold 18.5m PlayStation 4 units worldwide, since the launch of the machine in November 2013. Estimates for Xbox One vary, but 11m units isthe favoured figure, with Wii U back at 8.9m.Can Xbox One catch up this year? “While we do foresee Xbox One selling a healthy amount out to 2018 on a worldwide basis, we don’t yet see the gap between the two formats narrowing in any significant manner,” says IHS analyst, Steve Bailey. “Microsoft successfully stemmed the bleeding from those stark stumbles in 2013, and has picked itself up well; the first-party full-price slate going into Christmas 2014 was arguably stronger for Xbox One, and the console went toe-to-toe with PS4 in the heated bundling/price reduction battle in the second half of last year.”“However, PlayStation has been making it difficult for the gap to be closed. In terms of third-party alliances, for example, Destiny has been a major win for PS4, given how convincing multiplayer online experiences can be for swaying whole groups of established online friends toward a certain console’s online service.”Considering the “death of the console” rhetoric that was floating around the industry in the run up to the launch of the latest Microsoft and Sony machines in 2013, the figures remain impressive. This generation has launched into a very different market than PS3 and Xbox One. The rise of the smartphone and tablet were supposed to be eating away at the traditional user-base at the casual end, while the resurgent PC – boosted by the rise of the Steam game download service – was supposed to be chomping away at the hardcore.But then, compare the performance of this generation against Sony and Microsoft’s previous devices after a comparable sales period. Just over a year into its own lifespan, PlayStation 3 had shifted10.53m consoles, while Xbox 360 hadmanaged 7.6m. Combined sales of PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are, therefore up over 60% on the PS3 and Xbox 360 equivalents: 29.5m compared to 18.13m.PS4 v Xbox One: the past and futureAnalysts are pretty much agreed on why Sony triumphed last year. The PlayStation 4 was well marketed with an emphasis on games, and a decent price points. Microsoft chose to emphasise the unproven multimedia capabilities of Xbox One, concentrating its May reveal event on live and interactive TV features. Together with some confusing and ambiguous digital rights management concepts and used-game policies, as well as the mandatory inclusion of the new Kinect camera,the messaging was unpopular, and the price point too high for many. It is telling that the Xbox One has performed much more strongly in the US after an autumn price cut to $349.Interestingly, though, neither has competed particularly strongly on exclusive games so far. For Sony, Killzone, inFamous and DriveClub all failed to really set the platform alight, with the remastered Last of Us the big highlight. Meanwhile Microsoft’s Ryse, Kinect Sports Rivals and Halo: Master Chief Collection fell short (the latter, like DriveClub, on technical difficulties), though Forza Horizon, Titanfall and, to a lesser extent, Sunset Overdrive faired better. Look atthe top 100 gamesin the UK last year though, and there are no console platform exclusives in the top 10, apart from the Xbox One edition of Minecraft.Will that change in 2015? Both consoles have some interesting contenders. PlayStation 4 will call on steam punk adventure The Order: 1886, Bloodborne, Uncharted 4, Street Fighter V and No Man’s Sky. Xbox One has Halo 5, Scalebound, Fable: Legends, State of Decay: Year One, and – perhaps – Minecraft, if it chooses to cease support for the PlayStation iterations. There’s also the timed Rise of the Tomb Raider deal, and the possibility of both Crackdown and Gears of War turning up later.Other competitive factors in the coming year include peripheral technologies and multimedia features. Sony will tell us more about its Project Morpheus virtual reality headset, while Microsoft has just announced its Hololens augmented reality device, which is a standalone product but may well be compatible with thecompany’s console. As for other entertainment offerings; Xbox One has itsdigital tuner and OneGuide capabilities, providing a new platform for live TV, while Sony has itsPlayStationTVandPlayStation Nowgame-streaming services.“While elements such as pricing and software exclusivity remain key dictators of the battleground, there so much more at work here,” agrees Bailey. “Improved supply and distribution channels into certain territories; developer relations and platform accessibility; usage of social media channels; game-access subscriptions and freemium hybrids; cross-device functionality; catalogue momentum; regular and significant digital sales initiatives; exclusive non-game content.“Both Microsoft and Sony have to compete on all of these fronts, not just with one another, but with a wider technological landscape – TV consoles are ripe for disruption, and have been for some time, but potential usurpers aren’t yet hitting out hard enough to halt them.”For now, despite the fact that Microsoft is still reluctant to provide sell-through sales figures, the situation looks healthy for both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.NPD figures for 2014showed software sales across the industry falling 13% compared to the previous year, but the firm only accounts for boxed copies, so the figure may be hiding a rise in digital gaming purchases.A year ago, some pundits were thinking in terms ofcrisisfor the next-gen machines. However, it seems the many entertainment and technological pressures baring down on the traditional games consoles seem to be increasing interest and possibilities rather than drawing gamers away.The challenge for Sony and Microsoft is to make money from their gaming divisions within their wider corporate interests. Xbox has been making a loss for years, and there isconstant talk of the business being sold off– although the company has recently made a bid deal of its implementation into the Windows 10 ecosystem. By contrast, PlayStation 4 has proved profitable for Sony and the company is set toheavily rely on its gaming division this year, as the consumer electronics business falters.Perhaps the most pressing question for gamers is where Nintendo goes next. Lagging behind its competitors, but with some wonderful Wii U titles already out, a dominant handheld and the promise of some key brand returns in 2015, we may well be entering into a three-way race again.PS4, Xbox One, Wii U – which console should you buy? Part onePS4, Xbox One, Wii U – which console should you buy? Part two
When Facebook goes down it’s a serious issue: bored office workers are bereft of distractions, children are obliged to talk to their families, media executives cry over lost traffic and nobody gets poked … (no seriously, that still exists).In addition, Facebook engineers frantically rush to get everything back online – but it wasn’t always like that. In 2010 when Facebook’s site broke down it could be fixed just by turning it off and on again, literally.Here’s a history of major outages in recent years, from the serious to the seriously silly.27 January 2015The latest 50-minute outage was caused by Facebook attempting to change something within its systems which went wrong,not a cyber attackas was widely reported.A Facebook spokesperson told the Guardian: “Earlier today many people had trouble accessing Facebook and Instagram. This was not the result of a third-party attack but instead occurred after we introduced a change that affected our configuration systems. We moved quickly to fix the problem, and both services are back to 100% for everyone.”The outage hit both the site and apps, but impacted other services including Instagram, Tinder, AOL messenger and Hipchat, which rely on Facebook for logins.1 August 2014Facebook’ssecond outage in two monthswas caused by another server error, which again affected Facebook’s site, apps and sites and services that use its login system.A Facebook spokesperson told the Guardian at the time that the company was “working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible.”Skype was one of the high-profile services made unavailable for some users who were unable to log in during the one-hour 40-minute intermittent outage.19 June 2014June was a big deal for Facebook – itslongest outage in four years, which saw the site down for 31 minutes and was the start of an increasing frequency of site issues.Both the website and Facebook smartphone and tablet apps were affected, leading users to seek refuge on other social networks including Twitter and even Google+.“This morning, we experienced an issue that prevented people from posting to Facebook for a brief period of time. We resolved the issue quickly, and we are now back to 100%. We’re sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused,” Facebook said in a statement at the time, failing to elaborate on what caused the issue.The outage even lead to brands, including Nestle’s KitKat, to make jokes and poke fun at Facebook’s expense.Looks like#Facebookis having a BREAK right now. Have a BREAK, too! :)#facebookdownpic.twitter.com/rBhH4CMqKS&mdash; Nestle KitKat PH (@kitkat_ph)June 19, 201421 October 2013Facebook’s engineers were to blame for another site issue, this time not an outage but a “read-only error”, whichprevented users from posting status updatesfor more than four hours. The rest of the site was functional, but caused problems for at least 3,587 other sites, according to data from IT management firm Compuware.“This morning, while performing some network maintenance, we experienced an issue that prevented some users from posting to Facebook for a brief period of time,” said a spokesperson at the time.Facebook was estimated to have 700 million active users at the time.24 September 2010In 2010, Facebook suffered atwo-hour disruptionthat was apparently down to a fiendishly complex networking problem, again caused by its engineers. The solution, however, was incredibly simple. Facebook turned the site off and then on again.The issue was caused by a runaway condition at a “database cluster” of computer servers among the 500 sites that form Facebook’s worldwide network. In the end, Facebook’s head of software engineering said: “We had to stop all traffic to this database cluster, which meant turning off the site.”31 July 2007Only three years old, Facebook’s attitude to outages was slightly different than it is now. In 2007 the site waspurposefully taken offline by its engineers.“This morning, we temporarily took down the Facebook site to fix a bug we identified earlier today,” a spokesperson said at the time.That outage was long enough for users to resort to MySpace, Bebo and the one-year-old Twitter.Now seven years on, that kind of purposeful outage is unthinkable, but with a user base of less than 100 million users and having only been open to all over the age of 13 for a year, the site was a very different animal.•Mark Zuckerberg defends Facebook censorship despite Charlie Hebdo support
The NFL is gearing up for Super Bowl XLIX with the launch ofan official YouTube channel, through a partnership with Google that will also see the channel appearing when fans search for specific teams on the search engine.“On any screen you watch YouTube, NFL’s YouTube channel will bring you the sights and sounds this week in Arizona, from pre-game analysis to the highlights that everyone will be talking about,” YouTube’s sports partnerships manager Tim Katz saidin a blog post.The NFL is playing a long game here, though: the channel will continue to post videos during the league’s off-season, before resuming highlights and other clips once the next season gets underway.The league only set up the channel in mid-December, and has been stocking it with clips from recent playoff matches and season-highlights for individual players ready for the launch this week, ahead of the Super Bowl on Sunday.The NFL is late to YouTube in comparison with rival sporting bodies in the US. Basketball bodythe NBA joined YouTube in 2005and now has more than 6m subscribers and 2.5bn video views on the service.Ice hockey bodythe NHL joined in 2006and has more than 294m views, while baseball organisationMLB joined in 2005, and has nearly 237m views.However, the NFL has a wider digital strategy that is more advanced, witha suite of appsincluding one through which fans will be able to watch the Super Bowl live on their smartphones or tablets.“Partnering with YouTube and Google provides the NFL unique access to millions of highly engaged fans through the global leader in video and search,” said the NFL’s Hans Schroeder.“We continue to see an insatiable appetite for digital video content, and this partnership further expands fans’ ability to discover and access NFL content throughout the year.”•Deflategate parody song: ‘Tom Brady’s balls were soft and squishy’
Cultural critic Anita Sarkeesian is planning to follow her Tropes vs. Women in Video Games YouTube series with a new project in 2015 exploring representations of men and masculinity in games.Sarkeesian revealed the new project in theannual report for her Feminist Frequency organisation, as well as her plans to launch another new series focusing on positive female characters in games, while continuing to point out negative examples with new episodes of her existing show.The organisation is aiming to build on nearly 5.8m views of its YouTube channel in 2014 – a year in which Sarkeesian became a target for harassment from some elements of the online Gamergate campaign.In October, she wasforced to cancel a planned talk at the Utah State University, after an anonymous email threatened “the deadliest school shooting in American history” if the event was allowed to go ahead.In her annual report, Sarkeesian says her experiences in 2014 has led to an expansion of Feminist Frequency’s focus to include “advocacy around ending online hate and abuse, analyzing and advancing awareness of how gendered harassment operates online”.“Privately, I am working with online feminists to strategize long-term solutions to deal with the epidemic of online abuse and create mechanisms for support. I am also consulting with tech and gaming companies on how to address issues of online harassment in their own communities.”In 2015, Feminist Frequency will hire more staff, rebrand its organisation and website, and start selling merchandise, according to the report. Sarkeesian launched the organisation in 2012 afterraising $159k on crowdfunding website Kickstarter.In anew post on her Kickstarter page, Sarkeesian provided more details about the emotional toll that online harassment took on her in 2014.“Every time I post anything online there is a predictable wave of harassing messages in response. However, when I publish an episode of Tropes vs Women in Video Games the vicious wave of harassment can carry on for weeks or even months.Instead of the satisfaction that typically comes with completing and publishing a big project, I am often forced to turn off my computer and avoid Facebook, Twitter and email, sometimes for days at a time. In addition to the sexist harassment, the death and rape threats have been persistent and have ranged from annoying to criminal.”Sarkeesian noted that while the harassment existed “long before the mob began self identifying as ‘GamerGate’”, the emergence of that online campaign “caused the hate and vitriol targeting women in gaming to intensify exponentially”.Now a not-for-profit organisation, Feminist Frequency will continue to raise money in 2015 to tackle this and related issues, having received $230k in December 2014 alone, fuelling a proposed budget of $400k for 2015.“It means more critical media analysis, more videos, and more efforts to raise awareness and develop solutions around the epidemic of online harassment,” wrote Sarkeesian, who also delivered a message of defiance in the annual report.“My whole team is committed to this work and we are not going anywhere.”•Gamergate targets launch anti-harassment network
Multiple major social networks went down on Tuesday morning, including Facebook, Tinder, Instagram, AOL Instant Messenger, and Hipchat.The cause of the suspension, which began around 6:20am GMT and ended about 50 minutes later, was an apparent outage at Facebook’s HQ which cascaded to other networks that use Facebook to authenticate users.Facebook told the Guardian: “Earlier today many people had trouble accessing Facebook and Instagram. This was not the result of a third party attack but instead occurred after we introduced a change that affected our configuration systems.“We moved quickly to fix the problem, and both services are back to 100% for everyone.”The outage hit both the websites and apps of the affected services all around the world. Facebook-owned Instagram returned a “can’t refresh feed” error, while the Facebook website itself simply failed to resolve in the browser.Facebook’s failure seemed to be so major that it has cascaded into apps such as Tinder that rely on the social network for login functionality.Not every Facebook-owned service failed. WhatsApp, acquired by Mark Zuckerberg’s company in February 2014, remained functional.Hacker group Lizard Squad - which attacked PlayStation and Xbox Live networks at Christmas - had tweeted the outages and were incorrectly reported as the cause by some media outlets.Facebook, Instagram, Tinder, AIM, Hipchat#offline#LizardSquad&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardMafia)January 27, 2015The group’s tweets stopped short of specifically claiming credit for the failures.The last major outage toaffect Facebook occurred in June last year, where a similar technical issue took the site offline for more than 30 minutes. Publishers, among others, saw referral traffic from Facebook fall off a cliff – a similar but greater affect is expected from today’s outage.
Facebook-owned virtual reality firm Oculus VR is getting into filmmaking with a new division called Story Studio, staffed by a team of veterans from the likes of Pixar and Industrial Light &amp; Magic.The studio is showing off its first VR movie – an animated short film called Lost – at the Sundance Film Festival, with plans to make several more in the year ahead in the run-up to the commercial release of the Oculus Rift headset.Story Studio is a sign of Oculus’ ambitions to move beyond games, the entertainment genre that persuaded Facebook to buy the company for $2bn in 2014. Oculus hopes that the new division will stimulate other animators and filmmakers to start making VR films.“Right now the focus is to support and inspire the community—share with them everything we’re doing, opening it all up,” chief executive Brendan Iribetold Road to VR. “Over the next two months, we’re hoping to educate the community on how we did this and how we got started.”For now, long-form films are not on the agenda: Lost lasts around four minutes, although the interactive nature of virtual reality may make running times more flexible for many VR films. “This is cinema running in a game engine in real time,” said Iribe.He addedin an interview with TechCrunchthat the Facebook acquisition had accelerated Oculus VR’s plans to get in to filmmaking by recruiting a team that includes former Pixar creatives Saschka Unseld and Max Planck.“This is another example where as a smaller, independent startup it would have been hard to spin up an effort like this,” said Iribe.The Story Studio announcement is part of a wider buzz around virtual reality films at the Sundance Film Festival this year. Filmmakers Chris Milk and Spike Jonze have beenshowing off their Vice News VR: Millions March documentary, which was produced with online broadcaster Vice News.11 of the 14 projects in Sundance’s experimental New Frontier showcaseuse virtual reality technology, according to The Verge, whilefive-minute monster short Kaiju Fury!has been picking up plenty of praise at the event too.•Oculus Rift – 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality
It’s Tuesday everyone, come and meet Tuesday! Tuesday, this is everyone!
Uber, the controversial taxi app, promised to limit fare hikes to 2.8 times normal fares on Monday as New York prepared for a historic snowstorm.The company has come under heavy criticism for its “surge pricing” during other crises. In December, Uber causedoutragewhen it quadrupled prices in Sydney close to the site of a deadly hostage siege in the city centre.Uber also has a history of astronomic price hikes in New York when foul weather causes spikes in demand. Last December, Uber hit the headlines in New York when Jessica Seinfeld – the cookbook-author wife of comedian Jerry Seinfeld – posted a picture to Instagram, since removed, of the $415 bill she received after dropping her children off at two events. “UBER charge, during a snowstorm (to drop one at Bar Mitzvah and one child at a sleepover.) #OMG #neverforget #neveragain #real,” she wrote.Uber’s decision to cap prices comes after the city’s top lawmaker warned Uber and other services against price gouging during the storm. “My office will be vigilant in monitoring potential price gouging before, during and after this potentially historic storm,” said New York attorney general Schneiderman. “I encourage consumers to report any businesses that may be capitalizing on the snowstorm to distort their prices. Emergency weather events are no excuse for dishonest and illegal business practices.”Schneiderman’s warning came as the National Weather Service forecast a potentially historic blizzard in the greater New York City metropolitan area with up to 2ft of snow and wind gusts in excess of 50mph. At least 28 million people across seven states may be affected by the storm.New York’s price gouging laws ban service providers such as car services, plumbers or businesses selling food, water or shelter from charging an “unconscionably excessive price” during “abnormal disruption of the market”.Last summer, Schneiderman reached an agreement with Uber to limit prices during a crisis. Uber must limit prices to the normal range it charged in the preceding 60 days – excluding from the cap the three highest prices charged on different days during that period.As the storm closed in on the city, Uber was charging 1.6 times normal fares for those looking to escape.
