It's a bad day for videogame industry accountants. Not only has Microsoft lost millions on Xbox, Tiger Telematics, the company responsible for the Gizmondo handheld, has published its latest financial report - and it doesn't make for pretty reading. As Gamesindustry.bizreveals:"Tiger faced net losses of around $99 million in 2004, and an operating loss of $210 million over the first half of 2005. The company blamed these figures on 'Development costs for the Gizmondo and non-cash expenses associated with shares of restricted common stock issued for services.'"More intriguingly though, the site has revealed several 'coincidences' in the company's accounting. For example,:"Gizmondo Europe also paid independent developer Northern Lights USD 3.5 million to create the games Chicane and Colors. However, these games were in fact developed by two differerent studios - Warthog and Indie Studios, both of which are owned by Gizmondo Europe. Northern Lights, coincidentally, is owned by Gizmondo Europe director Carl Freer together with Stefan Eriksson, executive officer for Gizmondo Europe."Hmm, what can it all mean?*I know, it doesn't really work, but it's better than 'Gizmondoh!'...
An article inForbes.comreports that Xbox has lost Microsoft $4 billion in 4 years.Gosh, that's a lot of dough. From the article:The Xbox game console is hot, but its division has lost $4 billion in four years and isn't yet in the black.You could say that again Mr. Ballmer.Give us time, Ballmer says. "You could say 1995 to 2000 was about us winning on the desktop. Then 2000 to 2005 we won and drove the server market. And the next five years is all about driving and winning the Web," he says.Er, any plans for games???More fromInquirer.Thanks Bambino_Tostare!
"The T-shirt in the crowd said it all: 'Miyamoto is God'. More than 2,000 gamers lined up Sunday outside the Nintendo World store in Rockefeller Center to get an autograph and trade Nintendogs with Nintendo designer Shigeru Miyamoto. Those who didn't equate the 51-year-old inventor of Donkey Kong, Mario Bros and Zelda to a deity called him 'the father of my generation,' brought sketches of his face or showed their loyalty by wearing Mario hats, Power Gloves or full Link costumes," reportsMTV News."Making his first public appearance in the US since he began work for Nintendo in 1977, Miyamoto was welcomed like a rock star. He signed autographs on the second floor of the Nintendo store, a veritable museum showcasing every Nintendo system, oddities like a still-functioning Game Boy mangled from the first Gulf War, and playing cards created during Nintendo's pre-video-game history. When Miyamoto approached the store's second-floor windows, the throng below let out cheers of 'Ma-ri-o!' and 'Nin-ten-do!'"Comment:Joystiq has a "somewhat gratuitous upper-body shot" of the female T-shirt wearerhere.
"Virgin Records said Tuesday it would release the Rolling Stones' latest album on a new encrypted flash memory card that will allow users to preview and buy locked tracks from four of the veteran rockers' previous albums," reportsAP."The memory card, dubbed Gruvi, is manufactured by Sunnyvale, Calif.-based SanDisk Corp., and will be available in November at select US stores for $39.95, SanDisk and the label said in a statement. By comparison, the Stones' latest album, A Bigger Bang, costs about $14 on CD."This Gruvi (sic) card is copy protected, but otherwise, as the story notes: "Last year, Virgin label parent EMI Music released music and video content by British singer Robbie Williams on another type of memory card for mobile phones."
"The technology giant Apple admitted today there was a problem with its latest iPod product -- but insisted the numbers affected by the flaw were minimal," reportsPA.Phil Schiller, from Apple, said: "This is a real but minor issue involving a vendor quality problem in a small number of units. "In fact, this issue has affected less than one tenth of 1% of the total iPod nano units that we've shipped. It is not a design issue."Since the vendor is Apple, presumably Schiller should have blamed one of the company's contract manufacturers in China.He said any iPod nano owners who found their screens were cracked would get their music player replaced free of charge.That's good, but Apple couldn't get away with doing anything else. When it comes to the scratching problem, however, it looks as though Apple isn't going to help. PA quotes Schiller as saying:"If customers are concerned about scratching, we suggest they use one of the many iPod nano cases to protect their iPod."One example is the Invisible Shield, which is already advertising aniPod nano Full Body Protectorfor $19.95. The site says:For the purists among us who think the iPod nano looks best just like it is, we bring you the invisibleSHIELD - an invisible, full-body wrap for the hot, new iPod nano. Beware! The black nano gets scratched much worse than any previous iPod. You will not regret getting invisibleSHIELD protection. Check out the Demo Video to see how SUPER STRONG the invisibleSHIELD is!If there is a scratching problem, of course, it's not going to be fixed overnight, and there will still be millions of flawed players in the retail supply chain.For earlier coverage and reader comments, seebelow....
I got my US version ofWe Love Katamariyesterday, the sequel to the innovative and clever sleeper hitKatamari Damacy. I couldn't wait for the European release (at the hands of EA) so went ahead and grabbed my Namco version instead. First impressions? Fabulous. Slightly different. Just as surreal.Yet according toMTV News, KD creator Keita Takahashi never intended to make a sequel, commenting in an interview that he wanted nothing to do with it but the publisher's decision to re-release the game (perhaps to the heretofore ignored PAL territories) with a Christmas theme was final.Suddenly celebrated for his originality, Takahashi would soon have to tackle the possibly contradictory idea of doing a sequel. He told his bosses at Namco several times that he wouldn't do one. "But it came to a point where the company was willing to release a sequel without me," he said. He discovered that the company's planned sequel seemed more like a re-release, primarily swapping Christmas graphics into the original game. "That went against everything I wanted to do with Katamari," he said. So he agreed to get involved....Takahashi hopes, of course, that his sequel can reach beyond cult-favorite status. "I realize that a lot of these sports games that big companies like EA make are very enjoyable," he said. But he hopes people will play games, like his, that allow players to do things they couldn't do in the real world. "If you want to play a sports game, why not go outside and play sports?"Originally a sculptor with not much interest in games, Takahashi's success supports my layperson contention that a good way to ensure a truly innovative product is to hire a non-gamer to make a game. Why should games players have a stranglehold on interactivity?
French mobile games publisherIn-Fusiohas announced that it will be developing 'mobile applications' based around Xbox shooter, Halo. "This partnership is first and foremost a creative one focused on delivering mobile applications true to the Halo universe," said Julian Corbett the company's Vice President of Business Development and Brand Partnerships. "We are dedicated to expanding the franchise in ways that will be exciting for existing fans as well as delivering a fun and satisfying experience for a whole new audience."So, what form will one of gaming's most immersive and graphically rich experiences take on mobile phones? A top-down shooter and some ring tones? Let's hope not, eh? In-Fusio is an experienced publisher with a history of pushing the mobile format. It would be nice to see a big license like this being used to revolutionalise the platform. Although I am too much of a cynic to expect it.
I've been addicted toWorld of Warcraftsince it launched in the UK. Its gorgeous world and ridiculously compulsive action have lead to a lot of late nights at Chez Howson. So, thenewsthat Offspring are playing at Blizzcon - the official "celebration" of Warcraft, Starcraft and Diablo - is interesting, if only because it confirms how Blizzard see their audience. And they are probably right. If you are keen enough to spend a weekend at an event like this then you'll probably appreciate Offspring's turgid "punk". It made me think what bands you'd get at other, as yet fictional, events. Maybe The Killers at Vice City World, or perhapsIan Brownat The Super Monkey Ball?
There may be a general malaise on Britain's high streets but when it comes to one consumer product, retailers - and therefore consumers - cannot get enough. Sony's handheld games console, the PSP, is flying off shelves and shops are having trouble getting hold of the devices.Game Group, the UK's largest specialist computer and video game seller, yesterday said some customers who pre-ordered the PSP before it was launched at the start of the month have yet to receive their device, though it hopes to clear the backlog within the next 10 days.Dixons is also suffering from a lack of stock and is in constant contact with Sony to secure enough to satiate Britain's desperate gamers. "We are nearly a month into sales now and there is still large demand for the PSP. As soon as we put the product on the shelves they are being snapped up," said a spokeswoman for the retailer. Even online shop Amazon.co.uk has been forced to warn customers visiting its website that the item is in short supply.Sony has already sold about 200,000 PSPs and has pledged to pump 1,000,000 units into the UK market in the run-up to Christmas but yesterday Lisa Morgan, Game Group's deputy chief executive, admitted that sufficient deliveries of the console are unlikely to start rolling into stores until November."What we are seeing is we have had the launch of PSP, which was fabulous, but unfortunately we have not seen a lot of replenishment stocks," she said. "This is a product that is very hot at the moment."Video game retailers are warning that consumers should get their orders in quickly for the next "big thing" among gamers, the launch of Microsoft's new XBox 360 games console in December, if they want to have any chance of playing with it before the New Year.Microsoft is planning to release the XBox 360 across the US, Europe and Japan over a three-week period. The hype starts on November 22 with the XBox 360's launch in the US, then moves to Europe on December 2 and ends in Japan on December 10.The computer games industry is in a period of transition with the current generation of games consoles running down ahead of the launch of new platforms. As well as the PSP and XBox 360, Sony will unveil the third version of its successful Playstation console followed by Nintendo's Revolution box.In the run-up to these new boxes of delight launches, Game Group has seen the price of games for existing consoles plummet to under &pound;20 while consumers - mindful that new platforms are on the way - have stayed away and there have been few new compelling games.Game, which makes all its profits in the second half of the year, yesterday reported a pre-tax loss for the six months to end July of &pound;14.7m, up from a loss of &pound;3.5m in the previous year. The company, however, raised half-year dividend by 15% to 1.15p in anticipation of a better performance as a result of the launch of the new consoles.
Nearly two-thirds of businesses have not woken up to the threat posed to their brands and reputations by disgruntled bloggers, a survey of PR professionals revealed today.While more than 60% of PR executives interviewed believed that web blogs by unhappy employees or exasperated customers can damage corporate reputations, but 58% said businesses were insufficiently aware of the threat.Based on interviews with US, UK and European and Asian PR companies, the Blog Relations PR Survey shows that more than one in four respondents believed that there were a number of influential blogs that could affect a company's standing.With many blogs finding their way into mainstream media - such as Adrian Melrose's Land Rover rant, and high-profile blogs targeting the likes of Ryanair, Dell, BT and NTL, just over two-thirds admitted negative blogs could spark a "full-blown" PR crisis."Companies find it very difficult to get to terms with blogs and to get to grips with which ones are influential and what is the right way to proceed," said Hugh Fraser, the co-author of the report and a former journalist for the BBC World Service"Public relations companies have long experience in dealing with appeasing journalists, but with bloggers they're often not sure how to react."Respondents said it was up to PR companies to monitor blogs, with the Hill and Knowlton UK vice- president, Joel Cere, going as far to say that checking postings was a "prerequisite in crisis preparedness"."The PR who ignores blogs is even a bigger fool than the those who think that blogs change everything," said Bruce Marshall, the founder of UK technology PR company Bruce Marshall &amp; Associates.Time-wastingHowever, the online survey, which the authors admit attracted responses from more blog-savvy professionals, revealed that some PR chiefs believed the threat from blogs was overstated."Why are blogs any different from any other form of company pressure or mad crank? If companies waste their time trying to deal with bloggers they will tie themselves up in knots," said the Gresham PR chief, Neil Boom.The survey showed that American PR companies were ahead of their European counterparts when it came to looking at blogs.More than 80% of US executives admitting reading blogs "at least five times a week," a figures which fell to just 36% in Europe."Just because we in the UK are not in a blog frenzy, doesn't mean we shouldn't be monitoring them," said Katy Howell, the managing director of Immediate Future.However, European PRs were more inclined to pitch bloggers and over half said companies would benefit from setting up their own blogs.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
One of the interesting things to come out of myblogabout Microsoft's 360 showcase event, X05 - which I have actually now been invited to, expect a post next week about Gamesblog's lack of attendance at the Suntan Expo in Australia - was that games reviews in lads/mens mags are "bought" or influenced. So what do you think about the games reviews in Maxim,Loaded, FHM etc? A writer from one of the mags - Goonerboy - was keen to stress their independence when he posted. "I've been doing the games page on the magazine for seven years now, and have had my share of roastings from PRs and indeed readers for bad/unfair/unbalanced reviews. But I'll argue till the cows come home with anyone who has breath in their body about how the mag's reviews are fair and unbiased. So ball's in your court, posters. I'm intrigued, you tell me why you think men's mag's reviews are bought and paid for... ". You heard the man.
Some of us find Windows Explorer slow and annoying... but it must be admitted, many of the replacement programs are slower and even more annoying. I'm usingExplorerXPat the moment -- it's free -- and photographer Ian Lea has just emailed me suggestingxplorer2. This is also available in a free version,xplorer2 lite. Do you have a favourite you would recommend?
I was just at theGP2X console siteto see if anything was shipping, and thought the Linux Inside logo (above) deserved wider circulation. The GPX2 is a sort of £125Korean rivalto the Sony PSP, but it runs Linux ... and Windows via Cygwin. It looks like this:
Here are two emerging videogame controversies from the states. First, according to theNY Times on Saturday, New York Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly has called for a boycott of Activision'sTrue Crime: New York Citywhich he says, "depicts New York cops as law-breaking vigilantes".And yesterdayGamepolitics.comrevealed that Eidos is delaying the release of gang shooter25-to-Lifeamid vocal protests from law enforcement groups concerning perceived cop killing elements in the gameplay. This one has been simmering away since June when Senator Charles Schumerasked retailersnot to stock the title. Eidos has claimed that the delay is down to production issues...It is is difficult, or at least it should be, to pick a side in these cases. Both games appear to want to have their cake and eat it, simultaneously glorifying and condemning gang culture, baitingandpacifying the political right. True Crime, for example, attempts to gain legitimacy by employing a former police officer, Bill Clark, as a technical correspondent, but yet deliberately blurs the line between law enforcers and law breakers, featuring a lead character who's a "gang member turned cop". The press release also talks about how players must "use andabusetheir authority" in a revenge-motivated story. The implicit message being 'yes, you're a cop, but you get toactlike a hoodlum'. It reminds me of Driver, where you're an undercover detectivedisguisedas a lawless criminal - the hidden status of your character barely impacts on the game play. It is, literally, a cop out.Meanwhile, 25-To-Life allows players to select between gangster or cop, introduces a sub-plot about redemption (the lead criminal, Freeze, wants to save his son from a life of crime) and lets you take out enemies with non-lethal methods. But is all this just window dressing on a lascivious thug life fantasy? Amina Taylor's excellentdissection of pimp-chicin Monday's Guardian dealt with similar subject matter - the currently fashionable romanticising of low-life black stereotypes for mass consumption.Then again, who wants to side with the politicians and publicity-seeking lawyers who round on the videogame industry any time a new title dares to treat its audience as discerning adults? Their view of the 'artform' (for want of a better term) is so asthmatic with prejudice, so guided by the excitement of the moral battle, they are impossible to take seriously.One thing is certain. This whole gangland adventure genre is troublesome - it raises dark questions about the maturity of the industry and about what we want as gamers. Deep down, we all know that these games, when they're well-designed and well-paced, are utterly satisfying. Very few people seem to want to deal with that... with how it makes us feel - normal, law-abiding folk - with an Uzi in each clenched fist, with murder in mind. Ah, the adrenaline... It should be difficult to take a side in these cases, but for a hundred different reasons, it isn't. It isn't difficult at all.
Enormous Japanese mobile phone content servicei-modefromNTT DoCoMowill be launched in the UK next month via former BT mobile armO2, according tothis articlein Technology today. While I'm hopelessly out of my depth here, I do recall saying years ago when I was closer to the mobile phone games industry than I am now that the subscription-based system of the service would be a real draw to potential mobile gamers who are currently loath to download expensive interactive products through (what they consider) incoherent processes. The £3 per month price tag tier for all the content available (from Web to games) should increase the likelihood that people will download Keith's new favouriteCamelgame and others, and if the Japanese market is anything to go by (40 million i-mode customers by 2003), it should completely revolutionise our relationships with our mobile phones.But is it too late? Will i-mode arrive beyond the tipping point in Europe thanks to the plethora of other handheld products on the market?
Motorola boss Ed Zander doesn't seem to have quite got over being Steved by Apple. He was stopped from doing his own launch (or pre-launch) for the Rokr phone, then had his overhyped product upstaged by Jobs's theatrical launch of the iPod nano. Now IDG News Service has reportedZander's outburstduring a leadership seminar hosted by the Churchill Club:"Screw the nano. What the hell does the nano do? Who listens to 1,000 songs?" Zander said. People are going to want devices that do more than just play music, something that can be seen in many other countries with more advanced mobile phone networks and savvy users, he said.
"Toshiba, the world's third-largest notebook computer maker behind Dell Inc and Hewlett-Packard Co, said the PC would be introduced in Japan in early 2006. It is still considering the timing for an overseas launch," reportsReuters."The PC will be equipped with a slim, read-only HD DVD drive produced by Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology, a joint venture between Japan's second-largest electronics conglomerate and South Korea's Samsung Electronics. In addition to content in the high-definition HD DVD format, the new PC will also allow consumers to both read and write to conventional DVD and CD discs."The launch followed Monday's announcement that Intel and Microsoft would support HD DVD. According to another Reuters storyhere: "Intel and Microsoft said they also chose to back HD DVD because of its "hybrid disc" technology, which allows users to view current-generation DVDs on HD DVD discs imprinted with both formats. They also said that HD DVDs would be cheaper to produce, resulting in lower prices for consumers."
Mobile phone company O2 yesterday bet its competitive position on i-mode, the mobile internet service that has taken Japan by storm but has yet to attract significant numbers in Europe. The company is launching the service next month, backed by an &pound;8m marketing drive, the largest single advertising campaign since its demerger from BT four years ago.The new i-mode service - branded "the internet at the touch of a button" - will allow customers to access news, sport and magazine content from the likes of CNN, Sky Sports, Heat and Glamour; buy items such as wine and flowers from Laithwaites and Interflora; book restaurants; look up holidays on Lastminute.com and job vacancies on Monster.co.uk; check the weather, their Egg bank accounts and the eBay auction site; play games and watch TV clips from GMTV; or "relax" with Pamela Anderson.O2 is hoping that i-mode, developed by Japanese mobile phone company NTT DoCoMo, will persuade customers to do more than merely talk and text on their mobile phones by offering a host of compelling content. Over 80 media partners will provide free and paid-for subscription content from the launch on October 1 with over 100 sites ready for Christmas."It is not about technology, it is about delivering a simple customer experience that is fast and easy to use," explained Michiel Van Eldik, O2's director of i-mode.The i-mode service has 55m customers across 22 countries but the majority of its customers are still in Japan, where NTT DoCoMo launched it six years ago. It has experienced a shaky start in European countries such as Germany, France and Spain. O2, which rejected i-mode two years ago, reckons there are now suitably attractive handsets to make the service a real contender in the competitive UK market. The service uses the technology that powers the worldwide web - known as html - making it easy for online content providers to make their sites accessible through a mobile phone's small screen. In this respect it differs crucially from the current generation of mobile internet content services, such as O2's Active portal, which use an entirely different technological standard called Wap.Content providers set their own monthly subscriptions of up to &pound;3, with O2 taking a 14% share of that cash as well as charging customers to browse and download. O2 will charge &pound;3 per month for the equivalent of 100 online pages, with discounts for heavier users. All customers, who will need to buy a new phone, receive an email address, allowing them to send and receive email while on the move for the price of a text message, or the price of a picture message if a photo is attached. O2 is running a launch promotion with web browsing, email, picture messaging and up to 10 monthly subscriptions free until at least the end of 2005 for contract customers. Pre-pay customers will get the same deal for the first month.The service will be launched on four phones from NEC and Samsung, retailing from &pound;79.99 to &pound;279 on pre-pay tariffs and zero to &pound;79.99 for contract customers. O2 considered supplying a Nokia phone - the 6680, but in trials, consumers did not like it. "There was nothing wrong with it from our perspective," said Mr Van Eldik. "We just let our customers talk."
When will the next-gen bitchiness end? Yesterday we had Dead or Alive developer Tomonobu Itagakisayinghe was convinced that Xbox360 is the "best games console on earth". Of course, this has little to do with his upcoming Dead or Alive 4 on the 360 and more to do with the "complicated architecture" of the PS3. Does anyone outside the dev community actually care though? It's the games that count - if the PS3 version of, say, FIFA 2007 is graphically superior, and has more features, than the 360 version, then gamers are likely to go for that. They won't care that the dev team had to work extra hard on the PS3. Of course, that's why exclusivity deals, where games are tied to a platform for a period of time, are so important. So, will your choice of next-gen console be influenced by what developers say?
One of many interesting comments that came out of my"Don't believe the hype" blogwas the view that GTA: Vice City was more enjoyable then San Andreas. And I agree. VC had the perfect setting, more focussed action and, let's face it, better music. SA may have more to it, but bigger doesn't necessarily mean better. Halo came in for a bit of stick too, although the sequel fared better. So what does it all mean? Well, none of the games mentioned in the blog were bad, except Rise of the Robots, but it shows how perception of a game can change quite quickly. Reviews tend to be fairly rushed, with play concentrated in lengthy sessions. A reviewer playing through San Andreas over a stressed week is likely to have a totally different experience to someone who takes 6 months to do the same. Things that may have only been mildly annoying in a week long review are horribly amplified when the game is played in the real world by real punters. The motto? Believe some of the hype, some of the time.
Palm is, at this moment, announcing a Treo running Windows Mobile 5 at a press conference in San Francisco. This has already beenwidely reported, of course, so the only real news is the confirmation. This afternoon, I got a telephone briefing from Franck Gaget, Palm's European marketing director. He confirmed that the initial version of the phone will not do "push email," which requires an update to both the Windows Mobile software and Microsoft's Exchange email server. Push email will, he says, be available at a later date.He was also happy to confirm that Palm is not abandoning Palm OS, and has extended its Palm OS deal to 2010. The Windows CE-based system is, he says, "an addition to what we're doing, not a replacement."But Franck wasn't able to give dates or name suppliers for a UK version. The new Treo will be available from Verizon in the US "early next year", reaching the UK in the second half -- maybe a year from now.Comment:It will be interesting to see whether Palm fans react to Palm shipping a Microsoft operating system, but from Palm's point of view, it's just business. Windows Mobile gives it a chance to sell to big companies that are using Windows and the .net infrastructure. As for Microsoft, it's delighted to have another licensee, and particularly loves doing deals with "enemies" such as Palm, Psion and Nokia.These deals may not, in the short term, be good news for companies that are already selling phones running Windows Mobile: they have to face increased competition. But Microsoft's business is based on platforms -- in this case, Windows Server and Exchange Server -- and Microsoft cares far too much about its own platforms to worry unduly about other people's devices.
Microsoft chairman Bill Gates is to make his first official visit to the UK for nearly two years to headline next month's inaugural conference of the UK's internet advertising industry.Mr Gates will open the conference, which is designed to ram home the benefits of advertising on the internet.The Microsoft founder, who last week retained his crown as the world's richest man for the 12th year running with a fortune estimated at $51bn (&#163;28.73bn), joins the WPP chief executive, Martin Sorrell, and Lord Putnam as keynote speakers at the event."We want the advertising community to be fully appraised of the power and value of internet marketing," said the IAB chief executive, Guy Phillipson."Securing high-profile and influential speakers is the ultimate endorsement of the online advertising success story so far."The fact that Mr Gates, who has cut back on public engagements since stepping down as chief executive five years ago, is speaking at a UK trade conference speaks volumes about the success of online advertising over the past few years.Though he came to collect an honorary knighthood in March, his office said the event was his first official visit since January 2004, when he was a guest of Chancellor Gordon Brown at a business convention.After a slow start and the setback of the dotcom collapse on 2000, internet advertising has grown explosively as a combination of cheaper technology, growing broadband penetration and better content drives consumers and advertisers online.Last year it overtook radio advertising in terms of overall share, reaching a level of nearly 4% in the UK - the IAB says it is on track to overtake the market size of outdoor by the end of 2007.Last year spending on ad searches, pop-ups and other forms of online advertising rocketed 62% year-on-year to hit &#163;653.3m in 2004, from &#163;407.8m in 2003.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"Some owners of Apple Computer's new 'impossibly small' iPod Nano are starting to wonder if the device is also impossibly delicate. The most widespread complaint about the otherwise highly praised device seems to be that the color display screen gets scratched extremely easily," reportsCNet.This week several users also started complaining about screens cracking, or failing, inexplicably. Nano owner Matthew Peterson set up the site,flawedmusicplayer.com(formerly ipodnanoflaw.com) to tell the story about how his Nano screen shattered after just four days, to see if others have had the same problem, and to suggest that Apple recall the Nano and use a stronger screen product."It is way too fragile. Apple markets it in a pocket. Hell, Steve Jobs himself pulls it out of his when he announces it," wrote Peterson, who himself was smitten with the Nano upon its release. "It was in my pocket as I was walking and I sat down. No, I didn't sit on it."Comment:This follows earlier iPod battery complaints, overheating first-run iMac G5s, patchy screens on PowerBooks, motherboard problems, laptop power-supply recalls, theslow Superdrive* issue etc. Such problems are certainly not unique to Apple, but can hardly be overlooked in a company that generally has a premium-priced, aspirational product line.* Reference to problems with internal SuperDrives added in response to a comment.
Television audiences have grown used to expelling Big Brother contestants, forcing minor celebrities to eat jungle insects, and crushing the dreams of tuneless pop hopefuls. A new Channel 4 drama will take the trend to its logical conclusion, offering viewers the chance to shape an entire storyline by voting on the direction it should take and allowing them to play god with the fate of its central characters.A host of British urban music stars have been cast in the gritty six-part series which hopes to encourage its predominantly young target audience to engage with issues, including guns and drugs.The Mercury music prize-winning singer Ms Dynamite and many of the burgeoning new wave of British grime and rap artists, including Shystie, Rodney P and So Solid Crew, all appear in Dubplate Drama, which is due to air in November.In an effort to reflect rapidly changing media habits, the interactive series will also air on the digital channels MTV Base and E4, and will be made available to watch on Sony's new PSP device and in a cut-down version on the mobile phone network 3. The ambitiousproject, believed to be a world first, will be watched with interest by other broadcasters who for several years have been considering how to make a viewer-led drama that retains a strong sense of scripted storytelling and takes advantage of innovations in mobile phone and interactive TV technology.Last month, in a more limited application of the idea, BBC1 screened an amalgamated edition of the hospital dramas Casualty and Holby City in which viewers were given the chance to vote on which of two characters should be saved.As ratings decline on traditional channels, broadcasters are looking for better ways to engage viewers and promote loyalty among fickle audiences. Younger people in particular no longer seem so keen on being passive viewers.Each episode of Dubplate Drama will end with a dilemma for the central character, Dionne, played by the critically lauded female MC Shystie. Viewers will be invited to text in their decision, with their choice influencing the action in the next episode.Sam Conniff, the co-founder of Livity, the youth marketing agency that helped put the project together, said: "Groups of teenagers will gossip for hours about their favourite MC but not &#91;about&#93; pressing social issues. That's the challenge."The series is set in the world of south London tower blocks, MC battles and rival pirate radio stations, from which the grime scene, characterised by its skeletal beats and quickfire rapping in a defiantly British accent, sprang. Its 25-year-old director, Luke Hyams, said the music was hugely popular, but because of its DIY ethos - with fans listening to pirate radio, swapping mix tapes and downloading songs from the internet - it made little impact on the mainstream.Shystie said the motivation to make the series sprang from the paucity of television programmes reflecting black British youth culture. "We decided it would be great if we could put together a TV show dealing with our culture that kids can relate to," she said.The series, in which Dionne also has to battle the dismissive attitude of her rival male MCs, attempts to provide a counterbalance to the idea that success in the genre is inextricably linked to guns and crime. "It's really positive, it's about showing that you don't need to get involved in the guns side of things," Shystie said."Black music and black culture is always shown as negative, we want to give it a positive twist."
It's good to see that while mobile gaming is moving ever closer to the console and PC segments of the industry (big publishers controlling output, frenzied bandwagon jumping, obsession with licensing, etc), a few bizarre game concepts are still managing to sneak through the system. Last week for example, the Finnish developer Mr Goodliving sent me details of their forthcoming title Turbo Camels: Circus Extreme, the world's first stunt sim featuring a mammal of the genus Camelus. As the early press details explain:"The camel is shot out of a canon whereafter it bounces comically around the screen according to the laws of physics, collecting points and bonuses."There is so much inherentlywrongwith this statement I don't even know where to begin. I'd like to find out, for example, how they researched the physics of shooting a camel out of a cannon. Should the Finnish equivalent of the RSPCA be informed? I also love the fact that there's a single player 'Career Mode' - as though it were perfectly normal and perhaps even aspirational to forge a living firing animals from an enormous gun. Anyway, it's out in January 2006.If you thought that would be the only animal cruelty-related mobile gaming story this afternoon you are touchingly naive...Remember the infamous 'Frog in a Blender' animation? You should do, it was apparently viewed over 90,000,000 times in 1999 alone. Well its creatorJoe Cartoonhas got together with agentFlashman Studiosto find a publishing partner willing to develop "video games, mobile wallpapers, animations, downloadable or streaming movies, MMS messages, mobile games, screensavers, ringtones" based around the cartoonist's range of offbeat animations and characters. Along with the aforementioned frog, there's Hamster in the Microwave, Thuh Greenfields, Lump the No-Legged Dog, Monkey Looker, Nana Hooter and Superfly. Apparently, they're also hoping to bring content to PSP as well as cellphone.I'm not sure how the action of switching on an electrical appliance to kill a small animal could be converted into an actualgame, but considering the fact that the Joe Cartoon site gets 5,000,000 views per month, I'm sure someone is going to think of something.And now the final bizarre mobile gaming idea of the day. Manchester-based studio iFone has just sent me details on its conversion of seventies heldheld gaming phenomenon, Simon - you know, the big oval electronic toy with four coloured pads, which challenged you to repeat an ever growing sequence of flashes. This sounds laughably undemanding even by mobile gaming standards, but it's surprising how far a bit of ironic retro licensing will get you on the mobile platform. We have, of course, already seen a version of Operation and there's an Etch-A-Sketch sim on the way - two more childhood favourites of smirking thirty-something loafers (the sort of people, coincidentally, who can afford to download games to their Java phones, and don't mind paying five quid for a few minutes of nostalgia).So which seventies childhood brands will be next for mobile exploitation? Personally, I think a Buckaroo translation could easily cash-in on the popularity of Katamari Damacy...
This afternon sees the launch ofi-mode in the UK, under the auspices of mobile phone network O2.If you haven't heard of i-mode before, it's probably best explained as a better web-surfing experience for mobiles. Forget Wap, which never lived up to its promise, i-mode is an easier way to surf around on your phone, and for content providers to produce mobile-specific information. But it's still a walled garden approach, and I think we need better approaches to free web surfing (something likeOpera's mobile browser)... but in the meantime, it's a development worth looking at.And here's the most interesting thing about it: the launch is lined up "with content partners including the BBC, BSkyB and online bank Egg".
I attended a wedding this weekend in the wilds of Scotland, and so to celebrate the happy event of Gregor's and Ally's marriage, I thought I would compile a list of the top games which feature the most romantic couples in interactive entertainment.However, as a medium not immediately recognised for its depth of character, its emotional impact (regardless of whatBowen Research says) and its grown-up dealings with relationships, it's been a rather difficult task. There have been precedents to this post (notably, here'scoveragefrom the Game Developers Conference 2004 session which challenged established designers to piece together a game with "love" in it), but I haven't been able to find a comprehensive list of existing (Western) games which have a love component since this excellent Valentine's Day article fromGameSpot. I believe, however, that these loved-up pairings should stimulate at least a few more suggestions from your good selves:Parappa the Rapper and Sunny Funny (Parappa the Rapper)Parappa learns to croon for the affections of his lady-love Sunny Funny. It's always nice to see a hip hop dog falling for a flower.Mario and Princess Peach (Super Mario Bros, and all the rest)Since the rotund plumber started on his quest to save his Princess from the evil ape Donkey Kong, Mario and Peach (or Daisy, if you want to get all geek about it) have been the epitome of coupledom in the interactive era. Their relationship is understated and vague, but present nonetheless. All things equal, Peach had the chance to save her plumber in the Japan-only Nintendo DS gameSuper Princess Peach.The SimsOne of the objectives in this sociological experiment game is to get a partner and to get hitched. After all, one of the tomes in The Sims library is calledHot Date. Thankfully there are no limitations on who that partner is, which has made The Sims one of the most inclusive games on the market today. I've linked to it before, but here's Mia Consalvo's excellent examination ofsexuality in The Sims(pdf).CJ and Denise (GTA: San Andreas)Perhaps not an obvious choice, but main character CJ does have to work to woo his lady-friend Denise with roses and other such tokens of affection before she'll serve him up some hot coffee.Ryo and Nozomi (Shenmue)Possibly one of the best examples of unrequited love in a video game, the sprawling "does he, doesn't he" thread between the Dreamcast game's protagonist and the love interest Nozomi kept gamers shifting crates down at the docks beyond the activity's pleasure. In the end, nothing happens. Maybe it's because Ryo's so busy looking for sailors in bars at night?Squall and Rinoa (Final Fantasy VIII)This computerised couple always turns up on these "most romantic lists", and I still remember the first time I saw the stunning FMV that heralded the beginning of protagonist Squall Leonhart's and Rinoa Heartilly's relationship.The Prince and Farah (Prince of Persia: Sands of Time)(from Bambino_Tostare):they fall in love during the course of the game but at the end he goes back in time to before it all happens and effectively stops it all happening. He tells her the story, which she doesn't believe of course but then he kisses her very passionately and runs off into the night, so she's left wondering.Yep, keep 'em guessing! Works every time...
China announced a fresh crackdown yesterday on the internet amid further revelations of a plan by Hu Jintao, the president, to suppress dissent."The state bans the spreading of any news with content that is against national security and public interest," said a statement from Xinhua, the official news agency. The announcement called for blogs and personal web pages to "be directed towards serving the people and socialism and insist on correct guidance of public opinion for maintaining national and public interests".The statement was just one of a series of initiatives by the government to root out politically sensitive news from domestic and foreign media.On Thursday a Chinese journalist and former professor was given a seven-year sentence for "inciting subversion" by writing hundreds of articles for banned overseas news websites.Last month the government tried to implement a scheme to pay journalists according to how much Communist party officials liked, or disliked, their articles. In July a political activist was given five years for posting a punk song on the internet deemed to be subversive, and in April a journalist was sentenced to 10 years for sending an email overseas about restrictions on freedom of speech.Providing further evidence of an organised national crackdown, the New York Times reported yesterday that Mr Hu called for a "smokeless war" against "liberal elements" in China during a secret leadership meeting in May.The government employs a cyberspace police rumoured to number 30,000 and has spent lavishly on internet filters. Journalists and human rights organisations say the "smokeless war" amounts to a transformation of the government's tactics from violence, open harassment and the closing of newspapers to more covert methods of maintaining control. Journalists who try write on forbidden topics are rarely attacked directly, but are discredited by charges such as corruption, sexual harassment and extramarital affairs.They claim confiscation of notes, address books and mobile phones happen secretly beneath a facade that nothing is wrong, so as to defend the image of the party and its leaders."They are trying to safeguard the welfare of the regime, while simultaneously providing for the illusion of a free liberal press," said Law Yuk-kai of the Hong Kong-based Human Rights Monitor."But the internet provides a new way to organise people and is therefore a mounting threat to the government."With a growing income gap and agitated unions, migrant workers and students, Mr Law said the government was feeling increasingly threatened by any media that provide outlets for expression of dissent. "They are in a bind. On the one hand they want to encourage economic development but on the other hand they want to strangle any political initiatives by those not benefiting from the new China."While many governments prevent the free flow of controversial information by simply banning the internet altogether, China's strategy has been one of controlled welcome - exploiting the internet's phenomenal potential to drive China's its globalised economy while simultaneously suppressing its potential for freedom of expression.The current struggle in the Chinese media began in the 1990s when the government cut funding to various media outlets, forcing them to engage in a balancing act between encouraging circulation &#91;through genuine news&#93; and servicing the propaganda department &#91;as most media are required to do&#93;."When &#91;former president&#93; Jiang Zemin came to power, the propaganda department began controlling all Chinese media," said one high-ranking editor of a party-run newspaper with close government connections. "After Hu Jintao became president, there was an effort to open up. But after about six months the central government started getting complaints from local officials about their inability to govern because of media reports exposing corruption in their administrations ... everything reversed- there was a big policy change back to the way things were."The editor told the Guardian that the row in the party centred on the president's lack of authority over local leaders. Yesterday China gambled with a goodwill gesture to pro-democracy members of Hong Kong's legislature, inviting them to mainland China for the first time in more than 15 years. But the visit appeared to backfire when at least one member of the group wore a T-shirt with a picture of tanks in Tiananmen square, a symbol of the 1989 pro-democracy protests in which hundreds of students were killed.BackgroundChina has built the most sophisticated government-controlled internet on earth, often hailed as "the Great Firewall". With the help of western technology firms and internet companies, China filters foreign sites, restricts blog postings, limits online chats and censors instant messages for the second-largest online population in the world.While the barriers are easy to get around with a bit of techno-wizardry, journalists, editors, internet service providers and cybercafe owners are all under heavy pressure to abide by the rules and to self-censor to stay in business. The experience can frustrate - thousands of sites are blocked, emails can just disappear and even search engines will not turn up results for certain words. Banned phrases from news sites, blogs and instant messaging services include independence, democracy, Taiwan, Tiananmen Square, freedom and the Dalai Lama
Mobile phone company O2 will today announce the long-awaited launch of its internet service, i-mode, with content partners including the BBC, BSkyB and online bank Egg.The service, created by Japanese operator NTT DoCoMo and requiring an i-mode compatible handset, will allow customers to access online sites such as news, sport and games as well as content created specifically for i-mode. But it faces competition as Vodafone ramps up its 3G service with the release of new handsets for Christmas and T-Mobile prepares to launch its Web'n'Walk product later this year.
The two brothers who helped create cyber heroine Lara Croft will today announce plans to seek a stock market listing for their interactive DVD (iDVD) games and puzzles company.Jeremy Heath-Smith, who quit as development director of Tomb Raider publisher Eidos in 2003, and Adrian Smith plan to float Circle on Aim in October. iDVDs are one of the fastest growing sections of the toy market.Circle has the rights to create and publish official FIFA quiz games. Mr Heath-Smith says the company plans to release two titles before next summer's World Cup in Germany.
I owe Cliff Richard, big-time. He doesn't know me, doesn't know I owe him a favour and, to be honest, when he does he'll wish he didn't. But still, a debt's a debt. So I'm taking this opportunity to register how saddened I was to learn that he had apparently vowed never to make another album because his music can't get aired on the radio.What has he done to offend everyone? So he never married Sue Barker - get over it, people. If there is an unspoken ban on playing the music of one innoffensive performer, it seems not only arbitrary but archaic. Surely the whole point of the digital broadcasting age is choice - that it will enable people to free themselves from the tyranny of the station playlist and tailor their viewing and listening to suit their tastes?A glance at the menu on anybody's iPod will reveal how very eclectic those tastes can be. I suspect that Sir Cliff's announcement may prove to have been made in haste - because the download revolution has changed everything about the way we buy music.No longer are consumers restricted to buying from chart-driven record shops, where the influence of DJs and station controllers might have dictated the stock. Now that we buy online, and can choose from vast catalogues, we buy randomly, diversely, unpredictably, downloading songs we may have heard on an advert or in a film soundtrack, or simply remember from childhood.The problem from a radio boss's standpoint is a marketing one. A brand like Cliff Richard's comes with a whole lot of baggage: advancing age, Christianity, cleanliving, unhipness. As soon as you add Cliff Richard to your playlist, you imply that your audience fits that profile. Anyone who doesn't is likely to feel alienated by your choice, and tune in elsewhere.We think we choose the radio channels that we listen to. Actually, they choose us, by broadcasting material that represents the "lifestyle" we aspire to. Digital broadcasting isn't about giving us more individuality, it's about grouping us together more coherently. Marketing people are determined to fit us into a lifestyle niche, the better to target their selling. Broadcasting is no different in this respect from consumerism as a whole.Tesco, it was revealed this week, is building a database of each individual, taking note of spending habits. In a natural extension of the way supermarkets process food, now the consumers are coming prepacked in neat little bundles. Young, affluent, newlymarrieds, buy one get one free.They think they've got you all sewn up.Doesn't that make you want to rebel, to put a multipack of Sunny Delight in with your Ecover, just to blow the system? I urge you to go out today and buy something inappropriate to your marketing category: a fondue set, a skateboard, a Cliff Richard album.There, I've paid my debt to the Bachelor Boy. But why do I owe him? When I was six I was in love with Cliff. One Sunday we went to lunch with some friends of my parents, who casually revealed that he lived only a mile or so away. My awed reaction persuaded them to take us to see his house.I wolfed down my lunch and clambered into the back of their car. It was a hot day, I was very overexcited and I also suffered from carsickness. When we arrived at his house, I staggered out of the car and vomited into his hedge.Now all those marketing gurus out there who had me labelled as a non-smoking, organic vegetable purchaser might be surprised that I was Cliff Richard's infant stalker. I am glad to have breached the stereotype, though sorry about the hedge, obviously. The fact is that I - like you - don't have a lifestyle, I have a life. I'm a crying, talking, sleeping, walking, living doll ... Come to think of it, I loved that song. Maybe it's time to download some Cliff.
Today's 10-year-olds imagine a future transformed by technology in which their lessons will be taught by robots and they will learn about celebrities and alien languages. According to a survey published today, only one in a hundred thinks they will be walking to get from A to B; the rest believe they will use jet packs, and hoverboards, as routine transport.Participants in the study by internet provider AOL to mark its 10th anniversary are the first generation born in the internet era, and their views show how central technology is to their lives. Most believe there will still be schools to go to, but that technology will play an increasingly important role in learning. The 600 children surveyed think there will still be teachers, but 37% imagine them to be robots. Some 24% believe that teachers will be human but also that the teachers will have interchangeable microchips so that one person can teach all subjects.More than one in two believe hoverboarding will be popular, while one third predict that rocket boots will be their favourite amusement, and another third think it will be a jet pack. As to activities today they think will remain popular, 27% said football and 23% riding a bike.When it comes to the curriculum, they predict future generations will be learning robot building (63%), alien languages (47%), celebrities (26%) and R&amp;B music (22%). Children will wear virtual reality helmets to bring lessons to life, say 40%, while 23% believe they will not need lessons because microchips implanted in their head will release relevant information to the brain.Matt Whyman, internet agony uncle and adviser to the chief medical officer on youth issues, said: " The kids seem very aware of the liberating quality of technology."
I am going to Ghana to work as a volunteer with a group of young women who have had very little education. My aim is to teach keyboard skills and basic book keeping and business letter writing, so they can run their own craft businesses. I wonder if there are solar laptops and printers available at a reasonable price for charities working in the third world. Linda BelmontThere are certainly portable solar power units that will recharge a notebook PC: there are US sourceshereandhere. There's also the £49.99Solio, but it seems to be aimed at phone, PDA and iPod users,like the Clear Blue HawaiiSolarpacback pack. (But I'm put off both companies by their horrendous websites.)Lowestoft-basedGoSolarmight be a potential source but its Web page "was last updated on 04/01/00".It would easier if you could take a less power-hungry device such as aPsion NetBookorNetBook Pro, but you might have problems with book-keeping software.What do readers think?
"Microsoft will achieve one of its longest-held ambitions on Monday when its rival Palm Computing plans to announce that it will use Microsoft's Windows Mobile software in a new version of its popular cellphone-organizer, the Treo," reportsThe New York Times."Verizon Wireless, which will market the phone, will join in the announcement at an event here, according to several people involved. Emphasizing the significance of the alliance for Microsoft, Bill Gates, its chairman, will be present."Comment:Engadget had this as an exclusive, with lots of photos, onThursday. Since ths is a 700w, it seems likely that there will also be a 700p running Palm OS. Either way, people have been speculating for months that Palm would do something with Windows Mobile (CE), and the last time I chatted to Palm's bossEd Colligan, he said that once the Palm OS had been hived off, Palm had to look at all the alternatives. Psion already did, and produced what had been a NetBook with Windows CE installed.By the way, CE (which Microsoft doesn't say stands for Consumer Electronics) isn't a "cut down" Windows, and isn't based on Windows: it's an entirely different operating system, originally developed on non-Intel chips. It doesn't run "cut down" Windows apps. However, it does support some of the Windows API (application programming interface), and CE apps can easily be created using using Visual Studio.
"A deadly virtual plague has broken out in the online game World of Warcraft. Although limited to only a few of the game's servers the numbers of characters that have fallen victim is thought to be in the thousands," reportsBBC News.The digital disease instantly killed lower level characters and did not take much longer to kill even powerful characters.Many online discussion sites were buzzing with reports from the disaster zones with some describing seeing "hundreds" of bodies lying in the virtual streets of the online towns and cities.Comment:Our Gamesblog had this on Thursday,here.
"I've been using Macs almost exclusively now for about 7 months - since just after I joined Yahoo! and got my PowerBook to go with my mini at home. Now that I've been using Macs for a while, I'm wondering if they're all that special. The hardware is nice, but OS X can be as slow, buggy, non-standard, frustrating and annoying as any other operating system. Also, I don't really use most of the included apps, so most of what makes OSX so special doesn't really apply to me," writesRusselll Beattie."Let me be more specific about what I see as non-plusses, I'll just list them out in no special order, but conveniently numbered so the zealots can refer to each number directly while defending their beloved macs..."Comment:Beattie lists 33 complaints and many are personal, but he does score some hits. In particular, I think the Dock is a usability disaster, and his description of Expose ("it's nuts") is far too kind. However, as various people have pointed out in comments, anyone switching the other way could probably find 33 complaints to make about XP -- or more.
Microsoft is 30 years old! On Friday, the company took over a baseball stadium in Seattle and bussed in 16,000 Microsofties for an orgasmic celebration of Chairman Bill's vision of world domination. It must have seemed a long way from Albuquerque, New Mexico, where Gates and friend Paul Allen registered a start-up called Micro-Soft (the hyphen dissolved almost instantly) to produce software for the Altair 8080, the world's first programmable 'micro' computer.Gates, long with Allen, had dropped out of Harvard the moment he learned about the Altair, convinced that the personal computer would bring about a revolution, and determined not to miss out on it.He had a dream of 'a computer on every desk and in every home', every one of them running Microsoft software. To appreciate how close he came to achieving this vision, take a walk through the business district of any town or city. Peer into an office window and you see PCs everywhere - sometimes thousands in a single building. And the vast majority of them are, indeed, running Microsoft software.And then think of the revenue stream implied by this. Remember that nowadays the software licences for Windows and Microsoft Office can account for up to two-thirds of the cost of a machine. Think of all that money flowing to a single address in Seattle. And of the fact that once the software is written, it costs zilch to stamp out copies. Truly, there never was a money-making machine like Microsoft.And yet ... even as the champagne flowed in Redmond, things didn't seem quite right. The share price is flat - and has been so for quite a while. A company that was famously lean, mean and agile has become sluggish as it wades through the treacle that all large corporations accumulate. The next release of Windows - now called Vista - has been repeatedly delayed, and when it arrives will be only a shadow of its predicted self.It's getting harder and harder to persuade customers to upgrade from older versions of Office and Windows to new, updated releases. The threat of Open Source software grows by the hour, and although it hasn't yet reached the average user's desktop, it has foiled Microsoft's attempts to capture the server market.Internet Explorer is losing market share to the open source upstart Firefox. The European Commission has refused to buckle under pressure and is continuing to insist that Microsoft unbundle its Media Player software from versions of Windows sold in Europe, and make details of the necessary programming interfaces available to competitors.Most worrying of all in an industry based on the creation of pure 'thought stuff', Microsoft is finding it harder to recruit world-class engineering and software talent, The best of this is now going to Google - which explains the bitterness of the recent court dispute in which Microsoft sued the search company for allegedly luring one of its senior executives.Microsoft has grown up, and is beginning to experience the mixed blessings of corporate middle age. On the one hand there is the respectability and status of being the most famous company in the world after Disney, and the complacency that comes from having $50 billion in the bank. On the other hand, there's the furring of the corporate arteries, the slowing of reflexes and the dawning realisation that you are no longer the coolest kid on the block.And, as if to confirm the suspicion of internal unease, this week also saw the announcement of massive restructuring of the company's corporate structure. Its seven divisions will be merged into three groups - Platform Products and Services, (formerly Windows, MSN, and the Server and Tools division); Business (formerly Office and Microsoft Business Solutions); and Entertainment and Devices (formerly Xbox and mobile devices).In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, Steve Ballmer (Microsoft's CEO) explained the changes in standard-issue corpo-babble. The reorganisation, he said, was 'part of driving software-based services in competition with anybody else who thinks they're going to use that strategy to get ahead in the marketplace. We're not the only guy who's going to try to deliver software that has a service-based component. We need to get there aggressively and quickly.'Hmm... Nasty suspicious minds (like this columnist's) wonder if the restructuring isn't really a tacit acknowledgement that the company has become bogged down.One Microsoftie wrote (anonymously) in a blog: 'How about a little honesty as to why it was best to do a reorganisation? Was Windows a mess? Was MBS adrift and in need of a strong Office integration strategy? Were mistakes made? Admit at least there were and are problems, and that the reorganisation is going to be effective in dealing with those problems and that executive management will be held accountable for making sure that is so.'Microsoft's motto used to be 'Where do you want to go today?' For its next phase 'Sic transit gloria...' might just be more appropriate.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
"Inspired by the groundbreakingWikipedia, as well as Typophile's growingTypoWiki," UnderConsideration has now launchedThe Design Encyclopedia.UC says it "strives to document, define, track and distill the world through its design implications. Pretty much anything – from movies to presidents to can openers to pop(corn) – can be, in one way or another, defined by design. Through the open environment that Wikis provide, we hope that you can help us build this important resource. We have started with some profession-specific entries – ranging from Emigre to Abbott Miller to AIGA – that should help springboard definitions that are outward reaching into the larger contexts of culture, politics, branding, economics, history, sports and more (ie, Mountain Dew, Kleenex or USA Network)."One thing it doesn't want is for people to copy Wikipedia entries.....It's still in beta.
My parents have never owned a computer but are now expressing an interest in the internet and emails and generally owning a PC. Can you recommend one? Sarah Whiteley, LondonOld people eh? You think you have something that's all your own and that they can busy themselves with watching TV quizzes and suddenly, they wanna piece of your action.When you say PC I'm not sure if you mean that as a generic for computers or you actually mean a personal computer, as in one that has Windows as its operating system. Because I must tell you immediately I don't think this would be the best buy for them. Most people own a PC and PCs are cheaper - but they are also much more prone to viruses and far less intuitive than Macs. Macs are also far more handsome and the mouse is easier to use - important for anyone but especially older peeps. Unless you are sure your parents will stay up to date with virus protection, owning a PC could open them up to all sorts of viruses, not to mention pop-up windows that then hijack the phone line and connect it to a premium rate line (not relevant if they get broadband, more of which in a moment); this could render them bankrupt and you have your inheritance to think of.Whether you decide to go down the PC or Mac route, customer care and satisfaction is paramount; but especially for those new to computers. In the most recent Which? report (2003) on computers, Apple, Dell and Evesham (in that order) came out tops in terms of customer satisfaction. From the Apple range (www.apple.com/uktel: 0800 0391010) look at the iMac, which starts at &pound;899; a good, cheaper option is the MacMini, from &pound;359 which is basically just the hard drive, which you attach to a screen/keyboard (you may already have a spare to give your folks); Macs come with 90 days' free technical support. The best place to buy Apple is direct from an Apple shop (in Birmingham and Bluewater, Kent as well as London) or from the fabulous John Lewis (www.johnlewis.com, tel: 08456 049 049), whose after-sales service is second to none and which, for &pound;50, will set up the computer for your parents at home.Dell computers (www.dell.co.uk, tel: 0870 9075818) are only available to buy online/via phone. Its Dimension range is the one to look at; the 5100 model (which would do everything I'd imagine your parents could want, and more) is &pound;471 and this includes one year's free technical support.Evesham computers (www.evesham.comtel: 0870 160 9500) are only sold from one of its 18 stores or online. The entry level machine is the Quest S28, &pound;349; the best seller is the Axis 64KD. All machines come with free lifetime telephone support (you pay for the call).To help your parents get to know computers before buying one, Age Concern (www.ageconcern.org.uk, tel: 0800 00 99 66) runs free PC workshops up and down the country, at locations nationwide (call for details as they change). There is even a bus with computers that can come and visit you in your home if you live in the south-east, Derbyshire, Barrow-in-Furness or Leicester areas. If you do buy a PC, Age Concern produces a booklet called Getting the Most From Your Computer. If you buy a Mac, there are also free getting started workshops that run every weekend but only at the Apple stores mentioned earlier (call 0800 0391010 or visitwww.apple.com/retailfor more info).The other thing to think about is internet connection. Unless they will just write letters I strongly recommend broadband. It's fast, and will allow them to make full use of the internet. They can listen to digital radio through their computer and if they miss anything (Proms, Archers, Today programme, Young Hot Farmers) they can simply select the Listen Again function, which is wildly useful. The three internet service providers (ISPs) that did well in a recent Which? survey were Waitrose (www.waitrose.com, tel: 0800 980 0018); Claranet (www.claranet.com, tel: 0207 685 8310) and Demon (www.demon.net, tel: 0800 027 3737). All scored highly on service and customer support; don't buys were BT (I can second and third that!), NTL and Tiscali.If your parents have special needs - such as visual impairment or arthritis, a great company iswww.keytools.com, (tel: 023 8058 4314). It sells specially adapted keyboards/mice, stickers to make the letters on the keyboard bigger (&pound;11.75), a Big Key keyboard for &pound;117 for those with finger mobility problems (the keys are 2.5cm square), a track-ball mouse for those who have difficulty gripping and clicking a conventional mouse (from &pound;15), and screen magnification software (from &pound;42). The staff can advise you on your needs.Tell your parents to send me an email when they're up and running to let me know how they're getting on.&#183;Shopping problems Contact Personal Shopper, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER or emailannalisa.barbieri@guardian.co.uk
Can anyone recommend some reasonably simple (free) software to manipulate images, of various file types. I don't want to do anything desperately clever -- pretty much just tinker with image size and resolution, perhaps translate between file types. Nick PeedAlmost any graphics program will do the basics, but I recommendIrfanView. It is provided as freeware for private, non-commercial use (that means at home). It is also free for educational use (schools and universities) and for use in charity or humanitarian organisations.
On Tuesday, Microsoft held an internal event with CEO Steve Ballmer, chairman Bill Gates and other leading executives. Paul Thurrott has posted some detailshere, along with a transcript of an "impromptu question about competition with Apple Computer that I thought you'd enjoy," he writes, ."and some photos taken from a video of the event."
Where in the world can you tell hundreds of people - maybe more - something you wouldn't tell your family or your closest friends? And, when you do, can you expect everyone present not to pass on your thoughts?That's the question we've been grappling with on Guardian Unlimited this week, and it's one every media organisation with a website that encourages interaction with readers is going to have to grapple with soon.That very public, but strangely private, place is our talkboards. Those intense discussions between groups of our readers cover everything from politics to computing, via science, sport and glorious screeds of trivia. The talkboards - known simply as Talk - have been running for five years. Six million pages are served every month, to hundreds of thousands of users. And yet the boards have a sense of intimacy and community.This week's internal debate was sparked by the first edition of the paper's new Family section last Saturday. Doubtless with the maxim "a problem shared" in their mind, the section's editors had hit upon the idea of asking readers to help solve family problems via our talkboards.The intention was - is - for useful discussions from Talk to be printed each week. A new area was created, the conversation started, and it produced some interesting material. Some readers talked about what to do with the child trust fund cheque they'd received. Others talked frankly about the pain of divorce. And then it was printed in the paper.The result, in talk-room parlance, was that we were badly flamed. Some users said it was a blatant breach of trust. Users were concerned that what they thought was a discussion between a few of them might, exposed to a bigger audience, leave them vulnerable to identification.Moreover, readers complained we hadn't made it clear this was for publication. Others said editors were lazy for "cutting and pasting" comments, and had acted improperly by joining in discussions. The criticism stung. We have prided ourselves on our attempts to break down the barriers between Guardian journalists and readers, through Talk, live online chats and a network of weblogs. It had seemed the natural progression would be to take the most interesting exchanges and print them in the paper.The terms and conditions attached to Talk clearly allow for reuse of contributions. But, of course, being in the clear legally doesn't necessarily mean we are doing the right thing in order to build a happy, vibrant community of users.Users expected a certain level of privacy in return for discussing sensitive issues - even if they weren't using their real names. No matter, either, that this is the website of a national newspaper, indexed by Google, available to hundreds of millions of people worldwide. The fact was, they would argue, only a handful of people were reading the original posts.What should we do? We want to use submissions elsewhere on the website and in the paper, not just because we can, or because it's easy (it's not), but because it makes our journalism better. A community attempt at solving a problem - be it a broken marriage or a broken PC - is more likely to come up with a good response than a single expert. But we probably will have to more careful about how we go about using contributions. We plan to make it clearer which threads are liable to be used in print. We will also stop using nicknames as they appear on Talk.We will also be reminding users that while they may feel they are in a quiet nookon the net, Talk has tens of thousands of active users, and many more lurkers. You may want to be alone but - as we've been reminded this week - Talk isn't the place to go for a quiet chat.&#183;Neil McIntosh is the assistant editor of Guardian Unlimited
When the hijacked passengers on the 9/11 planes were able to make calls from the back-of-seat cellphones to say they were going to die, it was hard to decide if the moment represented the horrors of modern technology, or the benefits of it. People who were about to have inventiveness turned against them - a jet becoming a weapon - were briefly compensated by another piece of science that allowed a link to home, no matter how far away.Technology, however, accelerates. Just four Septembers later, passengers on the jetBlue plane above Los Angeles on Thursday, threatened with death by mechanical malfunction rather than terrorist activity, reportedly recorded final messages and testaments using the cameras on their mobile phones. In the most startling detail of the saga, they did this while watching live footage of their imperilled, circling plane on the little screens in the back of the seat in front.The jetBlue crisis is the ultimate modern news story, the events followed live on television not only by voyeuristic viewers in their living rooms (as is now standard), but by the people involved. The perfect circularity of the experience was caught in a television picture that showed a passenger's mobile-video footage of the live TV coverage playing on the back-of-seat TV - an extraordinary sequence of images placed inside each other in narrowing frames, like the series of receding men looking into mirrors in the Magritte painting.Democrats and optimists might see this completely televised society as encouraging. These permanent visual circuits certainly increase the free flow of information. For the first 30 years of mass air travel, passengers had to guess how bad things were by observing how frightened the flight attendants looked. Even now, most airline TV services are cleansed of references to plane crashes in the world below. Now, able to watch their own potential impending death live on in-flight TV, people are placed in control, if not of their destiny, then of knowledge of their plight.But the problem - which touches on the wider question of information given to the public about, say, terrorist or medical threats - is whether it is psychologically damaging or sustaining to be aware of the worst that might happen. The gloomier view of the jetBlue incident is that the nightmare world depicted in Peter Weir's 1998 film The Truman Show - in which a man is unknowingly living his life on live TV - has now come true. For those who like spooky coincidences, the surname of the character in the film is Burbank: the airport the crippled plane had left.We are all Burbanks now.Omnipresent CCTV cameras, while probably not stopping us from becoming victims of crime, at least ensure that a record of the murder might exist for our heirs and the police. Become involved in a terrorist incident or public emergency and every move is covered - not just by hundreds of professional cameras, but by the amateur snappers around the incident with their camera phones.Rapidly immune to the newness of the gadgets we carry, we perhaps lose sense of how extraordinary it is to live in a world of permanent contact with other humans and the news. A small but telling example is a current crop of revivals of 1970s plays, which include Christopher Hampton's The Philanthropist and Simon Gray's Otherwise Engaged. Both revivals are set in their original periods; partly because attitudes have changed, but also because social interaction is now different.A majority of dramatic plots constructed before the late 1990s would collapse immediately if they were updated and the characters given mobile phones and access to the internet. In fact, the increasing unlikeliness of someone being completely uncontactable removes one of the most reliable strategies in fiction.This week the American television series Lost - about the survivors of a plane crash who are marooned on a tropical island - won Emmy awards at the precise moment that, in England at least, critics and the public seemed to turn against the series. The reason for this switch-off is the implausibility of the premise: there have almost never been long-term survivors from a major plane crash, yet Lost tries to extend this predicament through two series of 25 episodes each.But we now know that it is perfectly credible for passengers to circle for hours on an Airbus. So, rather than Lost, American TV should make Aloft. Then, in the supreme multimedia moment, passengers watching Aloft on in-flight TV would be interrupted by a newsflash about their own flight.In the 70s and 80s, stars and business tycoons used to say in interviews that they liked flying to America because no one could get at you for a few hours. Such isolation is now unimaginable. As the jetBlue incident showed, we live in a world of permanent connection. Our final sight will not be the dying of the light but the flickering of a TV screen, or the "no network coverage" message on a mobile phone.comment@guardian.co.uk
Saddled with an overdraft and facing three years at university, Alex Tew needed an idea to pay off his student debt. Four weeks ago the 21-year-old launched a website, milliondollarhomepage.com, from his home in Crickley, Wiltshire. It has already netted him more than &pound;56,000.Tew's website provides advertising space to companies from around the globe. Customers can purchase one or more of the 10,000 tiny boxes that appear on the site's homepage. The boxes host the company's logo and serve as a portal through to the firm's official site. Each box contains 100 pixels and retails at $100.Its success took everyone by surprise. Milliondollarhomepage hosts more than 300 advertisements and averages 40,000 visits a day. Internet tracker Alexa.com has rated it the world's third fastest-growing website, behind britneyspears.com and the news site pdnonline.com."Alex has always come up with lots of ideas," said his father, Malcolm. "He's a brainstormer, and an entrepreneur by nature. He was overdrawn so he sat up late with a notepad one night going through a list of possible solutions. This was the one he came up with."The companies on the virtual hoarding are a diverse and eclectic bunch. Milliondollarhomepage plays host to gambling sites and anti-war blogs, Dutch sailing companies and an A-Z of supermodels. At one stage Hollywood actor Jack Black took out space to plug his band, Tenacious D.That said, the site is not open to everyone. "We say no to all the adult sites."Tew's ultimate aim is for the website to make him a millionaire. In the meantime, he has more pressing concerns. On Monday he starts a course in business management at Nottingham University.
Burnout RevengePS2, XBoxFans of Burnout know what to expect - busy city streets, oncoming traffic, speeds normally reserved for aircraft taking off and catering-sized quantities of adrenaline. As its name subtly implies, this outing majors on revenge, with racers who have the temerity to knock you off the track flagged as Takedown Rivals for your retribution. Also new is the ability to plough through jams and slow-moving traffic with no loss of momentum, leaving a trail of burning wreckage for your competitors to choke on. Hit oncoming or cross-traffic, however, and you can expect a nasty accident. Staggering, dizzying speed mixed with perfectly honed handling and courses make Burnout Revenge a gripping drive and a wonderfully chaotic catharsis for commuter rage.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;40Sniper ElitePS2, XBox, PCEarly on in Sniper Elite you find out that the job of shooting people from a distance is about moving slowly, making judicious use of cover and paying careful attention to the rooftops of abandoned buildings. Given that most games featuring the army tend to focus on using big guns to wipe anyone stupid enough to wear the wrong uniform, this leads to unusually mellow gameplay, punctuated by moments of total panic. Limited saves and some uncompromising realism make for testing difficulty, and it's not the world's prettiest game, but there are rewards to be had watching your own painstakingly lined-up head shots coming to gory fruition.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;30-&pound;40Heroes Of The PacificPS2, XBox, PCAlthough lacking the slapstick immediacy of Crimson Skies or the detail of Secret Weapons Over Normandy, Heroes Of The Pacific is a decent, slightly undistinguished, piece of aerial Axis-bashing. The (mildly dull) circling dogfights are joined by dive-bombing missions and torpedo runs, each of which need their own skill sets, providing a satisfying point of difference. Lapses in friendly AI can lead to annoyance in escort missions as your suicidal charge do their best to catch Japanese bullets, and despite the bombing missions being easily the best bit, this will still dispense sustained interest to propeller-heads.&#183;Codemasters, &pound;30-&pound;40
MondayI'm crying herePro Evolution Soccer 5TuesdayGiz us a clueTop ten from TokyoMake me a game that lasts a Tube journey!Trip Hawkins invents new game genre?WednesdayMore news on weepy gamersX05WatchUsGameAlternatives to game programming coursesThursdayTechno techno technoA plague on WarcraftBrain PowerOw my...conscience. Guilt and gamingFridayThe worlds beyond WoWDon't believe the hypeNintendo offers doggy deal
BT announced yesterday its most dramatic restructuring since it was privatised 21 years ago, spinning off the nation's 30m phone lines and the 25,000 engineers that service them into a new division called openreach. The move, which was forced on BT by the telecoms watchdog Ofcom, is designed to make it easier for rivals to develop and deliver innovative new products such as super-fast broadband, internet phone calls and video on demand.The creation of a ring-fenced division, run by a separate chief executive and overseen by a supervisory committee dominated by people from outside BT, is a response to almost two years of wrangling with Ofcom. The regulator had threatened to break up BT if the company could not deliver a new structure capable of treating rival companies in exactly the same way as BT's own retail business.Ben Verwaayen, BT's chief executive, said: "This is an end of an era and the start of a new one, which I think will enable the market to get on with what it should do and that is worry about customers."BT is repainting its 22,000 vans to carry the openreach name and spending more than &pound;200m upgrading its IT systems. From next summer, rival companies such as AOL, Onetel, Easynet and Cable &amp; Wireless's Bulldog unit will be able to book openreach engineers to fix line faults exactly as if the engineers were working for them. But the new vans will still carry the BT logo, which is likely to annoy some rivals, and openreach will be branded "a BT Group business". Mr Verwaayen said this would provide reassurance to residential customers worried about opening their front door to strangers.Stephen Carter, the chief executive of Ofcom, warned that the new business, which has to be up and running within four months, "must now deliver and be seen to deliver. Ofcom is hopeful that this new approach to competition regulation will stimulate investment, innovation and sustainable growth in this critical industrial sector."BT's rivals still needed some convincing. Francesco Caio, C&amp;W's chief executive, said: "The undertakings Ofcom has won and the new division BT has had to create demonstrate the effect its monopoly control of access has had in undermining competition. Together, they present an opportunity to drive real change but there is still a difficult journey ahead."BT's competitors have long complained that the company is hindering competition by maintaining its stranglehold on the crucial copper wiring that connects the nation's homes and businesses to the phone network - known as the local loop.BT's wholesale division will continue to create services such as its wholesale broadband product, which internet service providers can buy and rebrand, and maintain BT's extensive backbone network, but openreach will be in charge of making sure everyone can get equal access to the local loop. It will oversee local loop unbundling, the process by which ownership of BT's local phone lines can be transferred to other operators and a critical step in the development of new services such as television over broadband. It will also operate wholesale line rental, allowing other companies to charge a monthly line rental instead of relying on BT to do it.BT is hoping that opening up the local loop will lead Ofcom to relax regulation in other parts of its business. But John Pluthero, chief executive of Energis, which was recently bought by C&amp;W, warned: "Ofcom must hold its nerve and continue to insist that BT delivers on promises before giving it its head."BT has agreed to 246 separate deadlines and requirements under the settlement with Ofcom, which brings to a close the regulator's 18-month review of the British telecoms industry. They cover everything from operational deadlines to structural change within BT itself, such as banning openreach employees sharing customer details with any other part of the company. By the end of June next year, BT must have created the systems to ensure a smooth transfer of unbundled lines. The deal is legally binding and if openreach fails to hit its targets, it will be fined and rival operators will be able to seek damages in the high court.Steve Robertson, chief executive of openreach and former head of Colt Telecom's wholesale business, said BT could no longer view the local loop as conferring upon it some sort of competitive advantage. "This is a national asset; it is something we are proud to offer to all service providers on an equal basis," he said.Annelise Berendt, a senior analyst at the industry consultancy Ovum, said the creation of openreach "sows the seeds of a new industry structure ... This is a major opportunity for the UK telecoms industry to bury some of the regulatory bickering of the past."Explainer: openreachAs far as consumers are concerned, the creation of openreach will initially represent nothing more than a cosmetic change. From January anyone needing an engineer to fix their phone line will see a van with "openreach, a BT Group business" in mauve and a series of multi-coloured squiggles emblazoned along the side. The engineer walking up the garden path will still have a BT logo on his identity card as well as that of openreach.But behind the uniform and the new livery, the separation of the business that looks after the country's 120m kilometres of local phone lines from the rest of BT should create a flurry of innovative new products. Allowing BT's rivals to take control of BT's lines and install their own equipment in its exchanges will facilitate services such as TV over broadband and even cheaper phone calls.The new IT systems that openreach has pledged to put in place, which include a database of British households that actually uses the correct postcodes instead of the current ad-hoc system that relies on BT's own codes, should also remove much of the pain from the process of switching broadband or phone call provider.
"Welcome to Placeopedia, a simple site where you can connect Wikipedia articles with places, and then make use of our database either to browse, or syndicate the whole lot. We hope that lots of people will connect places they know with their corresponding Wikipedia article, and then our syndicated data can be used as a general geographic lookup table for Wikipedia," says the site,here.Comment:As you have probably guessed, it uses Google Earth. As you may not have guessed, PlaceOpedia is fromMySociety.orgin the UK, directed by Tom Steinberg. It uses much the same technology as MySociety's UK site,Your History Here.MySociety is best known for FaxYourMP.com, which is being replaced byWriteToThem.com.
"ICANN has opened a 30-day public comment period on a draft revised version of the Guidelines for the Implementation of Internationalized Domain Names ("IDN Guidelines"). This draft reflects the experiences of the IDN registries in the implementation of Version 1.0 &lt;&lt;a href="http://www.icann.org/general/idn-guidelines-20jun03.htm"&gt;http://www.icann.org/general/idn-guidelines-20jun03.htm&gt; of the guidelines. Particular attention has been paid to concerns that have arisen about the deceptive use of visually confusable characters from different scripts in individual IDN labels."
In an extremely cunning move, Nintendo will be celebrating the UK release of the much-hyped Nintendogs on October 7 with a special bundle deal that includes a DS and a copy of the game for £99. "There will be two varieties of Nintendogs bundle," explains the press release. "The fabulous new Dachshund version of the game will be bundled with a pink Nintendo DS console. This comes with a cute line-up of Nintendogs characters such as Shih Tzu and Pugs. But if Pink is not your thing, do not worry as there will be a Labrador version of the Nintendogs bundle complete with a blue Nintendo DS - with breeds such as Labrador Retriever and Pembroke Welsh Corgi to show off to your mates"."Show off to your mates"? I can see it now...DS Owner:Look everyone! I have a cute little Pembroke Welsh Corgi on my handheld!Long pause.DS Owner's friends:Riiiight. We just have to go away for a little while...DS Owner: But lads, what about my Pembroke Welsh Corgi? Lads?(to console)It looks like it's just you and me now, PerkyNintendo will also be reducing the price of unbundled DS units to £89.99. They know they've got a cross-over hit on their hands with this one and they're going to milk it for all it's worth. Bless them, bless them for giving me the opportunity to use a photo of three dogs in a basket with a handheld games console.
